Welcome to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? I'm Troy Skinner, inviting you to visit visit us on the web online. This will be one of those shows I can tell already. WFMD. com keyword faith, where you'll find a somewhat daily blog and a link to Jonathan Schweitzer's blog. Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossers Valley Chapel, is on the panel again this week. Thank you for being on the show again. It's good to see you. You know you're wearing a brown shirt with a blue tie and it really goes well together. Not everybody can get away with that, but I like it. Yeah, on a brown shirt. Yeah, yeah, today you would be a brown shirt. And also on the panel this week, Michael Dowd, author of Thank God for evolution. Yes. This this will be a f this will be a fun show. Wasn't that long ago on the show that I threw down the gauntlet on the evolution question? You did, didn't you? That's what you get. God was listening to that. And he sent you somebody to test you. Yes, he did. Yes. Anyway, if this is your first time hearing the Frederick Faith Debate show, let me tell you what we're all about. We believe that um bringing people together who have differing points of view to hash those things out is something that is edifying. There's a religious word for you. That is very for all people concerned. For though if if you hold to Jonathan Schweitzer's view and you hear him advocate good and hard for your point of view, it will help you sharpen and hone your own argument. What percentage out there do you think agrees with me? Research indicates that point three seven percent. Yeah, yeah, if that, right. But now if Michael doubt. I would guess sixty-five percent. Question your own thoughts just a little bit and it'll it will refine you and sharpen you and make you better. We try to do it in a a fun, uh even-handed spirit. However Because we hi talk about different topics and have different guests on this show does not mean that uh we're uh accepting or deni accepting of all things as being equally true or denying that there is an absolute truth. Uh for the record, I think it's fair that we put this out there. Uh Jonathan Schweitzer believes there is an absolute truth. I believe there's an absolute truth And um gonna guess that Michael Dowd believes that there is an absolute absolute truth. Absolutely. So we are advocating for our view of what we believe to be true absolutely. So People who have listened to the show before have a sense of what Jonathan is all about, although the more I think about it, anybody who's listened to the show before Probably isn't listening now because of Jonathan's sweat. Right, right, right, right. So for the record, all of you new people out there that still don't know what I believe. But uh Jonathan, real quickly. You would describe yourself, can you do this in in twenty seconds? You would describe your theological view as uh I believe the Bible is the Word of God and that it can be uh translated literally in all the places that it's uh clear that it's uh literal and uh that there's other places where it's clear it's poetical, other places it it's clearly using prophetic language and uh apocalyptic language and that we can interpret it very literally in those places that the miracles in the Bible are 100% true. All right. Michael, in twenty seconds or so, how would you describe your theological view? Let's see. I'm an evolutionary evangelical, an evolutionary Pentecostal. You're a creatheist. That's it. I'm a creatheist. Creatheist. Well what your wife says creatheist. I'm with you. But uh uh yeah, I I um I have a deep personal relationship to God and I celebrate uh evolution uh that that is the history of the universe That's what I mean by evolution is the the fourteen billion year history of the universe that there's wide agreement. There's you know, ninety seven, ninety eight percent of the scientists of the world would agree with I hold to that uh in a sacred, meaningful, God honoring, Christ-centered way. Okay. So you you count yourself as a Christian. Mm-hmm. Yeah. So does Jonathan. So you th would have that in common. But a lot of things are going to be uncommon from here on out as we explore this. You, Michael, are in uh the minority of those uh who talk about these sorts of things. You've got people on one end who say Uh the Bible is is inerrant and we should be able to take it literally and you know uh and they argue against evolution. And you have those who want to embrace a scientific or more scientific worldview and and want to uh embrace evolution over against what the Bible has to say. And you're trying to find Uh or you would argue that you have found a way to blend those into where they're not at odds with one another, but you're in the minority. Yeah, I would disagree with it too. I would say there's no way The the polar opposites, as you just described, are in fact not the majority. You've got, you know, the young earth creationists who believe that all the evils of the world can be attributed to Darwin, that, you know, uh evolutions of the devil. Um and then you're, you know, anti-religious atheists who believe that any religious language itself is suspect. But there's millions in the middle. I just really see it as the bell bulge in the bell curve. find uh they don't all integrate evolution theology in the same way, but there are millions, tens of millions, probably hundreds of millions of Christians in the moderate to liberal camp, Catholics and Protestants both who sort of accept evolution, but it doesn't inspire them. They accept it the kind of the way you accept death and taxes. It doesn't necessarily inspire them, but they sort of accept it. Um and what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to say that evolution, and again, what I'm meaning by it isn't just Darwinism or biological evolution, but It's the evolution of galaxies, the evolution of the solar system, the evolution of life and human evolution. The history, our best scientific understanding of the history of everyone and everything, can be understood in a deeply faith-centered God honoring, Christ-centered way, in a way that truly can strengthen and deepen our faith and call us to greater compassion, greater love, basically greater Christ-centeredness. Okay. Yeah, uh the thing is is that he's uh he's coming from, like you said, a moderate to liberal uh perspective and the reality is that is that the next generation of evangelicals uh seem to be genuinely moving in that direction. The whole emergent church movement, you know, uh uh would would fall into a camp of of leading in this direction. And so Um, in fact what he argues, and I don't know how much it's true, but among liberal churches, mainline denominational churches uh that that swing in more of a moderate to liberal direction. Uh I would say in fact I'd put it this way, tell me if this is true, that basically what you're saying is that when it comes to interpreting the Bible that uh that there are parts that you can believe to be true and there are parts that you cannot believe to be true and that many of those are defined by s by where science has proven to us that certain things just can't be true, i. e. people being raised from the dead, i. e. manna, you know, in the desert for forty years, i. e. um uh a flood, i. e. creation in seven days, that science has proved those things to be not believable, and so therefore, um There's no reason to believe them that way. Yeah, I think that it's true that that the vast majority of uh mainline Protestant Christians and mainline Catholic Christians, you know, I would guess probably 70 to 75% of Catholics and Mainline Protestants, you know, the L Lutherans uh United Christ, you know, and so on. Um uh accept an evolutionary worldview and probably hold something to sim similar to what you said in terms of their interpretation of the Bible. They interpreted some of it literally, some of it not Somewhere in the eighteen hundreds, early nineteen hundreds, uh they they embraced uh the uh the bel the belief the the confidence that science had proven a certain amount of scripture to be to be not Yeah you keep using the word proven. I wouldn't say I don't think a lot of them would Think of it that way because science doesn't tend to use the word proof. Mathematics uses proof. Science very rarely uses that kind of word. What word would you use in that context? Sure. So the point is that the evidence is strong enough in that context uh many of them don't take that literally that that they wouldn't take those things literally. And so uh so your sense of of belief in the absolute, like how would you define God? Is God personal? Absolutely. But not but but loves us personally and that created us to to be in a a personal love relationship with us. No, but I'm asking you. No I say I relate to God personally. I relate to God personally, but it is I know reality in a personal way. For me, all i in fact it's not so much for me. How would you describe or how would you understand the fact that in all different cultures, some cultures say God is like this, he said this and he did that? Other cultures say God is like this, he or she said this and did that I mean if you take all those stories seriously, not even literally, but just seriously, you're kind of left with a difficult perspective of either God has multiple personality disorder or One tradition's right and all the others are wrong. And that's typically the way that people have done it. The the the you know kind of humorous definition of a myth is it's those other guys' crazy creation story, ours is the truth. And where Connie and I are coming from is that Connie being your wife. My wife, right exactly. That it's not a coincidence that The vast majority, like 97-98% of the scientists of the world agree with a 14 billion, 13. 7 billion year universe. Uh there's a reason that Christian scientists, Buddhist scientists, Hindu scientists, atheist scientists can agree on the same fundamental, you know, broad stroke of the universe. There there's th there's disagreements on a lot of the particulars, but in terms of the broad strokes, there's just wide agreement on that And there's also, it's not a coincidence, that that devout Christians, Muslims, Buddhists, Jews, and Hindus that are that hold to the literalness of their scriptures are radically divergent, radically differing. So what I'm not sure that I agree with with uh everything that you're saying, but I'm you know, well most religious people that are on the conservative end of the spectrum would disagree with each other. Conservative Christians, conservative Muslims, conservative Jews, conservative Hindus are going to have profound differences in terms of their understanding of reality. Sure. Okay. Okay. And I certainly fit that stereotype. Nevertheless, I would disagree I would disagree that there's not a significant number of uh conservative Christian scientists that are of the opinion that that there's a young earth and that there is a profound scientific rationality. In fact I would ask this question. What what is uh can you Can you name me a scientist that has has seen the age of the earth? Meaning meaning that he's lived through all that. Nobody nobody was there. The only way that we can know what happened back then is by a historical record because nobody was there. And so to call it science as opposed to the extension of your worldview into the past. That's all I do is I extend my worldview uh according to the Bible into the past. And according to the Bible extended into the past says seven day days of creation. Fine. I'm comfortable with that. World was created in seven days. You, on the other hand, choosing a scientific, a naturalistic worldview, have simply extended into the past your basic ideas, but there's no science to it. Nobody was there. There's no history to it. You you're you're simply looking at what's here and saying, huh, based on that and my naturalistic assumptions, then we must assume that this is what happened in the past. John, you're actually coming from a place that's that's um Demonstrably inaccurate. Sure, well let's go at it. This is very good. Pretty enjoyable. If you just put into Google best evolution resources, you'll get my page. Sure. I link to the best books, the most respectable. In your opinion. The best books that cover the evidence of evolution and the best Wikipedia pages. Okay. I'm not sure. Yeah. What is the evidence? Right now on the way here, Connie and I were listening to a new book by uh by Sean Carroll. It's called, I think it's called Marvelous Creations or something like that. That I have never listened to, or because we listen to we listen to a lot of books, I have never listened to a more compelling natural history of the evidence of evolution from the point of when we first began thinking, but basically what he does is he try to covers the last 200 years. And goes through all the major scientific discoveries, but he he does it in a personal way. He tells the people's personal stories of the scientists and stuff like that. It'd be very enjoyable to to listen to the Well yeah, but there's others. Like for example, uh uh uh David Christian, who's one of the uh No, but David Christian wrote a uh has a course called Big History. Yeah. Okay. It's forty-eight half hour lectures. Yeah. Where he covers the best evidence that we have From the entire 14 billion History universe. So there's no way that I'm an I'm an evangelist. What I'm trying to do is saying, okay There's a reason that ninety-seven ninety-eight percent of the scientists of the world agree with a 14 billion year universe. I don't think it's I used to think. See I used to be an anti-evolutionary fundamentalist. I used to believe that evolutionary. Michael Dowd and Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Schweitzer. Um if the universe is fourteen billion years old, that doesn't support necessarily an evolutionary worldview. You can be a conservative, Bible-believing fundamentalist and believe the world is fourteen million y billion years old. and and and reject evolution. They don't necessarily go together. So um I'm going to give for now, maybe we'll come back to it. I'm going to for the sake of argument at least, concede that the earth and the universe might be fourteen billion years old. What is one single point of evidence that would support evolution? I can't think of anything that doesn't. For example, let's take stars. Okay. We can see the creativity of stars right now. We can see Um stars. Creativity? You mean the creation of stars? No, the creativity of stars. Stars are creative. They're not merely created. This is we've known this since nineteen fifty seven. This is I mean any there's not an I don't know of an astrophysicist in the world that would debate what I'm about to say. How are you defining creativity? 'Cause I want to make sure that they can Create something that can bring so see one of the things that meaning the star brings something into existence. That never existed before. In other words, uh star uh one of the things that we've learned about God's creativity that we couldn't have known prior to telescopes, microscopes and computers. It's not like the apostle Paul couldn't have could have known this. God couldn't have revealed it to the to Martin Luther. Is the in a way that Martin Luther could have accepted. Is the nested nature of divine creativity, the nested nature of God's creativity. Let me finish, let me finish, please. It's only going to be important for me to be able to finish my thoughts. Okay. Subatomic particles within atoms, within molecules, within cells, within organisms, within planets, within galaxies. Okay? Every level can create. Every level can bring something new into existence that didn't exist before. Stars are creative We don't believe this, we know this. We can measure it. We can see red giant stars that are creating carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen. We can measure how much carbon, how much nitrogen, and how much oxygen they're creating. And what our star is creating hydrogen. And they're and our star is creating hard hydrogen out of what? Helium And where's the helium coming from? Four helium atoms come at a time, come together and create hydrogen. Where'd those four helium atoms come from? Troy, uh I'm talking about what nine uh on this one 99% of the time if the world agrees. Creation, according to uh a a uh molecule, a conservative biblical approach, creation is not making something out of something, but creation is the idea that something comes from nothing. Okay. That's not what you're talking about. You're using the word create in the term i i in the sense that like I can I can take mud and I can create a house. And that you and you're saying that that that that the universe creates a helium molecule and and and pulls the molecules together and creates something different. And of course I believe that. I believe that forever. I've never not believed that. But I do not believe that the universe creates things out of nothing And that and so so I all I'm saying is that we have to do that. Okay we're meaning something that God created out of nothing. That's not what you mean. I am meaning that in terms of the universe. In terms of the beginning out of what what scientists call the gr the Big Bang, what Kanye now called the Great Radiance. Yes, clearly, whatever created that, that's so w that's what I'm pointing to when I mean by God But that's not what you were describing a second ago. Sure, I believe that. Okay, cool. Sure. I'm comfortable with that. Okay, cool. But my point is just that that that's a very different idea from from what the Bible terms as creation. When God created all things And and you're agreeing with that? Yeah. That that that y you're saying that that there was a time when there was nothing and that God created everything. Correct. Okay. All right. Just make it sure. But I'm not sure. But we got into that because you would ask a question about it. But I'm pointing to the immanence and and the omnipresence of God as well. And I was the creativity. See In biblical times, people couldn't have understood emergent complexity. It was impossible to have understood emergent complexity in biblical times. Yeah, I'm I'm and and so the only so they're comfortable with that. So so people understood uh w when they imagined how that changes how did that mountain get there? Okay, looks like the Atlantic Ocean. Questions. People would have asked the question, how'd that ocean get there? We have to have answers to those. Part of having a neocortex brain is we will always Ask those questions and try to come up with good, meaningful answers. Sure. So there would have been a meaningful answer to how that Atlantic Ocean got there or how that mountain or whatever. Sure. And God did it would have been the way that almost all cultures would have said it No question. And some cultures imagine God as a great eagle that draw you know I mean the all different cultures have had different images for God, for ultimate reality, ultimate creativity. And then we come along and see see people got their major benefits. Like the like how to have trust for the future, how to have gratitude for the past, how to be inspired in the in the moment to live a life of integrity, to live a life of compassion and generosity. It needs support. So people got that from traditional religious answers that gave these answers and they were accurate. They were meaningful. Science comes along and pushes away myth, pushes away religion, pushes away all this. but thinks that we're giving that it's giving us a meaningless universe. So it's not a surprise that religious people have rejected that. And what I'm trying to say, and I think one of the reasons my book my book was endorsed by five Nobel Prize winners, is that there is a huge number of people Sure. Christian, uh you keep wanting to lump Christian and the pardon my way of phrasing that, but it seems like you're lumping Christianity in with all the other religions of the world as being on equal footing. No, they're all religions. They're all religions. But are they all equal? They're all attempts to reconnect us to ultimate reality. Yes. Right. So n none is any better than anything else on your words into my mouth. I'm but I'm not trying to, do you understand? I'm trying to have a conversation, so I'm trying to ask you what exactly, what precisely are you saying so that we can just continue to have the conversation together. religions didn't have to deal with the fact that they were different because they didn't have to interact with each other except just on the borders. And it's only been the last few hundred years that we're now forced to deal with the fact that we've got in the same culture Hindus, Christians, Muslims, Buddhists and so on. And if you take a look at how each of those traditions talk about God or ultimate reality, they use different metaphors and analogies, and that makes compl complete sense from an evolutionary perspective. It doesn't make sense from a non-evolutionary perspective. But the difficulty that I'm that I'm having just in my conversation with you is that uh just about every couple sentences that that that you speak uh I feel like you throw in enough things that I'm like, you know what, I just disagree with your assumptions and you're you're you're assuming certain things that that that I totally disagree with that that I feel like we get way down the road and and you've come to a conclusion and there's there's a slew of issues that that I find myself, huh, well I I disagree with like I disagree with the with with your statement that religions never interacted with one another Shoot, they were interacting with each other for the entire human history. The vast majority of the world. Every place that we have ever interacted in the surely. Yes. Every place that we have ever read any kind of history Any kind of recorded history of anywhere in the on the face of the planet, religions have been interacting with one another and clashing with one one another from the very beginning. That has never not been the case. Can you show me a place where that has not been the case There is not one culture where the vast majority of the religious people of that culture had to interact with others of different religions. There were intellectuals There was certain city centers where you did have that format or or or that that that diversity, but most religio most Jews didn't have to interact in it in it deeply, in other words They didn't have to have their worldview challenged by those of a deeply committed other religious tradition. I'm going to disagree with you again. We're we're interacting with the Canaanites all the time, they're interacting with the Philistines, they're interacting with the Babylonians, they're interacting with the Assyrians, with the Egyptians. They were interacting with the Greeks at every stage of history they were deeply and pervasively interacting with the other cultures around them. There was never a time in their history that was that that was not the case. Well you brought up the Jewish people. Okay, so let's talk about Taoists or Confucianists or Buddhist. Yes. You had people interacting for sure, but the vast majority of peasant people that were living in their c it it's the it's rural people today. Okay l let's take a I lived in three rural places in America. Okay. The vast majority we're talking ninety-five percent of the people that lived in the various towns that I lived didn't interact on any significant way with people of a differing religious perspective and that's the fact. Okay, so that's the truth. Let's take the Taoists. You're talking about the Taoists whether or not they are I'd like to talk about them too, but but uh the the Far East They are known at this stage of history for how many different gods that they have. The Hindu religion, that's because they were interacting with people that believed in different gods. every step of the way. And the way that the Hindus approached that was to just say, okay, they're all representations of God. Right. And in the United States, yes it's true that that uh Christianity has been the dominant world view But Christianity has been the dominant worldview and the context of kind of arising out of all these other religions and they interacted, you know, certainly with the uh with the the I'll call them pagan religions of the United States. They certainly interacted with uh with cults. Uh Judaism has been here from the very beginning. Islam has been uh around from the beginning. And so uh to say that there's not been interaction, I I feel like it's a severely simplistic worldview. How do you describe those differences? How would you and how would you explain religious differences in terms of Our perspective becomes clouded. And in the context of a clouded perspective, we lost the ability to treat God with respect. And God's not the kind of person that he's going to enable bad behavior. And so he pulled away. He's not a a codependent God. He pulled away and said Said those that want to come to me and interact with uh with me with respect are welcome to do so. The rest of those religions, the rest of those people that did not want to come and interact with God with respect went out and and built their own religions. The Bible's ultimate worldview says that you will have the whore Babylon, where people interact spiritually with one another in a uh prostitute type manner where they're whoring themselves with one another. They're not treating one another with respect. They're not honoring the dignity of one another. They're not honoring the uh the sense of holiness that relationships require, uh but but instead they you know, like Hinduism is a classic example You know, you just have many, many gods instead of one God that you're holy and that you're committed to. Whereas Christianity, uh this is what Judaism was about from the beginning, that God would call a certain group of people out. And that that group of people would be treating him in a righteous way because he too was going to treat them in a righteous way. And so all those other religions, well, they make total sense. God made us to be a religious people, but those people that are not willing to come to God according to a holy uh uh righteous, dignifying uh uh manner ended up you know, choosing all these other religions. So you've got a religion like like Buddhism that at the end of the day is really the idea that You shouldn't have any desires, and you shouldn't be attached to anything, which is the diametric opposed opposite of what Christianity says, that we should be passionately in love with and longing for our relationship with God. It's the exact opposite. Well why is that? Because it embodies a a measure of hopelessness where people have uh given up on the idea that that our desires could ever be redeemed and as a result they gave themselves to to to this to this religion that the only way to be free is to have no more desires. Well it's an attempt to deal with the fact that they feel the separation, they feel the pain, but they don't know how to resolve it. Well God resolved it by coming to mankind with the Hebrew people to teach them how to be holy, bringing Christ who would die for us. Not us dying for God, but God dying for us so that he could win the world. And then he's got a lot of work to do. Makes total sense to me in terms of of internal logic. There's there's there's no lack of uh of internal logic uh to to a worldview like that. I I um I really hate to end on a Jonathan Schweitzer soliloquy, but we are out of time on uh this week's show. Another ho-hum, you know, walk through the park faith debate show, you know, no no passion or uh or This'll be fun. This is fun. I hope you're having fun. I'm having fun. Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Michael Dowd is the author of Thank God for Evolution from uh Plume. And it's just coming out in uh in soft cover. Uh was out in hard uh back before, did pretty well, and so they've decided to release it in softcover as well. People can download the first fifty pages from my website, thank Godrevolution. com. Okay. Very cool. Check that out. Uh thanks to our sponsor, Putin Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith. Thanks so much again. God bless.