Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner, thanking our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile Encourage you to visit online WFMB. com keywordfaith. Or you can go to the Audio Vault section. You can listen to previous shows of the Faith Debate, including this one. And generally give it uh a day or two, uh and on a really, really, really busy week for the webmaster, you might want to wait uh a week or so before the uh podcasts are available on the website, but sometimes they're there by Monday afternoon. So nice. On the panel this week, first we just said nice, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And Dan Fabricateur who I'm gonna give him uh two. See I'm gonna I'm gonna match your job description and raise you one to the case. Uh-huh. Uh Dan is pastor at Grace Bible Church, meets at Menakasite Middle School, and is also adjunct instructor at Baptist Bible Seminary, specializing in teaching folks Greek, ancient Greek. As in the kind that nobody speaks anymore. Exactly. Except I have a neighbor that speaks Greek. Now it seems to me, I mean it sounds impressive and all. Nobody speaks anymore, so you could be completely wrong and who's gonna challenge you? What a safe place to be. Actually uh we uh we I would clarify one thing I wouldn't call it Ancient Greek because uh that would be more your classical Greek but uh More the Koine period, uh three hundred BC to three hundred A. And that'll give you a good perspective on how precise Dan is able to be on his topic. There you have it. He split a hair in the first comment we know it's funny, uh See just language in general, if you were to pick up the differences between classical Greek and even the Greek of the New Testament time are so uh so different, uh you have five hundred years uh five to eight hundred years have gone by since Homer and you know, Penn the Iliad and it's like the difference between us and what they spoke, you know, the King's English. Exactly. Try to go ba that's exactly where I was headed. Try to go back to and read Beowulf, uh I think was which is the earliest uh written uh piece in English that we have in the U. have you ever tried? No. Well I I've tried to read some of those types of things before, you know, and it's just I you know it's it's can you recognize it Yeah. But uh But you get into that kind of thing? Uh well actually uh I had to for my dissertation but uh I What uh not the classical. Oh. I had uh the coine. The coine, yeah. The classical I had to r research a a word through all Greek literature. There's this great uh soft uh database out at I think it's University of California, are I It's called the the Caesaurus of Lingua Grec A T L G and you can all the uh all the Greek writings that are in existence are catalogued. Fascinating. Yeah. It's a computer. It's a computer program and you have a database and you can go in and you can search Like over the internet? But if you're s if you're part of a school, you get to do it for free. Well the school pays for the licensing agreement. Yeah, so I got like two thousand printouts of a word and sort through 'em. But anyway, uh I I I say this in love, but there are people right now who are thinking, there's It's little wonder that there's only one letter of difference between Greek and Geek. That was a good point. I I didn't want to do that, so y sometimes you you're at the mercy of your uh advisor where he wants you to go, so that's not what I wanted to do. Not the not not the lexical end, but Number of years ago, this has been a long time and coming. You know, probably a good three years in in getting Dan on the show. Long sought after Yes. Yeah, we should have promoted this and with trumpet and fanfare and stuff. Yes. But uh Dan and I uh met briefly uh in kind of a casual way, uh quite a few years ago. It's gotta be at least three years ago, might have been four years ago, I don't know. And um and we talk for just a few minutes and and you know, when I meet a new uh a pastor for the first time, one of the things that's gonna automatically come up for me is Hey, you know, there's this faith debate show, not sure if you're familiar or not, but uh we'd love to have you think about coming on or whatever and And so I brought up the show and and uh you know I don't know that Dan was too familiar with the show. I think he might have said something like, Yeah, I I think I might have heard about that, which was his polite way of saying I have no idea who you are or what you're talking about. I think I'm at work when it runs. Right, by the way, yeah, yeah. Most pastors are, yeah. So But anyway, I said, well, you know, here's kind of gist of what it's about. Maybe we can talk some more or whatever and uh you know, it's helpful for me when we're trying to put together topic ideas and panel guests and that sort of thing to get an idea of where where people you know fall on certain issues So to give me a little bit of a toehold and an understanding of what might be interesting for Dan to come on and talk about. Yeah. I said, so you know, Dan, really quickly, how would you describe, you know, your theological approach? You know, what what what's your view? How would you describe that? Uh oh here it is. You remember this Dan? Yeah Vaguely. And he says, oh well, you know, definitely Pauline, you know, definitely Pauline theology, and he said a few other things I don't know, but the one thing that stuck with me all these years was Dan said, you know, well, Pauline theology. Pauline, and that's got nothing to do with a bird that wants a cracker. Yeah, and for and if you don't know what that means, you know, the Apostle Paul You know, people that study what Paul has to say uh about things will say, Okay, well Paul says this and we're gonna call that Pauline. Now I didn't have time. Here's a and you contrast that with like j John's theology is called Johannine theology. Or petering for Peter Peter's theology. So you got the different types of theology, right? Okay, yeah. So now as you know with this show, here's a a word that gets thrown a lot around a lot in theological conversations. I've never heard it maybe you hear it in philosophical conversations. So if you want to sound theological and smart. Yeah or philosophical and smart, you'll say, well let's take a moment to unpack this. Let's unpack. It's a word that gets thrown a lot about uh not usually mostly they'll never use the word unpack, but in theological and philosophical circles say all the time. Well I didn't have time in that initial meeting with Dan to unpack what he meant by that. Yeah. And so here we are all these years later and I finally have a chance and like he's gonna even remember what I'm talking about. Right, right. But both of you, uh Jonathan and Dan, yeah. Somebody says to you, Pauline theology, and what might what does that mean? Potentially what do you think that might mean to some people? Specifically, what does it mean to you when you use it as a positive or some people might use it as a pejorative like, oh, Pauline, uh like it's a curse word or something. So what did you mean by that? Well probably um the You know, as a as a New Testament major everywhere I've been, uh most of your indoctrination and um exegetical methodology uh how you interpret the New Testament uh is rooted in Paul's epistles. And by the way, indoctrination can sometimes be taken as a pejorative. Sure. discipling. But um Paul, as you know, wrote thirteen of thirteen epistles uh to the New Testament. And uh Peter and Paul um are really the the when you talk about the Acts of the Apostles, you you really could have titled it the Acts of Peter and Paul, because they pretty much make up the bulk of the book. And uh Peter was called to be the apostle to the Gent to the to the Jews, and Paul was called to be the apostle to the Gentiles. And it was through Paul that uh God gave uh really the uh the unveiling of many um mysteries, at least one major mystery uh from the old that was hidden in the Old Testament that was revealed in the New Testament, namely that uh both Jew and Gentile would occupy the same body Uh at the time the Abrahamic covenant made stipulations in Genesis twelve for for both for for Gentile inclusion, but what was really what was unknown was how. Would they be included? And uh when Paul reveals the mystery in Ephesians three one to seven, he he he defines it in verses around six and seven that uh that namely that both Jews and Gentile would occupy one body and that now in Christ there's no difference between Jew and Gentile, male, female, slave, free man. Yeah, this is huge. Right. It was it was paradigm shift. Yeah. Uh and um And so Paul is considered the theologian of the early church by by most, although he even Peter seemed to get that was the case. Exactly in Second Peter three. Although Paul did not write the highest percentage of the New Testament. That belongs to, of all people, a Gentile physician named Luke. Yeah. Yeah. Out of all the Greeks, yeah. It's just slightly more than uh You mean if you actually count all the words, there's more words in Luke and Acts than there is in all the but I know Paul's. Paul's actually coming um Paul might come in third. John is John's ahead of us. He's got the Gospel of John, the Book of Revelation, and three epistles. And I think the Greek total Greek words slightly I have to double check that. Paul's second or third. But Luke's first. For those that are counting. Exactly. That is on the assumption that that that Paul did not write Hebrews. And that's another mystery that we have to ask when we get up there one day. It's a little bit inside baseball kind of thing. Yeah. Words that I don't want to take anything for granted, not that I think anybody who listens to this show wouldn't have a clue, but just in case You're having a fuzzy morning, you're coffee. We have a very intelligent listener. Very bright. That's right. You, me, and him. Yeah. Dan used the word epistle. Yeah. In case you're not familiar, epistle is like another word for letter So his letters to the church. Okay. Uh Acts is uh is the book of the Bible that falls right for the four gospel accounts of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. It's written by Luke. And you can almost break it in half. Like the first half is kind of Peter and the second half is Paul. So okay. That's you're meaning by Pauline, you're meaning that this idea that the the the Jew and the Gentile make up, you know, the the one body of Christ Secondly, though, I think would be Paul's great emphasis on justification by faith alone in Christ alone. places the emphasis on salvation, getting to heaven, being by uh faith alone in Jesus Christ, like Paul does. And in church history a big deal. Yes, you could. I think there are ninety five uses in the Gospel of John of the Greek verb to believe. Yeah, they are. But Paul's the one who crystallizes the hair. And he he he almost looks at it from a forensic point of view. Yeah, very That's I mean and and the Great Reformation of which we're celebrating, I think, uh this year, the uh five hundredth anniversary of Calvin, and in in nine years, uh not two thousand nine, in eight years There's going to be the five hundredth anniversary of the Reformation when Martin Luther posted his ninety five theses on the Wittenberg door bringing the Ref uh and and then came after Luther? Just slightly. Yeah. Luther was uh Calvin was nine when Luther posted his sort, but yeah, Luther was older. Oh, that's Calvin's birthday versus nine. Oh, there was ninety five DC. But uh but but most of the Reformation Most of the reformers, uh Calvin and Luther and Swingley and Melanchthon, all those guys, they they saw in Paul uh their Yeah. They're uh their hero. Yeah. Because the the the one thing the Reformation did is it did place an emphasis back on the scriptures, the original languages, and the need to be right with God. And they all saw Paul as their uh patron saint, so to speak. Now if I say to you, Jonathan, and you hadn't heard all that already, you know, whitewash all of that from your mind and I came up to you, John, some guy just came up to me and said polyentheology I was like, uh uh uh what is that? And you're gonna say, Oh well, he probably meant Or if I were him, I would have meant, you know, what does polyneology mean to you? Well, there's there's two ways that I would answer that question. The first one would be that, you know, from my time in seminary, polyintheology just meant studying the books that Paul wrote to understand where Paul's coming from. But the other side to me would be, well, maybe it's maybe it's one of these guys that emphasizes that what Paul wrote was a um was a corruption of what Jesus actually taught. You know, that uh that school of theologians and and uh seminaries that uh for about a couple of hundred years now have taught that that Paul is the founder of Christianity, whereas Jesus wasn't trying to find founder religion, he was just a a great teacher in the Jewish tradition and he was a prophet in the Jewish tradition. He never rose from the dead. And so those that are into Pauline theology basically make the claim that at the end of the day Paul created the myth that Jesus rose from the dead. He created this myth that he was the Son of God and that Paul was the founder of Christianity and that Paul was different from uh in in and kind of co-opted what Jesus was all about and what he taught and changed everything to a whole different mindset, to whole different orientation. And so Pauline theology unfortunately in many circles, uh a lot of lot of churches out there, you know, with pastors that would even lean in this direction, unfortunately, uh, that uh believe that that Paul uh cannot be reconciled with Jesus Christ. Yes, that as a matter of fact, uh it it's not just in areas of salvation. That's being uh That argument's being used in areas of ethics, morals, behavior. Well, Jesus didn't talk about that, and since he's not talking about that, uh I don't believe what Paul has to say. Um and even in um there's a m there's a there's a theological movement, um school I should say, called the New Perspectives on Paul, which believes that basically as Jonathan said, that Paul sort of hijacked uh early first century Judaism and he made justification be something more than what The Old Testament first century. Just to reset. Uh Dan Favrator is the uh pastor at uh Grace Bible Church, meets at Minoxie Middle School, Jonathan Swipe service. a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, which meets at Crestwood Middle School. And I'm Troy Skiddy, you're listening to Faith Debate on WFMD, 9 30 a. m. on your dial. Uh and I just wanted to make the observation. Anybody and it'd be easy enough, and I guess I'm guilty of it. Why would you want to try to split these here? Why would you want to try to define these things? Why spend any time at all unpacking what somebody might mean by polyn theology? But you can see quite clearly, on the one hand, polynheology can mean something that, in my opinion, would be very orthodox, very biblical and very true. And on the other hand, somebody else using the same label, calling it the same thing, calling theology means something that is I don't want to say heretical, because I don't know if that's too strong of language, but something that is certainly outside the the the realm of orthodoxy and certainly delves in the areas that are a little bit you know dangerous. If they're saying that Jesus was not divine Well then that's that's heresy. That's heresy. Yeah. I mean according to Orthodox But I don't know that everybody like we're we're Go gonna transition here now into like a perspective on Paul. Most of those people don't believe that there's such a thing as heresy. They think that however you want to study it, truth is relative. Truth is relative, and and if you've got a new perspective on Paul, like we're going into, like you're saying, you know, this new perspective on Paul, then then maybe Uh maybe we need to listen to you because maybe you're finally bringing us out of the dark ages. In in many ways what you have are old old errors repackaged with new covers. Um in some ways the New Perspectives movement has its roots in the quest for the historical Jesus. Um which is uh a a liberal Can I do that? Yeah, those are the things. Exactly. Wait, well, you know, the Jesus seminar people have, I think, to a color coding system of I think they believe that of all the words Jesus spoke, there's about thirteen verses that are probably his, which which I subscribe. It's subjective. The reason I wanted to be careful though, I'll use a name that you guys probably know, and I don't know if uh if the listener to this program might automatically know. There's a pretty well known uh new perspective guy, N. T. Wright. Yeah. And I'm not so sure I want to call N. T. Wright a heretic. No, not a heretic. But he's a new perspective um Paul guy. Yes. So you know I want to be careful not to just lump them all into the same pail. My sense is my my yeah, I was gonna get at the same thing. My sense is that is that there's a group of these guys that are almost like neo-orthodox. They they come from a background where they were where where they were taught that that you can't trust the Bible to mean what it says. And we have to unpack the Bible and uh and and when you unpack the Bible it ends up meaning something totally different than what you t you know, this anti right is one of those guys that was raised in that that was kind of brought up in that environment, but but came out of it saying, well, okay, fine. You say all those things, but we still got to deal with what scripture actually says. And at the end of the day, he's willing to approach to to come at scripture from a different perspective, but he does what most of the other I don't know what what you want to call these guys, historical critical method, you know, higher criticism guys. He he does what none of those guys do. He comes back to the text and he says, okay, after all of these different ways that we can look at the Bible, we can look at it from the Socio perspective, we can look at it from the political perspective, we can look at it from the cultural perspective, we can look at it from psychological perspective, you know, all these different perspectives, trying to get at what these guys were really saying. At the end of the day, we still got to deal with what does the Bible say. And that's the thing about NT Wright is that is that he doesn't because he comes from a a different a new perspective, he doesn't throw out the Bible like you were talking about the Jesus seminar. Yeah. He seems to genuinely want to deal with what what was Paul saying. Yeah, the the the I mean M. T. Wright on the r believes uh he he's an Anglican and e in Europe he's considered right wing because he holds to the resurrection of Christ. So uh and and and and in in America he he he couldn't get hired in s most seminaries, ungenerical seminaries because he couldn't find a doctoral state. But uh so it's it's an interesting point of view, he's right in the middle. But the thing that's day the the thing about right is at the end at the end of the day is that I I I'm uncomfortable with the gospel as he sees it. Um Which is what? Well, which is that Uh Paul is is that you need he he's arguing that you need to understand justification in light of first century Judaism, which I would reject that it has to be understood in light of the Old Testament. Well and that's the crux of the new perspective. Yes it is. So why don't you explain that you were about to before f be and then I interrupted you. So why don't you explain that new perspective on Paul. I think it's nineteen sixty three Chris Kirsten Kendell uh I think is a Lutheran He was arguing that that there was a n a new fresh approach had to be looked at of Paul. And I think it was James Dunn in around 1984 who argued that what was going on now was was a new perspective of Paul. The problem I have with it, at the end of the day, it's old liberalism. Because it does not mean it's not new liberalism. But hi the problem I have with it is that it it rejects the imputation of Christ's righteousness to the believing sinner. In short, it deni it it it believes that the that the righteousness of God that's being talked about in Romans 1, Romans 5, is not Is not God's righteousness being imputed to the believer, which has been uh the view since, well, since at least the Reformation. But uh in the Reformation was going back to Genesis fifteen six, Abraham believed God and it was reckoned to him as righteousness, imputed righteousness The the the problem with the New Perspective Gospel is that it it holds mostly really to an infused or an imparted righteousness. You're made member of the community, the covenantal gnomism by baptism. And whether you stay in or out is based on your works, works of law. Now you're gonna have to uh take a half a second if you can and define imputed versus infused. Well i imputed is a forensic term. Um that That base uh that the believer is declared to be righteous uh that upon saving faith, that that God imputes, he credits, he reckons. His righteousness to the believing sinner. And then God declares that sinner to be right with him. In f in in infused righteousness or imparted righteousness is a righteousness that comes through your own works over time. It's not forensic. It's not a once-for-all declaration. Paul says in Romans 5. 1, therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. I I uh I do take that to be a a declaration of the believing sinner to be right with God based on the work of God alone. Uh The problem the problem I have with the new perspectives is it reinterprets pistis, the Greek noun faith, to be faithfulness. Not that it can't mean that sometimes. But it they're arguing that it's not God's righteousness that's being imputed. It's that um that God that that God makes you part of his family based on your access into the community through baptism for the church, and that your dependence On being in the community is based on works of the law or works of of righteousness. And Philippians says, ha having begun in the spirit, are you now being perfected in the flesh? Right, and in simplest terms, what what the new perspective is saying is God pulls you in, but then you've got to work really hard to stay in or else you're you're kicking yourself out. Here let me let me give you a verse that that uh that this word peace these redefined would would change. It is by grace you have been saved through faith is how we know it now. Uh if you change the meaning of that word peace these you would say it is by grace you have been saved through faithfulness. And so the key is uh i is that God gives you the power, you know, and this not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. God has given you the power to be faithful. And and so it's your faithfulness that is keeping you in. And as as opposed to God has given you the power to believe, your belief is keeping you in. And then God empowers you also to to follow through. And so so it's it splits a really fine hair. It does. A and and it's a and um in some ways it it wins an audience with the human heart that by its very nature, wants to have a role in everything. Uh i and this is m sometimes more of a problem for Western civilization. You know, American rugged individualism, I pick myself up by my bootstraps, I I can I can do all things Their favorite verse is God helps those who help themselves. No, and and there's um uh most the human heart has a very difficult time accepting that it owns its destiny to the work of God. You know, Paul was arguing in 1 Corinthians 1. He's saying, you know, he he's he he's basically telling the church of Corinth they they misunderstood the gospel message. And then he he appeals to them in one twenty six to twenty nine and goes, You know, you you you guys aren't real you're not a bright bulb in the pack there. Uh and he says, you know, suck for some of you, but but then he adds a one thirty, but by his doing you are in Christ Jesus. The human heart has a hard time humbling itself and acknowledging that God is the source of all that it has. And that's why I think the new perspective has one i it appeals to the the fleshless of the human heart. You know, it says in Psalm thirty-six that uh The the wicked man has no fear of God before his eyes because in his own eyes he flatters himself too much to detect or hate his own sin. I feel like that's the crux of what you're saying. flatter ourselves that that we're not so sinful, that we're not as bad as, you know, maybe this old view of Christianity, you know, tells us that we are. So therefore if we do a good few good works, faithful works, it's actually enough to uh to win us. You know, favor with God instead of recognize that we're really a long way off. Well, if there's additional thought around this topic, we can uh we can finish up some thoughts on it. Maybe at the beginning of next week's show, we'll have the same panel back. And uh, you know, I want to thank Dan Fabricator, the uh pastor at Grace Bible Church, uh meeting at Minoxy Middle School, Jonathan Sweitzer, uh pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel, meeting at Crestwood Middle School. Middle schools are a hot place for churches to meet these days. Yes. I'm Troy Skinner thanking our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating, How can we make you smile? And a final thought as I'm thinking about, you know Isolating things down to one word and does it mean faith, does it mean faithfulness and you know, that's uh like a hyper proof texting and that's why I'm not a big fan of proof texting and trying to find one verse and try to hang your whole theology on that one verse. So important that we come to understand what does the whole Bible tell us and teach us and how do we understand what that word, should we understand that word as faith or faithfulness in light of what the whole rest of Scripture has to say. And that's where we sometimes lose our way. When we can't s we we lose sight of the forest for the trees. We've got to make sure that we're We're in the word and we're talking to people that are showing us, yeah, here's what this tree and this here's what in fact, here's what the leaf on that tree is all about. But I can say that with confidence because here's what the forest is all about. So let's keep that in mind. Praise God Amen. Amen. I was looking for an Amen or something. We'll talk to you next week. Thanks for listening. God bless.