So what exactly's wrong with my shirt? I like it. I'm not sure. Yeah, no, no, I like the tie. Yeah, I feel like I feel like the tie is a bold tie in that you bury it in the shirt. Bury it in the shirt. Talking about being poetic in the sh Aesthetics and that kind of coming. Is that literal? Does he really bury that tie? Yeah, see? So why? Because the tie because the shirt's also too bold? Or because the shirt is too colorful? And that if you had a white shirt behind it and or a um a yellow shirt would be interesting. It's rare that I'm accused of being too colorful, but thank you for that one. This is the first time we've ever had such a uh I can't believe we're having a conversation about clothing. How how do you think that's my wife worry about those? Yeah. Yeah. We've lost all credibility this time around. We've been reading G Q or something. Can we restart the show? G Q still exists? Is that magazine still in? I'm Troy Skinner. That's right. The uh person who claims that I'm too colorful today is Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valet Chapel. And um actually I'm arguing you're not colorful enough. And the embarrassed senior pastor of Poolsville Poolville Baptist Poolsville Baptist is Jace Broadhurst, we may not colorful enough. I am drinking out of a pink cup though, so that is really starting to bother me. Anyway, if you were listening last week, then you'll have a sense of what we're talking about this week. But you might not have been listening last week. Or if you were, you might have forgotten Or you might have listened last week and just really been confused. Yeah, which, you know, join the club. So here's what we're talking about. The Bible. Can you believe anything it says? Yeah. I'm in favor of it. Um a little more seriously, there are things in the in the in the Bible that even Christians we have two Christian pastors on the panel this week that even Christians will, you know, debate and argue over, arm wrestle or knife fight over as uh as Jace once said. Um and and they get serious about it. Um in some cases, Jonathan pointed this out in last week's show, some cases There are those who are so on the uh on the fringes of a particular direction, a particular kind of theology, which is uh designated you know liberal theology or that sort of thing. Yes. They kind of throw the bab baby out with the bathwater sometimes in their arguments. If it's supernatural, it's not true. Yes. Uh and then you got the more conservative uh and then you got the hyper conservative element, which Bible says it must be so. But it says you're gonna soar like Like eagles with wings. Well then by golly I'm gonna score like eagles with wings because it says so. But it says God is like a mother hen who's yeah shielding her chicks with that means God looks like a chicken God is poultry. Poultry is God. I'm not sure who those people are. I believe it's the Waynesboro Baptist Church in K in Kansas. Oh right. Yes, yes The ones that protest at the military funerals. Yes. Yes. So uh anyway. So now we got two caricatures and we can very nicely walk down the middle of the middle of all that. Perfectly in the middle, yes. Yes. So What we're what we're trying to to get a a handle on is, you know, how are you to understand different things? You know, when the Bible says a serpent spoke to Adam and Eve, how are we supposed to try to understand that? When it says that, you know, the that Satan spoke to to God in heaven before all sorts of horrible things befell Job. Did did a large fish actually swallow Jonah? These sorts of of questions. Well my congregation when I read the Balaam story and I read it in the King James using, you know, the A word Uh my congregation has no problem believing that whatsoever. The Vellum story of where the donkey or the A-word speaks So yeah, we have lots of them. They actually run for office, we vote for them every four years. Now I'm following you. Right, right. All right. Right. It took us a second. So anyways, the point is is that there's all these passages that could be interpreted various ways. Right. So And we got into talking about poetry and metaphor and parable and is it history Which by the way that's what made me so you know worried about how you're dressed, because we're talking about poetry, you know, and so poetry, art, how you dress. Yeah, C C well done Yeah. Okay. So keep going. Uh huh. I was just trying to protect myself there. I just I have a reputation to uphold. Jonathan is married and has kids. Five. Congratulations. Another reason why I'm worried about how we like I have a daughter now. Yes. Very nice. So um there are lots of different types of text in the Bible. So what are some of those different types? What are the you know these these genres, the lit the literary categories? History. History's one. Very nice. Very nice, I got one. Well played. Yes. Although even ask I mean we have a much bigger question if we want to get to that as to what a histri historical genre is. Stay a little bit closer to like prose and poetry of poetry. Let's let's just don't let's not get carried away, but let's subdivide history for a moment. How would we have different genres of history? Well certainly. Yeah. In the Bible. I can't come up with them off the top of my head, but I don't have labels for them. But certain things we could say are historical and what levels of histor historicity that they uh that they relate to. I mean, are they Yeah, let's try to brute facts is what we call are are do they can they give us brute facts or are they just a way of telling us about history, like for instance historical fiction. There's certainly history involved there. Um it relates to things that actually happen in real life, but usually there's things at the end. Would you put Job in that category? Would I put Job in that category? Or Job jumping right into that? Job is certainly put into that category by some people. Like when I think history, I'm thinking first and second Kings, First and Second Chronicles, uh Joshua, Judges You know, I'm thinking uh I'm thinking for that matter the Pentateuch seems to have a lot of uh you know, very precise where it's just giving us the data. of what's going on. And so when I think history, those are the ones that I think of the S. But what gives you the what what makes you say those are history versus something else? For instance, I didn't hear revelation in that, but it's the same kind of Stuff what makes you say one thing that's a screen. Oh, well they did that and then they did that. And they did that. And uh and and I'm not necessar i i like first second kings, you know, I get the impression that that king lived after that king, you know, and that that king was immoral You know, and worship the Baals and that king did not. I mean it's like a a a straightforward thing. So if a chronology exists, then therefore the narrative must be historical. But there seems to be, at least many scholars would say, some kind of chronology to Revelation I'm not in that same campus they are, but so if there's some kind of chronology then it must be historical. Okay, so you're asking why I wouldn't put revelation into the historical category is because it has such major inclusion of these uh uh apocryphal language, beasts. Apocalyptic, right. Apocalyptic language, you know, beasts and uh you know a whore that rides the beast and and um Beasts. And lots of beasts that are showing up. I guess it's the beast. Just symbolism. I'm with you. Okay. Symbolism is a sort of thing. Okay, no, there's seven of everything that happens. And so which is interesting because you you're saying that if you get into those kinds of numbers then that we're probably or likely talking about A a passage of scripture that's not giving us facts, but is giving us a an idea that it wants us to grapple with that is a Is an important idea. I mean it it made you stop on Revelation and say, well why is this this is not historical? Why wouldn't it make a stop on the remote? Like for example, Job having seven sons You know, in a certain number of you know, all of the animals that he had, it's nice rounded numbers, you know. And in fact at the end exactly double. He receives Mac and all those things. And then seven kids again, you know, with three girls, you know, all these all these num numerological numerologically interesting numbers. And then the fact that Job, of course, is almost all poetry. Right? Just the first chapter and a little bit of the last chapter are not poetry. Everything else is poetry. I mean it seems to just be One big poem about life. Yeah, I was reading something today that g that uh asked if maybe Moses uh had come across the book of Job in Aramaic. And had translated it into Hebrew. And so Moses would have been the one that that that included it in the uh in the canon, but that he included it, you know, interpret or translating it rather into Hebrew. You know, the point is that we just don't know because it doesn't tell us who wrote the book. We don't know where the book came from, and so we're left with with certain um uh lack of information that for us to take some kind of a firm stand and say, well Job is this and I know that he was exactly at this point in history and and it happened exactly this way is just a little bit to um well it's us acting like we have more information than we have. Although we do uh one of the great things on the other side of the issue is the book of Job. There are several books of Job. Not in our canon of course, but out there. There are many um stories that are quite famous. Sumerian, Akkadian different different stories about a man who has children, who die, he loses all these things. And there's a big conversation throughout the middle of it, you know, in in our book, it's like more than thirty chapters, of a conversation between just a few people trying to figure out why do these bad things happen to such good people. I mean, Job is righteous. Why are all these things happening? And the same question happens in other uh in other cultures as well. Looks very much like Job to the fact that they call it the Sumerian Job. I mean, because it looks so much like that. So we've got these parallel texts that that might tell us that maybe we're dealing with some history, perhaps, but maybe this is just a poem about why bad things happen to good people. And then of course maybe there's a middle ground. Maybe there really was a guy named Job or a guy named Something that had terrible things happen to him and God blessed him at the end while he was dealing with a hard situation and somebody just wrote a poem about this guy, gave him a name Job, or maybe that was his real name. What does the the the name Job mean in Hebrew? Isn't there a It means like something like uh uh fatherless or something like that. But there's some anyways, there's some significance to the name. And the point is when you run across all those things where it seems like the guy that that the book is trying to tell a story uh that isn't so precise in terms of details that it's okay for us to say, hmm, this book is not so precise about details and for us to not be um uh somehow feel feeling violated if somebody says, well Job's not true and it's in the Bible. You know, well you could say, well maybe it is, maybe it isn't. Nevertheless, you know, it's clearly inspired. And it's clearly uh something that was given to us to to know scripture and uh to know God's will and to understand God more clearly. And uh and so because Job doesn't uh necessarily have all those parts to it that makes it firmly historical, we don't necessarily have to read it as historical. Right. See now what you did there, and I think this is really important to show up You use the the words true and historical together, synonymously, like they're the same thing. You get you're gonna get into epistem epistemology. Very good. You said it right this time. Earlier I said a piece Something can be true. For instance, I think a psalm is true. It is true, but it's not historical. Okay, many of the things that we're doing. This is like my wife. My wife, it's true that she's really angry about something, but that doesn't necessarily mean that all the things that she's saying to me right now that I need to take them as facts You know, there's a certain emotion to it that that the emotion is true, and so I can read the emotion is true without feeling like I have to read her logic as you know absolute truth. Is that a good example? Yeah. We don't want to go too far. So sorry ladies that I went that direction. If we talk about inerrancy, saying, you know, this In other words, it doesn't lie to us. There's no error. It's true. We can say that in many different ways something is true. I I mean, I can write poetry or I can write apocalyptic literature and still be true. Jesus can mention a parable for instance, he can tell a parable and still be true. The parable is not true historical. Of course I mean You mentioned Shepherd earlier. Right. Yeah. Metaphor is deceitful. That's the whole idea of it is supposed to be that way. Well when you say metaphor is deceitful, I think that that would tend to throw people off. The point is that metaphor is i like when when the Bible says the Lord is my shepherd, it doesn't mean that he's actually up there with a crook And then I'm down here going back to it means that there's Troy does that. There is truth to that. Yes. But there's not literal historical truth as we're trying to trying to understand it. Just just like that parable. Let me jump in here for a second. One I wanted to say, you know Jonathan I think, even though he we're talking about you know revelations, not history, Jonathan I think, would say that it's historical. I don't want to speak for you, so tell me if I'm wrong It is historical, you would believe it's historical that some guy named John had a revelation and wrote it down Yes. And that there's a historical fact that's true about that. Yes. But then the unpacking would you agree with that? I would agree with that. I don't know what that tells us about our discussion though. Sure. Uh yeah, yeah. A book can not be historical but still be you know still had to be written by somebody. Yeah. Okay. Right. It was written by John from the Isle of Pymos. Okay. On the Lord's Day. Right. The the text claims to have been to be the recording of a vision. Yeah. So it's not some guy sat down and s and made up a story about a vision. Someone really had a vision and wrote it down. Yes. You agree with that? I mean I cleaned agree with you. You're not so sure do you want to agree with that right away? I just think the issues are a lot bigger than we have probably time to get into here. Um if you have an apocalyptic genre, for instance, in Revelation, is it not possible that he could sit that that I could be writing something and say that I had a vision? Why would that be absolutely necessary? Now I I think I'm with you on this by the way, but I'm playing what actually is a vision. Yeah, well you have a vision. Yeah, but I think we're still assuming here that a vision actually had to have taken place, which after I've done the research I'm with you on, but If we just back up just a second and say, cannot I write a story that I know I didn't have a vision in, and everybody around me knows I didn't have a vision, but I set it up in terms of my having a vision in order to make my point. Couldn't I do something like that? Couldn't I write a fiction? I'm comfortable with that as long as you're abundantly clear that that's what's happening. Well abundantly clear to who? To To people that are two thousand years removed from it? Or it's people around the time period who would recognize oh apocalyptic genre. Got it. He's talking about this vision thing. Fine. I know what he's talking about. He's just making up a story. Let me do a real quick reset and then I'll have a follow-up on that. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. You're also listening to the voices of Jace Broadhurst, the Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, and Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. Seems to me that if you got a guy writing and he says, I received this vision and I wrote it down and and again, plain devil's advocate, uh uh you've already said a couple of times that you're not subscribing to that. You're just saying, couldn't we say Couldn't you s apply the same thing to I Paul write this with my own hand? What's to stop me from lending some credibility and authority to the letter saying, I Paul, write this with my own hand, even though it's not true? Then you have this whole fraudulent kind of thing going on there. You're bringing up a couple of great things. So the genre again plays a huge role in that kind of thing. So it would be less likely that that would take place, as you just say it. At the same time, we've got tons of Second Temple literature besides the Bible that are out there that are claiming to be by people that they're not really bi. That everybody recognizes they're not really by. You know, published first Enoch sometime in the second Enoch. It's not really by Enoch. Everyone knows it's not a good idea. But isn't that part of why it's rejected as not being part of canon and and revelation is accepted as being written? I know there's some debate over whether it's the same John, I get that. But uh it it's been canonized because people thought okay, it's the John, the beloved. That was definitely part of the argument for canonization, yeah. Uh however, that's not the argument for everything because we don't know really any of the Old Testament books who wrote them. Uh you might argue that you know a few of them, but we still allow them to be part of the canon. So I That's only one one issue among many people. And again, your your point in in us understanding these issues is that if we get out there with somebody who is knowledgeable about the Bible but who is not a believer And they start throwing these things at us that that even Christian uh theologians and and uh uh experts are in agreement on. But we're not prepared to recognize that, yeah, we don't know who wrote certain books of the Old Testament, and we're okay with that. Yeah, we're not completely sure you know, uh where these where these books fit. And so what what you're arguing for is for us to to not be violated, to not feel violated, for us to not be shocked by this. that that this doesn't somehow undermine our faith to to think deeply about these various passages, uh, these various books You know, whether it's revelation, whether it's you know, whatever it is. That is exactly the issue. That is my biggest concern is for the church that seems to be losing its faith when it comes uh in contact just very remotely with some kind of scholarship. As the church seems to be a non-scholarly entity now. We're just take everything on faith and enjoy it. Well yes, of course we should take things on faith, but let's let the Bible speak for itself. Let it tell us what it is we're supposed to believe. Let's not automatically go into the Bible with all of our presuppositions, of course you have to take your presuppositions in, but try and block them out a little bit, recognize them at least, and go into it And and you're saying this because just second ago you were saying that yes you agree that Revelation was probably written by John And that it was probably historical. Yes, you're in agreement with that, but that we shouldn't be afraid to back up and say, well, maybe it wasn't Maybe it was something else because if we're willing to back up and question a little bit, it actually will increase our confidence about whatever, you know, whatever conclusion we come to, but we're backing up and we're saying, okay, well I'm not so sure. And so it's okay for me to have a little bit of a of doubt so that I can dig into what it actually says. get my teeth into it, shake it around, and then see what what's still there after I've really shook it a s shook it around to not be afraid of that. Whereas what tends to happen is is You know, kids go off to to college and somebody else shakes it around for them and then they freak out, they lose their faith, and then we lose them to the kingdom. Exactly right. We need some s some people who know the issues to be able to s tell these kids and adults that they h see these things. We know the questions, we know the problems, we recognize them, and we still love God like crazy, and we still worship it worship Jesus and We can stay on this and still ask questions of the other. And when you're shaking things around, I think it's important to make a distinction, I guess, on where it's okay to just leave it unresolved with whatever the answer is. In other cases where It's really critically important to make up your mind on what the answer is. For example, we've talked about Job quite a bit uh last week and this week. Um there's a lot of debate about when, forget who wrote it. when it was written. Some people think it was written just a few hundred years before Jesus, and some people think it was written a few thousand years before Jesus. I mean some say it's the oldest thing we have in the Bible. It was the first book written. Others say there's no way. Whatever Okay, whatever. You want to say it's 2500 years old before 2500 years before Jesus? Okay. You want to say it's 500 years before Jesus? Okay, Whatever, but Paul talking about um you know what he's addressing the church, or more importantly perhaps the gospels, right? Talking about Jesus and him being a physic a literal historical a figure who physically walked the earth right who really died and rose again and that that's a historic truth. You've got to come to a decision on that. You can't just leave that one ambiguous and say, oh, I don't know. Might have died, might not have. Doesn't really matter. I just have faith. Because what do you have faith in? I mean what you have faith in is that. Right. We don't have faith in Job, so it's important to figure out where we're gonna draw those lines. So are there some other things by the way we never did answer the original question. We'll come back to that about what the different genres are. I tried. We did. We tried for about I don't know thirty seconds. Jonathan Jonathan. So but are there what are the some of those critical things that I'm not saying that you you right now on the air say these are the things you must believe. But what are the questions that need to be settled? You n y you n are they all in terms of credibility. Yeah, are they just the fac does it need to be settled only that Jesus lived, died, and rose, and that's it? Or are there other things that need to be settled that are important to have settled? Is that too broad a question? Is that a hard question to answer I I I understand where you're going with it but I do feel like it's a very broad question. Like for example, d w did Abraham actually live? Did he hear a call from God? Did uh did Moses really go up on a mountain and receive the Ten Commandments? You know, did uh uh the various prophets, did they really prophesy things that came true? Daniel, did Daniel really prophesy 490 years until, you know, the the Messiah would come and then get cut off, you know, uh r re referring to Jesus. Your question is is how much of that Do we have to believe is here's that word again, true. True, yes. And salvation history is hugely important, right? I mean our whole Helsgeschichte, our our history of salvation. Very nice, yes. Um I think he just swore at me. Our our salvation history is important. That there is historical truth back there is very significant. But I agree. This the question is too broad. I can't just Start coming up with things that are absolutely essential that we come up with that we that we believe. I mean, obviously the Apostles Creed is something we must hold to as Christians. So actually the Apostles Creed is not in the Bible. It's a good point. So now where are we gonna go? However, all creeds, at least uh apostles, Nicene Creeds, are taken directly from the Bible. So It's okay. The content is biblical. Neither is the word Trinity found in the Bible. But hopefully we'll leave that word. Okay, well there well there's a specific and important one, right? Do you have to be Trinitarian Can you leave that well I'm not sure I understand the Trinity, so maybe there's more to it than I can try to understand and whatever. I mean Do you have to for what? To be a Christian? Yeah. Uh I would say yes. Okay. Would you agree with that? Um I don't know that I'm a Trinitarian. I'm actually I'm I'm definitely of the opinion that there are three parts of God that interact with one another uh at some level, but I don't know that I that I am personally comfortable with the uh the the cut and dry um approaches that are uh and definitions that are used in um you know like the creeds that are out there. I uh I'm I'm close to the topics then. This would be a fun one. That might be next week might be next week's show. But if we're gonna do that next week then really quickly, let's not get into a lot of detail. But for those that want to have some uh satisfaction on the original question. list the kinds of texts that we're going to encounter in the Bible. Um covenant treaties, um political ideologies, uh uh all in the forms of either narrative prose or in poetry. Um lament psalms, I mean different kinds of psalms, kingship psalms, covenant psalms, you know, what we call throne psalms sometimes. Um You can help me out just uh any you guys have studied genres before prophecy some would say gospel is its own genre, right? Yes, uh as a literary genre, yes. Um because it doesn't seem to fit history as well. So there's two things. It doesn't really hit fit history narrative the way we see it, but it doesn't really fit anything else either So it's historical, but we give it its own genre because we don't see anything else like it out there. So it's kind of a weird Except that it's testimony. And apocalyptic literature. Right. Yep. Epistles. Mm-hmm. Hebrews, what is Hebrews? Great question. Epistles being letters. Hebrews could be an epistle or it could have been actually a sermon. We're just again we're not sure. 'Cause the author doesn't identify himself. The question of what they started out as and what they ended as too. So some things could be used in different contexts later on. Uh you know, a song that is written might be a simple song. For the countryside that turns out to be sung by all of Israel for hundreds of years, or in our case thousands of years, we're still singing this altar Well, we're gonna wrap it up and I think if everybody's comfortable maybe we will talk about the Trinity. We've never tackled the Trinity on this show before, so maybe we'll do that next week. Huh? That'll be fun. Yes. Jonathan stepped in at this point. Gleefully smiling. Yeah. Well, I accidentally asked the right question, didn't I? Wow. That was good. Anyway, Jay Sproadhurst and Jonathan Sweitzer, thanks for being on the show. I'm Froy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. Help me make you. Smile and thank you for listening. God bless.