Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host. And moderator Troy Skinner joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel, and the senior pastor at Foolsville Baptist Church, Jace Broadhurst. And if you were listening the last few weeks, you might have thought we kind of wrapped up our conversation, but we decided after last week's show that we hadn't wrapped up the conversation. If you don't know what I'm talking about, go to WFMD. com, keyword faith Hooked up with the uh WFMD Audio Vault and listened to the old podcasts of of the first four shows that we did together. We were talking about big word, it was the uh it was the distant relative of Herman Munster, Hermanudic Hermeneutics. Right? Yes. Uh hermeneutics. Basically how do you how do you approach the Bible? How do you try to come to understanding what the Bible says? What is the rubric through which you seek to understand and interpret scripture kind of. I can never quite figure out For the record, Troy has on a tie today that has uh that has cows on it. So it's it's move. Apparently it's utterly fascinating. Yes For those that uh I'm not joining in this part of this. Earlier I was milking this time for all it was worried. But anyway. Yes, the milk has gone sour. We we covered in a general sense the overarching, you know, there's different genres to keep in mind and you know different points of view involved and we we we talked and we even got into revelation of all things You know, like there's any controversy over how to interpret revelation, you know. There's not. I mean I've interpreted it. You've got to figure it out. Yeah. I've got to figure it out too. Uh I think it's uh in the end God wins pretty much. Basically however you interpret it, that's how it's gonna happen to you and so gotta be very careful. Well we didn't talk about some specific uh passages or sections of scripture that uh you might have expected us to talk about when dealing with an issue such as this and maybe one of the big ones, uh it's certain maybe not the biggest one, maybe it is. But it's a big enough one that we're going to tackle that on today's show. And that is the first chapter, maybe the first couple of chapters of Genesis, the very beginning of the Bible, very beginning of the Old Testament. Right. Um the part that has modern society All tied up in knots. Okay, so who's gonna be the uh the devil's advocate on the show? Typically that's me, right? So I'm But the if you're not familiar, you know, then let me explain to you uh what the first part of Genesis is about. It's about the creation of the world. You know, God created everything in seven days. If you haven't read it, you need to go go read it. Um the waters above and the sky and the waters below the sky. And then God creates the sun and the moon and he creates the vegetation and he creates the uh the birds and the animals and he creates man and And then he says, It's all very good and he rests on the seventh day. And it seems simple enough, except it's not simple enough. By the way, when you hang on to the mic, we pick up like an antenna thing there. Radio station. Sounds like nine one one calls or something when you so you'll be able to tell listening at home when Jonathan hangs on to the microphone. That's because it's getting really scary in here and so I gotta hang on to something. So there are a variety of ways to try to understand what Genesis says. One of the ways to try to understand it is to totally discount it, say it's myths. It's not trying to tell us anything about reality. It's just a story That's not what we're going to talk about here today. That's a different show with different guests. In fact, we had Michael Dowd on recently, the uh the evolutionist, and uh he he might uh he might be the kind of guy that would tackle we would tackle that sort of thing with What we want to talk about today are what are biblical approaches, what are perhaps it's an overused word, but what are orthodox approaches? I'm going to use my own language What are some acceptable ways to try to understand what the first part of Genesis is telling us about the creation and the time frame in which it unfolded? Right. The point is that there are ways to interpret uh portions of scripture that that are biblical, that are orthodox, that we don't need to be afraid of. Meaning like like I can have a fellow fellow believer in Jesus Christ um who who interprets some of these passages differently from I do from the way that I do, and that doesn't necessarily mean that I think that they are um What's the term? Should I just throw the term out? So somebody that that no longer represents Christianity, that somehow is a is a poor representation of Christianity. I can say well that person's orthodox, their beliefs are within the scope of of scholarship uh and questions about certain passages of scripture. And and the reality is that Genesis chapter one is one of those passages of scripture You know, I know somebody that works for NASA, I know 'em really well, they're a believer, and in that context, if you uh are in any sense of the term, believing in a seven day creation, you are ostracized in any every sense of the word. And so he he's always talking to me about, you know, how Genesis could be read in in the way that each day is like a thousand years or you know or or a or span of time and that kind of thing. And the point is is that I don't come away thinking to myself that this guy has lost his faith or somehow lost his Christianity, I think to myself, okay, you know, he's trying to grapple with the with a passage that that has the potential within it to be interpreted different ways without necessarily being accused of throwing the Bible out in the name of science or something. Usually it it's kind of a polemic sort of political argument, you know, particularly when it has to deal with public school systems and stuff and it And the the biblical view is is always always squeezed in, shoehorned into one of the what I'm gonna call the acceptable views. Yeah. And that is, you know, the seven day twenty-four hour, seven day you know, creation and that's the way it is, opposed to, you know, some sort of evolutionary worldview. But it's not as simple as that. You know, a a Bible believing Christian Certainly can hold to uh to that view that uh the Bible is talking about seven literal days as we understand days meaning a twenty-four hour period of time. Yes. But it can also mean what Well that's the thing, and and I think that you've done the study into these kinds of things, Jace, to understand what it is about Genesis chapter one that that gives a legitimate impression as to why maybe it could be interpreted in other in in some other fashions. Definitely true. I'm probably best to start out with giving a few of those different interpretations. You've already given the most m probably the most common one for people who have you know at least read the Bible and are going to church, and that is that, you know, God created the world in six literal, actual twenty-four-hour days as we would understand them today. And that's a perfectly legitimate view in what everyone's saying here, and I agree with is there's there's some other views out there that are probably equally legitimate. Um you mentioned the other one already, Jonathan, that is the day-age theory that Each day represents a period of time, a span of time, maybe a thousand years or whatever it is that you or maybe not a specific amount of time, just a a large amount of time. And then there's of course there's other ones. There's a gap theory that something happens between verse one and verse two and a huge period of time that would take place there between God's creating the heavens and the earth and then what he does with it and all the other times, which allows you to believe that the earth is really, really old, but maybe humanity is really, really young. Which is very nice. And of course there are other views. There's um the very famous uh now framework hypothesis uh which says and this is where we get into the literature and the hermeneutical question, that Herman Munster thing that you guys were talking about, this interpretation question. Yeah. Is looking at the j at the genre, at the literature itself, you see that it's Well, it's it's rather poetic. I I wouldn't call it poetry because it doesn't it's not the same as Psalms or anything like that. But it has a poetic feel to it, that is that um you know, that um a a day, uh the morning and evening. Um God was pleased each one repetition going on throughout the whole thing. Um but it it still doesn't look quite like poetry. It's kind of a mix of prose, we call it prosaic poetry or poetic prose. Um but you certainly see that day one. This one is downright Shakespearean. Yeah it's beautiful isn't you certainly see that day one corresponds to day four. Yeah. In some way. That is day one well you guys know what happens on. Deals with light. Right. And day four deals with the light turning into the sun, moon, and stars. Right. Sun and stars. In the same way with day two, you've got a separation um going on. And dealing with the land and then day five is where the vegetation shows up. Right. Am I right? Uh that's uh No, we're doing that's day that's day three and day six. Yeah, yeah, day two deals with the separation with the separation with the waters and day Day four no five. Am I getting them wrong now? Yeah. Day two and day five is what we should be connecting. Day two and five. Five deals with with fish and birds. Right. So those things that are in the waters above. Yeah. Yeah. As they would have understanded it, the sky. Yeah. And those things in the waters below. Yeah. So it's that separation. So there's that that parallel structure, day one, day four, day two. And therefore it's not talking about six days. It's just a piece of poetry. And again, not using poetry units. Fair sense, but it's it's aesthetic language. It's just a way of And the point is is that this initial chapter of the Bible uh is uh is able to be interpreted in these different ways without anybody having to accuse somebody else of somehow saying, well you don't even believe the Bible Like there's a legitimate question there that has to do with scholarship and understanding what kind of verb tenses. What are those the verb tenses that you all you always throw out? We used Rubik's Cube earlier. I mean come on. Yes. Viectol, yeah, yeah. You've got these just regular verbs that just say this is somewhat historical. So it's more prosaic. And those things don't generally exist as much in poetry. It's not that they're gone from it altogether, but I hear the thiectol verbs are good for a headache. Dag two viector. Call me in the morning. That's right. Something like that. That's right. Now I wanted to make sure we clarify Which is a good way to send somebody to the Psalms because the Psalms is poetic and that's good for somebody that's going through hard times that are giving them headaches. I'm trying to follow you there. Yeah, yeah? Okay, good. Viact all verbs. Now I want to make sure that we're careful uh um That we're not mischaracterizing in the mind of somebody who's listening right now. Okay. Because the the strict, you know, twenty-four hour, six day kind of thing unambiguous that they would believe that God literally created and did it in a very specific way. And then even the day-age idea same thing. Then you start getting into the framework hypothesis and it's you know, you're talking about a literary structure and it's poetic and all All of a sudden we're not you're not meaning to say or are we meaning to say that, well, we're not really literally talking about any sort of uh organization here or maybe God created through evolution. And this is just a poetic way of of Saying that. Well isn't it true? Are we saying that that's a is is that a loophole, a way that evolutionary uh worldview could become a biblical. Well isn't it true that the day-age theory tends to give the impression that God might have created through evolution? I mean That's certainly a possibility, but most of the most of the Christian scholars who believe in day-age theory would not consider themselves evolutionists. They'd still consider themselves. Creationist, of course, but they would believe in at least microevolution that things do change. And I think most people can agree with that. Yeah, I think everybody believes in some kind of changing overseas. I hope so. It's a pretty hard one to Yeah. Deny, but you never know. So we gotta be careful what we use as words evolution. It's got in the evangelical word it's world it's kind of scary, I don't Yeah. But even when a when Darwin brought his ideas out in a more macro evolution fashion, at least some of the Christian scholars were saying, well, let's let's think about this. I mean let's not just Ditch it because we've always thought something else. And that's that's the big thing about Christian scholarship, hopefully, is that we believe in the inspiration, we believe in the inerrancy of Scripture, but we don't believe in the inerrancy and inspiration of our own interpretation of Scripture. So we gotta be careful to say sola scriptura, but I may have done something wrong with the interpretation. Yeah. It's my There's a humility that we need to uh approach all of scripture with that says, okay, I might be interpreting it wrong. Especially those passages of scripture that deal with the very beginning or the very end or that seem to be a bit more vague i in and less precise as it were. Yeah. Now is it okay for me to go ahead and say like for the record, I'm I believe in in seven days. You know, when I look at Genesis one, you know, where I fall out at this point is is that it's referring to a literal seven days of creation. Uh but what I'm saying is that is that I think that there's a legitimate um case for these other interpretations that help me to understand better different genres of scripture. The fact that it's poetic prose tells me, whoa, th this is something that's unique and that I need to approach it with um with a little bit more understanding than I've than maybe me just thinking that it's a straight chronology uh that is laid out. Alright, so if Jonathan's come down as to where he says he belongs, I guess I have to uh jump into that. Alright, here's where I'm coming from. I believe in a framework hypothesis, but the problem with the framework hypothesis is, with this theory, this framework idea, is that it doesn't answer the question. That's the it doesn't tell you what actually happened. All it does is say the way that it was recorded. So it says, this is how it was recorded, but I I don't I don't think Moses in writing this cared about that particular question as to how long it actually took. So that that's a regular thing when I look at things is I d I just want to deal with the literature that's there. I don't know that I need to jump back and find out what actually happened unless they're trying to tell me what actually happened and I'm not convinced that Genesis is trying to tell me what actually happened. It's trying to set up something else. In fact, while Genesis is about God creating, that is certainly worth about It's also if you take it in where it belongs in its context and why it's being written to a people that have just escaped Egypt or are currently escaping Egypt, very specific. I I think it has much more to say as you're reading the literature of what we call Theomaki. Um gods fighting against others. Now not real gods fighting, well real god, single God, Yahweh, fighting and saying what Moses is trying to say in Genesis one is Yahweh, God, the real true God, is beating up on all those pretend gods that you thought were out there, like the God of the sun or the God of the sea, or the God of All these different things. He's way greater than all of those things. In fact, he created all those things. is, you know, it wasn't even the most important thing. The important thing was the light that he created that too. And so Theomaki it's a way for Moses to s to to Because the Israelites are starting to fall into that trap. Oh, you know, we do worship Ra the sun god. Okay. Well You know, I feel like that's really relevant because I was just preaching recently in uh Acts, Paul preaching to the Athens, to the people of Athens, and in that sermon that he gives on Mars Hill, he spends a significant amount of time establishing that God, that there is a God who created everything, who formed the whole earth from from one man, you know, so that all na all you know nations come from him and who uh is responsible basically for our lives. Like i the the majority of that uh of that sermon is basically an apologet uh an apologetic, you know, or theomachy saying, look, there's a God that's above all other gods and that's the God that created everything and he's the one that sent his son to die on the cross. And was a r resurrected and so I mean it's very relevant, it seems to be now more than ever, that when we're dealing with people that have been raised on s uh evolutionary science in the school systems and such for us to go back and say, well wait a second, there's a God that created all things and and he is sovereign over all things. And so it seems to me like it's a very relevant thing, not just for Moses, you know, but even for today. You're listening to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. You're also hearing the voices of Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. And for the record, um I I would agree that uh with Jace's position and that uh I I think that the author in Genesis purposefully lays out the story um with in in a framework where the the days correspond to each other. I don't think it's accidental. I think the author purposely does that. Part of me wonders if God didn't purposely do it that way so that we recorded that way, making it easy for the author to do that Then you could be you could actually agree with both and then you could say framework plus seven literal days if you're going to be able to do that. Right. Or in my case it's more like framework plus more of a day-age uh idea is kind of where I would probably fall. But I have uh no disrespect or ill regard for somebody who wants to be a seven-day literalist. I think they can. But I think that that brings with it issues, uh the scientific question issues. They have to come up with good intellectual answers to those issues. Okay, if you're going to say that it was seven literal days and the earth is only six, seven thousand years old, then how do you explain this? And as long as you have an answer for that, and I think there are answers for that. I mean it's possible that God could create things so that they look to be a zillion years old, for example. That would be one plausible intellectually satisfying answer uh to me. So as long as they as long as they're willing to do that, then I have no issue. Yeah. With with I I just want to hear that people I'm just afraid, I'm totally with you on that. I'm just afraid that people will they seem to put the Bible above science. I'm not sure that that's our best way of understanding things. I mean truth is truth. Whether it's true I mean general revelation in science or it's true biblical revelation, they don't contradict each other. So somewhere in there They're both accurate. We, as pastors, I think our main job, and as theologians, hopefully, is to try and figure out what the intent of the passage was, not necessarily to reach back any further and give it you know, and try and try and figure out all these other things. I I don't want to go further than what the actual text says. So, you know, someone's going to argue with me, well it has to be seven days or it has to be thousands and thousands of years. I just say, you know, you have to argue with somebody else. I I just I'm not a scientist. I can't That argument is for someone that's way smarter than me in those particular areas. And I've read Darwin's black box and I've read everything that Beehe or anybody else puts out. And they're way above my head. I don't so I just let me just stick with the text. That's where I'm at. How do we interpret what's going on there Right. And that and that's what I think my point was in saying that they need to have some sort of argument to explain because you can't just ignore it. You can't say, well, seven days, yeah, but what about this? The science is clearly wrong. Well, what if the science isn't clearly wrong? Then you need to figure out some way that your biblical understanding jives with that. And I think that you can find a way to make your biblical understanding jive with science and still hold to a literal twenty-four-hour, you know, seven-day period or whatever. I like the day age by the way, one of the reasons uh there's lots of reasons. I think it's helpful in the scientific questions, all that sort of stuff. But it also helps with the idea that, you know, the the the seventh day being the day of rest. uh being a a a period, not being just a twenty four s you know, twenty four hour day of rest that, you know, Adam and Eve entered into rest with God, at peace with God, and that that rest was then screwed up with with the fall when they chose to eat the forbidden app you know the forbidden fruit, the what we call the apple sometimes. Um you know, so this whole idea that there was this permanent eternal rest that was there and there's a permanent eternal Sabbath that, you know, uh was inaugurated I guess with uh Christ's coming and will be completely fulfilled at his at uh his second coming. So it helps me to uh fit that into the creation story a little bit better when I think in terms of a longer period of time. But anyway, you had mentioned before the show, Jonathan, and I want to make sure we come back uh get to this on the show. Uh I think you said Dinesh D'Souza You saw him on television recently or something? No, he came out with a book that says What's So Amazing About Christianity and and uh came out a year or two ago and he was interviewed like by Fox News and And uh he basically is giving a um a modern apologetic dealing with all the questions uh and all the the arguments against Christianity and and just very effectively you know, working through the those arguments. And one of those, uh at one point when he's dealing with creation, whether or not God created the heavens and the earth versus evolution, he he makes the argument that That Christians spend so much time trying to prove to unbelievers that the seven days were actual seven days of creation that we miss the bigger, more important question, which is that God's the one in c in control. That God's the one that's in charge. And so so because we end up you know getting stuck in all the finite details, we miss the forest you know, for all the trees. And it and I I feel like that's a very valid and important consideration for for Christians that are very, very concerned to protect the Word of God and to shore up uh its authority for our lives today, that we not get overly caught up in um in details that we not allow ourselves to uh get you know caught up in all the trees but to recognize that you know the bigger question is God And the fact that God did create us and created us to be in relationship with Him, that our sin separated us from Him, that His Son came and died on the cross and rose from the dead so that we could be reunited with Him. That's the big question. And so getting all caught up in finite details when there's legitimate interpretational differences uh there I think is is a it's just poor strategy. Well I haven't read the book so it might be unfair but the the way it's been characterized what you just said, I think he takes the argument too far. That's like, you know, um You put your child in uh in in uh you punish them, you send them in timeout, or they're grounded. They're you're in your room. You're grounded. And they're like Why why are you grounding me? You know, I I I thought you loved me. And so the question is, okay, is the question about whether you love your child or you're gonna get into the details of maybe explaining why grounding fits in with the fact that yeah I can ground you and still love you. In fact I ground you because I love you. And let me explain to you how that works and why I think so and I think that there's a an apologetic there going on. I think that you know the you need to explain your faith. And I think that I don't see s maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I'm so close to the issue I don't see it anymore But it seems to me that the Christians aren't out there picking the fight. We're not going out there finding secular humanists or atheists and saying, by the way, I'm going to show you how the Bible is true about creation. I think it's usually the other way around where the Christian community and Bible-believing community is put on the defensive and they're forced to get into the minutiae and say, no, no, no, no, wait a minute. We're not insane. We're not ignoring the science. Let me explain to you why my faith and my understanding and trust in the Bible works with science. So I think it's a reaction against an attack almost, it seems to me. And if we're gonna s if we're gonna just withdraw from that argument completely? I'm not sure I'm comfortable with that. Well I'm not completely uh in agreement with that. I the the problem is that the proclamation of the gospel Like you were talking about, the Theomaki, the the the fight between the gods is is um I I I feel like God is unapologetically sending us out there to confront the uh the uh lies and dis you know deceptions that are out there and so um even though we're not trying to just pick a fight Uh I think God has sent us to, you know, just to be c you know confrontational oftentimes Well we're gonna have to wrap it up. You can believe it, the show's already over. Can you believe it? It felt like today's show went faster than usual. Did I talk? I don't remember talking. Jake talked very little, which means it was one of Jonathan's favorite shows. Thanks, Jase Crockers, time. Jonathan Schweitzer, I'm Froy Skinner, thanks to our sponsor Putin Putman Plenty and Heaty. How can we make you smile? God bless