Welcome to the Frederick Base Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. It's brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator. I invite you to visit us online at WFMD. com. It's easy enough to find. Go to the keyword section on the homepage and just type in the word faith takes you right to the Faith Debate uh section of the WFMD website. And a relatively new addition that we've completely remodeled the audio vault section of the website. It's so much easier now to find podcasts of previous shows and I know that you just salivated the opportunity to have easier access to previous shows. So I encourage you to do that. And we're linking now to that section of the audio boat straight from the Faith Debate page. So if you can find the Faith Debate page, you find everything you really need. There's nothing more to life in the face debate. So anyway, on the panel this week, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick, and the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist, Jace Broadhurst, first time uh on the show. Thank you for joining us today. Before we jump into the topic, there's something I want to address. Um had comment from a listener and maybe you're listening now, and if uh that particular listener, if you're not listening now, maybe you share the opinion of this listener, so I figured I would uh give an expl offer explanation for anybody that would feel this way. A number of weeks ago, I can't remember the exact context of the com I can remember the comment, but I can't remember the context. But uh It seems like the general context would have been a situation much like now where we have two Christian pastors on the same panel and there was an area of disagreement that we're talking about, whatever that was, I don't know. And Jonathan Schweitzer, who's on the panel. co-founder of the Faith Debate Show on the panel again today, um, wanted to make uh be careful to make the point that, hey, we're disagreeing on this area, but you know what We're still Christian brothers, we're still, you know, of of one mind on, you know, most or all of the really important stuff uh important stuff like for instance, you know, there's one God, his name is Jesus Christ, salvation comes through him and him alone. There's one way that that sort of a thing was said, and somebody called uh to raised concern that Jonathan maybe shouldn't have said that. That in fact the the quote was, Well he said, Jesus is God. There's only one God and his name is Jesus. And you shouldn't be allowed to say that on the air. So wait, wait, wait, wait. So they understand that this is a faith debate, right? And that that the uh the members of the uh the panel are people that come I mean, for that matter we've had Buddhists and we've had Muslims and we've had uh Jewish rabbis and and I think each one of those guys each had their own opinion. But maybe we're not allowed to say Jesus on the air anymore. Is that true? I mean I mean maybe it's almost as if we're in the public school system And we're not allowed to say the name of Jesus Christ. But I did want to again lay that foundation and be clear with everybody. Very interesting. Because we're going to have that situation this week and maybe for the next couple of weeks because the plan is to have the panel that's on this week's show uh be around for for several weeks. It's possible that we have some areas of disagreement. But it is important, I think, for those who would c call themselves Christian to wonder, hey, what's going on? Uh, why are these guys disagreeing? What's going on? They're disagreeing in a healthy way, asking questions that might be healthy to ask. Um you might agree or disagree on whether they're important to ask, but it's it's good to ask the questions, I think. And they're they're gonna have some areas of disagreement. That's totally fine as far as I'm concerned. And it's no secret. Um The perspective of of those that are behind this show in the foundation of this show, Jonathan Schweitzer and myself are the two that, you know, launched this show four and a half going on five years ago now, if you can believe it. Wow. And it's no secret that Jonathan, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, is a Christian. And I don't think anybody who's listened to this show for any length of time now, uh I don't think it's any secret that I am a Christian. And to be more specific, I would be an evangelical leaning to the conservative side of Christianity. And I would be a charismatic evangelical also leaning very conservative as well. That's our point of view. But we've had non-conservatives, non-evangelicals, non-Christians on this show. We hope to have many more of them. If you know somebody that is equipped to be a guest on this show And by equipped I mean they can represent their point of view well uh and or they have credentials that would legitimatize is that a word uh lend legitimacy to credibility to their appearance on the show. Because I do not ever want us to be accused of bringing in guests that we can just beat the pulp out of and be accused of then just setting up straw man arguments. Right. You guys brought in a guest who doesn't even know what he's talking about. I don't want that. So if you're an atheist And you can defend articulately point of view. Yeah, give us a call. I want you on the show. Yeah. If you're a Hindu and you have a leadership position or you're well schooled and you know a lot about Hinduism. We've had Hindus on this show. Or if you're a pagan more, a payday. Or or if you believe, you know, in in Montezuma or whatever you know, some some uh southern uh uh religion that is non-Christian, you know, whatever it is, you're welcome to come if you can defend your position. So that was said for the benefit of anybody who might not call themselves a Christian who'd be offended by things that might be said on this show. Now let me say something for the Christian listener right now. On today's show it is very likely that something that will be said that will Uh Snacky upside to side of your sensibilities. Very nice. They're gonna say, uh what? And why are you talking about this? Very likely that that could happen. Gladly so. That's what this show is all about. Uh we do this from time to time. It's been a little while, that's why I'm taking some time now. Lay the f relay the foundation of what this show is all about so you understand. When we have people who are friends of mine that are Christians will say, why do you have non-Christians on all the time? Because I want to hear what they have to say, and I want them to hear what I have to say, and this provides a forum for that Thomas Jefferson is the one that said the class of ideas as the sound of freedom. And though that might not necessarily be a Christian statement, it certainly is a very American statement that In the United States, if we're known for one thing, we're known for people that are willing to confront one another about publicly about things where we disagree. And any attempt to kind of limit that confrontation Uh and there's some forces out there I feel like in society that are unwilling to allow that confrontation to be public any longer. Uh I think those people are uh are chipping away at our very freedoms about what it means to be American, you know, going all the way back to the Constitution. And uh and so that's really the basis of what the show is all about. Let's not be afraid to talk deeply. Let's not be afraid to offend one another. It does it it doesn't mean that if we offend one another that we have to hate each other or that we can't shake hands and be respectful. It just means that uh that we take the time to to shoot straight and honestly with each other. And what holds true for the Christian and non-Christian on this show holds true for the Christian and the Christian. So another criticism we'll sometimes get is, you know, why are you airing your dirty laundry? The church is dirty laundry on the radio. It doesn't that's not where it belongs. Um yes it does. So who's the dirty laundry today? Is it me? So well pr pr pretty much every week. Jonathan is the dirty laundry and we air it. Yes, yes. But for the record, Troy washes his laundries. My wife washes my laundries. So uh there are some things that we're going to talk about today that will make some Christians a little bit uncomfortable. Good. There are some things we're going to talk about today that might make Jonathan and Jace and myself uncomfortable. Good In the spirit of talking out loud, thinking out loud, being willing to share ideas, thoughts, suggestions. Hey, I'm not entirely positive that this is the way I view things, but It's an interesting question, isn't it? Let's tackle that. Yeah. Let's experiment a little bit. Let's play in this pool of ideas. Doesn't mean we're questioning uh the Christian fa in this context in this show today. We're not questioning the Christian faith or the the the tenets that make Christianity what Christianity is. I mean we have two Christian pastors on the panel today. They're not going to do anything to debunk Christianity on the show this morning. However, uh, they are going to do some things that might debunk some ideas that you have about what it means to be Christian or what the Bible says about it. So um in that spirit We're gonna dive in now to the the topic. By the way, I've wr I've rambled on long enough I probably should reintroduce uh our our guests on the show show. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Good to see you today. And Jace Broadhurst, the uh senior pastor at Poolsville. Baptist Church in Foolsville of all places. Creative name, by the way. Yes, I came up with it myself. No. I haven't been there that long, so So to set kind of uh a groundwork of the kinds of questions that we're wrestling with, and then I'll give you kind of an open-ended question and get your take on things and we'll go from there, okay? But to give a groundwork Sometimes there's Sunday school types of questions. They're kinds of questions that kids will ask and that adults either forget to ask or are afraid to ask, somehow have forgotten to ask. Might be because they settled the question in their mind, it might be because they couldn't get it settled and they've decided that they just don't want to know anymore. But the kind of questions like so Did the snake really talk to Adam and Eve? Hmm. Did the devil really go talk to God in heaven before all those bad things happened to Job? Did that donkey really speak to Balaam? Did that really happen? For that matter, w in in a lot of uh scholarly kind of stuff there's much debate on did the Red Sea really part Did the flood really occur? Did creation really take place in seven twenty-four hour days? I mean the list goes on and on and on Um but let's start with the snake and the donkey and uh those kinds of things. I c can I just say one thing to start out that that there is uh there's two approaches that I see to the Bible. Uh one is a liberal Christian theological approach and the other one is is uh what would kind of be be considered a conservative approach. The liberal approach approaches scripture from the from the background of science and naturalistic worldview and says If the Bible ever says something that doesn't line up with science and what we know to be true because of science, then therefore those parts of the Bible must automatically be myth. And that's not what we're talking about today. What we're talking about today is something different. We're asking the question, are there parts of the Bible where there are things that are um that are parables or myth, not not myth, myth isn't the right word, that are parables or metaphors is the word I'm looking for, that that the Bible uses in some of these different places to help us to understand that uh that doesn't in any way undermine the authority of scripture, in any way undermine uh our commitment to letting the word of God change our worldview, not our worldview change the word of God. And those people that really care about the Word of God need to dig deep and really grapple with some of these issues. Uh otherwise we can end up looking to the world like we're just uh total um uh ignorant, unthinking, you know, like like we're not really willing to grapple with the scripture and what it says. And the point is is that there's a couple places in scripture where there's um legitimate questions that can be asked by solid conservative Christians that care deeply about the Word of God, uh that uh that it's good for us to dive into. And these are some of those. But I I think I think we actually do a disservice to Christianity into Christians when we don't have these kinds of conversations. Because what happens is, especially like in my church, I'm sure in many of your churches as well. What happens is we have these kids that grow up and they're given Sunday school answers to everything and they don't ever wrestle with the hard things and they go to college and their college professors know A lot. A lot. Not necessarily more than their pastor, but they're willing to share those things. And they've never heard that these are even questions and they think they've been lied to their entire life. They've just been given easy things. Yeah, the Red Sea split. Get used to it genre you're saying that it's going to be, whether it's a poem or a proverb or a prose or they don't get these questions and so they they leave the faith. And we we have kids that are just leaving leading the church like crazy. That we have this discussions openly and honestly as Christians. Whether we're scholarly or not, we're trying to find some answers to these things. Yeah now is it true, uh Jace, that you are uh currently working on a PhD that kind of drives you into some of these areas. Is that true? Like tell us just a little bit about that. Yeah my my PhD uh candidacy is uh uh at Westminster and I have been working for the last seven or eight years on this, trying to finish this up. And it's a degree in hermeneutics, which I'm sure everybody knows what hermeneutics is, right? He was the uh brother in law of Herman Munster. Yeah. Uh interpretation is better the better way of saying it. Just trying to understand how to how to grasp the text, what we should take out of the text. So that's what I do for the Like for example when when the Bible says that those that wait upon the Lord will rise up on wings like eagles. uh w the Bible is clearly not saying that you or I are gonna grow wings and start to float in the air like the eagles do. Or when the b when uh when David says I rest under the shadow of your wings It's not like God actually comes down like a big bird, you know, and f flutters over top of us and that we kind of huddle under his wings. Those are metaphors. And what you're saying is that is that in your in in your studies that that you can identify some places in Scripture with a genre And the literature, when you study the the Hebrew in particular, because you're Old Testament, is that correct? Yeah. Uh that when you get into those parts of Scripture that that there's reason to to to reconsider uh how literal some of those passages are supposed to be taken. Right. And that's that's the big question. Do we interpret the Bible literally or not? And what does the word literally mean? Do we mean historically by literally? Do we mean exactly as it says? Because obviously nobody means That you mount up on wings like eagles, for instance. No one actually believes that God is a real shepherd who carries around sheep in his hands. or conservatives would say that Adam and Eve were actual characters, that Noah was an actual character. Right. That Abraham was an actual character that lived in history. That these people uh that David was an actual character that lived in history that these people actually experienced events uh that are being talked about on a massive level level. Uh you know, um Elijah and uh calling down fire from heaven, these different uh uh places. And so the question is, how is it that we that that we the unlearned that that don't have the opportunity to study the Hebrew like you have can uh can think about Some of these areas that that you're saying are uh are gray enough that we could really dig into them and and perceive some nuances that uh that that may not be li that that they passages may not be literal but they may but it's okay that they're not literal You know, and that the that the Hebrew text actually gives us clues that that's the case, but but that it's okay. Like like how is it that we not become arbitrary and say, well, we're just gonna write off everything supernatural in the Old Testament. Like like help us to draw a quick line. Like what are we not talking- what stories are we not dealing with? Let's stay away from the Hebrew and Greek and the scholarly stuff. in their Bible. There are certain kinds of things. If you've never even seen Hebrew and it looks like chicken scratch and you read backwards, it doesn't even make sense to you. You can still see it just by opening up your NIV study Bible. And Kenneth Barker's notes right down there in the study Bible notes will give you some of this information. And just using your common sense, you can tell there are some things that shouldn't be taken historically. For instance, poetry. You know Psalms are not historical. They might be based in historical events. They may be a song written based on something that happened, but they're obviously not historical. A proverb cannot be historical. It's not It's a principle. It's a yeah, it's a general principle. You know, he who hesitates is lost. Look before you leap. Well, which one of those is right? They both can't be right. Like Song of Solomon's another classic one. Uh whether or not it was an actual story about about somebody that was a bride or whether or not it was written you know, to to uh magnify the beauty of godly love that is also romantic and passionate, you know, or to allegorize God's interaction with either Israel or the or the church to come Uh, you know, uh we don't know exactly for sure. Th there's some sense that maybe it would have been uh written around the time of Solomon that there was actually a Shunammite woman, but But we just don't know quite for sure whether or not that's the case. Right. And your first clue there, of course, is you're dealing with poetry. You're dealing with a poetic text. You're not we gotta remember this. This is a big thing when we're talking about history versus non history or literal versus liter non-literal. We're dealing with a text. We're not dealing with history. We can't reach history. No one can reach history. History is done. It's over with. There's no videotape of history, and even if we had a videotape of the history, it would still come from certain angle or a certain perspective. We can only see certain things. What happened back then comes from the Bible. And some of what we know from what happened back then comes through parts of Scripture that are poetic and poetry in orientation. What you're saying is that whenever we find poetry in Scripture it would behoove us to stop for a second and say, okay, this is poetry. It's likely to to start using metaphor. It's likely to start using hyperbole, and that's okay. it doesn't somehow undermine the truthfulness of it, but that once it goes poetic like that, it it's good for us to stop and say, okay, we're not actually going to grow wings and rise up on wings like eagles. You know, that that it's okay for us to give it that much space. I want to uh ask a question that's it runs the risk of over overcomplicating, but I want you to understand that the point of the question is actually to make it more simple for somebody who's maybe dealing with this kind of question for the very first time. Yeah. And again, this is where it makes it overcomplicated. You say it's common sense, it's poetry, you don't take it literally. Yeah. Why should you know that's an example, poetry. Something is prose, we should take it this way. That's obviously a metaphor, that's a parable, we should clearly take it this way. Why is it so clear? Why is it such common sense? What are what are some some literary principles that we maybe apply without real without even realizing we're applying them? If you can figure out a way to answer that question in a kind of a simple way I think poems are normally meant to stand the test of time. They're not I mean, even if you were to sit down and write a poem right now, you're probably not writing about what just happened in the kitchen with your mom or something like that. If you are, you are changing You're changing the setting so it applies universally. So it's a much larger scale idea. You're giving it, you know, I was upset with my mother, so you're gonna put that in different terms. I think it's just how we define it. Certainly more aesthetic or not boot beauty. Yes. You know, the the presence of or absence thereof. And it's conveying emotion and frustration and difficulty. And so it's not so inclined to to to get precise details of something that happened so much as it is to give the one writing a space inside of which to feel whatever he's feeling. Yeah, and you can see that I mean the most clear example is Exodus fourteen and fifteen, right? You have to The both of them, the Red Sea being crushing down on the Egyptians, but said from a totally different I mean, they just sound so different. One is just lofty and beautiful and And the one that's lofty and beautiful, is that Miriam's song about it? Yeah, the poem is Miriam's song in Exodus fourteen. And the other one you're saying is where where it describes it from more of a historical perspective. Yeah, all Viechtolv all um Vieikol verbs. All um regular verbs, action verbs, narrative prose. And again, this is something that because you've studied the Hebrew, you notice that there is that there's a difference between the language that's even used in poetry and the language that's used when I'm telling you a story and I'm trying to tell you that this is exactly the facts of what it happened. If you open your NIV to know it. If if you know it's a poem because there's a lot more white space on your page. I mean it's pretty obvious. They write it like a poem. No, no, I can tell that. I think even Troy can figure that out. Even Troy. And it's going to be metered usually, right? Yeah. Well then like if it's in English. If it was written originally, fortunately theirs doesn't, but yes. And you get into the parallelism where it like says the same thing twice or you know those kinds of things. But now just because they use parallel parallelism or they use lofty language or whatever doesn't automatically make it poetry, right? Is this where we sometimes get into the debates of whether to take it literally or less literally? Well that's interesting. Yeah. Give me an example of a place where parallelism would be employed without it being a poem. A presidential speech, for example. Yeah, but at the end of the day, that's not poetic. You would probably say it's more poetic. Um there are st I mean obviously there's not poems and prose. It's not two different sides of the spectrum. There are middle grounds. Genesis 1 is a beautiful middle ground between prose and poetry. Hence the reason why there's a genuine debate in among conservative believers. In fact, uh, who's the guy that the th there's a um apologetic writer that just came out uh and I'm not gonna remember his name. Too bad. I remember it in a few minutes. But he uh he's he was very well known. He was even interviewed, I think, on Fox News. And uh he's arguing that Christians make too big a deal about seven literal days of creation, that it's not that big a deal, and that by making a big deal of that We miss winning the battle that God created the world. Sounds like a William Lane Craig type of argument. It's similar to William Craig, but it's not the same guy. It's a different guy. I'll remember it before too long. And so uh anyways, the point is is that solid Christians that are evangelical, that are conservative, uh debate this question. I have a guy in my I have some people in my church that that would fall on not seven days that, you know, those rep are metaphorical and might represent, you know, uh ages or or whatever. But the point is is that that doesn't necessarily mean that you're a liberal Christian who approaches the Bible saying that science has proved to us that this stuff can't be true, it means that that when you read that that section of scripture, you see po poetry used instead of prose or or a chronological description of a story. And that being the case, it's legitimate for us to wonder, okay, well maybe it's not intended to be taken literally. Even though for the record I personally do take it literally. Yeah, and where I would look at it and say, I have no idea how to take it. I would have to be a scientist to know these kinds of things. I don't think Genesis one is answering. Moses isn't answering the question of how old the earth is. That that's irrelevant to him. The earth is old. He just he's there. He's setting it up in a function in a a very parallel um section. Day one corresponds to day four. Day two corresponds to day five There's this correspondence here as as the first day has the the fourth day fits into the first day beautifully if you look at it. We call it the framework hypothesis. theory that it's just a frame and it's just a beautiful beautiful way of looking at things. It still doesn't answer the question of what really happened in history. That becomes the real problem. We're not here to debate creation. We're here to to t to discuss whether or not there are passages that can legitimately be uh interpreted different ways without us labeling one another as horrible You know. Yeah. Well and the the creation question, I mean those who would subscribe to the point of view that Jonathan couldn't remember the name of the apologist, almost anybody in the intelligent design movement would fit that. So it could be like a Lee Strobel kind of a guy or a William Lane Craig kind of a guy, these guys that They they're they're working feverishly almost. This whole Discovery Institute thing out in Seattle where they're trying to blend um uh science and and creationism uh i in a way that can be palpable in public school settings is kind of part of their their without a doubt. But anyway. Uh four scores seven years ago is poetic but it was also literal. Right. When it was presidential, you get the fun word, don't you? Anyway, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Jace Broadhurst the Senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist. Thanks for being on the show. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Eating. How can we make you smile again? Visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. I'm Froy Skinner. Thank you for listening. God bless.