Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plum and plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to the phase debate. on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMG, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating How. Can we make you smile? Encourage you to visit online WFMD. com Keyword Faith or go to the audio boat section of the website and you can listen to podcasts of previous faith debate programs. On the panel this week, third week in a row, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. Well, he's been on more than three weeks in a row. And uh Dan Babricator. He's been on now three weeks in a row. He's pastor at Grace Bible Church, uh meeting at Monoxy Middle School. Jonathan's Church meets at Crestwood Middle School. Uh and Dan is also an adjunct instructor at uh Baptist Bible Seminary And he's like an expert in Greek. So we're all duly impressed. I doubt I'm not even an expert in English. So here we go. How do you say hello in Greek? I don't think they uh they have uh it's Karas Grace. Karas? Uh Grayson uh it's a Keris. It's a Jewish speaking shalom, Karis is Grace, and uh Grace was a a w An all encompassing greeting, basically. Race and peace. Race and peace to and it's had both a Jewish and a Greek a Greek flavor to meet. Interesting. Mm-hmm. There you go. Shalom. There you go. Aloha. Terrace. You're mixing them all together now. We got Hawaiian, we got a little everything going on. Uh at the end of last week's show Um it kind of came up in passing and I thought, oh well let's let's uh let's tell me a little more about that. Dan has a blog. I know that Jonathan has a blog, I don't know how regularly he's really updating it. Yeah, not so much. But then I said, you know what, we probably should talk about that Let's talk about the use of blogs and other new media uh in the church. And Dan's making the point that um blogging on and using the internet i can be a really useful tool for the church to communicate to a lot of people very quickly about different things. So Um but that can bring with it, you know, the other edge of the sword. Yeah, okay. You know, so why don't we talk about well first of all In your churches, I'm hearing music still playing. Why am I still hearing music play? Let me stop that. Um How much new media does, you know, your church, Dan, and your church, John, you know make use of. Once a week updates his all that regularly anymore. He once upon a time did. I got a once a month thing that I'm doing. Okay. Yeah. And why do you do that Uh a couple of reasons. Uh I I have you know, the academic world for me is a world that I I live in, but very few people in my church I mean th they're aware of it, but It's an a s somewhat of an escape for me. I I get to write um um books and articles and um I get to teach and it just keeps me sharp that way academically. I I enjoy the academic world. I wouldn't want to do it full time. I love pastoring and my goal is to pastor till nobody wants me and then when nobody wants me I'll I'd go and teach somewhere, maybe overseas or So the blogging is a way for you to teach? uh an issue comes up or a a a major issue in a a seminary or a church or or anything, it it's communicated around the the evangelical world in in in in a day. And uh I f and I find it interesting uh reading other people's blogs. I read about five, six different blogs. The same Different people. You found a group though that you really respect, you read them a lot. No, there five or six different same blogs. I mean there's there's about six or di s there's Andy Nicelli, there's Justin Burke out at Gospel Coalition. I'm trying to look uh uh Denny Burke down at uh Boys College, Louisville. Um Rob Decker, who I I did my PhD under, he has a blog, New Testament Resources blog. I I read his regularly figure I I should. Uh a couple other uh John Piper's blog I read his and just a few other other pastors, but there's about a dozen I sort through, but about six or seven I regularly read and I find it Um it doesn't take long. And Jonathan, I know that I you write you only update your blog, you know, maybe once a month now or something like that. But um I know that you're really big into the blog sphere as far as reading other people's blogs, right? You make good use of That don't you? It seems to me like I I don't know this for a fact, it's just that's my sense because there are times you say, Oh, I was reading in this or reading in that and it seems like you referenced blogs, at least when you and I are having a personal conversation to reference them. So you must be doing a lot of what Dan's doing. Is that I think so. And I think I do it for the for the same reason, you know. Uh apparently the internet was created for universities originally by Al Gore or whoever it was that did it. It was a government project. You know, uh to to help uh scientists and you know, intellectuals to connect and and I think it's in fact they even say that that those people that use the internet a lot tend to be a little bit sharper. They tend to be you know be a little bit more thoughtful. If you're just watching television it's one thing, but if you are clicking around and making decisions to go and to to check certain things out that you're engaged that much more. And it's a very intellectual thing at the end of the day I find. In fact You know how nobody will talk about religion and politics, you know, uh in in person and public? Everybody does it on the internet, you know. It it is the place where where any kind of debating is happening in the United States. Because it's impersonal. It's impersonal. Exactly. Exactly. It is a it is impersonal. Which is a danger as well. Yeah, it's part of the problem. It is. The one great thing about technology is You know, um there are there are tons of good academic resources that are available online for free now. There are websites that are committed to um I I think you can go online and read all of Alexander McLaren's expositions of holy scripture. You can go online and read for free all the works of Jonathan Edwards. Or anymore. Right. There's all that good stuff on the internet. There's a whole bunch of garbage on the internet too. It's talking about theology and what somebody's gonna profess to be true about God and and the nature of salvation and those sorts of things. It might be complete Hogwash in in every discipline there's somebody's gotta know what the truth is. is fought. Uh the church is the is the pillar of truth, uh the New Testament says. It's where it's the it's in the church that that we contend for the faith. So there's always gonna be the need for one of the roles of an elder or a pastor is to protect sheep from doctrinal error. So uh pastors do need to be uh well read because their people are becoming more well read. In fact what I've found is that most average people don't care about doctrine until they've sat underneath bad doctrine and as a result gotten really hurt by it and then they end up being very passionate about it and I've I've And he's had doctors, he he goes to a doc well, he used to go he's a manager now, but he used to go to different doctor's office, eight doctors a day he had a visit and uh one one hour and wait, wait, wait. Anyway, uh he would doctors would say, you know, this this WebMD is killing us. Our our people come in to asking us four hundred thousand questions because they've been online and I don't have the time to answer all their questions And if you ask too many questions of a doctor, you you'll notice that your visit rate gets changed from a visit one to a visit three because they don't answer your questions, but you know, you'll pay for it. And um P people are a little bit better on. Well yeah, yeah, the p the p sorry, a little political commentary there. Sorry. Now on that website, do you have links to uh what you consider to be credible good reference material websites? Actually I think on ours we we link my blog and uh and Rob Decker's blog, but we probably know we I just haven't Sure, I'm just up to time. It's a big big thing. You know, the one thing about the internet is that most people today, their first visit of the of your church is online. Their second visit is in person. Yeah. People are using the internet to visit, so to speak, churches. Sure. I've already done that myself. Yeah, it does it makes sense to have at least a a half decent presentable website. And to post sermons there or sermons. Now when you write your blog, you could it's E even if nobody reads it, it it's good for you 'cause it keeps you sharp, it keeps you engaged. So you could be doing that just for yourself. But you probably wouldn't do it just for yourself, right? So what is it about blogging that Um the hope that somebody might read it is that the other thing is. But there was one month where a a New Testament D Rod Decker liked my blog, he posted it on his blog. It got picked up by some Big, big website. I forgot which one it was. And I had as many hits in one hour as I had in two months combined. So it's fascinating to to watch what goes on out there. And I I've gotten comments from all over the world um on my blog. Sometimes negative? Oh only a couple. Yeah. So I spent one. And I post them. Unless there's something derogatory, I I'll I won't post it. I mean not about me, but about if if the language is a little cutting. I've had one or two Are either one of you guys that will respond to somebody else's blog, post comments and get involved in that interchange of ideas and stuff? I mostly read for benefit and I thank the guy for a good blog. That's all pretty much I do. How about you, Jonathan? Um, I find that if I'm gonna get into a discussion with somebody on the internet that I will lose gobs of time. No, that's the thing. You know, that that 'cause I could get into these discussions and and when when you're when you have time to respond on a blog You know, then then you go do a little bit of research and you come back and and you've got just the right words and you get you know, you got g just the right response. And so I feel like it ends up being too much of a of a loss of time and in in the ri and and this this is the catch twenty two for me is I feel like there's huge potential. You know, like if if I were to just hang out on Washington Post you know, and the blog and Washington Post, there's a huge number of people that I feel like I could impact, you know, with with thoughtful, you know, godly responses to, you know, whatever the hot topics are. you know, that that could be presented in a way that that uh you know, that that could impact. But at the end of the day, I don't know who they are, I don't know where they're from, they're just out there anonymously and that's where I I feel like I want to come back to the local church and you know, and being local if I spend all my time out there, it might be good intellectual exercise, keep me sharp, but and so I don't really blogging I agree with John. I tried it, but I don't anymore. I don't sp I don't I don't think I've ever written more than a sentence response and it's it's almost always to th to thank thank a guy. But blogging takes me about an hour a week. to write a blog. Mm-hmm. And that's it. And that's it. Helping with consciousness sort of thing. A lot of times blogging I uh you know, we do a theological discussion group I in our church, 6 30 in the morning. Sometimes if I the reading on there has been good, I'll I'll just post it and say, you know, this this book is worth reading. That that might be the blog that we gotcha. Okay. So it's not Not real time consuming. Now speaking about you know the way so you do a discussion group online. No, no, we uh but I we just say hey challenge. throughout the week. But one of them is at Thursday mornings at six thirty and guys come out and we we have we're assigned reading and we read it and just just the odd issues. And if I if there's something really good, I I'll go home and I'll I may post Yeah. Post the book and make reference to the book. He's Dan Fabricator, pastor of Grace Bible Church, uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Second ago, Jonathan, you're talking about the Washington Post. Yeah. Yeah, the Friday News Post has a pretty active uh uh blog sphere for their website as well. It seems to be littered with uh an awful lot of uh liberal minded folks. Yeah. It's kind of a one sided conversation that takes place there, I guess because the conservatives don't want to have a voice there. I don't know. Makes me wonder those you can get a lot of abusiveness that goes on. I'm wondering if in those uh in those places the opportunity, that word bump jumped out at me. Yeah. Should the church look at treating the blogosphere as a mission field and put together mission teams that their job is to spend all day online interacting on these blogs and bringing a Christian perspective into these conversations and seeing if they can tweak somebody just enough to get them to go to a local church, get plugged in, talk to a local pastor. I mean is that the is that the modern day mission field perhaps in the years to come I don't know if it's my admission field, but it is going on though. There are people that full time are Well, there are there are people who you know, P Pete You know, the Spirit of God uh uh works in uh unique ways, but there are people who have been introduced to a local church through a a blog or a website or some article that was written and referenced and you know by the time you track something down you you end up where you never thought you would and you end up in a local church. But I I've had over the past six years, I've had a a handful of people say to me, Yeah, came to visit you, we we read your blog. Yeah. And so it is it's a i it's not an end, it's a means. It's one way to reach we were talking about you know uh a couple shows ago. uh uh the danger of pragmatism in in m modern church. And, you know, at the end of the day, if you're just using, you know, the the question is is what are you called to? If you're called to you know, to engage in a intellectual way, at some level you're going to be on the internet, even if you write a book. You know, if you write a book you you make a website and then you promote your book online. You know, so that anybody that wants to can pop to your website and order a book. you know, or or you know, whatever it is that you do. And so so so it seems to me like like all all of the intellectual interaction, yeah, people still write books and that kind of stuff. But then they go online to follow the author and what he's continuing to say. And how he's continuing to say it, you know, different people that that interact with him and And oh this guy, you know, I saw him from you know what was on the internet. That's a good internet. That's a good point, Jonathan, because I read books by by other men before uh uh they started blogging and John Piper's one of my favorite authors. He he What's not to like. Yeah, I well he's the best Christian author nobody's that no one's ever heard of right now. I mean he's got like thirty some books, but only recently he's becoming very popular. But Uh because of his books that I've read, I now regularly visit his website and he's posted on his website, Desiring God. All everything on the website is free. There are no costs for any downloads, MP3s. But uh I think John Piper has a problem in that you know it uh It's embarrassing for me to say. A few years ago on American Idol was the one season that I that I kinda got hooked and watched. Not that I've never watched the show other people. And I became a fan of of Taylor Hicks. And if anybody who doesn't know what that name means, you know, Taylor Hicks was Yeah, I know the name he was he had kind of gray hair. That's all, 'cause I don't watch the show. He kinda had this R and B flavor thing, kind of a smoky voice, almost like a Michael McDonald voice. He had this Salt and pepper hair which has made him distinctive, he didn't look like the America cla he ended up winning that year. But and I actually own Taylor Hicks uh dye your hair like that without talking anybody quite that far gone. So and I enjoy a C D it's actually a ver I think it's it's very good. If you like that genre of music, I think it's very well done. Um but He didn't have much success as an artist because he was an artist without a format. There weren't radio stations that would play his kind of music. He wasn't exactly pop, he wasn't urban, he wasn't adult contemporary, so He didn't fit. There was was good music, but stations don't play that kind of music anymore generally. I think John Piper's got that problem. He's a Baptist. But he's reformed. What right? Uh which is probably the fastest growing segment of the Baptist Church in America. Well it's growing and so he's gonna have like when he's dead he'll be really popular. But right now And I'm a fan of John Piper, so that's why I say he can't go. I mean, what's not alike? I think John Piper's great. But most Baptists most of them aren't reformed, and most reformed guys aren't Baptists, so it's like he doesn't exactly f There's a book out by uh Ian Murray pu published by Banner of Truth. It's titled Revival versus Revivalism: The Making and Marring of Evangelicalism from 1750 to 1858. Superb superb book by Ian Murray. But he talks about the the roots of the of the Baptist Church in Colonial America. They they were all Calvinists. It was that w it wasn't until uh the Arminian theology of Methodism came in It might be important by the way. I get ahead of myself and I forget. In in case you're confused, uh Yeah, Luther nails his 95 theses and starts what we call the Reformation, although I've come to understand that we probably should understand it as a series of reformations that were taking place across the continent of Europe. at that time. But so you think oh Reformation Reform must be one of the same? Not necessarily. There John Calvin uh is kind of the father of of what is now known as reform theology and it's a distinct discipline within Protestantism. So anyway, just in case you were confused, like what is it? John Piper, Baptist. Baptists are Protestants. Why wouldn't he be Reformed? It's it's you know it's uh Anyway, where were we? Oh what were we talking about? Technology and uh the new media. um council on dispensational hermeneutics and a buddy of mine who he was in the p he's still in the PhD program. He's he's got time to write a book, but he's not time to read his dissertation. Uh he won't hear this. He's a good friend of mine. Well anyway he's got a book out on spiritual maturity. And uh He he you know, he's he's selling them out of his trunk. He's got a got it so many he's gotta sell. And um you're gonna love this. He says, Hey, you said you're gonna buy a copy. I said, Yeah, I'll I'll have a copy, but I said I don't have any cash on me. I'll oh there's a credit card. He pulls out his iPhone, hits a button And he'll take my credit card number, he was ready to take do a transaction right over right over his iPhone. That's great. Now that's wild. I think it was some type of uh iPhone. I don't know if it was maybe they'd do tithes and churches like that, you know, just you know, come on up and Yeah, I'm not a big fan of uh direct giving to the local church, personally. Uh uh you know, in the Old Testament everybody knew your wealth 'cause it was out in the field. And giving was an act of worship. The problem with that type of automatic deduction it's to me it's It loses something in the tr the translation of the thing. Yeah, but that's true about all technology. That's the point. It's impersonal. If you're doing it Yeah, if I'm having the conversation with somebody online, it's impersonal. If I'm you know, w no matter what it is, it's it's uh totally impersonal. But it's not a good thing. I don't know if playfully is the right word, but you know, kind of views and think, okay, we're two thousand years f fast forward. Let's go back two thousand years. If The Apostle Paul's around today. Mm-hmm. He's probably blogging, right? I mean the the epistles, the letters that he wrote and then had them bicycled around to different churches was the closest thing to blogging they had back then. Here's a letter, I'm sending it to this particular church, and when you're done reading it, make sure other people get to see it too Yeah. Right. So he was he was a blogger. Right? He the uh the the blogging is the m is the means. The uh the content is the message and so yes, in that sense his content was being promoted. What's your opinion of um like radio teaching ministries, I think they're sometimes called. You know, Charles Stanley does a television and a radio show. R. C. Sprohl is on the radio. Um There and and I'm using the radio teaching ministries as something because I don't want to say, What about the guys on TV? 'Cause that might bring a whole bunch of televangelists and the negative imagery that goes with that. I'm talking about really solid guys, you know, Charles Stanley, you know, they it's their sermons basically. Um uh um uh John MacArthur, there's different guys that that exposit the Bible and and use it as a teaching ministry for like in half hour chunks. What do you think about that? I think it has a role. You can what are your c what you know, what are your concern what positive and what are your concerns? The only negative is that but this would be true of any anything, that people don't think there's a need to commit to a local church. They just I go to church on radio. Right. And uh but for the most part, uh the people who are listening to Christian radio or listening to sermons, they're pretty normally I I find them to be pretty committed Christians who are heavily involved in their local church and they just love the word of God. They just want to Just want to hear more truth. Um I do think there's a double edged sword though with parachurch organizations, and that is I don't see any instruction in the New Testament to to be s to to give uh financially to fair church organizations So obviously there is going to always normally be a deficiency in the local church, which is the only organism that God has is established on earth that I know of. Jonathan, your your view on uh the radio ministries. Which is funny since that's what we're doing right now. Yeah, is it a radio ministry? Well yeah well I know, is it? Yeah. I'm I'm in equally ambivalent about it. I think that there's pros and there's cons and at the end of the day that that the more technology is used for communicating with people at the end of the day, the more or the less connected we really feel to one another. Now we're talking about, you know, reaching out into the world. I mean this the t the use of technology has an impact within the worship service in the local congregations as well. Do you put the slide projection of the words to the songs up on a screen? Do you use PowerPoint displays as part of your as your preaching? Do you refer to PowerPoints? Do you show short videos either during, before, or after the message or at some point during the service? Do you use electrified instruments? Do you use amplification for your voice with microphones and and amplifiers and those sorts You know, all of these kinds of questions are decisions that churches have to make. That's right. And each church fleshes out these decisions, I think, philosophically, and uh it would be for me, I I couldn't on all those issues I would feel uncomfortable saying what I think is right or wrong because you know, e w even with the i the issue of of music in a local church, m music is Just take one issue. You you mentioned electrification and powerpoint. Music's cultural. There's no way around it. There is no set ways to worship in the New Testament and the worship service in in uh Tanzania is gonna look a little different than in suburban Frederick. Worship is called music. But I mean every church has to decide. I mean we use PowerPoint in teaching and in worshi and our singing. We don't use it in sermons It was a philosophical decision. Yeah. And I'm not no no no chapter and verse. So is is the is the at the end of all this like anything else? Yeah, if your motivation is right and you're using it for godly purposes and stuff, all this new technology can be can be put to good use for the cause of the kingdom. But it comes with a uh a dangerous side if it's misused, misallocated, whatever. This may be a poor application, but in the in the f Paul talked about the fact that he was in jail and that many were out preaching the gospel with wrong motives, trying to shame Paul. Paul said, I don't care what their motive is, as long as the gospel is proclaimed. Alright. Well that's a good place to end. Amen. Amen. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, my friend, thank you again. Yes, sir. Senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Dan Fabricator Uh smartest guy in the room. No adjunct instructor at uh Baptist Bible Seminary, specializing in teaching Greek, and he's also the uh pastor at uh Grace Bible Church and What's that blog address again? Put me on the spot? Ntdan at oh no. Ntdan. wordpress. com. Okay, how does somebody find your blog Uh I'm at uh blogspot dot jonathanSweitzer No, no, I'm at JonathanSweitzer dot com. Just go to JonathanSweitzer dot And speaking of websites Go to WFMD. com. Keyword Faith takes you to the Faith Debate page. Go to the audio vault. You can listen to this show again and again and again. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMG. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Pulmin plumbing, how can we make you smile