Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsor is How can we make you smile? Encourage you to visit us online, WFMB. com Keyword Faith. On our panel this week, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel, and all the way from Jerusalem, Pastor X. Not his real name, but uh it's like the dating game. You know, we're just uh we're just not gonna reveal his identity and at the end of the show you can decide if you would like to date Pastor X or not Yes. Uh if you were listening the last couple of weeks, you've heard us talking about what's going on over uh in Israel and you know you've heard about it in the news for years and years. We tried to couple of weeks ago talked about uh a a larger historical context and we narrowed the focus to more of like the current generation experience, if you will. And we spent a little as we always do it seems. Yeah. We wanted to spend some time setting a a healthy foundation uh before we could get into the real worldview spiritual debate type issues. And I was hoping to get that done in about a a show, maybe a show and a quarter. It took two shows. So now we are, I think, ready to transition into some real nitty gritty faith debate kind of stuff. Jonathan Sweitzer last week referred to I don't know if this is the passage he had in mind, but he mentioned a P Psalm eighty-five. And um and it is a perfect jumping off point for today's show. So I'm going to read Psalm eighty-five. It's it's not one of the longer psalms, thank goodness, so we won't have to have uh Hey don't read it like that guy that we played that one. The boring guy? Yeah, don't read it like that. Don't read it like the boring guy. thing. I mean it's microscopic. Let me get out my uh microscope and see if I can read this. Yes. Um this is the Revive Us Again Psalm. That's the head the heading that they've given it. Yes. Psalm eighty five With a note to the choir master, a psalm of the son of Korah. Lord, you were favorable to your land You restored the fortunes of Jacob. You forgave the iniquity of your people. You covered all their sin, Salah. You withdrew all your wrath. You turned from your hot anger. Restore us again, O God of our salvation, and put away your indignation toward us. Will you be angry with us forever? Will you prolong your anger to all generations? Will you not revive us again, that your people may rejoice in you? Show us your steadfast love, O Lord, and grant us your salvation. Let me hear what God the Lord will speak, for he will speak peace to his people, to his saints, but let them not turn back to folly. Surely his salvation is near to those who fear him, that glory may dwell in our land. Steadfast love and faithfulness meet. Righteousness and peace kiss each other. That's the passage that Jonathan talked about last week. Faithfulness springs up from the ground And righteousness looks down from the sky. Yes, the Lord will give what is good, and our land will yield its increase. Righteousness will go before him and make his footsteps away. So the reason I think that's a great launching off path for what we're going to talk about to get this into spiritual matter, it is it would be my position and position of some others perhaps that that's a passage to illustrate the point that as Christian pastors you really shouldn't worry so much about this geopolitical stuff. The land that's at issue isn't the land. The land that at issue is the everlasting peace and the promise that is that the that brings a restoration of God and his people through the person of Jesus Christ. So what do we get us so hung up on this for? You know, uh It's very important. I think it's a great uh song to that we started with and uh uh a lot of people would uh really want to see it as uh a real physical or material land that is uh there. Especially the land of Israel. And um a lot a lot of uh good folks, you know, good believing Bible people would uh even uh uh take it as literal as you know the land of Israel is still part of whatever future promises there. And uh these people have seen the nation of Israel rise up uh after nineteen forty eight they have seen them uh uh uh flourishing and establishing a land al almost like the uh the desert have uh you know s things crank out in the desert, you know, in a land where Uh for so many years it was not on the on the on the scene, you know, of uh of uh kind of uh the word And now they see it with the with the people and a nation that relates in a way to to Abraham or Is Isaac or Jacob. And um in their hearts they feel uh God is fulfilling his promises You know, God is doing what He had promised to do even uh before Jesus. Yeah. Yet of course, you know, as you start a try, you know, we know that uh In the New Testament, uh, you go through from Matthew to Revelation and you will not see a single promise of a physical land. Not one. You will not see a place that is promised for us as believers in Christ 'cause it's my understanding that everyone who follows Christ uh a disciple of Christ, you know, uh our heav our uh in a way inheritance becomes more of heavenly rather than earthly. Yeah, well as a as a matter of uh perhaps uh either uh distinction between us or of clarification on what you said. I think that There there's certainly no promise in the New Testament that there's going to be some sort of a special nationhood land or whatever for Christians because our citizenship is in a kingdom not of this world. Uh but I think there is a land promise in the New Testament with the recreation event that happens at the Second Coming where there's a renewed heaven and a renewed earth. And everybody gets to enjoy that in their renewed bodies, the with those who are believers. So I think In that sense is a promise of land. I think you agree with that. So anybody who's a stickler for the detail on the show and we hold ourselves to a reasonably modest standard, not a high one. And uh I was coming to that, by the way. I just want to make sure 'cause Those are the kinds of things people will talk to me about. Well I uh this is something I don't understand about the Americans, you know. Yes. That's the one thing you don't understand? One of the many things. No, but it's so true that that ultimately at the end of the day peace has to, you know, like you're talking about the new heavens and the new earth, that peace is connected to uh living in a place where all your needs are provided for, where where where you have food, where you're not being attacked by enemies You know, and so the the idea of promised land is is includes peace, but peace is is in the context of You know, there'll be no more starvation, no more tears, no more crying. You know that that the river, you know, will will flow out and the w the the uh trees will be you know with leaves for the healing of the nation there'll be a sense of of abundance and provision for everybody, the the uh Ezekiel prophecy. And so um Certainly it's the case that that at the end of the day what we're longing for is uh seems to be on the far side of the second return of Christ, not on the near side. And it seems to me that uh so often we can get confused uh even with the nation of Israel, like, oh look, you know, there it is. You know, as if somehow that represents something before the second coming of Christ. And and I think it's it's that return of Christ that we're looking forward to that if Israel's become a nation again uh somehow in in God's uh uh eschatology, you know, with with his plan for the end times, that it's only because he's gonna return again and that it's the second return that's gonna be the big event, not a nation that is led by mostly secular Jews. So in a way, you know, I feel that a lot of the uh Bible believing Christians and evangelicals see uh the rise of Israel as a sign for the end times. Yeah. Uh not for the sake of Israel but for the sake of the Christians. And is that the case so much um Uh in Jerusalem, because I know that uh in America uh dispensational uh uh biblical understanding and uh I I don't want to get into a long-winded There are different ways of understanding how to interpret what the Bible says, and one of the big schools of thought is dispensationalism. And if you've ever heard of Tim LaHaye and Jerry V. Jenkins and Left Behind series uh that book is written from a dispensational point of view where certain things are going to happen and then there's a rise of an antichrist and then there's a three and a half year period of of peace and then there's an abomination that takes place in the temple and all all these sorts of things. uh uh would be indicators of somebody that believes in a dispensational way of understanding the Bible. And those are the people that will say that 1948 was critically important Jesus couldn't come back until that happened, although some of them would would go so far as to say that. Um so I don't hold that view. I'm not sure if you do, I don't know if we need to get off on that tangent right now. And they're they're still waiting as well for building the temple on the on the place of the mount of the rock or the aksam mosque for the Muslims. Yes. So they're waiting for the Aksha mosque to be wiped off And that place to be uh the temple to be built and then the temple to be uh you know, the abomination where i you know, they think uh Satan will ruled from there and then you know Christ will come. The reason I said all of that was to set the to context for the question so you would know what I meant by this question, which is do most of the Christians uh you know in your neck of the woods Um hold to that view? Is that what their expectation is? Not really. Not really. You know, I live in Jerusalem and uh uh and uh people there don't interpret uh history as as, you know, we have just uh stated, it's uh uh you know, at the contrary, uh the rise of Israel was like a catastrophe for them. Mm because um it's anywhere between their lands were stripped away from them or their houses were either taken away or destroyed like I told you. It's not only that I'm sharing personal stories, but a lot of people that uh are around, like my grandparents, they lost their houses and they say, you know, how how come God could be you know, uh that uh you know on on the behalf of uh of the catastrophes of a nation, you know, will will will bless another nation or will rise another nation. And this is a question that's still on the rise and that's where we ended up last show, I guess, and uh terms how how would uh God on on the uh kind of uh the sorrow of four million people now uh built up, you know, a nation that he wanted to establish and uh uh there are more questions like where is God anyway in this nation that is there that we call Israel and the Jews. You know, ninety percent of this nation is secular or going towards atheism if not still the atheist uh ninety percent of Israel is is atheist? Not a you know I I'm I wanna say secular is a better term. With a Functional atrial atheists. They live their life practice as though they might as well be atheists. I haven't seen any studies. What do you think the American percentage is? What's that? What do you think the American percentage is? By the same standard. They might call themselves something, but the way they live out their life is is an indicator that they don't really have a strong belief in God. What's the percentage here? I mean sho ninety percent sounds shockingly high, and then I pause for a moment and say, Oh I don't know, that might be the American percentage too. Yeah, might be Yeah, I don't know. But uh he uh Pastor I shared with me an interesting uh statistic. Did you know that that Western Americans, Christians, Western Christians give six hundred million last year. Last year to Israel and none of it did they give to Israel through Christian ministries in Israel. They just gave it straight to Israel. Like the government. To to plant trees, to you know, to to to what who did that? Universities and schools. that American people to the government of Israel. And so they just give it. Wow. And yet here's Pastor X and uh s other Palestinian pastors and uh Messianic Jewish pastors and none of the money that we give goes through them whatsoever. There's a huge opportunity for the Christian West to to uh impact than for the gospel, six hundred million dollars worth of opportunity for us to, you know, to to build Christian schools, to uh get materials and and tracks and maybe television, you know, programs, whatever it is, you know, to for for the sake of the gospel and it doesn't go through them. Again, you know, it's just a uh it's a strange Yeah, see that's uh that's uh a a um a yeah. Yeah, it's hard to find the words. I think that um that understanding and if you hold this understanding and you're listening to the show right now, then forgive me up front for offending you, but that understanding is so non scriptural, it's such a misread of the intent of those passages of the Bible that talk about a blessing of Israel. Because in those passages they're talking about God and his people uh and To the in the modern circumstance, you know, for the last two thousand years, God's people are those in Christ. Yes So to m to confuse God's spiritual chosen people with a geopolitical secular nation is such a frighteningly poor read of scripture. Oh, six hundred billion did you say? Million. Six hundred million. Six million. Six hundred million dollars. Could you imagine what God's church Could do with that money. Instead of giving it to a government that's for sets ninety percent secular. Yeah Holy cow. Yeah. Yeah. At best, and I think this is where I tend to fall on it, that the point is that to whatever extent the the Jewish people continued to to be under a covenant from God uh that is uh that that would have any current standing, Jesus clearly applied and he said, In as much as you have given a cup of water to a prophet or to one of these, you know, who serves my kingdom, you've done it for me. And so So whatever blessing he gave to those who bless Israel, he clearly gave that to those that would bless, say, Pastor X or you know, anybody that is a minister of the gospel, that the point is is that those people that serve the purposes of God, when you bless them, God blesses you back. You know, that that's that's kind of the principle. Um I I I want to raise this question. Is it possible that God's approach to finishing out prophecy Um we all know that that prophecy includes the rise of the Antichrist. And if prophecy includes the rise of the Antichrist, then that means that God's plan sovereign plan is that evil will be a will be given enough space to do its thing for long enough that that the righteous suffer under the Antichrist. We all agree with that. If that's the case, is it not possible that God could do the same thing with the nation of Israel and that He could He could make them a nation? And even cause the temple to be built, not because God needs it to be built, but because God will use that to show the world that Christ is the answer. And that that in the same way that the Antichrist Christ would be risen up, that Israel's been risen up, not because she's so righteous, but just because God's going to do that just to just to show that that his people that are being persecuted for righteousness' sake and that are suffering just like Job suffered, just like Paul suffered uh for his faith, just like Christians in China are suffering for their faith. That that God's point is not that Israel's so righteous that he's gonna make them a nation again and that he needs the temple But that God's going to raise those things up so that He could destroy them, so that all those people that are suffering under a secular Israeli nation that didn't do it right would be exposed So that all the world would say, wow, the Palestinians and especially the Palestinian Christians were treated so wrong and that in that moment everybody would would lift up their eyes and that you would be vindicated. And that the point is not that Israel's so great, but that God just decided that he was going to use them that way, the same way that he used Egypt. back in the day and he formed them to destroy them for a distinct time and purpose. You know, I would really uh love to talk about the end times, but what about the church now? Yeah. And what about the the state of uh the believing community in the country now? You know, when we talk about evangelical Palestinians like more committed because you know we're talking about two percent of the Palestinians are Christians And out of those very small minority are more committed to the Bible cause, to the kingdom cause. I think they two go together Um I think we're living in the end times now. We are. So in many ways. What the church is doing now is is the work of advancing the kingdom and it's you know it's an already not yet tension, I get that, but I don't think that we can separate the two out so so easily. Well at the end of the day, the the reason why Pastor X and I have uh met one another and come into relationship is in the context of of this very thing saying that you know what in the end What matters is Christ, not all these other eschatological viewpoints of of how it's going to happen or what's going to happen, but that Christ is that that Christ be preached And that Christ is going to bring justice, that's the word that you use. But the role in the role of the church here is expanding the kingdom. Yes. Is preaching the gospel. And if we lose tract of preaching the gospel, I think we're not even playing into the coming of Christ anything Yeah. And it seems that you know the church can do that whether or not the Palestinians have their land or not. No, we we we just play you know w when we were talking about the Palestinians or the Israelis or Just setting the stage of what's going on now, you know, in the land. But you know, when uh when it comes to the to the you know, uh bottom line, you know, there are believing community who's thriving. on both sides, Messianic believers, Jewish believers who believe in Christ want their nation to be uh one for Christ and a Palestinian believing community who want their nation uh you know one for Christ. And we're talking about small course, you know, in numbers if I come to some statistics, we're talking about probably six thousand in here and seven thousand in there. Very small, tiny minority amongst a million people who lives in the land. Yet, you know, they're advancing and they're trying to do whatever they could. And this is where we in the United States miss it because the reality is that the the willingness that Pastoraks and others, uh even the Messianic Jews that that are in the land those that are in China, those that are that are in other places, Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, different places around the world that are preaching the gospel, they are suffering for it in ways that that we cannot even understand. And When we get to talking about the end times, one thing becomes abundantly clear, and that is that that the Christians that are living in those times will come under significant persecution, will come under significant difficulty in again I think here in the United States that that we can only be helped by interacting with our brothers from Palestine uh who are living under that kind of intense difficulty because one day I think we're gonna face it again ourselves and if we if we can't be taken to a whole different level of willingness to uh to live Christ no matter what happens you know, persecution, whatever, uh, I think that we're gonna see the church even in the United States just weakened significantly. One thing uh the church in the United States should really uh think of is the whole idea of the persecution of the Christians around uh the world and specifically in our area. Yeah. You know, uh if you ask my Messianic brothers in and and the Palestinian believers uh does the State of Israel in a way persecute you? Of course they might not use the word but uh they do by all means, you know, the cr the believers are persecuted Whenever I speak with the m with the the Messianic uh brothers that I know in Israel, they use the term persecution. By the government. By their own government. Yes. And it's not easy, you know, for us, you know, who are w serving with the Palestinians. You know, uh in many ways, you know, a lot of my leaders and a lot of uh are my workers and uh us of course are under threat I don't know, I can't remember of uh someone who's uh because they became a believer here in the US they got killed, you know, in a way. You know, it might happen here or there But this is a common thing back home. Uh when people believe in Christ, that means their life is on stake now. It's not only following Christ. You cannot take it for granted. It's it's it's a life decision You know, it's a death and life decision. And people are making it daily, following Christ daily. You interact with congregations that uh that are in uh Muslim controlled areas of uh of that region. And uh um as a pastor you work to help them to to be uh growing and to be uh taught and to uh to be trained. Um how many of those people congregations would you say are under some kind of a a threat against their life? One hundred percent. I mean if you talk about the Muslims uh you know b b believers who come from Muslim uh Muslim background, then all of them are under threat. And um we have to work with these guys. I mean uh with intense discipleship, with safe houses, with uh uh taking care of them, you know, and uh establishing them in the faith so whatever comes next then their life is there. We've got a couple of minutes left. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD with Senior Pastor Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick. And uh Pastor X from Jerusalem. Uh he he's the uh pastor of a church there, but I'm not going to give you the name of the church or his name because I'm in just one of those kind of moods today. Uh well it's kind of sort of true maybe, I don't know. I don't know if we have time to get into any of uh of this stuff because we've got, you know, two minutes left in the show. One thing I'll throw it out there as a random thought and if you've got a quick comment on it, great. If not, I'll just throw it out there as a random thought Yeah, in this country there has been a confusion over the years with America being a new promised land kind of idea. Totally right. You know, the manifest destiny and you know, America's where God's gonna, you know, execute his purposes for the world and that sort of a thing. And so Uh the reason I throw that as a random thought is there probably are some mindset ideas that would be a little bit similar between what goes through the mind of where uh where you live and here. The big difference is we have still for the most part, uh, religious freedom and uh and lack of a fear of of violence against us for practicing our religion. You know, this this is a very cogent, very brilliant uh uh uh uh similarity for you to observe this. This is a this is a great observation because I think it's true here in the United States we sorry, I said that publicly that's like wow. Wait a minute, right? Yeah. is uh making a great observation because it's true we c we so often here in the United States get distracted into politics and it has caused us to be, I think, less effective for the gospel. And the same thing I could see being true uh for you there in in Israel in the land, to get distracted in the politics could end up uh just wasting your energy on what is uh temporary as opposed to what is eternal. That's why I said we d w I rarely take polit I talk politics, I mean Yeah, yeah. Well it's the American way. So welcome to America. Uh John Sweitzer, Senior Pastor Crosses High Chapel, thank you. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? I did want to also uh I don't have time to get into it, Jonathan. You don't have a chance to respond, but uh I know you didn't mean it this way, but in case anybody heard it this way, uh about you know there's gonna be these great things coming. It's gonna be difficult for Christians It is difficult for Christians now, particularly in certain parts of the world, and it has been since the times of Christ. Uh case one, example one, Christ. Yeah. Amen. So so but anyway, I I know that John believed that but yeah, the it won't go away anytime soon. We shouldn't be surprised as Christians When we're persecuted, I'm not mistaken, but I'm pretty sure we were told we'd be persecuted. We were. You know? Directly. Yeah. So Yeah, why are we surprised? In fact, Christ put it this way, he said, If you are if they persecuted me, they're gonna persecute you. I mean And we know that they did persecute him, so there we go. Anyway, thanks so much for listening and check us out online WFMD. com keyword faith. Until next week. One hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now, dog bless