Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host Host and moderator Troy Skinner. Show is brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? When you call, say hello to Marlena and Patrick for me. Hey guys, you listen in? Love ya. On the panel this week, we have uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crosshouse Valley Chapel, and I'm going to open the show with the next guest with a question. If Tim May were uh Apache or something like that, Native American, he would have the name Man Who Wear Many Hats So how am I supposed to introduce you on this show? I would uh I prefer Troy and Jonathan that uh uh Pastor Tim was fine for this particular uh venue. Uh I do wear a lot of hats and uh some people think I just can't keep a job. But uh for this service uh for this uh show uh Pastor Tim is fine. Uh what are the other hats that you wear? Well, as you know I'm and maybe you don't know, for the last fifteen years I've served as judge of the Orphans Court and then for the last twelve years chief Judge of the Orphans Court. Tim May's fine. Yeah. There is another Tim May, and I'm proud of him. He's a Tim May Jr. He's a pastor of uh New Life Force Square in Charlestown. So uh uh w I when they mix us up it's fine 'cause he always you know, I never had put those two together. I've heard of your son and heard very good things of uh the work that he's doing there. It's very interesting. I look up to my son and I uh every now and then he's gives me a kudos that he looks up to me. But uh what a blessing. What a bless it is cool. It's great to see a father and son, you know, following each other's footsteps and in uh doing good things, you know, for the kingdom of God, honoring each other. It's a great thing to to see. And you're pastoring where these days? These days, uh for the last seven years I serve as the uh I like this senior pastor of The Pleasant View Church of the Brethren. I'd like to add I'm also the junior pastor, the youth pastor. And the uh any other pastors because uh this church only has one pastor and I've been blessed to be there for seven years. Where is the Pleasant View Church? Is it in Pleasant View? Well, if it sounds like it should be, but uh that's good. It's uh I I'll help you being a perfect boy. Yeah. It's located at the intersections of Route seventeen and Picnic Woods Roads. The church has been there two hundred and thirty years. And it's part of the uh Church of the Brethren denomination. And you founded it, right? I started there, yes. Alexander Mack and myself. Two hundred and thirty years ago. Yes, it's it's been a little bit. I wasn't following that. I was like, no, you didn't. I normally wouldn't have explained the joke except I saw him look on Jonathan's face. That's right. Well there's other people out there that appreciate you know the my slowness. They relate, they resemble me. Yes, you do that on purpose. So that's where I've been for the last seven years as the uh only pastor there. Um coming from a Lutheran background and a uh Greek Orthodox background, it gave me uh uh quite a different foundations m many pastors have. And then of course uh pastoring never paid a lot of money. I know that's uh Jonathan that's not true, but uh to uh many real life pastors I had to supplement my uh ministry with uh working full time jobs to to raise my family and to to keep food on the table so to speak. So I've been a business owner for over thirty years and I run a couple of businesses and uh they allowed me to pastor. Hm. So the Lord's uh taking care of us uh In all kinds of ways. Excellent. So now you know who he is. Now we know. Jonathan, you run any businesses on the side? I do not run any businesses on the side. I I don't know that I could uh keep up with all the extra stuff. I don't know if I have the uh business acumen. I think my brother's the one that uh ended up getting that, so Well, I think Jonathan is it's just anyone. You could do it out of necessity. I I think that's how I entered it. Uh I always uh when I left high school and to college I wanted to be a pastor And that's all I wanted to do and and I didn't trust the Lord enough. I'm I'm an honest person. And it wasn't until the Lord said, Look, dummy, and I think he addressed me properly This is the road I want you to follow and and I'll provide and uh he certainly has. So it it's been it's been a great trip. Now before we dive into the heart of some of the headier matters we're probably going to talk about, you know I have a privileged position on this show. I get to talk to seasoned professional pastors about things and you know I don't have to like wait in line after service to try to get your attention. You're here, you're stuck with me for the next twenty five minutes. You have no choice but to listen to me. And to and then to respond to what I have to say. So I'm going to take advantage of this. Uh and I'm going to try to put it in the context of something that uh that does make sense for this show. Um As this show airs about a month or so ago, there was a uh uh How to Be a Biblical Christian Man conference in Hagerstown. I forget the name of that now. Does you Uh I forget the name of it as well. Once upon a time Jonathan and I were were taking part in the same uh Bible study uh book I was it Jim Cymbolo's book? Cymbala, yeah. Um so you with that as the as the uh background. Sure. Here's an email that apparently is circulating among our middle school youth these days. Okay. All right. These are the twenty-six things that a sweet guy would do. Uh oh. What's a sweet guy? Yeah yeah yeah. No well we're gonna find out. Your wife's been hoping that we would hear this for some time. I've been called a lot of things. Thanks the Lord, not that. Now. Uh and I'm just gonna read through these and I'm not gonna This is public middle schools is well it's not like they're teaching it. No, it's it's available. So they came up with a list together? Either that or somebody came up with a list and now they're forwarding it like crazy, like some of those chain emails or in fact this has one of those chain email ends on it, so it's it's one of those. At the end it says Send this to two people and your wish won't come true. Send it to five people and your wish will come true in a month. Oh cool. Send it to ten people your wish will come true in a week Fifteen people, your wish will come true tomorrow, and if you send it to twenty or more, your wish will come true today. Well you can't beat that. That is guaranteed. Why would anyone reject that? I'm a I'm a b uh with all the manipulation going on and that I don't think I'm gonna be uh called a sweet any longer. Alright well here but I I just want sour on your sweet list Well here's the question that pops into my mind. Let's assume we could do this. And by just sending this to twenty people our wish comes true. Okay. What are you gonna wish for? What am I gonna wish for? Yeah. But I I can't tell you 'cause then it won't come true. Oh well it didn't say that. That's only true for birthday wish. Yeah, and wish upon a store. So you you're okay, Jonathan. I think if you let that wish go I feel like if I just try to answer that question off the top of my head it's gonna come across Miss an America contest. Yeah, yeah. What do you wish for? World peace. Right, right. World peace for Christ to return, I guess that's what I wish for for many people to come to know Christ as Savior and I'm gonna let Tim up the hook and we'll go with his world peace answer. Well it would require if if I were given that question in real life. I I couldn't think of one thing right away. I would want, you know, Christ to come again. I'd I wanted to see everyone become uh uh Christ filled and and Christ followers So y uh you know, that was a selfish one? Sure, go ahead. Uh I'd like to I'd like to know how to play the piano really well. That's fair enough. Is that selfish? I'd like to sing very well. Are you kidding? Yeah, no. Is that your that's your one thing? No no, well it's a thing. His thing was way better than your thing. I got a better one. If you have one wish Yes. I wish I had five more wishes. Let's capitalize this. That breaks all the rules of wishes. would do. Number one, know how to make you smile when you are down. Okay. Try to secretly smell your hair, but you always notice. These are middle schoolers? Yeah. Stick up for you but still be respectful of your independence. Uh-huh. Give you the remote during the game. Middle schoolers? Yes. I don't know if it was who came up with this list. Yeah, I failed on that last one. Me too. Uh come up behind you, put his arms around you, squeeze you tightly against his chest, and whisper softly into your ear. I can see charges being placed already. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. My middle school is just 26 things a sweet guy would do. Number six on the list, play with your hair. Uh-huh. Yeah. His hands will always find yours. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh also. Uh-uh. Uh-uh. Number eight, be cute when he really wants something. Offer you plenty of massages. Plenty. Dance with you even if he feels like a dork. Yes. Number eleven, never never run out of love. Wait, how many of of these are there total? Twenty-six, we're almost halfway there. Okay, yeah. Number twelve, be funny, but knows when to be serious. Okay. Clearly not us. We're not funny and we don't know how to be serious. Thirteen, realize he's being funny when he needs to be serious. Fourteen, be patient when you take forever to get ready. Fifteen reacts so cutely when you hit him that it actually hurts. This this sounds to me like it's not written by a middle school. Passed around by middle school girls. Yeah, well I'll I'll I'll explain I guess when I'm done why I'll explain to you why now I set it up the way that I did. This is the kind of stuff that the middle schoolers are feeding themselves about what the ideal man looks like Okay. Mm-hmm. So are these the kinds of things that we want our daughters in middle school to is this the picture we want painted? Is this the mosaic of is this Does this describe the husband we want our daughters to have? I would hurt my daughter if I had a daughter. So um where are we? Number sixteen, smile a lot Number 17, plan a romantic date full of cheesy things he wouldn't normally do just because he knows it means a lot to you. Number 18, appreciate you. 19, help others out. Number 20, drive five hours just to see you for one hour. Number 21, thinks you look beautiful even if you look really bad. Number 22, sing even if he can't. Uh have a creative sense of humor. Stare at you. Number twenty-five, call for no reason And the last one, quit smoking, chewing loudly, drinking uh and doing drugs just because he loves you enough to quit. And then says, Now make a wish and blah blah blah and all that stuff comes in. So now that last one's very interesting just in terms of uh it it almost seems to describe Uh the uh I don't know what how I want to say it, the nicey nicey, all the rest of those things are like nicey nicey uh uh cute, gentle, you know, they don't deal with character, they don't deal with you know, with issues of, you know, like this is the guy who who stands up in his community and stands for what's right and, you know, won't back down. This is the the kind of guy that will lay down his life. You know, these are all sounds to me like things that would be it would would be ne need to be said to to a guy who has lost his um sense of responsibility to drugs or those kinds of things. He's never around, you know, he doesn't do all the nice little things. I mean it's nice. I I'd say those things are nice. for guy to have, but in terms of being the whole picture, I'd say that there's a whole bunch that is missing there. Yeah. Do you have any disagreement? No disagreement. I I think it's all a setup is that they've gone through these nicey, nice little uh touchy feely things. And then when they bring in the the twenty six uh point was to stop smoking or drinking or whatever. That's the whole purpose of the entire twenty five pre preceding it. Yeah That could be the thing that struck me and the reason I decided to share it on the show and you kinda touched on it, Jonathan. If I'm gonna sit down with my daughter or anybody's daughter and tell them these are the things you want to look for in a husband Maybe a few of these things make it onto the list further down on the list. Way down. But certainly if I were to think up twenty-six different things, there are a couple of things that would be on this list I mean you think of twenty-six things and you don't think about being responsible, being willing to lay down your life for you, you know, being a man who of integrity, who understands he has a uh a role to play in the community. You know, those character kind of things. These are yeah, be nice to me, treat me nice, show that you love me, appreciate me, think I'm pretty sounds like somebody coming from an abused late relationship. Those are all great, but that's That's the thing. Yeah. And from a Christian perspective, you know, you want your your daughter uh to marry a Christian man. Exactly. Right? Yeah. And my b my daughter did. I do have a daughter. I didn't mean to say that would kill her or anything, but I do have a daughter who's married to a great Christian guy. Now there are those listening to this show, uh uh on occasion I'm sure who uh aren't Christian, wouldn't identify self as a Christian So let's make it more generic than just Christianity. Don't you think having a commonality of faith should be on this list? Definitely Sounds like marriage counseling now and then. Yeah. So responsibility, accountability, you know. I share this because, you know, we Okay, we're the bad guys here. We read our daughter's email. Okay. You know? She's not old enough that she's uh the my first daughter she's Should have her own early. My first daughter will be born April fifteenth, somewhere uh around there. So I actually don't quite know. This whole having a daughter thing as opposed to having sons is a new thing to me and trying to think through what I would say to her about the kind of guy that she's looking for, like I find myself just like my head almost goes blank, like, man, there's so much. Like that's such a deep question, you know, and these again they feel uh the list of twenty-six feels shallow, you know, and there's so much more in there that I can't even begin to, I think, as a not quite being a father of a daughter. Just to help you out, not not necessarily speaking from my own perspective. Uh your daughter will be the kind of or choose the kind of man that her dad is. You know, uh she'll see you and she'll want that type of person. And so your life uh with a daughter, uh Jonathan, will be fine because she's gonna you're gonna show her the right way to live. And she'll see that and she'll demand that in a man And I think you're safe there. Uh so I do think that it's generally true that that um all of us are looking for somebody that's gonna love us, you know, uh better to be poor than a liar, Proverbs says that what a man truly desires is unfailing love. And that's even more so for uh, you know, ladies that they're looking for uh the real thing. And these these would be maybe examples you know, symptoms, as it were, of a guy that has the disease of really being, you know, somebody that loves unconditionally. But they're just symptoms of it, you know. The the the heart core is that he's a guy who knows how to deal honestly with the truth that's not lying to himself that's not lying to himself about his life. That's the concern. There's so much cosmetic uh uh uh paint that goes on top of the people that they don't realize that there are real m men, that they are real boys out there that that have the right uh we used to call it stock. You come from good stock And uh I I don't know that I would qualify on that list of being a and a good guy, definitely not a sweet guy. But I don't think that's the little bit of a Feminization feminization of of manhood as well, you know, that he's just nice, sweet, all those kinds of things. So if you have uh if a young uh Boy that you're trying to turn into a young man, know that you know he he's probably being exposed to this sort of expectation of him. It's up to the parents to make sure that not just what they're learning specifically in the school system, but what they're learning from the school environment, from their friends that are sharing their ideas of what makes for Yeah, a good relationship with it might not be what you have in mind for them as their parent. The weaker st student of that age group Well, the less smalls, the less education brings the others down. It doesn't work as though you would think, Well, uh little Billy and and Joe over here, you know, they they think women are just whatever toys and that they can be abused or they can you know am I talking? I'm just talking about they the way they treat people. Well it tends to bring the these the the kids that are are have a f firm foundation, so to speak Down and that that's so sad that they don't lift up as much as they pull down. You see it in the dress, you see it in the attitude, you see it in the language, you see it in the music. And and it's it's a shame that you really have to say, wait a minute Look, this is good, this is bad. And and I know w I have a thirteen year old. I have a forty year old and a thirteen year old. And and and my thirteen year old, I said, yeah he says, Dad, can I l Listen to this, Dad can I buy this game? Dad, can I play this on three sixty And and and he has enough respect for me and his mom that he's gonna do that. But uh I I know and when he says to me, Well, Billy has this game I said, Well you're not gonna have it. You know. They only use the F word twice. I said, No, no, no, we're not you know, and and they they kind of uh quantitate uh the the the the how bad things are and I and and we're lucky that uh we're blessed that uh he'll come to us and say, is this appropriate for me? He doesn't use collective words. Right. Yeah, I mean it's such a complex issue in terms of how you're going to raise your kids in this day and age in turn you know, with with uh some of the moral relativism that they get in the school systems, you know, and and a lot of the um rewriting of history, you know, or or the the message of tolerance that that ends up breeding this uh um this idea that all religions are the same these kinds of things, you know, that that getting into even the question of what kind of guy Do I want do I want for my daughter to look for, you know, is is so complex on so many different levels that, you know, just trying trying to describe a couple of uh of outward characteristics can be a little bit um exasperating even. You know, it's like, wait a second, if we're gonna talk about this then let's talk about it, you know, let's dig deep on it. And the brethren faith, we call it worldly And uh we we avoid the world in that respect. We're a part of the world, but we're not of the world. And that's uh that's a big uh brethren uh uh Uh theological. That goes along with your roots in Pietism. And Anabaptism. In Anabaptism back in Germany. In seventeen oh eight. In seventeen oh eight, uh a couple hundred years after Martin Luther he said that he started the trend and and uh it was funny 'cause for twenty three years I you know, I didn't worship Martin Luther, but I certainly knew he was right about everything And then when I met Alexander Mack years later I said, Well he wasn't really right. Interesting, that's right. It's uh and and we kinda see it like a second reformation. Yeah, because because at the end of the day Martin Luther was significantly connected to the political structures of the day. Sure. And as a result, uh the the potential of being drawn in and sucked into the the power plays, you know. Yeah, it is going to lead in the direction of of worldliness and that sort of thing. Let me jump in here for a second, because believe it or not, what I thought would be a quick five minute opener to the show has taken up most of the show. We've only got like Five, six minutes left. Okay. So what first of all, the person who just said okay is Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, the other voice. is the senior pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren, Tim May. Senior pastor, you like that, right? I I'm the only pastor. Uh junior pastor. He's a senior and junior. And youth pastor. And sophomore pastor. And outreach pastor. And freshman pastor. And visitation. Pastor. He's all the pastors. Yes. I'm Froy Skinner and uh this is 930 WFMD. Listen to us online uh as well. You can listen to the podcast after, you can stream us live online, and if you're trying to find the uh Faith Debate page online, it's go to wfmd. com, keyword faith, and it'll take us take you right to it. You mentioned the power structures of be the government and all that sort of stuff. So rather than try to get into the the pietism issue, which I think maybe would be good for us to do next week if that's okay. Sure. But let's talk about the power structures that that be. We recently had uh a new president inaugurated, Barack Obama, who it was pointed out to the three of us actually uh before we uh uh sat down to do this show that he actually quoted scripture uh in his uh speech, his acceptance uh speech or his inaugural speech. Though very briefly he quoted what did he what did he quote exactly, Jonathan? What he quoted the passage that says that when we became a man w childish ways behind us. And uh he's he was kind of leaving the impression Um, I like the idea that he's trying to get at. You know, there is something inspiring when when we call people to no longer act like children, to put childish ways behind. you know, into to begin to act in love, which is what that passage is talking about in First Corinthians thirteen. But in context, as he was using it in his inauguration speech, it gives a little bit of the impression that he he sees his administration as, you know, the adult administration as opposed to the previous one being childish somewhat in I feel like it was a poor use of scripture, a little bit self serving and not uh not caring uh the measure of humility. If you're gonna use scripture, don't use it to go after other people. And if he comes from uh First Corinthians thirteen, he's in the love chapter anyhow. He goes Which fits with you know his whole message that he's got. But you know, you know one of the things I don't know if you picked up on the uh uh inauguration uh 'cause it it was a historic event and I watched it. But one of the commentators made me feel so good because They said George Bush is a practicing evangelical Christian and that George Bush had sought saw us in Jesus Christ so much. And that and I don't remember any other an uh announcer or broadcaster really being that definitive about George Bush. Uh I'd always thought it. I I he had professed it. Yeah. But he uh and and uh but I thought well th he it was almost showing the contrast between the two. That we know that uh Barack is a man of faith Um and but to hear about our outgoing president w it was just reassuring because I felt so safe the last eight years. I really or the last seven years I felt so safe knowing that God's hand was uh directly connected Yeah, Barack apparently is still trying to urge a church to go to and he doesn't quite seem to be of the opinion that Jesus Christ is the uh the way, the truth and the life, that no man comes to the Father but by him but but by Christ. He he seems to be a bit more broad. He leaves out that part, if you believe in God, believe in me also In terms of Jesus Christ. Exactly. I thought it was interesting that you know in his final press con I think it was his final press conference as president, uh George Bush was talking about looking back on some different things and they asked him if he had any disappointments, if he was ever felt unhappy or whatever. And he s and his answer was, sometimes happy, sometimes unhappy, but always joyous. Which is a Great, great. Which is a great Christian kind of a concept. But at the same time, George Bush is a guy who kind of equated uh Muslim Islam's Allah with the uh the Christian God And that's not really an evangelical position. So, you know, it's it's it's he even he is an interesting uh I think so. I I think that uh uh you know, I've n never will aspire to be president of the country, but I can't imagine uh a lesser man of of God through Jesus Christ being able to serve there. I just can't uh I I think it would bring too many of them to their knees. I don't see how they could survive that office Yeah, without a doubt. The the weight of responsibility that he carries is massive. We're uh heading down the home stretch. I thought it would be fitting to end uh the show with the wise words of uh one of the uh ministers or preachers from the inauguration and I can't remember exactly what they were but I think we can John can repeat them for you. If you're brown, you can stay around. If you're yellow, uh you can stay mellow. If you're uh if you're white, you know, you want to do right. Uh it was just a little bit uh Uh i in terms of how heavy the inauguration is and these big ideas that Obama's been dealing with and and Rick Warren's, you know, uh very lofty prayer, you know, and forgiveness and that kind of thing, it was it was so child-ish in light that I think it probably brought uh laughter and a smile to everybody's face. Uh but in the context of a prayer it was just a little bit, you know I think the way to say that the joke or the prayer was off color. Yeah. Off yeah. Yeah. Though the group that I left out the Reds though. Yeah. The the group that I was with happened like all of them broke into a into a cheer. It wasn't necessarily a uh a group that would identify itself as being a particularly uh Christian or church grown group. Um but they all broke out in a cheer and so it was you know it it was just an interesting thing with all the heaviness for him to end with such a light, yes, possibly off color yeah pro On that note, we will wrap up the show next week. Uh, same panel will talk about uh Pietism from a brethren perspective as it compares to a non Brethren Christian perspective. And uh Uh that ought be interesting. In the four years plus of doing this show we have never tackled that issue. Interesting enough. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Anyway, I'm scripting we're still around. Yeah. I'm Troy Skinner, he's John Sweitzer, he's Tim May. Thanks for listening and thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make it? Just smile again, we're online, WFMD. com, keyword faith