Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio. I'm your host and moderator Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? The truth. Thomas Jefferson, famously, or if you never heard of this before, not so famously, once said, The clash of ideas is a sound to freedom, and in that spirit We rest well seriously with important ideas. Our hope is that through our wrestling we'll develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this life. And so this week We're going to talk about it's interesting, before the show started, Jonathan uh Sweitzer, who's on the panel this week, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick. Thanks for being on the show again. Thanks for having me. And uh Bupash Meta, I hope I got that pretty close. I don't have the Indian accent kind of to to to nail it, but uh he is secretary of the Jane Society of the Greater Washington, D. C. area, uh based in Silver Spring, uh, Maryland, and uh he he drove up uh two seventy to to be on the show today. And before the show started, Jonathan uh observed that it's likely that uh we're about as polar opposite uh on on beliefs perhaps on the panel today as as we might hope to have other than uh maybe atheism versus Any sort of religion? I don't know. But other than that, uh those who have an organized religion, this might be as as as separated uh uh as possible that we could have on the panel. So it'll be interesting. Now if you're like me God love you, I'll be praying for ya. Um if you're like me until I just said the word Jane Society You had never heard the words Jain society before. Yes, yes, yes. It has nothing to do with Tarzan. No. It has nothing to do with uh I N. Yes. Right. Uh Jainism is the religion. It's uh I guess uh primarily an Indian uh the nation of India uh type of right religion. And so in America there aren't a whole lot, although there's five hundred or so I guess uh in in this region, correct? Yes So there are some out there. You might run across one and now if you listen to this show, if somebody says that they practice Jainism or they are a Jain, then you can say, Oh, I know all about you and it'll be because of Bupash and what he's gonna share. So We're not going to trouble you with Jonathan walking through the history of the Christian religion and and what he believes. I'm going to make an assumption that you have a general sense of what Jonathan representing a Protestant Christian evangelical position for the most part. Um yeah. We were joking before the show about that too. Like what does that even mean anymore? I don't know. But you'll have a general sense of what Jonathan's uh where he's coming from. But we need to set some context and so um not too much pressure, but everything anybody listening to the show right now is ever gonna know about Jane, they're gonna learn from you right now. So why don't you start with maybe uh you know th uh a short history lesson? How old is it? When did it start? How to get it start, that sort of thing. Uh first of all, thank you Troy for uh uh uh getting me here and uh it's an honor to be on your show. Um I'm gonna start with uh uh a brief introduction on what uh Jainism is. Uh Jainism is basically the religion of Jains and uh Jains uh they follow the teachings of uh Sirtankaras and uh the followers of Jinnas. Uh Sirtankaras and Jinnas are basically uh perfected human beings. or who have got enlightenment and who have basically conquered their inner weaknesses, um their inner passions which is uh krodh, man, maya lob which we say krod meaning the anger, uh man meaning the ego, maya meaning the desire, and uh lobe meaning the greed. Uh the person, the sh uh human being who avail who have conquered their weaknesses and um who have set path uh for us uh to get liberated and they've set four folds of the religion which is um monk, nun uh uh laymen and label men. So those those enlightened souls, those perfect human beings are Tiratankaras and their teachings, the person who follows uh their teachings is basically a Jain. As such, Jain is not uh a person from birth or a person from uh hi anyone who follows the teachings of These tankaras uh is basically a Jain. And now these tankaras w were literally f historical, physical people that lived and walked the earth and lived a life. Exactly. Um Um, kind of like the Buddha lived and he achieved Nirvana, the Tirtankaras are uh are the uh Jain version of Buddha, meaning that they achieved enlightenment and when they die they will go into nirvana and are they all from a long time ago or they they are from a long time ago. Like Buddha is uh one person, but Tirthankara is basically a title. It's not one person Uh, according to Jainism, there is a time cycle which goes for infinite times and the time cycle is the time wheel is basically divided into twelve uh parts. Uh we have six parts on one side and six on the other side. And those six basically uh goes for millions and millions of years. The first six basically is called Ausurpin Autarpinical where the moral and the physics of universe um ascent and then the rest ascend the the universe ascended. So the universe was getting better and better for those first six six. And then um it gets better and better and then the next six It got worse. We are on the worst, we are on the fifth uh fifth part of the cycle and the last part is the sixth. We call it as ara. And Aura. Aura. So basically every half cycle, every uh sixth part, we have twenty-four Tirtankras. There can only be twenty-four human beings which have such a kind of body. It's a very mathematical religion. Per section there's twenty four. Per section there is twenty four. Like six. Per six. The half time cycle we have twenty four Tirthankaras. And how long is the time cycle? Millions and millions of years. Okay. So have we already had the twenty-four for the millions of years that we're in right now or come in this cycle? No. No one can attain moksha directly from here. So uh we already have twenty-fourth Tirthankaras uh for this half cycle and uh Lad Mahavira uh is basically the twenty-fourth Tirstankara. Okay. Oh, he's the guy we were talking about right before we went on the air. Exactly. Yeah. Okay. He's the twenty fourteeth kind of guy. And there is a he lived he lived about uh is it five hundred years before he Christ five yeah five ninety nine BC. Five ninety nine BC. Right. And that is amazing. So since then till now, so about twenty five years. Twenty five hundred twenty six hundred years there has been no Tirtankaras. No, Tirthankara, there are only twenty-four bodies that can make Tirthankara. So the body is made up of Hudikals, uh the matter. And there are only certain amount of matter that's a very important thing. And this this is important to their worldview, that that everything's made up of these tiny particles You know, and uh he's g he'll get into that a little bit more but I just want to emphasize it that that's very important to to a Jain world view Is that everything's made up of particles? And so these who set the example, they left behind writings or at that time uh Lod Mahavira like they speak less. Uh the they we need a better name for him so that everybody can understand what we say. Ma Mahirava. Right? Is that his name? Mahavir. Mahavir. Right. Alright, whenever we say Mahavir, this is the guy that lived five hundred and ninety-nine BC. Right, exactly. Okay, so keep going. Yeah, but but the myth is he is not the starter of Jainism. H uh Tirthankara has basically set the order. They re-established the religion. Jainism, as I said, uh the first Uh the wheel is divided into two, six and six, and this six has twenty-four Tirtanank Tirtankaras. Every Tirtankara basically sets the order of religion. So he's not the starter. He is a reformer. Kind of like he's resetting the the compass. Exactly. Now as far as In recorded human history, uh, the this reset that took place about 600 years before the birth of Christ, to give us a frame of reference here. Um that reset would be the first time in recorded human history that we have No, there was another guy two hundred and fifty years before that he's saying. Uh Lord Parashanat is the twenty-third Tirtankara And uh we have some historicity of uh you know, uh we have some archaeological evidence of uh some statues which was long before uh we can refer to Hinduism um and Buddhism. I have some uh um you know uh notes here like uh uh Rig Veda which is basically um the Hindu um Hindu s uh main uh book. Uh they talk about uh book Rig Rig Veda. Is this the Bhagavad Gita? No, it's the Rigveda. Rigveda. And that's the Hindu whole. It's the oldest Hindu sculptures and they refer to uh Lord Rishab Dev. Uh they it it says that he's the ninth incarnation of Vishnu which is before um Ram and Krishna. So Hindus actually uh uh thought that this guy's a holy man as well, this this twenty third Tirthankara. Right. Uh not he's not the twenty third. Rishab Dev is the first State Sankar. Oh. Right. So but what I'm saying is Rishab Dev is the first State Sankar and we have uh his name occurring in uh the Vedas, Rig Vedas. Oh. Are you still tracking with me? No no no I I figured it out. That's the very first Tip Transformation. That's the very first Titanaras. Yes, I'll be able to do that. Like millions of years ago. Millions of years ago. And they have we have references scriptures the Vedic Hindu scriptures refer to this guy as well. So he was there pre Vedic time. Pre Vedic. I know we don't want to get bogged down on this, but is there some cross pollination uh here between what Hindus and and Jain believe, or at least maybe on this point, they're they're kind of sharing a a religious leader of sorts? Oh well see these things are so old and so past. Um they talk how how do we know that they talk about the same Rishab Deva is basically the lifestyle that they had, but the beliefs as they go on, in the past there was no literature written. It was basically from uh oral. Uh even Lord Mahavira there was nothing written at his time. It was all transferred. The knowledge got transferred from Lord Mahavira to Gandhar's. And it was all oral and then Ganadars took it to their Acharyas who were the leaders of the religion and from Acharyas to Acharyas to Acharya and at one point when when they thought that the knowledge is is getting lighter and lighter. See th the souls in the past were so powerful that you say one word, they took it as is and and they they could repeat, they could memorize the whole stuff. But as things uh as I said, this is the the time where things get um bad and bad and bad, the memory and everything Uh the the faith. Uh because we're in the in the s part of the cycle where things are getting worse and worse and worse, the point is that all of our brains are going bad And they can't they can't hold as much information. So therefore about f you know, two thousand years before Christ we had to start writing things down. Exactly. And so he's arguing that or the James would would say that that's the reason why people even write that we didn't need to previously. Right. So interesting. To try to boil this down to something kind of simple, we're basically saying that uh Jains hold that their religion is millions of years old and that there's recorded history of it. No, no, no, no. They'd say that it is infinite. There's no million of years in finite. Well but we're at a period of time that's millions of years old. Yeah, there you go. And that there's recorded history of it that goes back three thousand years or so maybe. Is that about right? Uh well at um archaeological evidence where we have uh statues of Rishob Dev which were more than five thousand years ago Okay, so five thousand years. Right. And then we have another statue, um, the new Jane Ida. Which according to the Bible takes us back about to the time of Abraham. Somewhere in that time frame. Probably. Yeah. Abraham and or Noah, right in that time frame. That that he's saying that they have archaeological evidence going back that far, statues That how do how do they know they're that old? Probably some kind of carbon dating or something. Uh well the statues are um um if you know Jainism statues are basically without quotes and uh Rishabdev the symbol of Risha Dev is the bowl The bull and and it was there. Bull, yeah. And it was there on on that. So that tells us that he is basically uh each one of these tantar kiras Exactly. Like one of them might have a lion, one might have a serpent, one of them might have a bull, and this guy had the bull, so we knew that it was referring to him and it was that old. Exactly. Okay. Well I mean that gives us kind of a sense of some of the history. Uh and I guess since we hit the twenty fourth guy came, um a while ago is from our perspective. I guess maybe we're on the precipice of that sixth phase beginning sometime soon? It will be another thousands and thousands of years. Oh. Okay. Yeah. We're on the fifth aura Uh so that's again uh we gotta go another couple thousand years before this cycle is up and before things start to to come up again. Right. Things are gonna start going up a couple thousand years from now. Right. And in the meantime Your the Jains teach that we have to follow this Mahavira guy. Exactly. And now you have these these twenty-four um Spiritan kind of, right? I mean they're Enlightened. Enlightened uh spiritually pure? Yes. They lived what a perfect life kind of a thing? Uh they basically followed um uh nonviolence and all the basic principles of Jainism. Uh These are normal human beings um with uh with their own conscious level. They took off their karmas from their soul they they have they got victory over their inner weaknesses. They knew that body and soul are two different things and they got deattached from everything in this world. And this this is actually the Jain view of karma, which is a little bit different. Uh in the Jain view is that that karma is are these tiny particles that stick to your soul and end up causing you then to to stay in the cycle of reincarnation, right? Right, exactly. Yeah. Um before getting on to that, I'm gonna actually basically talk about uh the basic principles so we get an idea about what what Jainism is. Let's talk about the basic principles and then we'll get into the beliefs. Okay. There are uh three basic principles. The whole Jainism, um the supreme principle is nonviolence Uh when we say nonviolence, it's not just uh hurting someone or killing someone. Uh we believe that violence uh can be done why three things. Uh that word is violence for those of you that are listening has a little bit of trouble with his V's. That's okay. Keep keep keep going. I just want to make sure people or understanding what what you're saying, yes. Right. Violence. Um violence. So um Jainism believes that uh you can do himsa, which is violence, uh through three things. And you're uh physical, which is like hurting someone physically verbally, wherein you basically say something bad to someone. and mentally. Um in when various other religions they talk about um not hurting, about vi non violence But Jainism basically goes deeper to the level where they think. Even thinking, even the moment you think something wrong about it you're basically accumulating these karmas in on your soul. So even thinking is considered a big violence in um Jainism. If you have seen monks, uh if you ever come across Um if you go over India you will see a lot of monks. They even they don't do not talk with their mouth open. They use as a cl cloth. Uh because they say that when you speak you basically the the heat from your body uh kills bacteria in the air Um uh so they put a cloth before they speak. They if you see Indian monks they carry a broom with them uh to basically safeguard uh the i any any insects or anything that can come across the road and stuff like that. So norm violence is is is given a lot of stress in Jainism. We don't hurt, we don't kill, we don't think, um even thinking is basically before even you do anything, you commit. And that's where your karma starts. So before you share the the next two of the three principles, uh you're listening to the Frederick's Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. The person most recently speaking, Bupesh Mehta, the Secretary of the Jane Society of the Greater Washington, D. C. area, based in Silver Spring, Maryland And uh the other gentleman, I use that word loosely. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. For the record you can't see it, but Troy's wearing his hair just a little bit differently and uh And uh he's looking more of a gentleman these days. Uh uh what do you say? I just look like a gentleman before. Yeah, well, you know, just more of a gentleman, you're more gentlemanly I think he's inflicting violence on him. Yeah, yeah, right? Alright, so uh nonviolence is the first of the uh the three main principles. What are the other two? Uh the second one I wanna want to talk about is anikant wat Um okay. What is that? Anikantwad is basically um appreciating or listening to different points of view. Uh like here we're talking about different views. This is a perfect example of anikantwad. Anikan bad fact the Frederick faith fa faith debate is on a convide because we listen to each other's perspectives and talk 'em through. When I heard about it, seriously, Frida, when I heard that you're gonna call a Jane and you're gonna talk about it, I said more than us. you guys are following a Nikantwar because it it's it's very sad to know that but you are following a Jane. Basically what we think is truth can be known uh and it's real uh relative. Uh your point of view, my point of view. Uh it's basically what we say is Uh we don't say what I say is right. Uh what we say is what I'm saying is also right and what you are saying may also be right. Can I ask about that? Is there ever anything that's wrong? Uh well th there are things which are wrong like believing wrong things, uh killing. Those are wrong. So my perspecti I I could have a perspective that is a wrong perspective. Right, but but how I take it and how I you know, I would let you talk about it. A Nikantbah means I'm not I should be open to listen, to understand, because maybe I know the the truth, maybe I know the reality, but maybe you will make me stronger uh in knowing the reality. Uh for example, I'll give you two examples. One is you go to someone's um house and and you say you went to Troy's race and you say um um you go and you're looking for Troy Uh you call up his residence and someone from the basement picks up and s and you ask, Hey, um can I see Troy Where is he? Uh they say where are you? You say I'm actually at your house and you say he's upstairs. The next moment um his uh uh friend or someone calls you and uh he is in the same house but he's upstairs. Uh he calls you and you ask where is Troy? He says he's downstairs. Now who is right and who is wrong? The person on the basement says Troy is upstairs and the person in the bedroom upstairs. It's a classic three blind men in a in an elephant problem. It's a matter of perspective. It's a motor yes, per perspective. In the interest of time, I'm hoping to that by the end of this show, which only has like, you know, maybe six minutes left in it, that we have a general sense of Jes that we can stop chomping at the bit and actually dive into some of these kinds of questions because that would be the whole idea of truth that would could be a show in itself probably Um so is there more to say one more basic principle. Yes, and basically understanding and and try to listen to different point of views rather than sticking onto your view, which basically gives you openness, which lets you understand more things. Uh the third principle uh is basically uh parigra which is non-possessiveness. Uh the whole problem uh in this world is because of attachment. Um I have a classic uh uh example that I give. Wherever there is attachment there is pain. And uh Jainism believes in non-attachment, non-possessiveness. Uh possessiveness is not that bad as having attachment to the things that you possess. Um you acquire things because of your good karmas, but when you get attached to those things uh that's where the problem uh comes up. Um uh where there is attachment there is pain. Um um uh uh uh so basically a a st small story. Um uh someone's house is burning and and the father is sitting out so he's trying to scream, he's trying to call everyone, he says, Um, you know, put water on the house, my house is burning uh the neighbor comes and says Uh that uh you know, uncle, you don't have to worry. This your house has been sold. Your son sold this house yesterday and this guy becomes cool. And he says, Oh, thank God the house has been sold Uh his son comes over and he he starts screaming saying that uh the house is burning and you're sitting close and he says Well, you I thought you already sold it. He says, Well I've sold it but the agreement hasn't been done and the s the guy starts weeping again that oh my house, my house. Wherever there is my there is pain. So my is the word for mine. When you say mine, if I say this is mine, there is pain, there is So Jainism, the basic principle is taking this mind. This body is not yours. You are the soul. When you say I am Bhukesh, it's not me. I'm talking about my body, but my soul has no name. So knowing that body and soul relationship is is is everything. Uh th that uh we say that out of eight karmas, karmas uh we are been divided into eight major cat eight major categories And Mohuniakarama which is the karmas where we say I, mine, my is the Mohonya karma which is considered as the biggest karma which is very hard to break in because that's that's where uh gives you an illusion of happiness. What you think is happy is happiness is not happiness and it all happens because of this because of this mohnikaram where we think ours and mine. So that's the third principle of non-possessiveness where Jainism says be away from uh attachment, be deattached, no matter it's not just matter, uh it's not just the worldly things, even your body be detached from the body. I thought there was an issue of chastity as well. Um Not really. Uh I I I was reading that, you know, there are five great vows and that that they included the nonviolence, you know, non possessiveness. Uh the truthfulness, hearing everybody's point of view, and then chastity chastity non-stealing were were the other two vows. Yes. Um these Uh chastity city was I think was added um after Lot Parshanath. Uh we're always talking about the major principle, like uh these are five walls which basically a monk has to strictly follow Uh for uh layman we have twelve anuvrats. Oh. Right. So these five vows are strictly followed by uh the monks. So similar with the Roman Catholic Church in the Christian tradition where the the the priests take a vow of celibacy. Uh but the l the the lay people don't have to to to do so, I guess. We do have limitations. Every Jain has limitations. Like we have to take walls. We have twelve anubrats where we say that I'm not going to go beyond this point, I'm not gonna use so many things. Uh the limitations is basically the key. Like you try to limit yourself from this worldly things and you take walls every day. Uh vowels every day, yeah. Yeah, you basically you say that you you don't I'm not going to uh you know uh use more than three pairs of shoes, I'm not going to eat more than this, I'm not going to do this Set your limits. I'm not going to travel more than forty miles today. Setting your limits is basically you're trying to reduce uh the world in you like the interesting. I don't think we covered all the ground we hoped to, but this episode of the Frederick Great Debate is uh ninety-nine point nine percent behind us. Welcome to Jane. Yes, welcome to the world of Jane. We're gonna uh uh pick up this conversation on next week's show and uh probably Flesh out a little bit more about Jainism, perhaps, and then dive into some specific issues and talk about some compare and contrast Anyway, Abu Pashmeta, Secretary of the Jane Society of the Greater Washington, D. C. area. Thank you. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, thank you. Thank you to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating, helping make you smile Visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you so much for listening. God bless.