Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate. I'm Frederick's News Radio, 930, WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Columbia Heating, how can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator, joined this week by Jace Broadhurst, who is the senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church, and Jonathan Sweitzer, co-founder of the Faith Debate and Senior Pastor at Cross Rhodes Valley Chapel. And um we've talked about what the church does and why it does it and uh we've We've talked mostly about like music and then like church structure, organization, or lack of structure, or lack of organization, or liturgy uh in churches. We haven't talked about some of the things that will come up. uh in casual conversation and the and that people will um bring up as the kind of thing that they instantly like about a church or don't like about a church. The surfacey kind of stuff that that people kind of notice right away about churches. What church you go to? Well, I visited this one church. I think I like it. I think I can keep going back there. Oh, what'd you like about it? Oh well they showed this really cool movie clip and I thought that was excellent that they did that. Or they had a you know, they had this uh really pretty, you know, person that read the Bible scripture wearing like a bikini top or something. Whatever. But you're gonna have all these people. I'm kidding. I'm kidding. We didn't do that. Yeah, yeah. But we we've talked about you know preaching the word and the importance of that. We've talked about the music. We haven't talked so much about Bible readings. We haven't talked too much about the place for for corporate prayer uh in in a in a worship service. Um And we haven't talked about how you guys ultimately end up determining whether or not it's okay that it's in or whether it must be in. And off the air we talked about, you know, this regulative principle that uh some people believe that if the Bible explicitly tells you to do it, you better do it and you better do nothing else. And there's others who say that if the Bible doesn't explicitly prohibit it then you're free to kind of do whatever you want. And then there's varying uh gradations between those those views. So how much does In what way does scripture regulate how you structure and what you include and choose not to include in your s in your Sunday services? Everyone's looking at me. Um I think scripture certainly regulates what we do. Um I do believe in a regulative principle to some degree, in that in that sense that it tells us what should be included when we come together. And I I the question is not whether it tells us anything. The question is how much do we need to be concerned with and Um for instance I certainly have as part of our s service things that the Bible doesn't say that I should do. For instance, uh my voice just isn't loud enough to reach the the masses there. So I I use a microphone. You know, that's not everywhere in the bi anywhere in the Bible that should be part of my worship. And we use slides for our op you know, for uh uh our music and you know sometimes they even have like a mountain in the background or something like that to make it visually of Yeah, I know. I mean we're really far out there. Um and none of those things are in the Bible. So uh I mean your question is general Those are in the Bible. That's right. Hymnals are in the Bible. That's right. If Jesus spoke King James, then I can too. That's right. So, I mean, you're asking a question that I think a lot of us struggle, especially as pastors, I know that we struggle with this. You know, we want to be faithful. That's our our main goal, is to be faithful with the time that God has allowed us there to feed the flock, as we talked about this feast. But We don't always know exactly what that looks like. So I'm not going to be sitting here pounding the pulpit over what we do. In fact, some you know, my my associate pastor and I had this conversation all the time. Did I bomb last week by doing this? It totally took away. I I quoted a friends episode once in the middle of a really just intense moment. I was trying to get a point across and I and I quoted a line in Friends and I got the whole congregation was just laughing. It it just It was great. It did what it was supposed to do, which was make people laugh. And yet I hadn't I'm sure that they have no clue what my main point was anymore because I took away from the intensity of the moment that what God was speaking and gave Joey and Chandler their say. Humor is a whole question in and of itself. How much humor can be used in the context of getting across a sincere message about, you know, life and death eternity. You're so funny. You've got like you've got like the uh Oh come on I love Ferend. When it was on la you know in his Uh every week was a new episode kind of thing. I used to watch it every week and I had to do it. But I watched I I watched an episode Uh uh uh not that long ago. It wasn't like last week or anything, but not that long ago, and I found it very uninteresting and very dated. But anyway. So we so let's play a little game. We've established microphones are okay in church. That's right. And my my church is never either a Coliseum or a synagogue, so we use microphones. And you can use electric instruments, you guys do that in your church as well. We do, yeah. Right. And you have the the projector slides with the fancy backgrounds and the words up on them. Yeah, the Amish don't use any electricity. See but you guys. Electricity's rolled out. We don't mind electricity. But you guys are okay with that. Yeah. Yeah. Electricity is fine. Lights are fine. Are you okay with uh Theater style dance. Theater style. Like an interpretive type of thing. Yeah, I'm totally okay with that. What do you think? The key to that is that the lady is not dressed in a way that is going to draw attention to her body. But we've never had a man do that in our congregation. I wonder why that is. We don't want to look at the guys uh dancing. I I don't know. Uh we we have never seen them do that, but if somebody came to you and said, Hey I got this great idea, maybe sometime in September, you know, give me some time to work it up and you can work it into your message and that sort of thing. I'd like to do a dance that give you three weeks ahead of a heads up. Yeah that illust I want to do a dance that illustrates um The crucifixion of Christ. And you're going to be preaching on that part of Mark, let's say. Okay, we've never done it before, but yeah, sure. Or you know, I'm not sure. How about drama in general? I've done not well no way. I've done drama in church before. I've been one of the actors. As a pastor, we've never had it done. What would I do? I don't think I would answer either of those ways. I would have to uh I'd have to stop everything and call up Jonathan and have lunch and and start thinking through it a little better. I think that's a good idea. Yeah, and that's where I don't want to be. That's the opposite side of things. I I would want to say I would want to ask some serious questions about that. I know he would too. You actually mean the Holy Spirit. The Word of God. You know, it says the mindset on the th on the things of the Spirit does what the Spirit desires. What does the Spirit desire? It's the Word of God. And so anyways. Sorry, I didn't mean to like go what about artwork? Yeah, like a r you go to a Roman Catholic church and there's all sorts of stained glass windows and statues and and different kinds of art You go to most Protestant churches, you don't see a whole lot of that. Uh well with Lutherans maybe you do a little bit or whatever, but uh I think there's a time for art and there's a time for simplicity. I like that. It's not actually in Ecclesiastes to say that, but I think there's a like a song from the sixties, isn't it? Yeah. There is a time thing. From Ecclesiastes, yeah. Interestingly. But yeah, so the thing is is that I I feel like art has its place. I'd even be open to somebody doing an interpretive art piece during while we're singing worship. on occasion. You know, where they're like drawing led by the Spirit while we're, you know, singing a song about the crucifixion or something like that. Um but The problem with art is the problem with anything, with music, you know, everything that we're talking about, is that the expression ends up taking up the attention and people miss the heart of the gospel. uh you know that uh you know at the end of the day what is what do people what do we all need? We don't need more external stuff, more things to dazzle our attention, what we need is an internal change. And most often that doesn't happen in the context of dazzle and in in the fizz, but it it happens in the context of the Holy Spirit you know, working with you personally in the future. Good words, dazzle and fizz. Yeah. Yeah, because that's exactly my concern. Uh that that we dazzle people and we entertain them And we steal from what God was. So you would not be a fan of 'cause there are churches in in this community that uh will set up the um w what's the front area? I I hesitate to call it a stage, although they might call it a stage, I don't know. They set up the front area like a stage and uh I visited a church once where they set up the stage to look like the the television set for David Letterman's uh late night TV show. Does that trouble you in any way? That troubles me, yes. Because the whole purpose of this is now I want to entertain you. And I'm not about entertaining people. That doesn't mean that that the gospel isn't by itself some I mean, that it doesn't do something for you, but I I am not interested in entertaining I'm sure their argument would be, well, we've got to meet people where they are and that's gonna be what they're expecting these days. These people wouldn't come to church otherwise if we didn't make it a little entertaining. You know, it's interesting. How many times, Troy, have you and I have talked about how Christian art always seems to be a step or two down from secular art, whether it's music, whether it's movies, whether it's you know, whatever it is, unless, you know, Thomas Kincaid, he like broke through. You know, and he's like our great Christian artist, you know, that everybody, you know, uh mainstreamed and everybody thinks, you know, is is excellent. And ever since the Catholic Church The Protestant world in general is against art and those kinds of things because it's too worldly. It's bringing the world into the church. And so Mel Gibson was the one that finally put together a great movie about the crucifixion and he claims to be a hardcore pre-Vatican II Uh Catholic. Jew hater. Yes, well his father, apparently. Uh and so so my point is is that Is that this question of worldliness and how much do we bring the world in the into the church? We Protestants uh tend to have a uh in a just a a knee-jerk reaction against it to say no. We don't want the world in the church. We want to go simple. We want to simplify in and let the word of God change people's lives, the the testimony so that creation itself can proclaim the glory of God instead of us trying to, you know, again the fizz or, you know, the the trying to sell the sizzle. And and yet My entire life I have yearned for expressions like Mel Gibson's movie that is done well, that the whole world can see it, and that they'll be drawn to it, like uh like Le Miserab. you know, or or you know, one of these w you know, Shakespeare, you know, w one of these expressions, you know, Bach, you know, the these expressions, you know, hallelujah chorus, you know, that's uh put together by genius and everybody has to acknowledge the greatness of the thing and and that as a result proclaims the glory of God. Like I I I yearn for that. And yet at the same time I'm deeply fearful that that we'll be caught up in the hallelujah chorus and we'll all dress up in our tuxes and and and nice dresses and and show up in a limousine to this great presentation by this genius. and will go away unchanged. And I don't know the balance between that. All I know is that I want more hallelujah choruses, you know, and in in Mel Gibson's m movies like that. But I'm deeply, deeply fearful that they would be a problem, not a help So the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. That was the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Other guest on the panel this week, Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. You're humble host and moderator. I like that. I'm going to start saying that every week now. I'm humble. That's a nice jacket. You like this one? It's kind of a gray with very tiny squares. You can't wear this on television You can't because it shows up like when you have really tight checks like that, it looks bad on TV. Yeah, but you know what? On radio it looks great. I look amazing on radio. You do I I was going to almost say jokingly, but uh, you know, I'm gonna turn this positive. Obviously, I don't think either one of you would be comfortable with laser light displays in the middle of church service, right? Uh I have seen laser light displays. I've worked with Teen Mania Ministries uh for a lot of trip service? Uh it well it wa the the whole service is set up, you know, it's it's a it's a youth convention. And so the whole thing is set up to the first time. So I was going to say traditional Sunday morning. Service starts at ten o'clock, eleven o'clock, whatever time. It's an hour, two hours, twelve hours, depending on your your church, whatever. It's that it's considered the worship service. It's the church time. The rules are a little different in our mind, right, than when we do outreach things, when we do conventions, like you mentioned, these youth outreaches, or we have a a Wednesday night community thing going on or whatever. So the rules are different then, right? So what what constitutes that difference? Well we're coming together as believers on a Wednesday night and all the youth are there and there's laser lights. We're still coming together as a body to worship God. So what's different about Wednesday night and Sunday morning? Well I'm not sure there's a difference between Wednesday night and Sunday morning as much as there is a difference between the church gathering and outreach gather and outreach. Um so It's interesting that you tied a youth thing together with that interesting connection. It's Saturday night Yeah. And everybody there would ostensibly be Christians, because they're there at the Christian Youth Conference, right? Or would it be c w or in your example, were you thinking in terms of it being an outreach? Um it's an outreach. Okay. So there'd be non-Christians there, so you're trying to make it cool and hit for the non-Christians? Uh I'd say that in that context they're trying to make it cool and hip for the non- for youth because in general the church is losing its youth across the nation because they spend forty hours a week in the school system being taught you know, the world's view in and so it was a way to capture their attention, you know, and and they pull in fifty thousand, seventy thousand on a pop. you know, and and these you know, and newsboys and and Rebecca St. James and and whoever it is that's out there and then give 'em a Christian worldview. And so It's an inspirational conference. It's not a it's not a worship service. That doesn't mean you don't worship there. We should be worshiping in our homes and all over the place. But there is a difference between when the church gathers that is determined under covenant to do certain things and you know, concerts and stage shows. And I think there's a great place for that out there. But they're also not going to probably have scripture readings and uh do necessarily prayers and they're probably not going to pick a text and execute it and do a exposure. And the problem is that that these things that are geared towards, you know, uh titillating the senses, uh, unfortunately is it pleasure, pleasure, pleasure. And uh I've heard it said this way, what it takes to get them is what it takes to keep them. And unfortunately, if we're going to keep them through persecution where they're willing to to to die for the sake of Christ, then what it takes to get 'em is gonna need to be, you know, them dealing with sin, dealing honestly with their fallenness and their separation from God, not some kind of external thing and and that's again the problem where there's a huge danger You know, uh with using any of those. You know, are are in discussion and the one guy the one priest says to the other priest that What are you doing smoking? You're not allowed to s smoke, you know, and pray. He says, Oh yes you are. No, you're not. I I well if you're allowed to, then I'm gonna smoke while I pray. Well Before we make that decision, we better write the Pope and s see what he thinks about it. Well, I don't know if I'm gonna trust you to write it, I'm gonna write it myself. Well I'm gonna write too so they both write the Pope. And then one Pope gets the ans uh one guy gets an answer from the Pope and the other guy gets his the same day and I said, What do you say? And the first guy says, Yeah, it's okay. I mean that's okay. He told me it wasn't. Wait a minute, let me see your letter. The first guy who wrote the Pope and he and he asked the question, you know, uh uh dearest pontiff uh supreme, whatever they call the the you know, the Pope. Uh I humbly need your opinion on a matter. Is it okay to pray while one smokes? And his response was, Of course, so you should always pray. Pray without ceasing The other guy says, Is it o wrote the same letter but said, Is it okay to smoke while one prays? And he said, Well no, you don't want to smoke while you pray. While you're praying you should be focused on the Lord and not be distracted by worldly things So one guy asks is it okay to pray while you smoke, the other guy asks if it's okay to smoke while you pray, they got different answers. Seems like that's what's kinda going on here. Like what's what's that issue? What are we gathering to worship and if we're gonna worship, let's worship and not be distracted by other things But if we're gonna gather together to do these other things and we worship, well that's okay if we're worshiping all the time anyways. I don't know. It seems like that fits there. Are you guys familiar at all with Mark Driscoll? Is that naming anything? Very much yes. Up in the Seattle area, he's got uh a kind of a cutting edge uh s um church up there, a church plant from the uh he started a number of years ago, Mars Hill. Uh pretty pretty famous among uh Christian circles, uh particularly in uh kind of traditionally stoic uh reformed circles, you know, Calvinist uh stodgy circles. He's Wait a second. Wait a second. Are you just painting all of us Calvinist reformed peoples as well? I'm saying in those circles he's he's quite an upstart because he's a c he calls himself a Calvinist and he doesn't His church doesn't come across like the stereotypical Presbyterian model church. Apparently he's painted the uh the the entranceway of his church. Uh when you walk into his church it's all like black and all these really stark, masculine, dark, intense, bold colors. 'Cause he's trying to reach You're saying pink isn't masculine? No, just wait a second. You gave me this cup this week because last week yeah, you had the whole time. You chose. So you were saying So he's yeah Mark Driscoll is a guy that uh he's purposely trying to reach in unchurched communities, trying to reach particularly young men. He feels like men in their twenties and thirties have don't have anybody that speaks to them anymore. And in Seattle, apparently there's a lot of young single men. Uh apparently there's a pretty strong um homosexual community in Seattle, which I didn't know Uh I do know that the suicide rate is very high in Seattle. Um and and it's apparently per capita the l lowest churched major community in the United States. Per capita fewer people attend church in Seattle than anywhere else or whatever. Or at least that was the case when he planted the church there. I don't know what the stats are now. But anyway, here's a guy that has these bizarre painting patterns at the entrance of his church, a guy who uh admittedly goes and studies stand-up comics to be able to use some of their timing and some of their techniques when he's preaching. Uh he uses a video display monitor when he's preaching that he'll refer to while he's sharing a message. He does a lot of things that make some people who are more conservative in their approach Um he might use laser lights in the middle of a worship service. I don't know. Oh Are the lines that we draw, are they just preference lines? Are they artificial? You know, how much of it is just what our comfort zone is and how much of it is really what God allows and disallows. I think that there's a lot of uh value in meeting the culture right where they're at Um and the reality is that here in the United States our culture is extremely pleasure happiness oriented. Uh and so finding ways to to Uh especially in a big city where I think that that would be even more the case. You know, whereas Frederick's not really a big city, but when you're in a big city There's more of this orientation where where in order to grab people's attention you might need to do that kind of thing. I a and again the point is is that you gotta you really gotta be intentional. You gotta be prayerful, you know, about what are you doing and why are you doing it. And and what he's done is he's used all those things basically to stand up on a platform or a colosseum like the Apostle Paul does and preach a message And and it it's it's working that that it's given him a platform that people are responding to at s at some level. I don't You know, I haven't studied, you know, his congregation, so there's probably weaknesses and strengths and and what he's doing like what e anybody else is doing. You know, but the point is is at what point does the platform become a distraction? You know, or at what point do we recognize that a society is so far gone that what it takes to reach them, you know, violates the gospel itself. And I I uh that's such a deep thought. I don't even know if if I could uh if I probably don't have even have time to go into that. Yeah let me uh I I I listen to m a lot of Mark Friscoll and I respect him like crazy because our theology is very, very similar. And I and he's he's really made me think about a lot of things, exactly you know, with all the things that you're saying here. I and I hope he thinks about these things, and I'm sure he does, but I just I wonder if our place is to be attractive to the culture in that way. Um as as a worship leader, as someone who is bringing someone to worship, I am concerned about those who are Christians. I'm a pastor. Now, part of a pastor's job, I think, is to do the work of an evangelist, is to be out there. But my main role is to the sheep, not to the seekers. In fact, I'm not even sure I want to talk about the whole idea of seekers. um since no one seeks after God. But uh my main concern I'd love to have that debate with you. My main concern is the light bulb that went on over Jonathan's head when he said that. But it's not Because they're utterly depraved and uh we've had that discussion already. Um not on the air though. Oh that's right. Okay. Yes, yes. So maybe that's a future show. We'll get into uh Yeah, we're not going to be able to do that. that everyone else is being attractive. I think we should be attractive, but it should be for a d totally different reason. Because we're joyful, because we're delighting in God and every part of our our day outside and inside the church, I want people to look inside the church and say, wow, what is going on there? But I'm not I I'm not one who goes out and invites everybody to church. And maybe I can be rebuked a little bit on that. But I my m my preference is to go out and invite people to Christ And once they understand Christ, once they've seen Christ, to invite them into the church. Now we don't keep people out of the church, don't get me wrong, and we're more than happy for everybody to come into the church, but during worship service. My main intention is to minister to those who are his, to those those who are Christ, not not to the others. Now they will get something amazing from seeing people who truly love God, worship him, and they will hear the word preached and that will influence them. But look like you said earlier, if you entertain them to get them in, you've got to entertain them I mean their whole gospel is gonna be It has to be entertainment. Entertainment. Oh I'm sorry. That's right. Go ahead. I just wanna uh uh say that this has been fascinating for me. Hopefully others have found it to be uh Enlightening and entertaining. Uh you know that joke that you told really distracted me from everything that we were talking about before. I had trouble getting back on time. Sorry, I'll do that to people from time to time. That's my role on this show. Distract you so you say something you didn't really mean to say. Um But i it seems to me that we d we The the intentionality is really what's important, which is what kind of been a loose theme for these last several shows. What is the intention behind? And if the intention is I think I can save John Schweitzer by putting on a dazzling light display with laser lights And by golly, I'm going to use laser lights because that's going to speak to Jonathan. That's me talking now. I know Jace is probably going to disagree with me on that. I think that I think if the Apostle Paul had him at his disposal and he thought it was appropriate, he would use laser lights to convert people. I don't know But in the worship service is the question. Yeah, but anyway. And I got all these thoughts all of a sudden that I won't be able to share it. Yeah, that's that's why I timed it this way. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jace Broadhurst, senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church, I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Eating. How can we make you smile? Again I encourage you please and visit us online WFMD. com keywordface