Welcome to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Our sponsor this week again is Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? On the panel again from last week, this week we have Bupesh Menta of the Uh Secretary of the Jane Society of the Greater Washington, D. C. area based in Silver Spring, Maryland, and Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Freddy Faith Debate is a forum for our area religious leaders to come together And and talk about the things that uh I think would be interesting to hear them talk about, and in this case completely fascinating because I had never heard of Jainism until recently And so we're really getting education. If you missed last week's show, my apologies, uh, but we'll do our best to try to recap some of that so that you're not completely left flailing in the wind trying to keep up with what we're talking about. Last week on the show, if you were listening, you heard Bupesh walk through the history of Jainism, and then talking about the three core principles which are uh nonviolence, uh including physical, verbal, and mental, uh appreciating different points of view and uh really recognizing the importance that uh Uh in understanding truth there are different perspectives and uh giving some weight and credence to those different perspectives and uh non-possessiveness, uh believing that where there is attachment There is pain. We also talked about chastity and non-stealing, but those aren't part of the three main uh principles. Those are principles that apply in different circumstances as you uh move up into higher levels of of uh discipleship for lack of a better word or religious leadership perhaps or whatever. Um and now this week we're gonna we had hoped in one show last week to kind of set the foundation but I don't think we adequately did that. And so this week we're going to ask Bupash to start off the show by walking through some of the core beliefs, what it is to be a Jean, what you b uh a Jane, what you believe. um and uh you know maybe some general practices of what it is uh to practice Jainism. Uh and then from that point and I'm gonna ask Jonathan and this is really tough 'cause I mean uh I've got the muzzle in the corner just in case but uh exercise in t self discipline because there are going to be lots of points of differentiation between uh what a Jain believes and what a Christian believes. In fact you had said this last week that when it comes to religions Meaning everybody that's not atheist, it's very possible that Jainism is is the religion that is the most polar opposite to Christianity that's out there. And so So if you're a regular listener to the show, you're used to hearing us jump in as soon as somebody says something that uh might strike us as Oh, I don't know about that, to kind of jump in and say, wait a minute, what do you mean? Uh if you hear silence from Jonathan, or from me for that matter, or uh to something that Bupesh has to say It's not necessarily because Jonathan is agreeing, it's just because we're patiently allowing him to outline this uh so that we all kind of have a general sense because there are only five hundred and some odd uh Jains in the region. I'm not sure how many there are around the world, but uh certainly around here you don't run into a lot of them. Out of the millions of people that live around here, 500 and some odd are Jain. So it's uh small. It's small and so you might not be real familiar. So anyway, what do you believe and what did James do? All right, um Jains basically we believe that uh the body and soul are two different entities. Uh what you are is not what you are. When I say I'm Pupesh, I'm not Pupesh, my body is Bupesh. The soul and the matter are two different elements of this universe. Uh so body and soul are two different entities. In fact, uh we believe that this universe is basically made up of six elements. Uh the first one being the Jiv, uh which is uh the pure consciousness. And uh the other five basically fall into the category of Ajiv, uh which is uh non consciousness. Uh the Uh when when I say Ajiv, uh the five uh other five elements are basically Pudgal, which is basically the matter. Uh what your body is made up of is Pudgal. Anything in this universe that you can see is Pudgal. And then we have uh the third one is dharmastikaya which is the principle of motion. We have other dharmastikaya which is the principle of rest. And then we have uh arcastic island, which is basically the space, and we have uh call, which is time which makes new, old, and old, new and things like that. This universe is made up of these six elements and they are there uh fromever and they will be there forever. Uh this universe is a self sustained uh uh t it it it goes and on on and on forever. Uh there's no one controlling or there's no one running this show. It's basically self sustained and the six elements are there forever. Um uh the other thing that um we believe is is is the difference in the concept of God. Um for us uh God is basically the pure soul. Any any soul who is who shed their karmas who is get rid of their karmas is basically got for us. Um uh we talked about Tirtankaras. Uh Tirtankaras are basically enlightened souls. Um they are They are perfect human beings who have who have reached enlightenment by getting victory over their inner passions. Uh they are a form of God, but there are so many thousands and thousands and thousands of other uh souls who are also gods. Uh we know twenty four Tirthankaras because those twenty four Tirthankaras basically set the path uh for us to follow and get liberated. And they are basically the preachers, the tree teachers, after they get enlightenment they show us the path. But there are so many other souls who basically get enlightenment and they are all gods uh in Jainism And Tirthankaras again, uh Tirthankara is basically a title uh and Lord Mahavira is the twenty-fourth of Tirthankar, which is a title Um as I as we talked about in the last show that uh the time cycle is basically divided into um uh twelve parts, the six parts being the ascending and six parts being the descending The ascending parts has twenty-four tikankaras which are different shows, different human beings, and the descending has twenty-four siktankaras which are different human beings. uh those human beings, though per those perfected human beings show the path, that's why they are Titankaras. But otherwise any soul which has reached a pure a level of pure consciousness is basically God in uh in uh Jainism. Also, uh we we do have the concept of hell and heaven. Uh if you do good deeds You basically go to heaven. If you do bad deeds, you go to hell. And all this happens because of karma that we'll discuss later. But once you do good deeds, you go to heaven, but this does not mean that you are totally liberated you still have your your soul, your Atma has those good deeds, karma with you and you get rebirth uh as uh in a different form. So Even the soul that has gone to heaven, according to Jainism, has to come to this earth as a human being. and then get liberated. So the concept of God in heaven is different than other religions in Jainism. Okay, now if um somebody practices uh Jainism, if somebody is a practicing Jain, is that a fair thing to say? Are there things that you practice? Is there w is there a religiosity about what you do? Are there certain things that you do? Like a Christian is going to go to church on Sunday if if they're a good Bible believing Christian, they're they're praying regularly, they're reading the Bible, they're attending Bible studies, they're you know, being a good citizen. Doing things for the poor and the outside. Right. Um Uh let's let's talk about worship and then w let's get into the practice. Uh worshiping is also different in Jainism in than in other religions. Here we do not worship a single person. The beech mantra or the the prayer that every Jain recites is a Naukar mantra. And this Naukar mantra, the prayer, is basically talks about the qualities of the soul rather than talking about an individual person. So when we go to the temple we do not talk about um an uh a Bhagavan or uh a Lord. We basically uh see the the idol and think ourselves that these qualities of those idols basically are inside me and it get we get an inspiration that I am the same soul which Lord Mahavira is, the only difference is this karmas and uh may God give me strength to shred my karmas, give me right faith, right knowledge so that I and give me right conduct so that I can move um, you know, towards liberation. So the worship But now you said uh God give me strength to do that. You actually pray that God give me strength because you don't believe in God's name. No, we when we when I say God, like as I said, God is not a person It's the quality of the consciousness. Like see, according to Jainism, now this is hard, like he's not Lord Mohammed is not going to come and save you. No matter what you do. Yeah, because he doesn't need to, because he's in eternal bless and he's not even here. He's reached moksha. He's totally separate. He's gone to moksha. He's not gonna come back and save you What you do w is what you get. If you have done something bad and you got bad karma It's all on you. It's all on you. When you go to the temple So when you pray, God give me strength, it's basically saying to yourself, I thought there was really no concept of grace in Jainism. I mean you're you do it yourself. Right. There there's no power out there that's gonna give you power. Exactly. There's you do it all yourself. Right. As I said before, Apo Atma Paramatma. Lord Mahavira said Apo Atma Paramatma which means that every soul has a pot equal potential of being a god. So when I say give me strength it's basically I'm talking to myself, saying that I have the same potential as Lord Mahavira is. Give me the right path, give me the knowledge so that I can know what is right and what is wrong and I can move in the right directions. Okay, but where does that Knowledge comes from. It comes from the other. Knowledge is inside us. No. It doesn't even come from the Tirtanas. No. They comes from inside you. It's So you so you're not asking anything anything outside of yourself you're asking. You're asking yourself what you're going there and you're saying, Heart, tell me what to do. My own heart tell me what to do. Exactly. If you have seen uh the idols, some of the idols basically have their eyes closed, they are you know W uh re when we read about self-centered in that sense. It is self-centered, it's exactly when we read about religious things we say Swadhy. Uh we don't say that I'm I'm reading uh Jain literature. We say Swadhy. And the meaning of Swad Jai is basically Swa means yourself. And Abhyai means learning. So this is the self study. Uh Jainism is Plato said know thyself. Is he the one that said that Socrates, Plato, one of those ancient Greek guys. I think it was, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's basically know thyself. Right. It's basically been Confucius Which would you know be more Eastern. Sorry, go on. So basically God is not gonna come when we worship, um we Every um the person like who ha who's following Jainism has to do um twice worship, worshiping twice a day in the morning and in the evening. We call it as prati kraman. Pratikamaran is basically asking for forgiveness for what you have done. Um in in in Jainism, forgiveness uh plays a big role in individuals' life. Um we have a day called Samatsari, uh which comes around August, where we basically go and ask for forgiveness to each and every individual we know In fact where you do that how often? Uh this happens? Okay, every um you basically have to do twice a day. Uh-huh. You do it in the morning, we call it Rai Syupratikaman and we do it in the evening we call it uh Dev Syopratikaman. Uh when you do in the morning you say, uh please forgive me for all the sins I've done in the night and then in the evening you say, please please forgive me for all the wrongdoings that I did in the day. But the people who cannot perform um daily uh there are options that they perform pakhi which is every fifteen days. If they are not able to do it, even on the fifteen days we have an option which is like for At least they should if they are busy, if they are not, at least they should do it Chaumasik which is in four months. And then if they're not able to do samatsari is a day which every Jain follows. We do fasting that day. And uh we basically go and ask for forgiveness. There are a lot of things with knowingly or unknowingly. Right right now I'm this show and maybe uh some of them are listening to it. Some might get offended. See my my here I'm not here to offend anyone or to hurt anyone. But unknowingly I might say something which might offend someone. And that's that's a bad karma for me. And and basically on this particular day we go and talk to anyone who we have not talked for months, we go and ask for forgiveness. These takes off all the knots, all the bad things, uh, with our families, with our friends, we go. In fact We ask for for n forgiveness for things that cannot be seen, like when you talk, when you move, when you drive, you kill so many. So we go into our heart. Uh it's a nice uh little thing that I wanna I want to say. It's it's called as Kame mi Save Jiva, Save Jiva Kamantume, Mithime Savve, Nakene, which means Um Kame Savejiva, all living beings in this universe, please forgive me for my sins if I've hurt you knowingly or unknowingly. So Kamini Save Jiva Savaj Jiva Kamantume and I forgive all the human beings for any reason if you have hurt me, I forgive you and I don't want to carry on this enimity and then it says, which means the whole universe is my friend. I'm friendly to the whole universe. I'm not talking about human beings. I'm talking about living things which includes microorganisms, plants, trees, everyone. And the last sentence, Mitshime Savebhuvesu Vera Majamna Ken Kenai, I don't have any enemy enmity with this whole universe in with any human being. And this is a very powerful uh uh you know, prayer that that a Jain preaches basically. We go and ask asking forgiveness. We feel that you need courage to basically ask forgiveness. And um uh that's what we do. Like when we talk about karma, there are two types of karmas, Travya karmas and bhav karmas. There are some karmas where the intensity if you have done it unknowingly, like I was walking and and you know I maybe stepped on a grass and I hurt the grass. Now I didn't do it intentionally. I I it was my ignorance. But I have to pay for it. The karmas are going to stick on my soul. But asking for forgiveness Sheds of those karmas. If your karmas are not that intense, you can shed those karma by asking forgiveness. Um So like as you said, uh what are the practices that uh Jain should do? He should uh worship twice a day, asking for forgiveness for all the things that uh you know uh he has done in the past. Um asking forgiveness sh uh sheds off his karmas which is lighter uh the lighter karmas shed by asking forgiveness. And there are karmas, certain karmas which are very tough, like if you kill someone, um If you killed an ant, uh when I say someone, uh human beings is out of concept. I cannot even think of saying f you know, uh for Jains Even killing an ant is is such a painful, you know uh we it's it's not even in our concept to kill someone. Killing an ant is out of concept. But in case if you have killed an ant That is a negajit karma. That karma will stick into your soul and you have to pay for it. There are certain karmas by by you know uh doing meditation, self realization by forgiveness you can shred, but there are some karmas no matter what you do, you have to bear the fruit, you have to um get that pain and and karma is a compound process Uh uh you know I'm um karmas are basically fine particles but these are compound processes because karmas bring bad thoughts. They pile up but it's in common. It's just not piled up. Geometric expansion kind of a thing. Because what happens is karmas will bring bad thoughts to you, bad thoughts will bring bad action. Bad action will again bring bad more kar bad karmas So it's a compound downward spiral. Right. And and that's how the whole world the whole samsa recall is because of this compound process and the way you stop it. is uh basically you uh remain calm, you remain neutral. Um Pythagoras, uh uh a great philosopher, uh in his Famous for a theorem. Right, famous for theorem. In his uh book, uh there is a book uh called The Magic of Numbers uh by E. T. Bell on page 87. Uh He he gives a situation where um he basically saw a citizen beating uh a citizen he was beating his dog with a stick, whereupon the merciful philosopher I'm reading the sentences as is in the book where the merciful philosopher shouted, Stop beating that dog. In this howl of pain I recognize the voice of a friend. For such sin as you are committing, he is now a dog of a harsh master. by the next turn of wheel of birth, may make him the master and you the dog. May he be more merciful to you than you are to him, only thus can he escape the m the wheel. Basically what he's saying is at this point the master is reading the dog and the dog is having a lot of pain and he is he's feeling pretty to the dog and he's saying, Hey dog, when the life changes, when you become the master and he becomes the dog Be merciful to him. Don't show the same anger that he is showing if you want to finish the karma here, basically the life and death, because After when he becomes the master, if he does the same thing the karma bounds then y that's a compound process, it's a never ending process. Again the master will become dog, the dog will become master, this goes on So the way you you stop this karmas is basically having the right state of mind, right attitude. So you mentioned an ancient Greek and I wanted to follow up on that. For what it's worth? Yeah, who is it? Well, you know, there's some debate uh here on these uh websites. Um one site is attributing it to Socrates. Or anybody who saw Bill and Ted's excellent adventure, Socrates. Socrates. But uh Socrates uh and others are attributing it to Plato, so Which would make sense Plato was a student to Socrates, so it's possible but Many people think Socrates only existed in Plato's mind. It's possible that if if Socrates really existed, that uh there's not a whole lot of writings of Socrates. What we know about Socrates is pretty much from Plato. Yeah, that's it. So Maybe they both said it and Flato was echoing his teacher, but anyway, there's a little uh ancient Greek history lesson for you. Now we're listening to Frederick Faith Debate. Believe it or not, on Frederick's News Radio 930, WFMD. Um Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, uh on the panel again this week, and Bhupesh Meta, the secretary of the Jane Society of Greater Washington, D. C. , based in Silver Spring, Maryland. Um about one and a half shows now we've set a a uh reasonably good foundation, I think, of of what Jainism is all about, what it means to be a Jain. Uh we could probably talk for months and months without stopping to eat drink or sleep and uh and still have plenty to talk about. But for now, for our purposes, we'll kind of end it there. Before we transition into questions that I know I have and I'm sure Jonathan has Uh and I kind of prepared you before the show that I might ask you a question along these lines. Um you've been in the States, the United States for five years or so, right? Something like that. And where you come from, Christianity is not the cultural norm like it is here. And so you have kind of a a fresh viewpoint on uh on Christianity. So I'm curious from you know somebody who didn't grow up in a Christian culture, what is your take on Christianity? What do you think that you know about Christianity? What you know, what what if I were to look like what do you think what does Christianity mean to you? What would you say? Well on a control. firstly talking about Christianity, but um the people here in general are so kind. Um you know that's a it's a real different uh lifestyle than in India. Here when you talk to someone Um, the first thing you ask how are you doing? Like, you know, those good things. And I and sometimes they even wait for an answer. Right? It's true. Sometimes. Every now and again I actually wait for an answer myself. Yeah, so um basically um my view here is basically the people here are really nice down to the heart And there's no uh uh much of uh two faced people here. Uh uh they are what they are and they show what they show. No but I I feel in general in Washington DC area to be saying maybe it's my uh the way I see things. No, no, well well this is precisely. I'm sorry, we're ha we're play being playful. Am I not right that around the world though that the United States tends to be viewed as like a big bully I mean w we're always told that, at least by our news media, always tells us that the rest of the world thinks that the United States is a big bully, and yet your testimony is that when you came here to the United States, even living in the Washington DC area that people in the United States seem to be very kind, friendly. Um I'm not just talking about two faced, like very, very forthright, sincere kind of people. I I have seen that uh and and the dedication that they have uh towards their religion, it's amazing. Um, if I blend the two too much though. I don't want it to be about you know America or American Christians necessarily, but you know, if if I were to say to you Tell me what you know about Christianity. What would what would be some things you would share? Um I don't know much about to be really frank, to be uh true about it, I don't know much about it, but what I uh think is uh um uh what I like is basically the dedication towards going to the church on Sunday. Uh my colleague They they used to follow something where uh they would not take the cell phones after uh after hours or something. Uh they would not use any s computers or anything like that. uh what do you call them Sabbath one day. Sabbath, right. And and that was amazing, like following strictly, so much strictly following the religions. That would be a pretty minority sect of Christianity, by the way. Yeah. There's not many that are that uh But anyway, see it's I'm sorry. But even then the discipline that they have here um is uh you know is is far more uh than um you know I've seen. You know, it it's basically the dedication toward the church is is much more higher, the discipline uh people are basically nice. Uh you know, there is no as I told you, there's no Uh nothing wrong in their hearts. They don't clean hearted uh any person I have a cross and not just DC area. I was in New York and you ask for help Uh I'll tell you an example. I was going from uh D New York of all places. New York. Believe me, New York. I was I was most Cruel, harsh, angry. They are there because of their karmas, but the th basically they're not. They if you are nice to them, I think they're amazing people. I have not come across anyone who was harsh, who was bad Um you know you treat them nice they'll treat you nice back. I have never had an experience where you know someone you know tried to do something. Well there are there are extremes. Um like if you go to India and you say, Hey, do you know this person? the other person will say, Oh let me take you there Okay. He'll leave his thing, he'll go with you to help. Yeah. And there are extremes where people like don't care. Yeah. Um uh like if your neighbor is sick you take two days off. That'll not happen here. Right. Uh because you're not that bound. But in India if the neighbor is sick, um, I would take ten days off to, you know, uh so the the close Let me jump in here because believe it or not we're running out of time on the show. It will be fascinating to see how Bhupesh responds to questions that Jonathan or I might pose from a Christian point of view because I get the sense that he's gonna be surprised at the kinds of questions that might be asked because he's not exactly sure where Jonathan might be coming from. It should be a Kind of a fascinating episode next week on the Faith Event. Without a doubt. Anyway, thank you, uh Bupesh Mehta, the Secretary of the Gene Society of the Greater Washington, D. C. area in s uh based in Silver Spring, Maryland. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner, thanking our sponsor, Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Please visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith Again, thank you so much for listening. We've backed next week in one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours. God bless