Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Thread Rick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Our sponsor of Footman Plumbing and Heating Health, and we make you smile. I'm Troy Skinner. I encourage you to visit us online, wfmd. com Keyword Faith, where you'll find a daily blog and All sorts of crazy links. Um, including links to a blog done by Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and co-founder of the Faith Debate Show. And Jay Broadhurst If you have a daily blog or something, let me know. I'll link to that too. I don't know if you have one or not. I don't. Oh well if you want to start one. Facebook LinkedIn, Twitter. Yeah, we've got Facebook. That's right. Don't let it be said that those Toolsville Baptist folks don't have it going on. They'll befriend you You do that on Sunday morning in the church service? Uh we do not. Figured that one out before you ask it, I'm sure. We don't either, by the way. Anyway, we've had uh a lot of fun amongst ourselves. Hopefully you're enjoying it uh as well these last uh several weeks that we've had the same panel together. Last week We ran out of time. So it might be the last show you'll ever hear. I don't know. It is, but I don't read that genre of scripture fast. I read it slow. But what we're talking about, what we were talking about last week, what we're continuing to talk about this week is your intentionality in church. Why do churches do what they do? What did they do and why did they do it Yeah, we started off with something as simple as, why does Crossroads Valley Chapel call itself Crossroads Valley Chapel? Why does Poolsville Baptist Church call itself Poolsville Baptist Church? And then we got into uh music, where the music is placed, style of music, where the use instruments, don't use instruments, that sort of thing. And then toward the end of the show, it was in the context of it started out in the context of music. But then Jonathan started getting into uh I asked him the question about um this idea of different kinds of music leading up to a a climactic moment, personal moment with God, kind of this really uh intense worship filled moment that that uh maybe you try to orchestrate through having more upbeat Jump up and down music, a little more uh majestic kind of music, and then this really personal, intimate, let's praise the Lord and be in the spirit kind of music kind of thing. They're not wooden about it. It's not the same way every week, but that's kind of a general idea that they might try to capture. I was gonna ask a question about whether uh you ever feel and Jason the way that you guys have your your own liturgy going on, if you feel a little off and a little guilty about? Am I working a little too hard to control where this congregation is is going emotionally and and stuff or Does that thought really not ever cross your mind? I was going to ask that question, so um think about that, but I don't want to f uh not follow through on a promise that I left off on last week's show, which is in response to Jonathan talking about all of the uh openness to the movement of the Holy Spirit that they want to encourage at Crosswords Valley Chapel, that, you know, things will change in the moment spontaneously. They're gonna do this song, boom, chip. Not doing that song anymore, let's do this song instead. Heck, let's not do any more songs. Let's just pray for the rest of the time. Or even if that means there's no sermon. You know, we're going to do whatever we feel the Spirit is telling us to do. And then Jace is like Okay, I thought I liked you, but I'm not so sure anymore. So anyway, I wanted to give you a chance to respond to that while the thought might be still kind of fresh in your mind. All right, well let me assure you I still like you. These conversations uh we were even speaking in between you know these conversations are what make me think. So this is I I I don't have all the answers to everything. My big concern is uh is that the word be paramount. And it always concerns me when our feelings or the way that we feel that the Holy Spirit might be leading us in our depraved self, our sinful you know, We're led a astray by songs on the radio that make us think back. They're just constantly manipulating us and doing all these things. I just I wonder whether why we can't say that the Holy Spirit was leading me three weeks ago to prepare it this particular way, and now the Holy Spirit has changed his mind somehow. He said, No, no, no, no, no, now It's a new circumstance. I wasn't aware of what was happening at this particular point in time because apparently I don't know the future or something. And now things have to change. Why why couldn't he have led me in my study when I was on my knees and in my books to put the service this way. I mean I asked this question even last week as I was preaching because a family came back well a few weeks ago. A a a family came back and They they have a particular belief that I know about that I don't hold, and in this particular sermon I was going to denounce that. Not you know, not beat the pulpit or anything, but say something about it. And it was interesting that over the last couple of years that they've been there, uh the last two times, I did the same thing. It just happened to be that they showed up on those Sundays. So I'm like Yeah, they're never going to come back again. And I started thinking, should I just leave this out? It's not part I mean, you know, that's just a little bit of there. I can easily just leave out this name of this guy that I don't like that they think is great I thought Troy Skinner and my name I thought earlier to say that. And so then I was asking this battle. Can I just leave it out? So that was kind of the thing where you guys are at. You have this battle, well should I just leave this song out now because you know the spirit is leading in this particular way. And and especially that that idea that at the end where you said that it would we would just sing or we would just do something else and maybe I wouldn't even preach. Um maybe I'm far too caught up in preaching. Um, but I don't think it's to hear myself speak. I I think, seriously, that it's It's to hear God speak, and that's where He speaks most beautifully is in the preached word. How will they hear unless unless there is a preacher? Um so I would I I can understand, you know, taking four songs down to one song or taking ten minute prayers down to one minute prayer or any of those. I just cannot see shortening or changing uh the word that is preached because I want I want God to have that say. Alright, I've said my piece and my little sermon there. So what do you think in response to that? Sounds cogent. Sounds in sounds like it makes some sense. Of course what you said last week at the moment sounded like it made some sense too. So wha what do you say to that? Um I guess the first thing is that that there's been extensive discussion between me and my worship team and the leadership team, uh, about the fact that the Holy Spirit can lead us uh in preparation ahead of time, like you were describing, you know, that he can speak to me three weeks in advance, you know, about where I'm gonna go. In fact, uh when I go from one book to another I go and I pray and I say, Okay, you know, Holy Spirit, I say, Lord, what what is what is the next book that you want me to preach through and I'm looking for the Holy Spirit to lead me, you know, in that sense as well. Um and then Uh my worship leader is in and I have talked extensively, you know, about whether or not the he's looking to the Holy Spirit. to help him to come up with a list of songs that would be the right list of songs and that that can happen ahead of time. And so our Our default position is that the Holy Spirit has spoken to us effectively in, you know, that that the Word of God is gonna be preached. uh from the pulpit. Um and so in that sense I completely agree with you. We would add to that that um that we feel like there's a certain measure of I want to say this in a way because uh I find you to be in your in your approach to these things to be deeply committed to uh to humility and you know not being stuck in some kind of a you know, certain way of doing things. Um uh but we would use the term humility that that yes, maybe I heard from the spirit, but maybe I didn't hear everything. And so we we want to build the sense that the Word of God can come forth not just from me, but could come forth from anybody in the congregation. So in 1 Corinthians 14 where it says When every it says it says when you come together, each of you should bring a word of instruction, a psalm. you know, a uh uh a a word of exhortation. And when it says that in First Corinthians, I get the impression that Paul really means it You know, now, um obviously the Corinthians uh are possibly one of the ugliest uh churches uh that we know of in Scripture and that that uh their approach to all of these things was uh was very ugly. Nevertheless, so was their approach to love in the chapter that we all use as this great revelation of love comes out of Corinthians where Paul's speaking to people that didn't understand love. And I've I'm of the opinion that the same thing's true when Paul describes the ultimate worship service, he's describing it in the context of of a church that was not anywhere close to the ultimate. And so then he he raises their vision. And so So to my mind, if people are exhorting one another in the congregation together, the Spirit is in our midst, you know, wherever two or more are gathered, there I am in their midst, and they're praying. Or they're they're reading scripture to one another, or they are uh exhorting one another to to deeds, or they're sharing testimonies, whether overcome in Revelation by the blood of the Lamb and the Word of our testimony, then there is a preaching, there is a clear communication from the Lord All of which is is uh diligently, and maybe in many uh charismatic congregations that's not the case. Uh we have worked very diligently to to uh r judge anything that comes forth in that context appropriately, but then it's not Everybody coming to hear a preacher, though usually it is. I mean, we're talking ninety-nine point nine percent of the time, that's the case. But the point is is that the body is the body, the church is the church, and if people uh have that expectation and that anticipation that when I come to the church it's not to sit in a pew and receive It's to participate in the ministry of God to the body through one another. Ephesians 4, you know, so that the body can be built up so that it can minister you know, for the mutual edification so that it can minister to itself. And so so the very service on Sunday morning is an opportunity for the congregation to to do that, to practice that, to to to grow up in learning what it means to edify one another with the word of God and with scripture and with praying for one another and laying hands on one another and sharing testimonies. And so Allowing all that to to to come forth in in a spontaneous way seems to be what we see in First Corinthians 14. And so we endeavor to uh to follow that direction. But my sense is that even when I don't preach, they're coming away with the word of God possibly communicated more strongly than if I have preached. Um and and honestly that might actually not be the case sometimes. I I wouldn't say that there's perfection there. But um you know I would hope that wouldn't be the case, that your preparation and your prayer and your uh Yeah, but there's a humility to that. I mean I It it's not about me. Paul Paul said it's not about me, you know, it's about, you know, the the the preaching of the word and the edification. Clearly Paul preached, you know, and the other guys preached. um you know as they traveled around but there's also the sense that you know the the elders, the people minister to one. I have to admit that is definitely a a way to keep the ego out of the pulpit. And that is that's a wonderful thing that you're that you're saying there, because it's not about me. It's not and like I said in last last time, you know, they put lights on you, they put you on a stage and they tell you to be humble You're the one delivering the word of God and it's hard to be humble with that. And so what you've done is taken a little bit away. And that's I agree with that. And and we even we even clear in that spontaneity uh the way that we we approach the Lord's Supper We'll we'll have it up there ready to go every week, but sometimes we don't get to it, sometimes we do, depending on on how the flow of the spirit goes and And sometimes I'll lead it, sometimes one of the other elders will lead it. At one point we were looking to have others participate in that, but I I didn't quite feel like it was uh it was being done with the with the level of sobriety, you know, and thoughtfulness that that I felt like it deserved. And so we we scaled back to um you know to making sure that that You know, it's it's the leadership team that is leading in that. But again, the the the you know, there's that sense of you know, like why is it that the Catholic Church puts so much emphasis on Mass. The the feast, the the communion. Well I think it's because there there's a sense at some level that that it was pretty central to what you know the believers did every time they come to get came together in the Old Testament. In, you know, again, I think we're all at some level trying to grapple with what was, you know, I said Old Testament, I mean New Testament, what was the New Testament model. Right. for that, you know, and a and various levels we're willing to go beyond that to add certain things. Yeah. Listen to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD with Jonathan. Senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Jason Broadhurst, Senior Pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner, your humble host and moderator. Indeed. I want to go back and I can cut you off whenever I want. Keep you humble. I can say no all I want, but five years of history has proven otherwise. At the beginning I kinda threw out a question as as I was hoping that the between the three of us we would remember to come back to it. I because I did want to ask that question. Do you ever feel like ooh? Maybe I'm manipulating here a little bit, or this feels a little bit Smarmy, a little salesy almost, like what am I doing? You ever does that thought ever cross your mind? I guess I feel like like our goal in almost everything that we're doing at at Crossroads with the leadership team and and is is to n is to try to get away from that. Um, you know, to to for there to be a sense of sincerity and transparency and forthrightness, you know, to to not try to manipulate people into believing a certain way, but just to put it out there straight, you know, this is the truth you know, and you need to come to terms with it, you know, and and uh whether or not we're effective at that I feel like is is even something of a character question, you know, that Obviously we must not be salesmen. We must not be um manipulating. And to the extent that we are Uh, I think it's because we have yet to truly be sanctified and uh, you know whole congregations, I think, can yet not be sanctified, you know, so that the whole congregation is involved with the manipulation and not even realize that that's the case at some level. I think there's a sense though, and I'm I I think I'm a hundred percent in agreement with what you said. Sure. There's a sense in which we I mean we lead and we're leading them some somewhere. So manipulation is the is the the negative side of leading them somewhere. And we're trying to get what is leadership. Yeah, what is leadership of that you know we're trying we we choose music that has words in our case that has words that that tell a particular message and we're trying to get them to think about that message. We're not trying to get them to go wherever we want. We're we're taking them somewhere. And we're trying to take them, in my opinion, right to what the word is going to be, you know, for this particular week And so I mean we even I didn't think about that in my preaching. Am I taking them to the right place in the preaching? Um you know, with all the different things that all the mega pastors are doing and all the cool tactics. I like them. I'm drawn to all of those. I want to have, you know, music in the middle of my sermon for fun and I want to have props and I want to have uh stuff on the overhead, uh, you know, the PowerPoint and sa and why don't you? I do some of that sometimes. Okay. And I and I'm you know, I had a bull whip and I'm And Anna Jones hat on just recently. But my my concern with doing those things is that that people think that I need to entertain them in order to get the gospel or the Bible to be palatable. Like I'm trying to say, here Here, you're not gonna you know we don't really really read the scripture and it's a little antiquated and a little old and God's word isn't that great anymore. So, you know let me give it a little bit of spice so you can really get and what we've done is we've taken away and we've said You know, God's word isn't good enough for it, just by itself. We need to spice it up. And then they leave with this, well, God plus fun is the way it needs to be. And I'm not interested in giving them fun. I'm interested in them seeing joy and and excitement and passion. But fun just seems like the worst possible word for what's happening in worship. It's not necessarily but i i you you you were using the phrase uh we're you know I'm I'm wanting to get them to Yeah, do certain things. You know, and and it and it digs at the core of the definition of leadership. You know, what what is what does it mean to lead? You know, and and Christ confronted the disciples again and again. You know, you're not to lord it over one another like the Gentiles do. The the Nicolaitans, you know, those that rule over the lady or the normal people you know, uh were people that are hated by by Jesus Christ we're told because, you know, they their leadership had gone in this manipulative, bossy you know, tyrannical or, you know, whatever you want to call it. And for that matter, that's part of why we protested against the Catholic Churches. We felt like, you know, their hierarchy and authoritarian uh approaches ended up being manipulative instead of facilitating growth. And so so the question is, like when I look at when I look at what we're doing on a Sunday morning I'm wanting to lay out a feast for the people to come. Totally behind you. You know? I want them to to be able to eat from the Word of God. And if they don't want to The way that I present it, I don't want it to be something that, you know, like forces them to do so, but I do want it to be clear that if they didn't eat, they chose to not eat. You know? But the point is is that I'm laying out the feast so that I can serve them, you know, so that I can wash their feet. You know, so i if if I'm being led by the Spirit ahead of time, then then the Lord is giving me insight into the types of spiritual struggles that people are going through into the sin that that that is got them bound and keeping them from being able to be effective, you know, in their walk with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I'm I'm wanting to to minister in such a way that I'm facilitating their freedom in Christ, their growth, uh, which is something that they already want to do. And this is part of the difficulty if they're there as a believer then then my preaching is simply it's not manipulating them, it's taking them where they alre already want to go. And so somehow that's the ideal, which I'm sure I often don't get to We're going to use that that feast uh metaphor for a second and build an analogy for a second to see if if this makes any sense at all. figure out a way and kind of layman's common language, you know, explain some differences that we have on the panel this week. Would it be fair to say that You know, the the Crosswitz Valley Chapel, you know, approach, the Jonathan Sweitzer approach uh to this feast is we want to make sure that people don't feel like they're forced to first eat the lettuce and then eat the tomato and then drink the vinaigrette and then eat their peas and then have their potatoes and then eat their their meat and then have their apple cobbler and then drink their glass of milk and have it be laid out for them in this like weird, bizarre seven course meal and be very regimented structured because that would feel unsatisfied and and claustrophobic and maybe wouldn't be very appetizing. Uh and if Um and if you wanna, you know, maybe take your mashed potatoes and mix them with your peas, that would be okay. But then on the other side, uh maybe uh at Poolsville Baptist Church or churches like that perhaps, um Or Jace's view a little bit of concern that, well, that's maybe okay. But you know, the thing that makes me nervous is, well what happens if you eat the dessert before you get to the main course and that's all you eat? Or what happens if you have such a lack of of focus on what the predetermined structure of the meal was going to be that it turns into a food fight that doesn't terrify anybody, kind of a thing. I was I mean is that kinda what's that issue here? The one hand they're recoiling against too much structure because that's gonna feel claustrophobic, and the other is recoiling against not enough structure because that seems out of control potentially. I feel like I have to say this. I grew up in a charismatic congregation, so I don't know that I've ever been in a congregation where I felt like there was too much control. I don't I personally don't feel like I've got anything to rebel against. Now those that that walked away from the Baptist Church or walked away from Presbyterian churches or Catholic churches that that that uh were the beginning of the charismatic movement, those guys will to this day uh talk about how everything was so rigid that the Holy Spirit was no longer allowed, you know, that that everything had been so structured that that they'd lost it all. Uh for me, I don't know an environment like that. And I know enough pastors like Jace that that are in environments where I don't know. I I I don't have the sense that what he's doing is is that. I have heard people still, you know, like in the last couple months that refer to settings that that they've come out of where they feel like You know, it's just rigid and there's no life and it's just, you know, uh cold and, you know, the frozen chosen kind of a thing. But, you know, again, I don't know Uh unless I had the chance to go sit in your congregation, I don't know that I I could get a get a feel for whether or not that's the case for you guys. And knowing you, talking with you, getting to know you personally, I have no reason to to stamp you with that label. Uh and so It is true that in the in in my background that many charismatics reacted against what they felt was too much of that, but uh that's not the case for me. I'm I'm just in a different place right now. So is there uh this is I'm probably gonna get a maybe or a yeah, sure, why not answer? Uh is there a right or a wrong really in your in your opinion? I mean there's n Jonathan, you you don't think there's anything wrong per se, certainly nothing unbiblical with the way the Poolsville Baptist Church goes about things. And I don't know, Jace, would you think Do you see there's anything wrong or unbiblical about the Crossroads Valley chat, or do you both like, yeah, okay, you guys, that's different than the way I choose to do it? Maybe I wouldn't be comfortable doing it your way, but hey, it's it's okay with me that you do it the way you do it. Well I have chosen to associate in an ongoing way with a group of churches that that do it the way that that I've described. And we do it that way because we are of the opinion that it seems to be uh closer to a New Testament biblical model. So am I saying that I think he's doing it wrong? Um it's not something that a that I would like get red in the face with him about, but um I th there is a reason why we do it the way that we do it. And um It's not likely that you would see me doing it the way that he does it anytime soon because I feel like our way is a better way. Your answer is more biblical. Actually my answer is very similar. Um I would I would say Yes, I I I do think there are some things that are wrong about their particular way of doing things. Um we're talking about method mostly here, not about the theology behind all of that. So I am not charismatic, so obviously I would have some very big differences on theologically dealing with why those things. Yeah, yeah. So I wouldn't do any of those things because I'm not charismatic. Um but when it comes to just the the method, I think I would I would consider it to be wrong not to preach. So I know you said 99. 9%, and so I think in that case you're right. Um that one percent, that point one, point zero one, whatever it is, I would I would say that to be quite wrong. And anything I think that detracts from the Word of God uh would be wrong. Now I'm not necessarily saying that d that that would detract, but it seems to me that if you don't preach, that you don't give the word proclaimed its rightful spot Um that would detract from from what God has to say. So I would call that wrong. Faith debate. Chase Broadhurst. Nice. Yeah. That was pretty good subject. Chase is the senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor Across Across Roads at Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Flumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith again, thanks for listening, God bless.