Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heather. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. I encourage you to visit us online at WFMD dot com, keyword faith. And uh also encourage you now more than ever perhaps to uh check out the audio vault section of the website and listen to uh previous shows via podcast. Um we're tackling subject matter now that might be foreign uh to you and it might be helpful for you to connect some dots to listen to a number of shows in sequence to get a feel for what it is exactly that we're talking about. Why do I say that? Well, because Bupesh Menta is the Secretary of the Jain Society of Greater Washington, D. C. That's right, the Jain Society. I know that you've been salivating over learning more about Jainism You probably if you didn't hear the last two shows don't even know what it is. And we're not going to revisit that over and over again on this show. Go online and listen to those shows. So that you can know what those are. We got uh uh a a run through of what their basic principles are, what their beliefs are. They are um very, very different from Christianity. I think that we should run a um a comparative religions course off of the Frederick Faith debate. But we should give people tests and we should see if we could get the uh university, the the local community college to accredit it because we have some pretty good quality stuff coming out of here. Not you and I, but you know, other people So in thirty seconds or so, I'm gonna try to wrap up some big picture things that might be important for you to get a toehold so that when we're talking for the next twenty-five minutes you'll you'll have a sense of what we're talking about. Jainism holds to three primary principles, those being nonviolence, appreciating different points of view, and uh and non-possessiveness. Their beliefs include the idea that the body and soul are different elements. In fact, there are six basic elements, the soul being that which is consciousness, and matter being that which is non-consciousness uh motion and rest, which I guess are maybe like flip sides of the same coin there, and uh space and time. Uh the universe is eternal, self-sustaining. There's no God or anyone who's in control of the universe. It it just is Uh pure consciousness or enlightenment uh is kind of equated with like being God. Uh we all are part of God, we all have a godness about us. uh and perfect human beings have reached enlightenment. That's what makes them perfect. Heaven and hell exist but differently perhaps than how a Christian would understand them. In heaven, for example, it's not a final rest place, uh um but it it's a it's a good place to go as opposed to hell. Um when they worship and they pray they might talk about God but uh They're not talking about God as a personal being. They're talking about God as uh a set of qualities that are to be uh aspired to and and yearned for. Uh and so it's more like praying to yourself or your own internal qualities and and calling them forth into existence, perhaps, that sort of thing. Um And there's a whole lot more that I could run through, but that kinda gives you the basic framework of what Jainism is and what they believe. And now after an hour's worth of shows, the last two weeks, uh Jonathan, I gotta say Uh your self-discipline and control here has been quite admirable. And so now I know you're dying to ask a question. Uh out of all the things you could ask, and there's a lot, because I know I got a list, uh, what would be the primary thing you'd like to start with by asking uh Bhapes about Jainism or anything he said so far? Yes, I think the top question that comes to my mind has to do with uh specifically with karma and the the Jain uh approach to being free from karma. uh at which point of course you become enlightened, you're you're you're free, liberated from this world uh and into nirvana, into eternal bliss and uh eternal power, eternal um, you know, infinite knowledge, you're you're released into all those things. Um and I guess my primary concern is one of exasperation. Uh if I'm a individual with uh a significant amount of karma to overcome, uh how in the world am I supposed to have hope that I can be free from that if it's going to take at least four or five lifetimes from now for me to be in a place where I can be free from the cycle of suffering. Because if right now I've got five lifetimes to go, I mean this lifetime is enough suffering as it is, uh how is it that anybody th uh w would be attracted to Jainism and say, wow, Jainism gave me hope for my life when the reality is that there's so much karma. I mean, am I right that if I personally right now were to start uh attempting to be uh to live by the the Tirakana Kara's um teachings that uh that it is highly unlikely that I'd be able to achieve enlightenment in this lifetime. Isn't that true? Well not to scare you, but at this point no soul can get enlightened because we are on the fifth aura Which is basically the design being? Right. And so we got a couple thousand years before There is. Right? And so I've got how many reincarnations in that time? All right. Let me start. I mean where's the hope? The hope is You are a human being. You're talking about consciousness. Why are you talking about consciousness? It is your karmas. Why are you here? Why why is there a curiosity in yourself to know What does real? What does try to do? I mean, I've got a ton of answers to that. I believe it's there because God created me and that God created me to love me. And and that that what a man truly desires is unfailing love, better to be poor than a liar about that, and that what I'm longing for is to be united with God in eternal uh eternal matrimony, as it were, and uh and the hope as a Christian that I've been given is that that's already been taken care of. And that all of my sins right now have been totally washed away by the blood of Jesus Christ. And so for me, I've already got what you're offering. Why would I want to wait another couple thousand years to get what you're offering when I've got it now because the blood of Jesus Christ has covered my sins? Right again, we talked about the things anikhandhwa, these were different viewpoints of what you think is religionist. True. Here we're talking about Jainism where Um, you know, h we uh as such, the beliefs are so different. We don't think that anyone can take your karmas out, it's your soul. It's your karmas. The fact that you are here, the fact that you are a human being, why are you not a plant? You believe the plant has an um life, right? Uh I believe the plant is alive, but I believe that God gave me that plant to eat for food because He loves me and He wants me to eat fruit that is sweet and He wants to eat. You don't believe the plant has the soul There is no soul that that plant is not eternal. It was created by God specifically to nourish us as human beings. All right. It's different beliefs, but majorly different beliefs. Do have feeling. Do you at least agree to that? Uh no. Uh I do I have noticed that when you talk to plants they tend to grow better, but that is uh very scientific because the oxygen uh the CO two that's coming out of my out of my mouth hits the plant, the plant turns it in you know ta takes it and turns it into oxygen and you know the whole photosynthesis, you know, but uh in terms of plants actually having feelings, I have I have no belief whatsoever. I think that that is a bogus idea, honestly. There is a Chui Mui plant and there is a plant called Chui Mui. Like when you touch it it it folds itself. What do you call that plant? I'm not sure, but uh they have them in Hawaii. You know, you touch. Uh I'm of the opinion that God created the world in such a way that there are certain um uh defense mechanisms that he built into certain plants to protect them. uh for certain reasons uh from things that come like a cactus, you know, is is very sharp. And there's different other plants that that are able to uh to protect themselves, i. e. you know, when when you t when you go to touch it that it'll recoil and it'll pull back in. Let's but that's that to me is is a purely biological. But let's let's go back to what you said. You said that Lon has made that cactus the way it is Uh few minutes before you said that God has made those plants for you to eat. Yeah. Why do you need to protect them? Why do you need that Because that other plant is a plant that's gonna be eaten by a different bug that the plant can't protect itself from so that a uh a animal can eat that bug so that I can eat the animal. The point is is that God set up a process in and we're at the top of the food chain in and God in fact I'm of the opinion that before uh the flood that most most of the human race was vegetarian. Uh that it wasn't until after the flood happened that uh the world uh was no longer capable of sustaining mankind with just the the uh v uh vegetables that are out there. And so that being the case, then uh then God had to make it so that mankind could also eat animals. Nevertheless, God's the one that made that decision And uh I'm very much enjoying all my steaks and my pork. Do you i if if if someone kills a cat in front of you? What what will be your feeling? If they kill the cat because the cat is sick and dying, I'll I'll be glad. If they kill the cat because they're just being cruel, the Bible is very clear that a righteous man takes good care of his animals. But that same righteous man is encouraged to use those animals for food. The point is is that we take good care of the animals. Uh you know, like I don't need dogs. I don't need dogs. I don't eat cats. Um if there was nothing else to eat, I would have no qualms with eating either one of those. I just don't eat them because I don't like their meat any better than I like steak, which I have plenty of. Right, but dogs in Korea, they eat dogs. So which is why I probably won't be getting any hamburgers in Korea anytime soon. But why have you like why why are you saying that you won't eat dog or anything else than you know eating something else? Because I have meat that is uh plentious and available and that is very tasty. I don't have any need to eat a dog. If I needed to, I'd eat it in a second. Taste. Yeah. What is a taste? Taste is a cool thing that God created so that when I eat something, this burst of flavor comes into my mouth. I think that's a gift from God. Alright. Taste. This is part of attachment. It's Rasa Indria. Yes. What do people do for this taste? Uh all sorts of It's definitely true that there are some people that uh kill for their lusts of their flesh. And and uh the Bible is abundantly clear that we should never kill uh kill people, that is. Alright, let me be clear. We should never kill people uh just for the sake of our lusts and our desires. However, uh the Bible's also abundantly clear that heaven is actually going to be One part of heaven is going to be a a banqueting table where we will have every kind of delicious food available, that that our tastes are something that God gave us not uh not to bring suffering into our lives. but because he loves us. But because he loved us so much to give us those tastes, the problem is that we in free will have the opportunity to totally uh make those tastes the most important thing in my life. And that's actually where uh Jane it Jains and Christians are very similar, that that we're of the opinion that we should control our tastes and not let them control us But Christians are differ from Jain's in that we believe that God gave us those tastes because he wants us to love them. He wants us to enjoy all of life. Yes. So you say that God has some God has desire desi He has desired. He is attached to mankind He loves us so much that he came and he died on our behalf. How does he make differentiation between man and animal? Like why why is that a differentiation I'm not exactly sure why there'd be a differentiation. I would say that God created mankind in his own image, specifically because he wanted to create a being that he could love and that would be in love with him, kinda like you and your wife. You love her, she loves you, and you live your life together, you have great memories, uh, you have very intimate moments in the bedroom together, you raise kids together. uh that that you guys are committed to one another and you care for one another, that in the same way God wanted to create a human race that he would have that same kind of connection with, that same kind of love relationship And in order to do so, he decided that man would be sustained by the food and uh and the animals that uh exist on the earth. Right, but he created that on our behalf. Okay. Because he loves us. Um all right. I'm gonna tell you what Jane believes on animals and plants. Uh uh we mentioned before we talked about it, like Jeev is basically consciousness and and then uh it basically the living beings are divided into five categories. Matter, motion, rest, space. Elements. Like uh life. Life. Those food is basically the body. But The soul basically has five different bodies like it's Ekhandriya, Bendria Tendri, Chourendria, Panchendriya. Okay. Ekendriya means which has only one sense. like tree. That's a one sensed uh uh living being and then we have trees a w a single sense single sense dual sense then dual sense which has uh this uh the the touch and uh the tongue Okay, so like an animal. Like an animal, but but animal with just touch and tongue. Like uh uh uh uh shunk, what do you call where you get the pearl? Um where are pearls come from? Pearl Shell pearl pearl. Pulls? Ring? In the sea like you go and get the poles. Pearls. I'm sorry, yes, um a clam An oyster rather? Oyster. Now that has tongue and and uh and sense, but it doesn't have eyes, nose. But there are some the third category is basically eyes, nose. And so on. Interesting. And uh animals are five cents too. Humans and animals are five cents. And the conscious level is again divided into ten. Uh we call it as pran, which makes us live. Pran means the conscious level and the conscious level of a plant is way less than if than an animal He has the same feelings as you and I do. That's what Jainism believes and it's absolutely wrong to even kill an ant because the ant has the same soul as you do and it has the same feeling as you do. Wow. Let me jump in for a second. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. You're hearing the voices of Bupesh Mehta the Secretary of the Jain Society of the Greater Washington, D. C. area, and senior pastor Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick. And we're talking about Jainism and Christianity and their uh myriad of differences. Um not only is there a difference, it's it it uh uh um strikes me in the what a Christian would c I'm trying to boy, the language differences are gonna be interesting. You might not use the same language as no but you know what I'm talking about, Patasha. Uh it within creation, within the universe, uh there are there are different uh species of animals, different kinds of of living organisms or whatever And there's kind of a moral equivalency, right? That you know, a cat and a and a person, uh a human being and a plant and uh an amoeba They're all moral equals. They all have equal rights. They should be protected equally. And Jonathan would would disagree with that. He already has vehemently on the show today. But in addition to that, uh there's this huge difference in God And Jonathan believing that there is this personal God who has given him permission to eat dogs if he wants to, or you know, eat fish or cattle or whatever. Uh and so he's got this personal, absolute but still personal God who has desires and yearnings or whatever. Um Jains don't have that sort of uh idea of God. And so Jonathan's recourse, if you were to challenge Jonathan on anything, I've known him long enough now. If you challenge him on anything that he believes and you ask him, Well, why do you believe that? Because God says so. Uh, we're gonna challenge what James believe and you're gonna say not the same thing. Right. So what's the what would you say? What's the foundation of what James? The first thing um I want to ask is basically when you say God says God created you, right? Yeah. Why is there a difference between you, Troy, and me? Why are the thinking different? If he's created, why do why has he not created Why does he like you more or like me more or like him more? And why does it give you more wealth than someone else? Why is that such a last difference? uh he he identifies that there is a uh personal evil being by the name of Satan, the devil, whatever you want to call him, who uh who as soon as God created the world set himself up to try to destroy everything that God created, to uh to bring um uh a break between our relationship. It'd be it'd be kinda like me trying to come over to your life and get get your wife to no longer love you. That that would be uh basically what Satan was trying to do. And that being the case, uh Satan tempted Adam and Eve in the garden. and convinced them to disobey God and to do things to God that were uh that were um basically disobedient and rude. And in doing so, God had to shut them out of the garden. And he shut them w and we call that sin. It's pride. It was disobedience. They disobeyed God. They did what was rude and unkind. And as a result, the world's been getting more and more sinful. And this idea is is actually somewhat sinful, uh uh similar rather to what you were describing with karma uh recently, how how there's uh a bit of a uh downward spiral that people get into. More sin and then they're more tempted to sin and then there's more sin, more temptation to sin, you know, and uh and it's very difficult for people to get out of. But it but we started this discussion out with with hope In Jainists Jane's the only hope is for me to look into my heart And to see the God within and to find some kind of a hope that a couple thousand years from now, a couple uh a couple uh a myriad of reincarnations from now you know, maybe a couple hundred reincarnations from now, I'll finally be free. Whereas in Christianity the hope it's already taken care of. My hope has been fulfilled and I have I have no more work to do except to respond to the grace that God has given me that I can give freely to you. I can give freely to to uh Troy I can give freely to my wife, to my neighbor, to the hurting and the outcast, because God has given so much to me that I can give away freely. Not because I'm trying to earn uh some kind of a f uh uh freedom from reincarnation but because it's been given to me and I would freely give it away because he's given me so much. Now uh the first question that I had is uh though since he's given a hope that Y you're done. So you can do whatever you want because you already know that you're done with it and he's gonna take care of you. The Apostle Paul addressed that in Romans chapter six, seven and eight. Uh the question is why would I why would I do that? He's given me he's restored me into a beautiful love relationship. He's restored me to a beautiful marriage with him. Why would I turn around and slap him in the face again? Why would I do that He's given me this incredible love relationship. He's washed away all my sins. I don't want to go back. That's the reason why I came to fur him in the first place, because I didn't want all that all that stuff And so now that he set me free from it by his blood, because he died on the cross so that my sins would be paid for, uh that's that's uh a whole discussion on death. uh that would be a fascinating uh one to get into with you because I'm I'm of the opinion that the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. And so that being the case, he gave all that to me There's no way that I'm going to turn around and just slap him in the face. I'm going to keep on living as righteous as I can because it's so glorious to live in his kingdom. He's he's so kind and loving and gentle Everything that you seem to describe about the the United States is way more true about Jesus Christ and I wouldn't rather do anything but spend time with him. Right. Now the there was one thing you talked about, the evil thing. Now who created the evil thing Sin is the opposite of righteousness. Uh you imagine the target. Right. You're shooting an arrow at a target. The center of the target is what is righteousness. It's uh it's when I treat you with graciousness, I treat you with kindness, uh, I treat you with sincerity, all those things, and I'm hitting the target. If, however, I lie to you and I treat you with rudeness and callousness and uh um in a uh uh just uh an unkind manner, then I'm not hitting the target. And so the point is that love is when we treat each other with righteousness. When anybody chooses to not treat God with righteousness or treat one another with righteousness, then we sin. And uh we end up being um a uh source of evil. We we end up being filled with evil. And so evil is when we It looks like it's uh basically uh a concept of uh a process, a karma kind of thing where sin is basically you do something wrong, you're going away from the God, you do something good, you go closer to the God. Yes, except that once sin entered us We deserved to die and to spend eternity in hell. And according to Christianity, there's only one way out of that that somebody else that is holy and righteous and true has to die to cover my sins. Oh. And Jesus Christ came and died. He was holy. He was God's own son holy and righteous and true, and he came and died on behalf of everyone in the human race that wants to accept his salvation. So you mean to say that there are some more Sons of God will come. No. It happened one time for everybody. It only happened to be a very good time. Who have mistakenly done something wrong, there's no hope for them. No, there is hope for them in Christ. Christ is their salvation. No, but he's already passed, right? He is given his life. You right now can choose to accept the grace that God gave through Jesus Christ. And you will be completely washed of all of your karma, of all of your sin, of all the bad stuff. You will be washed clean by the blood of Jesus Christ right now. Okay, one thing we talk about is You said that you if you have more love and you go move towards uh the God. No, no, no, no. He moved toward me. That's what I'm saying. I didn't move toward him. I accepted his grace. Right, you accepted his grace, but but your conduct My conduct has changed because he gave me grace and he came close and he lives inside of me, so I'm not able to be righteous. moving toward God, he's already come and he lives inside of me, so there's no more moving to do. He's there and that's the reason that I'm able to be kind and gracious and loving. Let's let's go back to the topic of uh animal killing. If you hit a dog, will you feel bad about it? Uh if I am training the dog to do certain things, uh not your problem. You just you you're driving, you hit a deer. Will you feel bad about it? Uh yeah, 'cause uh there's no need to. Why? I have no problem uh shooting a deer though and eating him. In fact if I happen to hit the deer and he dies, uh I've always been of the opinion you might as well take that thing home, stick it in the freezer and have a couple steaks Uh well I've always kind of been crazy enough to think that that would be doable, but uh I have never done that. I've actually never hit a deer that I could catch afterwards. He ran away and We're gonna have to uh kinda tie things up here a little bit. We've got about you know less than a minute or so left in the show, so I'm gonna kinda end there. Uh it's interesting. A a lot of the questions that are being asked and we're gonna pick this up again in next week's show, are talking about experiential type of things. You know, when you have this experience you feel that way. Why is that? And uh it'll be interesting to see if I don't know if we'll get into it or not next week, but I'm wondering if that's been the common experience Always. You know, we have uh the Disneyfication of uh of our of our consciousness these days where you know Thumper is a cute little cuddly rabbit and Bambi is uh a cute little cartoon uh deer and we have person personified uh animals in modern contemporary culture. I'm wondering if we went back several hundred years and further, if they'd have the same kind of angst over you know, doing something mean to a dog or whatever. I'm not not sure. But anyway, that was a little insight that I wanted to share. And by the way, for the record, uh Jonathan's uh po uh view on on uh uh the flood and post flood history with regards to animals they talked about earlier in the show. Yeah. It's certainly not outside of the mainstream, but is not representative of all threads of Christianity. Yeah, that's debatable. So anyway, I just thought I'd make that point as we wrap up as well. Bhupash Menta, the uh secretary of the Jane Society of Greater Washington, D. C. , based in Silver Spring, and Senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Sweitzer, who are the guests. Thank you so much. Fast heading show. Loves it very much. Thank you to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Please visit us online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Thanks for listening. God bless.