Welcome to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. The show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? The Freddy Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for our local faith religious, you know, community leaders, whatever they all have different monikers and titles, it's hard to know what to call them anymore, but to come on the show and and and talk about things that uh we might agree on and if we do we agree we're going to agree passionately and we might disagree on and if we disagree we're going to disagree passionately but respectfully all in love And toleration to an extent. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. We don't we don't use uh toleration to find that the same way I think that many in the world. We're we're of the opinion that the best toleration is kinda toleration where you look each other in the eye if you're gonna disagree and you do it you do it, you know, face to face, you do it honestly. Whereas most of the world seems to be of the orientation that tolerance is uh b based on this idea that you should never talk about our areas of disagreement because you make people feel uncomfortable. Oh no, oh no. All of which I think breeds people with a very shallow um uh belief system and I'm just not for shallow belief systems. So because Jonathan he couldn't survive in a shallow world. He's a big guy. He needs lots of depth. He's Jonathan Sweitzer. He's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And also on the panel this week, Pastor Luke Robinson, Minister at Quinn Chapel AME Church. AME stands for African Methodist Episcopal. And we'll talk about what that means uh in a little bit. But first, I uh I just met uh Luke for the first time, uh or if I have met him before, he and I didn't remember the meeting, so I think it's the first time we're meeting And I'm not sure how Jonathan uh and Luke met in in orchestrating this this uh appearance. We met in the context of the Christmas in the park here in Frederick and then the the right to life. And uh we had come off of the Feast of Tabernacles and I think you're uh Yo your administrator Renee was uh inviting people to be part of it and Chris Gieslin, who's been on the show, pastor at Redeemer International Family Church. uh and Pastor Luke have both been ministers here in Frederick for about twenty-five, twenty-six years and uh and so they they go way back together. And that was kind of the connection that that Chris Giesland said, I need to get on board with this Christmas in the park. Yeah. 'Cause this guy is solid, he's doing good stuff and And talk about the Christmas. Well Christmas in the park was I think about a about a year ago Well, last Christmas last December, the December of 2008, the Lord sort of put in my spirit that it was an opportunity for the church uh to Step up to the plate and and to be in the public view so that people could see that there that Christmas is more significant than Santa Claus, more significant than shopping. Oh, say it's not so. Yeah, well it's true. And and and it and and so much so that uh God was leading me in my spirit to say that, you know, it was a it was an opportunity for the church to stand up and to proclaim Christ. And so from that kind of vision we ended up in a park and had hundreds of people in the park on a a winter day. Praising God. Over five minutes, yes. Praising God in the in the winter uh month and having a glorious time. Now I seem to recall that there uh this made the paper. There were photos and that and if I'm not mistaken my memory is that all of the photos featured African Americans. Were there So all the photos only only showed African Americans? Because I was there. And I'm not African American. So how come they don't recommend my own? He was in the pictures. But he was in the picture. Interestingly enough, it was Do you have a tan that day or something? Yeah, yeah. Was it predominantly uh a a black gathering? tremendous support from the African American community. They were the overwhelming number of uh attendees. However, there were it was an integrated thing. We had s uh one or two Chinese uh uh uh we had uh a couple of uh uh um uh other denominations Jewish yeah. And and and the white um population as well. So we had quite a few people to come and um I was surprised that the African American community was the largest in attendance. The motivation has to demonstrate unity. It was for the church to come together um and and um I all of the we sent the information to as many churches as we possibly can. Well that's why I kinda was raising the point that that I raised is the the motivation was let's bring all the churches together and the ones that showed up are pretty much the you know the African American churches. So what does that mean? Yeah. Well I think I think I think there's a couple things uh that come into play there. One Um, is that is that it was a kind of a first time thing. And so I think a lot of people are kinda hanging back to see, okay, what's this thing gonna be like? And how's it going to turn out? In fact, I picked up a little bit of a sense even as you were organizing the event that there was some pressure from maybe some directions to not let it just be like purely something that lifts up Christ, but to kinda add other agendas to it. Like did you feel some pressure along those lines? Well no I I didn't want it to go that way because what we wanted to do is Uh we did for instance, we gave out six thousand dollars to six organizations that support uh and help people in in the Frederick County area. In fact one was outside of the Frederick County area and that was New Life for Girls. And that's a ministry to women who uh have some um uh issues with uh addictions or other uh breakdown in their lives and and so we wanted to help them and and I have sent uh uh some women from the Frederick area to those places to be ministered to and so we wanted to give them some kind of support during this time. But uh the the Frederick uh uh coalition um religious coalition, yeah. Cairnet. Cairnet. And I think uh we even took up food for uh the food bank, the Frederick County Food Bank And so all the savers got some? Yeah, and and and so we did not emphasize collection of money. We just told people to bring six dollars with It seems like there's a tendency with unity movements to become more about the unity. than about Christ and more about the diversity than about Christ. And and and uh I felt like I really appreciated the way that you kept Christ at the center of the thing and you didn't want to turn it into this thing, you know, like Like we just invite any and everybody and then suddenly, you know, you're pulling in, you know, uh maybe cults or or you know, some of the other other religions kind of a thing. But the point is is that Yeah, we're about unity, but we're about unity in Christ. And that the most important thing is that we lift up Christ. I appreciated that. The reason for that is because uh you have Christmas is is about Jesus Christ coming into the world. The Bible said God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. The scriptures talk about how that uh for unto you this day is born in the city of David, our Saviour who is Christ the Lord, and that's Bethlehem. And so so often the church does this little thing and goes back into its home to come out in the morning but to be open and to proclaim this good news that we have, that there is a Savior that came into the world that to die for us. And uh and so we were celebrating that. So why why should we bother to come together to do that? Why not just do that in our in our different churches? Because the the the world is so accustomed to uh divisiveness and the church sometimes play into that The God did not come to just save the African Methodist Episcopal Church. He didn't come just to save the Baptist Church or or some denomination or this. He came to s that all people So sometimes we get caught up in our denominations and we fail to realize that Jesus Christ is to be worshipped by all of us. And if we're in Christ, we should be in unity with with with the principles of the gospel. Let me tie a few frayed ends together here and uh and and uh shove us off in the in the right you know in in a a good focused direction. Uh 'cause I asked the question, you know, I'm not sure if anybody could was trying to anticipate the any motive behind my question. I don't really know the motive per se. uh that was made. You always have black. I agree with what Jonathan's saying. It's not about the unity and it's not about the diversity. However the question still I think hangs out there as an important one because what's lying behind the absence of unity and diversity might be an important issue to tackle. Good. So if Luke has this idea, you know, the Lord presses on his heart to have this event that's gonna invite all sorts of people to come and the people that come are predominantly African American. Or Jonathan, you've mentioned it on this show a few times and you mentioned it uh in the green room before the show. Yeah. Uh th this show. About how you encourage you try to get uh a a mixed ethnicity to come and worship at Crossroads Valley Chapel and yet the people that keep showing up are white people Yeah. And Luke puts together this huge event and the majority of people that show up are black people. So that might not be important on the face of it, except what might really be undergirding that and I'm wondering if part of that goes back to uh the whole AME history. You know, the African Methodist Episcopal Church exists because uh black slaves, I guess, or even maybe they weren't even slaves, but uh African Americans or blacks weren't allowed to go to the altar in the white churches, right? Mm-hmm. So is there still some of that that's hampering the the cause of Christ? That's a good question. Do you do you do you think Ah how would you approach just the difference between the two? Like w when w white people maybe don't feel as comfortable maybe in your congregation or black people don't feel as comfortable my in my congregation. Is that uh does that automatically mean that there's some kind of discrimination going on or earlier you were saying that you don't really think it's discrimination, it's just a cultural difference. Well I think m a lot of it is is cultural. I think that when you um you in a in a culture such as America, it's been segregated for so long. I think um and then even in amongst our own churches it's it It's denominationalism is because people like different things and they do different things. My church service go a long time. I have two services, um one at seven forty five in the morning and it goes till about uh nine thirty is the is that as the time for the first service and the second service It starts at eleven and it goes and till um until we get out. Yeah, so it could go sometimes it goes longer, sometimes shorter. Yeah, well the reason I bring that up is because I read a book one time about uh s uh by some missiologists. that we're talking about how different cultures in the world are different. And one of the things that's a missiologist. A missiologist is somebody that studies missions and studies different cultures to help the to help uh to help think through how the Bible best fits into different cultures. Right? Because sometimes Christians come into different cultures and say uh in the name of Christ they try to f they they try to make people more, you know, European. Uh, you know, white Anglo Saxon European kind of a thing. Instead of coming in and saying, No, let's let's let the Bible speak for itself instead of saying you have to dress like us or you have to talk like us or sing songs like us. You know, and so a missiologist thinks through what things uh can be left the same and what things shouldn't. And one of the things that they noted is that it seemed like um people that uh white Europeans tended to be more time oriented and that uh it seemed like African American people tended to be more event oriented. And a time-oriented person says, look, if we start at 7 o'clock, we need to be done at 8. 30 and do not go any time over because I got things to you know, things to do, places to go. And in and it's in their orientation, whereas an African American person will tend to say, Well look, I don't so much care about when we start. Let's just make sure that when we get there that we get everything done that we need to get done and And you know, and and just make sure that that we allow the spirit to show up and and that, you know, that we genuinely have fellowship with one another. And what the missiologist came out with in this book is that Christ was both of those. On the one hand he was like telling people just to relax and let's just spend time with one another and let's not make a big deal. But then there are other times that he was like, you know what, I need to get to Jerusalem. There's there's things that we gotta get done. And so he was both time oriented sometimes and other times he was event oriented just saying, look, you guys just need to relax and let's just spend time together. Well I don't know. I think it goes back also to Africa and uh I think the African people are more uh they're not as um uh prone as perhaps European maybe or I don't know, but they do worship. They spend time in worship. Um and it's sort of like in our culture that we just don't rush through things. But I don't I don't know if that's sometimes we Europeans I think uh uh that of that heritage are a bit cold. You know, it's like we just want to you know get in and out. So I'm snapping on the air, you're probably not supposed to do that. But you just want to get in and out quick. It's gotta be an FCC violation or something. before you really encounter God you're out the door. And and and that's not only with uh uh other uh ethnic backgrounds, but I think um even in our culture now um i in the African American community it's a rush rush rush. Uh we don't have time. We it's it's like when we had the blue laws That was a time when, you know, certain things weren't going on. You spent a lot of time in church. You don't spend time in church. Now to go back to the the deal with the question you talk about, how come that was a difference? Uh, how come maybe the uh white community was not in s large numbers? Well, it goes again to association. This is a A lot of the people who came knew me. And and um um and I think that uh this was a first time event of this magnitude. It's a good start. It's something that I think the Spirit of God is doing across the nation. He's saying to people, We're going to do a new thing. We're going to change. Uh we're going to get involved. We're going to have to take time with people. So from the start, if I look at it, it was a hundred percent it was a wonderful experience. Uh Christ was uh lifted up, people came, there were diversities and stuff and if you keep doing these kind of things we uh we didn't I had a um after that we had uh uh an inaugural prayer party where we uh uh prayed for the success of the um uh uh Obama administration. Uh and here again we came together uh w and it was uh uh uh a diversity of people that came together and they prayed together. We had a great turnout. It was wonderful. The prayer was there. Um and I think the more you do these kind of things the more we get accustomed to the cultures and the difference and the changes and it will grow. So what has happened over the years I think is because we've been so separated. It's it's um It's just time, isn't it? Is this just time for us to work together? Like for example, we're coming together to do an Easter sunrise service this year. And uh apparently there was some that had done that a couple years back, but it's been quite a few years here and Frederick since there's been a joint uh Easter sunrise service. So they're they're gonna do that uh the morning of Easter this year again as an opportunity for the church to come together again on a day when the church should be coming together because it's the day that that represents the celebration of Christ rising from the dead, uh which is so central to to what our faith is all about. And You know, so there's a couple of things, you know, uh big events a couple of times a year that seem uh well suited to the purpose of the church coming together in unity. Like for example for example, we're gonna do a prayer breakfast. with all the Christian pastors in town, uh it it's the first Thursday in May and invite the you know some of the the leaders, the mayor, the the aldermen, the the um Uh County Commissioners to the prayer breakfast, you know, doing it a nice place. And that's actually never d been done before. And so we're going to be you know, looking to do that. That is an opportunity to come together and to show the unity and the a and to show our leaders Yeah, uh political leaders that were playing for in Caribbean. uh c uh w uh separatist type of uh practices the churches church has had in the denominations, you've just gotta start doing it a different way and I think God's gonna move. But the question comes up At what point will we say, um, you're not invited? Like what kind of person would show up at this event, this unity event that is a Christian unity event that that we would say Okay, um it's you're you don't quite fit what the unity represents. You know what I'm saying? Like for example, if if the if the Muslim imam from in town came if you focus on want to be a part of it What would we do? If who cries the Muslim Imam. Imam is a pastoral leader, as it were, religious leader in the Muslim world. Would we let him come? Well, basically, most of the time they would not want to come if you're talking about a Christian program. The Christian program lifts up that Jesus Christ is the only way, is the true way. He has a track record that has proven to be uh uh Second to none. And and so there is a message that Christ has. He's the one who got up from the dead. Right, and so it's likely that Buddhists wouldn't necessarily feel comfortable with that. However, what about uh what about a Unitarian? It's it's if if if they are lifting up Jesus Christ, they'll feel comfortable. And so the issue is that is that these events would be done with a magnification of Jesus Christ as the way, the truth, and the life and and let other people kind of uh feel their way to come if they want to be a part of that, fine. And and and they separate themselves from uh that kind of thing as for example what about separate yourself from uh something that's opposed to your b your your core beliefs. What about one of our aldermen, a uh a very capable aldermen Uh he's a lawyer here in town, uh but he's a Mormon. And uh would we feel cause he would be feel very comfortable lifting up Jesus Christ, and yet it occurs to me in that setting that there's the question of whether or not You know we would completely feel comfortable with Well you I invite him to come and see if he'd come and if he feel comfortable he should Yeah, interesting. Yeah. I mean it's it's up to it's not a closed house. It's like this is what's going on in this house. If you were to um Um you know, if you went to a a oh okay, if you went to a Honda dealership you would be expecting to find Hondas there. Right. Right. Right. If you went to a a Christian meeting, you would expect to find Christians there. even at a Honda dealership there are some other cars parked there for sale. However, they came there and got converted to that dealership. And um so um to use a uh Uh I mean so the illustration. So all right, but however, we've had some people on this show that were uh Christian pastors that are of the opinion that Jesus is not the only way truth in the life. They'll say things like, Well, you know, Jesus is good for me, but he might not be so good for somebody else. And if Muhammad works for somebody else, then that's okay for them. Yeah, it occurs to me that somebody like Jay Robinson and I'm not of that opinion. Jesus Christ has presented himself as the way, the truth, and the life. And so I make no apologies for that. I think he has a track record to stand behind who he said he is. And so I'm not gonna be out just saying, well, you know, uh I'm sure that those who are following the other religions And other faiths they uh uh make no compromise or apologies for who they are and make no apologies for knowing and loving Jesus Christ. And I'm in the same place as you on that. Yeah. Yeah, what else? Well, Pastor Luke J. Robinson is minister at Quinn Chapel AME Church. Uh Jonathan Schweitzer also on the panel this week again, uh senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Um getting back to the Unity and who attends and all that sort of stuff question. What kind of music would I hear if I went to uh uh Quinn Chapel? Luke? You would find m you will hear music that glorify the Lord Jesus Christ. Um You're asking a cultural question. uh label onto it. Would it be recognized as you know more traditional uh black gospel choir kind of music? We do all kinds of music I know if you go to Jonathan's church, you're going to hear good Christian uplifting God music, but it's going to be the the variety that would be um contemporary Christian. Which is major uh uh which is the white people. Yeah, I have to share I have to share a story with you. I went to Oral Roberts University, right? And we had chapel twice a week and so there's thirty five hundred students in it every time it's required, twice a week. And uh there's probably about maybe uh a fourth to a third of the student body was African American. And uh I kid you not, they consistently clapped on a different beat than all the rest of the white people in the congregation. White people in the congregation will be clapping on, you know, like a like a classic one three. But time and again Yeah, you look over at the a and and sure enough, maybe it's just on a totally different beat, but we're all singing together at the same time. Uh all of which just is uh illustrates the fact that um that there is some natural cultural differences in and uh uh likes or dislikes when it comes to music. God is glorified in the differences when they come together. And uh and to go back to the original question about what kind of music you would hear at our church, you will hear the old hymns of the church. Like uh the old Red Cross. Um the Methodist Well I must say I think when they sing it it sounds better than when we sing it. Well it depends. You guys hit some notes that are just phenomenal. Well it depends on I've been to places in all kinds of it depends on who sing it. Well the reason I you know I'm asking the question or or kind of pose the question was you know if if we really mean that we want to have people from different cultural backgrounds welcome in our congregations, then crossroads maybe you think about throwing in uh you know, a a a a a traditional standard black gospel choir kind of a song into the mix. Uh, even though nobody there is is African American presently, if one were to stumble in off the street and they heard that, Hey, these guys are trying to connect with me. As an example. I'm not you know, just if you want people to feel comfortable not wearing uh in your uh if they're wearing a suit or not wearing a suit, maybe people in the leadership of the church, some of them should be wearing cut off jeans and others should be wearing three piece suits with ties. I mean Just so that everybody gets a sense that this church is open to everybody. I don't know. Yeah, no, I noticed that um uh TGI Fridays does that, you know, they put all over the walls. uh uh paraphernalia and I noticed that that they have every political stripe or uh represented. They have they have athletic people and intellectual people, everybody everything represented. So if you look up If you look it's kinda like a Where's Wal where's Waldo, you know, you're gonna find something that that connects with you. But uh to go back to our church again, the the um we do we are integrated. We don't have a a large number of uh whites or other uh ethnic groups in there, but the the lead musician on the guitar is is is is a is is a uh is is a white brother and I bet he thinks he's in heaven. And he played for the uh uh Um the Christmas in the park and we uh have uh uh we even have folks even come from Africa and um they are their style is different from the African American in the country You know, my uh my dad's church, uh, we were always attempting to be integrated, but we tended to be you know, at the end of the day, white Anglo Saxon, uh, you know, maybe some Irish thrown in there, you know, a little bit of Germans, you know, what you know, just a whole different mix. And since probably the last ten years They have become a totally integrated church. My brother, who is currently the pastor there, is now the minority in the congregation. His wife is uh is Latin American. And uh there are African Americans, there are uh Arabian uh oriented, there are Asian Americans, they are uh Russian Americans, uh that you practically, you know, wouldn't and and they've had to totally change all their music. You practically wouldn't feel comfortable if you were just uh, you know, white Anglo Saxon American go into the congregation and as a result, they've changed their music and everything. It's it's kinda fa been fascinating for me to watch. them go through a shift and it's it's close enough that it's in my family uh watching it happen. I think the music is a big part of that. Anyway, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and uh Luke Robinson, uh pastor and minister at Quinn Chapel AME Church. Uh in Frederick. Thank you for being on the show. We're going to wrap this up. Thank our sponsor in Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. Check us out online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. God bless.