Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumbing plumbing, how can we make you smile? You know if I was thinking we would started this week's show with some sort of Christmas song, I suppose. Ho ho ho! Merry Christmas! That's not a song, Troy. No? No. No, but it's a great time of the year. Crisp it's the most wonderful time of great time of the year. Ba humbug. Anyway, this is the Project Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. The show is brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? That other voice you hear is that of uh Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Klaus Rosalie Chapel. Also on the panel. Yes, he dared to come back yet again for more of the same. We ri didn't rough him up enough. We gotta rough him up more, you know what I mean? Fabricatour with us. Yeah, you know, so he he we've been following the Advent calendar with uh with Dan here. That's right. Dan Fabricatour is pastor of Grace Bible Church. Did I say that Jonathan's a Crossroads Valley Chapel? Well I didn't know. And uh Dan is also an adjunct instructor at Baptist Bible Seminary. So this is the most wonderful time of the year. Here we are. You know, lots of songs have been written about it. Yes, they have. My favorites. Rudolph. I love the the theological uh instruction that comes from Rudolph. I'm still partial to the uh Peanuts Gang Charlie Brown resistance one. You know, the w even as a little kid, I don't even know what it was about, but when Linus You know, quotes from Luke. Oh, at the end brings tears to your eye. That's what it's all about. And I didn't even know what he was saying when I was a kid. I just knew that That's important stuff, man. That Linus has got it going on. That's right. I love that s yeah. And I don't know how much of this I I could Scrooge is a classic. I don't know if I can do real justice to it, but you know, Charles Schultz, who's the you know, the originator of the Peanuts comic strip and the and the the cartoons that we now watch on TV. Charlie. You know. Uh yeah exactly. Charlie Brown, Charles Schultz. Uh Charles Schultz had to fight really hard to have that included in the in the special. D uh did you know that It wouldn't surprise me even back then. The network they were critical of the special for a couple of reasons. One, they said it was too slow moving and wouldn't hold any kids' attention. And and it is slow moving, but it held my attention rapidly. Uh they thought that it was um too overtly Christian. This is we're talking the nineteen sixties. Yeah. And um and Linus quoting from scripture, which is over the top for the s for the CDS uh guys. and Charles Schultz uh and they also didn't like that the the musical score was jazz. They didn't like that at all. So everything about basically they said if you can change the musical score, pick up the pace, maybe a little slapstick would be good, get rid of the the Christian references and For certain, no scriptural readings. If if you only change those couple of things, we're with you, Charlie. And Charles said, No, it's all or nothing. You take it as it is, or I'll take it somewhere else and CBS back down and we have the uh Charlie John. Charlie Brown classic that we have today. Yes. So obviously Charles Schultz, uh we would take from that must have been a pretty devout Christian. Yeah. He fought that hard for that. So anyway, we we talk about it's the most wonderful time of the year and certainly it's been over secularized secularized, and if you've been listening to this show for any amount of except this year, nobody's got the money to spend, so you know. For years on this show you've heard me rant and rave against the secularization of of and how it's infected the the church's own celebration of of uh of what the meaning of the season is. Yes. But when we say it's the most wonderful time of the year And off the air, Dan shared that it is his favorite time of the year. Now that shouldn't be a surprise. I I'm gonna assume is it your favorite time of the year too, John? Or you Yeah, I mean come on, it's everybody's right, because you get presents. Right? And you give presents. So it's better to give than to receive. Why is it why is it grateful to you? Well to me, uh growing up, um, I have very fond memories of of Christmas. We my mom and dad raised ten children. Um My mom had ten children in thirteen years. I was the oldest of ten at the age of thirteen, no twins, and um we didn't have any money. We were we were broke. But my dad found a way to make Christmas special and just going to church on Christmas Eve and um coming home uh d for a kid, that that's almost a magical time. And uh that has I play Christmas music sometimes all year round. Um I have a CD somewhere near the car and I I just have a problem. I'm mostly instrumental. I like Christm Christmas music, but Um, it was all came together to me to me when about, uh, four years ago I had to write a a PhD dissertation and in New Testament and my one of my advisors said to me, he he he came in and addressed this, gave us some advice on how to do this, because it's a long haul. I think it's like a hundred thousand words, three hundred pages. It's it' it it it's just it's draining. And he I remember what he said, he said, pick a topic you won't get bored with for a couple of years. So I went home and I started thinking about that. You know, what can I do in New Testament? that I'm passionate about that that I I love New Testament Greek, but what do I like even more? And it hit me, Christmas. So my dissertation ended up being um in the area of Philippians chapter two. Verses 6 and 7, have the um who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking on the form uh of a service. I wrote three hundred pages on the word form. And uh but the what what what captured me was this fact about Christmas. You asked the question, I'm finally getting to the answer. God became a man. Yeah. That's what I find so fascinating about Christmas. Yeah. That God became a man. Have this attitude in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Who? Although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality of God within the rest, but emptied himself, taking on the form of a man, the incarnation. Hence the name of my blog, God Incarnate. Now it's interest it's uh we started off kind of playfully saying, well of course it's everybody's favorite. Is it your favorite too, John? And John said, Well yeah, it's everybody I mean it's Christmas. I mean you get to give presents and take presents and all those sorts of things But you know, some would argue that for a Christian, you know, the most special time of the year or most special day of the year should be resurrection Sunday. Exactly Right. So what would you say to somebody who says, Well, uh uh you sound like a pretty good guy and I'm sure you're a wonderful pastor, Dan, but come on, why isn't it Resurrection Sunday? Why why Christmas? We don't even know when Christmas is supposed to be celebrated True. We're we're not exactly sure of of the day Christ died either, but we're pretty depending on if you take an A D thirty date for his death or an A D thirty three, it's can probably only be one of the two, but um Yeah, but we've got the basic time of the year. Yeah, spring. Yeah. Spring and we know that it would have been associated with the Jewish Passover, the Passover. Right, right, right. But um you're right. I mean our our our salvation is not rooted in the fact that God became a man because if God becomes a man that's wonderful. Good Friday to me is the holiest day of the year 'cause that's w when Christ died for the sins of the world. But what makes Good Friday Valid is Easter. Um Christ rose from the dead, validating that his death was sufficient to pay the penalty for the sins of the world. I was showing Jonathan my uh desktop um before the show and uh on it I have a painting of of Lorenzo Lotta's painting from the fifteen hundreds on the the nativity. And what I love about it is there's you know Mary and Joseph looking over the baby, but in the background there's a cross. Mm. And it that that brings the two holidays together. Right, all right. Christmas a and Easter. Interesting. Uh you would you talk about in the back background, you might not even notice it right away. And you after you probably study the the the picture, the painting for a while, you might realize oh there's a cross. That's right. And we've had a couple of we have a a friend, my it's more my wife's friend than mine, I guess, although if my wife's friends are my friends But she uh she's an artist and not not well known or anything like that, but she you know she's very talented and and we've had her do some paintings that we have in our in our house. She did uh you know, she does mural work, does some really cool things And I don't know how many things we've had her paint now, maybe three, two or three things. But but each time my wife gives her special instruction. She says somewhere in the painting you have to figure out some way to Yeah, inobtrusively. We don't want it to be you know, a a picture of a cross, but there's gotta be the cross in the painting. So when you come into our house and you see some of these paintings, you know, you don't notice them right away. But if you study the painting for even thirty seconds, all of a sudden you're like, Oh, yeah, wait a minute. Is that a cross? Yeah. You know, and that it's a cool subtle Yeah, cool, subtle thing to do. Anyway. Christmas. So we've in in in years past, Jonathan has shared what h family Christmas has been like for him in the years past with his family growing up and what Christmas is like now for his uh his his young family and I've done the same We haven't had a chance. I don't want you to go off for for hours or anything. You mentioned you c kinda had a a struggling family because your parents had to raise ten kids and that sort of thing. What were some of those traditions that made it so special to you and what are some of the traditions you still abide by now? Uh my dad every uh every Christmas w there was a stocking and in that stocking you could find four things on Christmas morning A tangerine? Oh my my brothers and sisters have they always had tangerine. If they visit uh the website they're gonna get a kick out of this. What's the significance of that? Is it uh fruit, who knows? But four things. A tangerine A popcorn ball, a quarter, and a tarone. A tarone was an Italian wafer candy. No, it's a little square, a little cubic. Okay. Everything else is round. Yeah, I know. Those were those were in the um in the in the in the stocking every every morning. The other thing that I remember was c it was Christmas Eve, uh Schmelz. My dad would cook well I I didn't like 'em, but uh little these little s bony fish. But they were a tradition in his house growing up. But schmelz Um oh man. Sp a spaghetti with no meat sauce. It was some type of anchovy sauce. I I love the smell, brings back memories, but I'm not real fond of it. But uh but Christmas morning W with ten kids we often had a a turkey, a ham, uh, and a oral lasadio. Two of the three every every Christmas. But it was a big deal Growing up, coming down three in the morning. You know, all the family comes into town. Everybody's getting gifts, right? Everybody's getting them. Whole families in town. You see people you haven't seen for a while. You know, the there's the joy, the laughter playing games, sitting around all day long, playing games together, eating food, lots of food You know, and all of it is wrapped up in the big story of of uh God who sent his son, you know, the the the shepherds and the the the angels singing and the the wise men and the i you know, it's a story that is so Captivating the story of humanity. Growing up, uh I mean Christmas, yeah, people do complain about the commercialization of Christmas. I understand it. But Christmas for in our family is a time to give gifts Uh, because Christmas is about the greatest gift of all that was ever given. That's the Son of God. You know, and the reality is that that yes, his death and resurrection uh dealt with ultimately dealt with the sin problem. But from the moment God showed up on earth, it was a done deal. You know, that that that that's the moment that is that is so amazing, you know, that that wow, you know, everything's changed, you know, from, you know, uh who is it that that uh saw him in the temple? You know, is it Simeon? Simeon and Anna. Yeah, the prophetess Anna. The the prophetess Anna, you know, and and and all the stories about Mary you know, uh the the magnificence of the story from the very beginning is pondering all these things in her heart. Yeah. Every time you find Mary she's she's pondering. For h for a humanity that that asked all the hard questions that Job asked How could a good God allow blah blah blah? When God showed up in in man's shoes, everything you know, all those questions were all of a sudden they're being answered like right in front of our eyes. To me, the the incarnation of God is the most overwhelming concept in my mind. Yeah. I I I can't get my hands around it. We I I I don't think we fully understand what what it meant to take on the limitations of human flesh and uh to become the God man for all eternity. There will never be a time when Christ is not fully God and fully man now. He became the God man. That that's what I mean, yes, do people get lost and you know I understand. I w you walk through the malls and you hear the Christmas music play and everyone's oblivious to it. But I have to confess, I still get a blessing out of it. The fact that they're ignorant of it It doesn't affect me. I'm blessed by it. I'm here in Silent Night or uh O Little Town of Bethlehem, whatever it is, I I I appreciate it. And so I don't let the world's Misunderstanding of it dampened my understanding of it. This is the Fredder Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. That uh voice most recently that you heard was that of uh Dan Fabricatour, pastor at Grayson Bible Church, meets at Menakasi Middle School in Jonathan. Sweitzer senior pastor of Crosswitz Valley Chapel meets at Crestwood Middle School. And uh because you guys your your congregations meet at at middle schools, are you able to have a worship a church service? On Christmas? 'Cause that's uh sometimes that's a problem when you're at a public school. They they they the janitor's unavailable. We wouldn't be avail we wouldn't do anything on Christmas anyway, 'cause if unless it's Sunday. But um I think we hold we we've held Christmas Eve services in other churches that weren't using their buildings. Okay. Any special plans that crosses? That's what we do. We uh we have a more intimate uh Christmas Eve service at uh it actually meets at our house. And uh and then uh and then there's a whole group of pastors for the last several years here in Frederick. that get together on Christmas Day with their congregation you know, with whoever from their congregation wants to come. You know, we tend to have a couple hundred people. come out for it and we'll do Christmas carols. We'll have a reading of the Christmas story, you know, a short message, depending how on how cold it is, it's shorter or longer, you know, and then uh and then we go in and it starts at eleven o'clock. And you're done by twelve thirty, you know, and then you go on with your day. So you finish opening your presents, you know, you pop out for this great, you know, down in Baker Park, you know, everybody bundles up, bundle everybody up, sing Christmas carols, do your thing and then and then head back home for uh for dinner. Well and yeah uh for lunch or whatever it is. That won't work. My wife uh was raised in a very quiet home of two little girl two girls. I I come from a noisy h home of ten. Her daddy was a pastor and uh of a very f uh formal family. He's a good good preacher, good pastor. But they they would start opening presents uh early morning and they wouldn't finish till often five, six o'clock at night Well they open one an hour? Oh first of all, I remember well there were ten of us and uh growing up there were ten kids. We would come down we we would try and sneak down at three in the morning if we could. Right. But once dad gave us the okay uh all ten of us would have our presents open in about a about a minute, minute and a half. Okay. All at once. I got married, I met up, you know, uh my wife and I were saw our first Christmas and And I want to just go and over and she's whoa whoa whoa her sister came, mother we wait we go one at a time. And I had to wait. And everybody they open their present, they oh they thank you, they show it to everybody, who's that from? That's from such and such. This one I then they take a break, they'll eat. But uh uh the first Christmas my wife and I had, it it had uh we didn't get done until at least two o'clock the first time. Then then the girls just then our girls came along. Now it's an all-day thing That's what happened for us growing up. We o we opened gifts one at a time. See that? I didn't have that. Uh Carol did the exact opposite. You know, they opened, you know, as fast as they can all you know all at one time. And uh and so it takes a little bit longer that way, but we always took the time, you know, to you know, oh that's really nice. You go over and give the person a hug, thank you, you know. And uh the whole nine yards. That was a part of the anticipation, you know, okay, whose turn is it now? And the kids are always like, It's your turn, Dad. It's your turn you know, they're like, you know, trying to keep it going as fast as possible. For a while there with my wife and pragmatic, yeah. But uh half the things were broken by nine, right, right, right. But um but my wife Sh we do stocking stuffers and for a while there we were opening first the stocking stuffers starting with those and you know one at a time on those two time and sto stockings stockings like what you're allowed to do when you wake up, you come downstairs. And you're allowed to go ahead. But we had to wait for the presents until mom and dad woke up, we ate breakfast, and then we would, you know, we'd pray together. We'd have a reading of the of the Christmas story and then we'd you know do one at a time all the way around. It's interesting. I asked the question uh originally about you know whether or not you had a special service on Christmas or not if you were able to or not and and see you kinda s I don't really have this question. It was leading to a question that now I almost can't ask, but I'll just ask it conceptually. Okay. Uh in your case you either don't have a service at all or if you do it's something that's completely other than what you normally would do or it's a smaller scale than what you typically would do. Right. But in a lot of uh in established And churches with established buildings, they have their own property in a building, they're gonna probably have some sort of a service. And usually that's gonna be the most well attended service of the year. Some people go to church once a year it's on Christmas. Some people go twice a year it's Christmas and Easter. So in those contexts, let's say someday the crossing is a very good idea. Rhodes Valley Chapel or Grace Bible Church, you have your own piece of property, your own building, and now you're gonna be planning for a church service on Christmas. And you know that Okay, normally we get a hundred people or two hundred people or whatever it is, but on this day we're going to get three hundred people or five hundred people or whatever the number is. Right. It's going to be people I mu they might not hear a sermon the whole rest of the year So do you change up how you might preach? Do you change it for the audience, knowing that okay, it's an irregular attending audience? Do you do you make it a little bit more of an evangelistic type of a thing as opposed to maybe more of a teaching discipling type of a message you might do some other weeks? I I I personally think that the Christmas morning message naturally lends itself to evangelism. I mean how do you address a babe in the cattle trough without addressing why he came? Yeah. And he came, you know Well Paul says this is a trustworthy statement deserving of full acceptance. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am first. He came to die. Jesus said the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. So I I I don't know if you can separate the Good Friday from Christmas. Jonathan said earlier, once he came It set in motion a series of events that ultimately lead to the gl resurrection, ascension, and glorification of Christ. And I'm not meaning to be argumentative or mean spirited to those who are going to You are going to uh think I'm taking a shot at them, because there's nobody in this room that's going to disagree with me, I don't think, on this, but I've heard messages. on or near Christmas where they're talking about the nativity story and it's you know and what we're you know and we can learn from this, you know that uh you know Jesus came and he humbled himself and so this is a lesson in humility. We need to be humble and you know he's the Prince of Peace and we need to be ambassadors for peace and we need to be peacemakers and peaceful and we need to be giving of ourselves and you know gifts it's the it's the thought behind the gift that really matters and That's a good topical message right there. And you lose and you lose the the salvation story. You lose the the crux of the matter, which is, you know, yeah, God became man to save he save uh a f his fallen creature And and to redeem creation back to itself. It so that we would have a means for transforming things back on the ground. Franklin would love a message like that, you know, because in their eyes religion was all about helping the people to be moral. Raising the people. And um and so it's a very American message. In fact, uh it could be argued that that is the American gospel, you know, at the end of the day, if we can, you know, just be good people and get along with one another. you know, better be more humble and more serving and giving and that kind of thing. You know, the church has we talk about error and heresy always forcing the church to go back to the text. Liberal theology has had a damaging effect on on the church. There's no doubt about it. Liberal theology is when the church thinks that its sole mission in life is to save society rather than the souls of men. And when a church makes that jump from the need to save society instead of the need for souls to be saved, you are on the path to liberal theology. You're there. All the good works, all the wonderful things are are okay, but without the message of the cross, they're futile. So let me ask you this. We've got about five minutes, four or five minutes left in the show. So I'm listening to the show. I'm not on the show, I'm listening to the show. Okay. And I don't go to either one of your two churches. Even if I did, you're not having a service on Sunday anyway, so I want to go to some of the church but I belong to a church or I maybe don't belong but on the service. We're not Christmas on Christmas. Oh right, on Christmas, right. Yeah. So Sunday shows up on Christmas at a church. Yeah. Because it's an important, you know, Christian holiday. You know, you want to celebrate it And the message they hear is a message about the importance of family. Mm-hmm. And how Mary and Joseph and Jesus represent the an ideal family. Yeah. Your advice to the person that went to that church is what? Walk up to the pastor or priest or whatever and slug them one or what do you do? My advice to them is to find a church they can go to every week. And be a part of uh a congregation that uh uh in a um a relationship with the Lord that uh i is capable of inspiring every week being involved in as opposed to a religion that inspires them once a year or twice a year. I agree with that and and uh this would be a topic for another show but the issue of Topical preaching versus exposition is really the crux of what's happening today. Uh preaching is Toda most of the preaching today is to open up your Bible, find some verses that you can construct a sermon around, and then proceed to do a topical message. The the beauty of exposition, number one, is that it its philosophy for preaching is exactly the same as the philosophy for how the book was written. It was written in a unit of thought. It it was written to be expounded. It it wasn't written uh to be picked and passages from from certain places instead of doing full exposition of the text, which does prevent you from getting on your own hobby horses. I I'd be afraid to do topical preaching. I normally do uh I like the joke, I do one topical message a year and then I repent. That's the topic is repentance. Yeah, exposition is the only thing that guards the preacher from Picking up his h hobby horse pass uh topics and then going with them. And to do an exposition of a passage you need a little bit of time. So th if somebody's gonna do a five or ten minute message is pretty tough, right? You need a half hour, forty five minutes, something like that. I'm 35 probably, but uh the topical messages are easy to put together and take about about twenty minutes. I could put together a topical message in under twenty minutes. You could probably make one up on Osaka Cuff. I could have one up by the time I got home. But the point is at the end of the day is that the message of Christmas is is that Christ came, that that God became flesh. And uh not that there was a really great, cute family, you know, that was able to look really nice on a postcard. We'll make that the final thought because that is the reason for the season, as they say. Jonathan's wife is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel Dan Fabricatour, Pastor Grace Bible Church, I'm Troy Skinner, thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thank you for listening. Visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith. Go to the audio vault section. Listen to the shows over and over again. Merry Christmas. Happy New Year a little bit early. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Povin plumbings, how can we make you smile?