Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Welcoming this week Senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Schweitzer, and the co-founder of FIACONA, the Federation of Indian American Christian Organizations of North America. John Pravudos. Our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? This is going to be, I think, probably the final installment of a four-part series of shows. If you find anything interesting in this show, I'd encourage you to go online to WFMD. com. Um and look in the audio belt section. You can listen to the podcast of these previous shows. By the way, my apologies to John Schweitzer. He celebrated a birthday a week or so ago and Didn't recognize that last week, so happy birthday. Thank you. I know that you're like eighty-nine years old now or something like that. Yes, yes, I'm celebrating what is it, the uh nineteenth uh anniversary of my twentieth birthday Well y y you don't look any more than I'd say thirty-eight and a half. Yeah, well I appreciate that. You look good. Yeah, I I got a little bit of gray in the beard, but I'm not quite a gray beard yet, yes Anyway, we'll start with a little playfulness there because we're going to dive into some real good, I think, meaty medical material in the faith that they show today To kind of set the context of what you've missed the first three shows, we are talking about what's going on in India today, and it's really difficult to be a Christian, it's really difficult to be a Muslim for that matter in India today. And we are talking about uh that that instinct that certain people in power in India have to try to have a culturally pure um It's not a theocracy. It's a religios what would you call the government that's uh led by the religion that's not a th uh a theo type of a religion. Right. I don't know what you call it. A religious state, I guess, we'll have to do. And then we got into talking about Israel, which uh also has kind of a a cultural, ethnic, uh clean uh it's a Jewish state Uh how religious that is, uh, could be argued because most of the people in Israel aren't religious They're secular in orientation. So we got into talking about I think they would claim in Israel that there is uh freedom of religion. You know, that you can be Jewish and practice whatever religion that you wanna practice. Except for Christianity, they kind of down Christianity. It's because Christians prophetize and they don't like that problem. Right. But anyway, so th we say all of that because you ever you you're talking to somebody, a good friend or whatever, and it's eight o'clock, you just finish dinner and you start talking about I don't know, game six of the World Series. And then you look up at the clock and it's two thirty in the morning and you're talking about um I don't know, the pygmy peoples in the outback of Australia. And you spend about a half hour trying to trace back what how do we get here? So I was just kinda giving you the trace back of how we got to where we are now. So and where we are now is the question of What constitutes a proper biblical, because everybody in the room and this panel today is a Christian, so it will be a Christian biblical appropriate foundation for nationhood. What's what's legitimate? What's a legitimate r foundation? Is it is it language? Is it religion? Is it bloodline? You know, is it I got here first and I put my stake in the ground? What gives legitimacy to somebody who claims nationhood? And Jonathan was was giving an answer on that and before we could really get into real, real significant depth on that Our other John on the show had some points he wanted to make. We were running short on time. I want to make sure he got those points in. And so we kind of derailed that for a minute, and now we're coming back to it. I'm going to paraphrase as best I can what Jonathan was saying early on, and then Jonathan, you can kind of pick up from there if you want. We'll go from there. Jonathan was making the point that legitimacy for nationhood comes from God. God says you're a nation, or God says you're not a nation, and nations that reject that authority that God has don't get to stay nations forever that the right to nationhood is kind of taken away from them because they're rejecting the person who gave them the authority to exist as a nation to begin with. Now that's a really short paraphrase of what was about a two and a half to three and a half minute answer in last week's show, but does that capture the kernel of of the points you were making? Uh y Yeah, it it captures the kernel of what I said, but um as soon as I finished it was clear to me that that there's some significant qualifications that I feel like I would have to make to that. And and uh I guess I would start with what is the foundation of our nation here in the United States? It's the Constitution. uh of the United States. And uh kind of at the at the root of the Constitution of the United States is the Declaration of Independence. Um and in it uh is is this recognition that God has uh endowed all mankind with certain inalienable rights that must be protected by the state. And so um So, there are definitely nations out there that reject the idea of God. And to the extent that they've done so uh China, North Korea, Russia uh before uh communism fell, uh Albania before communism fell, all of these nations that rejected the the idea of God happened, whether you think it's just a coincidence or whether you think it's it's uh uh a spiritual dynamic, they happen to become less and less committed to the inalienable rights of people. And they they tended to be oppressive either religiously or culturally or in whatever uh sense that was the case. Um but those nations that seem to uh There's been an attempt to in the last two hundred years to come up with a basis for a nation that is secular and that at the root would have freedom of the religion uh built into it. The question is whether or not a nation that rejects the idea of God can effectively create a basis of human rights. that can last for generations and generations and keep that nation strong, or whether or not the root of the nation needs to at some level honor God. Here in the United States uh we clearly at the beginning had some level of an honoring of God. I wouldn't say that we were created as a Christian nation, but because of the Declaration of Independence and And things there at the beginning, there there is some level of a commitment to the idea that God is sovereign over nations and that we have to honor the dignity that He's put into every individual. I would argue that to the extent that our nation is losing that, that we're going to see an increasing inability of the government to maintain human rights. And whatever nation around the world is attempting to stand for human rights to the extent that they do it without a recognition of God I'm gonna argue that they tend to not be effective and fall into um uh various levels of of uh uh oppression toward minorities, uh where the majority end up, you know, oppressing other people. And I think, honestly, that Israel represents that at some level, that they struggle Even though I think we should bless Israel, I think that that that we should uh that personally that that we should pray for the peace of Jerusalem and those kinds of things that at the end of the day, to the extent that they've chosen to be secular and not have a God foundation that they end up uh being ineffective at maintaining human rights for those populations that are minorities. And I think that you would find the same struggle to be the case uh in a democracy in India where they're attempting to maintain the rights of of the minorities and that they're incapable of doing so because there's no higher transcendent moral authority that that keeps them in line. Well in India I would say the constitution of India was um heavily drawn from the US uh constitution. As a matter of fact, um the the gentleman who who drafted the Constitution of India, Dr. Ambetkar Uh he is of course he's from the the outcast, uh you know, the the Dalit, the low cost person. Uh who denounced Hinduism, uh became a Buddhist, um and um He has put in the fundamental principles of the US Constitution into the Indian Constitution and he has taken into consideration the Article eighteen of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. And he has given the basis for the absolute freedom of religion in the Constitution. Now Of course the Hindu radical groups do not consider that constitution as legitimate. They w they they have not rejected it but they have their leadership have already said that the constitution needs to be reviewed and revised and a new constitution should be in in place because that constitution that they want to have will give the uh th the objective of that constitution would be to give the Hindus the primary uh citizenship and the re the the rest of them could leave the country or like in the words of the founders of that party, that they could live in the country, wholly subject to the Hindu law And the Hindu culture and they cannot proselytize, they cannot talk about their faith. Um there is you cannot share your faith with anyone fundamentally. And that's the constitution that they want. It's interesting because so so the the current constitution uh that they want to change, meaning they want to change the very covenant upon which the nation is built Exactly. They want to move from a constitution that at least has the echoes of being based in a Judeo-Christian, God-honoring uh orientation the uh the at least it has the echoes of that if it was formed aga you know in in the context of the American Constitution. The state of India is a secular State. The secular state is quite different from the way the way we understand the word secular in the US. In the US, secular means not of God. In in India secular means of all gods. You don't particularly prefer one faith over the other. So that means the secular. I mean if you are a secular person in India you don't prefer a particular It's a very subtle distinction but I can see how it's a very important one. Yeah it is it is quite important. And and and the way they explain the secular state is by honoring all the faiths within the country, whether it's uh Jainism, Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, Christianity, um Judaism. Uh because Judaism has been in India seven hundred years before Christ. So so that would be uh almost in their eyes an improvement on our constitution. Our constitution attempted to s to create a secular state where where there was a separation of church and state, whereas uh the Hindu Constitution i mimics the American Constitution but adds the caveat that um that that that they're not trying to separate church and state but they're trying to to not for discover every every religion a voice in the government. For example, if you go to a an army base in India, um this is very you know religiously followed in the army bases, you will see pictures of the Hindu gods and you know the the the the Islamic symbols and the Christian symbols so everything in the chapel. Sounds like an Islamic lodge. In like a Masonic Lodge. I have never been inside a Masonic Lodge, but I can tell Neither have I actually. How would you know that? Yeah, I don't think they let you in those places. Well y in Masonic Lodge you d it depends on whether you're a York right or a Scottish right. Oh interesting. Yeah. If you're a York right, you'd know it it is. If you're a Scottish right, you're you know it is Christian. The hi the Hindu religious worldview anyway, right, where there's this whole I mean there are zillions or whatever. Well Hinduism by Hinduism by far is one of the most atheist religions in the world I in the in the sense why I say that is because Hinduism absorbs all the religion. See, you can be a Hindu and you can you can say there is only one God And you can be a Hindu. And you can say there are three hundred and thirty million gods and you can still be a Hindu. And you can say there is no God, an atheist, you can still be a Hindu. But if you say that there is only one God and that his name is Jesus Christ, you cannot be a Hindu. Well, in in Hinduism, actually it absorbs all the good things from different religions. It is a culture, it is a way of life. It is not set principles like Islam or Christianity is. See the Christianity and w and and and Judaism and and Islam comes from the from the Abrahamic faith. You know, you you have a d very definite Yeah. But Hinduism is a is a non-religious religion. It is it is a intellectual it is a philosophy, it's a way of life. Yeah, we we've gotten into that on so many different occasions on the faith debate. Sometimes in a very you know, it it's like uh just Drives us crazy trying to figure out the thing. Uhhuh. Was the best we were able to get a handhold on those things. 'Cause they were they were pretty clear in their delineations. Nevertheless, Cool sort of a pause there. Let me jump in and listen to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. John Prabudos is the co-founder of Fia Kona. And Jonathan Sweitzer is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner and We started talking about, you know, what is the uh biblical uh idea of a foundation for a nation and we we've drifted a little bit, but it seemed like uh John had a little more to say there, so I'll let John s uh finish his thought before we maybe drift back into what the original flow of the show was. Well well basically the Christian um uh elements are there in the Indian uh constitution not as a Christian elements but as a as a as a Echoes of the American Constitution. the medieval time philosophy and tried to thrust on the modern society in India. It takes today's, you know, lifestyle and and and understanding and create In Indian India constitution is only what uh about sixty years old or sixty one years old. Okay. So it is very new in in in many terms and so it has It has that you guys are just far enough in where we in the United States would have been uh heading into the Civil War. Which which was grappl I mean that was a major test of our constitution. Yeah. And it had to do with some of these racial minority type issues that you guys are grappling with in the world. Well right now I would say you are grappling that with. Now you're looking at I mean even though we say it's a two point three percent of the India's population are Christian, in real numbers, that's about Um millions. Um two point two point five percent uh it's uh of of a billion is how much uh Is that two point five million? Mental block right now. Is that it's either two point five, it's two million. I think it's twenty-five million. That is official numbers. Unofficially it's about it's about eight. That's a lot of blood. Well I mean it knows terms. If you really know what the unofficial numbers are, you would you would really um it would blow your mind. It's about eighty million Christians are there in India. So the reason why they don't count as Christians is because if you're a low caste person becoming accepting Christ. Yeah. Um immediately you lose your government benefits. See there are government benefits built into the law which gives preference in the in the education system. It's like affirmative action. Wow. For the for the untouchables because, you know, uh during Indra Gandhi when she was the Prime Minister, she thought she had to do something radical to really bring them at par with the rest of the society. So she had built in a lot of advantages for them, you know, in the educational institutions, in the government jobs. Is there is a equality movement? Yeah If I heard you're right, this is going to sound harsh, but did I hear you right that there are people that don't say they're Christian because they're going to lose their benefits? Exactly. Again, it's gonna sound harsh, but m my read of uh the Bible is that they wouldn't they're not gonna be counted as Christians when they they go they go to Jesus is gonna look at them and they're gonna say, Lord, Lord, and he's gonna say I knew you not. Well they they are not in the government That is where Christ said that if you deny me before men I will deny you before the Father. But if you uh if you give me glory before men, then I'll give you glory before. In their government registry, when when this when the when the people who are taking the Census Bureau, you know when they come around, they don't cons they don't tell them they are they are Christians. But they go to churches, they they take um and um uh they don't miss uh Sunday service and Christian they don't give themselves permission to lie to the government in order to get the benefits. Well you can you can put it that way. Sounds it sounds different, but but you know I mean I mean it they're not quite being truthful though. in order to get the government benef the government would not give them benefits if they were if they would put on their I'm a Christian. Well the the government is in their point of view, the government is discriminating against them because they're happen to be they happen to be Christians, they are not given their due Yeah, I mean it's it's a little bit uh what's the word um easy for us in our ivory chairs here in the United States to be able to do that. Oh I'm I'm not saying that uh to be judgmental against them. I'm just saying I'm just trying to hold I mean Yeah, there's a important question there. How how many of the original twelve uh apostles were martyred for the faith when they could have said, Well, you know what, it'd be convenient for me to not have to be martyred if I would just not tell everybody that I'm a Christian? Yeah, I think that's their government. That's a whole different show, isn't it? All I can say is a different show. All I can say is I would hope and pray that if I were in that situation situation that I would have m enough faith to say yes I am a Christian, do with me what you will easier said than done, but I would pray that I would be in a position to this story about faith. Uh you're trying to get rights for the first time. Just before the Christmas. Uh not Christmas, um about what is it, September September of last year. Uh in the state of Warissa in India, it's a s eastern state in the middle in the you know up there in the northeast not northeast uh below Calcutta. Um There's a state called Warissa and the Hindu Radical Party was in power with a coalition partner and Th was the one of the Hindu uh leaders, uh the radical Hindu leaders who wanted to stop the conversions in that uh uh tribal areas for about thirty years he has been waging a very nasty campaign. This is the BJP Party. And and one of the th they also have the Mao is uh rebels, you know they they uh they they call them the naxalites themselves and they call themselves the naxalites. Uh the Maoist you know but They went and assassinated him, they killed him. Immediately, the Hindu uh government in that state said, Well It was the Christians who assassinated him because it fit the profile. I mean, you know, he was against the Christians proselytizing and blamed it on the Christians. Blamed it on the Christians. And you know what happened? About seventy people were killed, about five thousand homes were burnt, about three hundred uh churches were burnt, um uh about seventy thousand people were rendered homeless And till today Holocaust that I got like what was happening in the I had the Catholic bishop, the Catholic archbishop from that state. was visiting here in Washington a month ago. I was talking to him. He sent an email today before yesterday saying that still three thousand people are still in the in the in the camps. They cannot go back to their homes because you know why? The fun the the the one thing that the village Hindus want is that for them to come back and claim their properties or to claim whatever is left, whether the house even the house is burnt, whatever is left, for them to come back, they have to renounce Christianity. Hmm. If you don't renounce the Christianity you cannot come back. They don't really care what the government says. Wow. The government cannot put a police um uh a bodyguard for every Christian in that country, in that state. And so again that's the thing that's a good thing. Yeah. So that the government in the United States is a very good thing. But where they go, they're still in the camp. Six months running now. We absolutely should be uh uh Christians and Americans, you know, we absol absolutely should be advocating for change and doing things to to change injustice like that. We're called to be a just people and pursue righteousness and justice uh around the world. But that doesn't change uh my view that those who are being persecuted uh because they are being persecuted, because of a fear of becoming persecuted, would deny their Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I think that they need to be in prayed for and encouraged to stand strong in their faith, even if it means forget the benefits, even if it means their life, even if it means a denial to access to their homeland. Christ and devotion to him as a Christian needs to come first, but we need to come alongside them and help them through the hardships for sure. I I see let me just hit that real quick because uh I I hear your heart on that. It drives it the question of whether or not we should be looking for a political solution, or whether or not we should be looking to God to to provide for our needs. And the reality is that when whenever we lean in the direction of looking for political solutions or looking to the government to provide for our needs as opposed to looking directly to God There's definitely a watering down of our witness. There's a watering down of our uh of our uh commitment to to Christ, you know, at the end of the day in uh the the reality that here in the United States uh that's happened you know, with Republicans, it's happened with with Democrats, you know, where in the name of uh trying to get the government to do something for us, whether it's, you know, increase the sense of morality in the public square, whether it's to provide for uh the poor uh that we end up watering down our faith because, you know, we lean in the political direction. However, having said that, uh, John Uh you work in the context of helping to wield influence in a political way to bring justice to specifically Christians that live in the land. And the r you know, it's uh it's appropriate for somebody to have a voice like that. You know, like in Esther to be raised up and say, Look, Mordec, you know, look uh rather uh Nebuchadnezzar, uh we we You know, there's a group of people that is a minority and they should be able to be protected and and to be treated with the things. We should definitely be Moses going to the pharaohs of the world saying, Let my people go. Yes. But at the same time we should be supporting the uh Radchak, Meshachs and Abegdagos. uh who say to the pharaohs of the world, I trust that my God can save me, but even if he doesn't, I'm gonna trust in him. faith. Yeah, that's a great faith. Um you know I think we're call I think we're called to that kind of thing. I asked this question to the Archbishop Chinath. Uh he's a Catholic Archbishop who he was he was my guest here And I asked him, uh, Bishop, how do you how do you reconcile? I mean, he said many members, many church believers have gone back to their villages because there was no nothing else they can do Uh they waited, waited, waited, but there is no help so they went back to the villages and the village uh Hindus they came and asked them to sign up petri p paper saying that uh they are no more Hindus and no more Christians And they signed it and they were sh their heads were shaven and they were you know come they were um led through a a ceremony of cleansing that they have come back to their their mother faith. And and I asked uh the bishop what about what what why these people are doing? He said, John What else can they do? I cannot take them and and create another village for them. They are going back to the villages, so they they have to do it and they are coming back to the churches. And they have come back to him and asked him. We're gonna have to to wrap up there on a very what I think is a very sad note because maybe they're temporal circumstances or temporary existence on this earth has gotten better because they've denied uh their uh their Christ But m but the eternal salvation and the eternal damnation that awaits them as a result, uh breaks my heart. So I yeah, I would encourage anybody who might uh share my opinion that you be in prayer for people like that and pray that it you never have to be tested in such a way and that if you are that you can rise to it. And don't put your faith uh in the uh in the kingdoms of this world. They will let you down every time. Every single nation throughout human history has rejected God, including the Israel of the Old Testament. Yeah. Every point single nation has rejected God. So don't put your faith in the nation. There's one kingdom. Again I'm preaching a little bit here, but As a Christian believer, if you call yourself a Christian believer, there is one kingdom in which you should put your faith and trust, and that is the kingdom of God. uh that is uh ruled by our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. So anyway, got a little preachy there at the end, but that's your job, Jonathan. So anyways, I appreciate uh your uh the strength of your conviction on that. Jonathan sweites Senior Pastor Across Valley Chapel and John Prabudos, the uh co-founder of the Federation of Indian American Christian Organizations of North America, Fiacona. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Flipman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thank you for listening. God bless.