This is the Credit Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, your uh host Host and moderator. Like the sound of that. Sounds official, doesn't it? It does. Show's brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? That's our goal today. With the next within the next thirty minutes, we want to make you Smile. Really? Yeah. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of the Crossroads Valley Chapel congregation. By the way, when you hang on to the mic like that, we pick up like some sort of police scanner or something. Yeah, do you really? Yeah. Yeah. I'll hold my hand on. I think there's a fire on none of them. Uh anyway. Uh Jonathan's uh co-founder of the show and on the panel again this week, and uh Jace Broadhurst The senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist and Smartest Guy in the Room is on the panel again uh this week uh as well. And Uh this panel's been together. This is the third week now, and if you caught the end of last week's show, Jonathan uh said something that we really wanted to try to develop and talk a little bit more about, but we had like thirty-eight seconds left. Yes, yes. So we didn't have a chance to. It wasn't important in the flow of what we are planning on talking about, as it's the topics we're covering is kind of a, you know, an aside. But it was an important aside. And I want to make sure that we're clear on what Jonathan uh thinks and intends to say on the issue of the Trinity So I want to give you a chance because last week um Is this like Soda Moyor trying to say that uh Latinos are not more wise than other judges? Well I think what you said last week could be evidence that uh that she's correct. And wiser than you, a a a white old man. That's that's correct. I am uh a white Anglo Saxon so male. Anyway, the the question was uh the the context of the question was what are some things in the Bible that we need to work hard to settle in our own mind that are central and core to the Christian faith? And I say we because the three people on the show this week happen to be Christian, okay, so I'm using a collective wish. Um and we agreed pretty readily that a Christian needs to believe that Jesus really lived. Yeah. That Jesus really died. that Jesus really rose again. We didn't get into that, but I would say yes, that I would say that Jesus fully man, fully God. is something you need to get settled from Christian, right? Mm-hmm. And then we talk about the Trinity as an example. And Jace immediately said, Yes, I think that's something that the Christian needs to get settled uh in their mind on to to to be an Orthodox Christian. And then Jonathan, you know, I'm paraphrasing a little bit so I might do it injustice to Jonathan said, Well, I'm not quite so sure about that. Yeah. So what'd you mean by the you're not so quite so sure about that. Yeah, because the point is is that uh trin the the term Trinity is definitely a term that is very orthodox which Christianity is all about Trinity is not in the Bible. But my problem with uh Jace you use the word uh um systematic theology. My problem is that much of the way that theology comes down to us from the centuries of uh Augustine and Calvin and Luther and all these guys that that systematically work through their theologies is i i is that at the end of the day we have this extra biblical systematic systematization furnaces of uh of these ideas that the Bible is not so firm on certain ideas. So yes, I believe that that that God is Father, Creator. Yes, I believe that that the Holy Spirit comes and live in our heart lives in our hearts. uh and empowers us and strengthens us, came on people in the Old Testament. Yes, I believe that Jesus Christ was fully God, fully man, that that he was God, but that that he was fully human and able to uh appreciate all of the um uh human struggles that we go through that he was fully fully able to be a uh mediator for us and to be a sacrifice for us. But I'm uncomfortable with overemphasizing the term Fully God, fully man, or overemphasizing the term Trinity, because uh even Trinity, three three persons, one God uh is the orthodox way to do it. And I don't know that that that well, that language isn't clearly defined by orthodoxy and I'm a little bit uncomfortable with us saying that the creeds are what we believe. I'd rather say let's go study the Bible and let's let the Bible show us what it is that we believe. And so that's the distinction that I would make. um you know that that the Bible is where I want to go for uh for what I believe. I I appreciate the history of of the creeds, I appreciate the history of the various councils that made decisions and I think it's important for us to study those and to uh to to um to grapple with where they came down. Uh I don't I guess necessarily feel like uh it's vitally important that we use the language that they use. I I'd rather go back to Scripture and if Scripture says something You know, that's what I believe. I think it might be uh mo we we do this only on rare occasion, but I think we've got the kind of panel that that can handle this well and and do it in a way that will make sense to the average lay person, the you know person who doesn't have a lot of training, official training. We're going to do like a faith debate seminary one on one kind of a thing here. Okay. Because what uh we t we talked about systematic theology. I know what systematic theology is because I've been doing the show for five years. These guys know what systematic theology is because they're pastors and they went to seminary and they studied systematic theology. The average person, what the heck is systematic theology? What is what is how does that compare to other things? There are different ways, rubrics, if you will, of trying to understand what the Bible teaches. And there's You know, there's sis this isn't going to be all encompassing, but there's systematic theology, there's what's called biblical theology or redemptive historical theology, there's dispensational theology, there's um covenant theology. There's all these different kinds of ways of trying to understand the Bible. And so maybe we could explain what real quickly what some of those are. And let's start with systematic theology since we just talked about How Jonathan is uncomfortable with the way that systematic theology does some things. What does systematic theology do? And that'll help someone understand maybe why we could be a little uncomfortable with it. Yeah. S systematic theology is uh a better way to say it is like categories or thematic theology is probably more it it's putting things into systems. And I I gotta agree with Jonathan on this. Um if you put something into a system, you automatically have to take it out of the Bible and put it into little categories. That's the whole definition of it. And by doing that, it's somewhat artificial. And so I struggle with systematic theology sometimes too, and maybe that's my bias being a biblical theologian. I did all my work in biblical theology. Now, it's not that one is good and one is bad. They are two totally different ways of doing things. Systematic theology would be like Um, holiness of God. You know, we're going to look at the holiness of God. Well, we're going to look through all of Scripture and take out different passages and put them out in front of us and say, these are all the ones that talk about holiness of God. Isaiah 6 talks about the holiness of God, right? There you are in the temple and the the f the his uh robe is filling the temple and all that and holy, holy, holy. But in reality, that's not exactly the point of Isaiah 6. It's not about that. It's about the calling of a prophet. This is the introduction to Isa Isaiah being called, his lips being purified, all these things. It's not really about holiness. So we kind of art, but it does talk about it. Even though it's somewhat artificial. So I'm with you in the whole categories thing and being careful and we don't have to call things by whatever our terminology is. Now, I choose to stay within that orthodox terminology because it's very safe and that's I think that's what systematic theology does for us. It's strange that I'm being safe when I'm asking all those other questions in these other areas. Sure. But Saying three persons, one essence. Those are great terms, but they mean almost nothing to us now, which I guess is where you were going. That's my point. What is a person? Do we mean personality? Well yes, that's the answer to that. What is an essence? That's that's a philosophy term that we don't even use. What's the essence of a pen? It's penness. I mean when you take off the cap, does it become not a pen? So there's terms we don't use. So we maybe we do have to come up with a new definition or new terminology to define what we're talking about. But what I don't want to do is go and say, well, we have three parts or three manifestations of God. I mean We we have three persons and one God. One God it head. Right? Just the catechism is just For me that's very simple because I think in systematicology terms simply it it helps me. Now here's a way to say that is an example because I think everybody here would agree. God is three, God is one Do you think that the Bible supports that? We're not talking about how to label the three or the one. We're just saying God is. Well, I I think I'd be comfortable saying the Holy Spirit is God. Jesus is God and the one that created the universe is God. So do you hold up the possibility that there's some fourth person that's not identified in Scripture? I mean is that a I mean I'm not putting you on the spot saying that I'm not going to be able to do that. Jesus is God. He's divine. He's God. The one that created the universe is God. The one that came down and visited Moses on Sinai is God. The Holy Spirit that comes and lives in our hearts is God. I'm comfortable with that I feel like scripture is abundantly clear about those things. Okay. I guess we can keep debating then. That's good. Yeah. Glad you're on board. You're not gonna watch it. I was worried, but yes. Throw him into well, you're gonna tie his feet and put a uh a bag over his head and throw him in the water? Uh probably wouldn't have done that anyway. But I'd have been less comfortable with that. So what the things that this is a lot of fun. One of the things I I'm loving Jonathan and I between uh last week's show and this week's show were talking about You know, if if if we could really grasp the ideal of what this show is all about, this sort of thing is what the show is all about. We're we're asking serious questions. We feel comfortable in answering them, even though some people will be like, You g you answered what? Yeah. But wrestling with it and trying to figure it out Because seriously afraid of it. I believe you know, 'cause we all believe this, so I'm not unique, okay. I believe that what I believe is true is true. That doesn't make it true. Right. And so if Jace or Jonathan or the two of them together can say, Troy, you know, I know you believe that this is true. You you keep saying your shoes are blue, but I'm telling you they're brown. And let me show you why we believe it's brown. And here's the evidence that supports it's brown. Here's how the the light spectrum works and here's the blah blah blah. Yada yada yada. Can't you see now that they're brown? I'm going like Holy cow, my whole life I've been calling it blue, but now I can see that it's brown. I want to have that change of mind, that change of heart, and this show allows for that. But you can only get there if you're going to really make yourself vulnerable and say what you really think so somebody can challenge what you think. So I'm loving the direction the show is going. One thing is been shared with me about systematic theology, and tell me if this is a a an interesting or reasonable way to to look at it. It takes all these categories and takes everything the Bible has to say about what that category is. You know, who is God, who is man, you know, what is the church, you know, whatever, all these different things. And then Each piece of information, each little nugget that you extract from the Bible is like a brick. And you build a wall with these bricks. But after you're done putting all of the bricks in place, there are gaps where there's no brick There's room for a brick, but there's no actual brick. And so you start losing some logic and some common sense or some maybe some predisposition to certain things or whatever and say You know what? There's a hole there, and it sure does seem like this would fit there. So I'm going to make that part of my system because that ties my thinking together and makes the system than work. We all do that naturally, of course. And so that's where sometimes we get into these debates because we're debating on what what that hole is. We're not debating the bricks. We're debating the hole, but the problem is as you rearrange the bricks a little bit, sometimes the holes appear in different places. And so then you're you're arguing about the the construct of the bricks. Like, no, that brick doesn't belong here, it belongs there Which then changes the whole. And so now the whole is this, it's not that. And then we get into and so that's how you end up with all these different denominations and all these And and where that hole was now becomes a brick in your mind. And that's that's where we get into this it it's now part of the system it's now truth then you don't even understand that there could be other possibilities that could fit the wall just fine. And you can't have another possibility because it upsets the whole wall. Yeah. Sometimes if it's a little bit more than a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little Sometimes you have to tear down a little bit of that with the order to rebuild for the truth. It's like that game you play as a kid with the little sticks, what's Kerplunk or something? You pull the sticks and if you pull just the wrong s Sticks when like twenty-five uh marbles fall to the bottom of the game. Played it just recently. Yeah. Did you realize? Me and Jonathan uh the other No, uh my children and I played that game. So I do drink out of a pink cup though when I'm on the faith debate. So the the the thing is is that way back in the security issues The thing is that when you go back to uh when Christianity moved from Jerusalem to Antioch, as it were. Paul, Paul even was a shift, you know, from from a uh from a Jewish worldview into a Greek worldview Paul was sent to the Greeks. The reality is that that the Greek mindset wanted to systema systematize everything. Plato, Aristotle you know, all the way from way back it its orientation is towards atomizing and systematizing everything. And I guess I feel like there's a reason why God uh God's pe original people, the the nation of Israel was not like that. That that God chose to not uh m to to not have Christ be born a Greek, but to be born uh a Jew because he wanted his worldview to to be a little bit more um what is it concrete you know, and a little bit more uh uh poetic, a little bit more um uh uh so so that he I I I I don't even know that I have the language. You actually probably uh have studied this a little bit more 'cause you've grappled with the Old Testament so much. You know, but this is what this is my concern is that is that we've become so Greek in our orientation, trying to sound like Plato and Aristotle and all those philosophers. Augustine did it, Calvin did it, Luther did it, really trying to to be as much like Play-to- and fit into that worldview as possible that again I feel like we end up debating questions that the Bible doesn't try to answer. And if the Bible doesn't try to answer it, I'm okay with that. I don't feel like I have to answer it if the Bible does not. Though I'd like to know where the Bible does or does not and you know and and just acknowledge it. I agree with that. Yeah, sorry. I w I don't think we need to answer questions that the Bible does. Well, we need to answer some of them I think, but I I think in general, uh this is a I was a professor, Old Testament professor, and my students would always ask questions and my answer to their questions over and over again, and they got used to it, they would all look at each other and they would say, Who cares? Who cares? And it was said in joke, you know, fun with them. But you're asking the wrong questions of the text. Don't ask these kinds of questions. And which is kind of bring us back to our topic. Asking all of these questions that we just have, the modern questions that Moses, that Joshua, that th that these people didn't have as they as they were writing, as they were talking. They didn't care about these kinds of things. They're trying to answer different questions, but we have in our mind that they must be answering the historical question, for instance. Right? They must be answering what happened. But even their genre of history doesn't look like our understanding. I mean our understanding of history uh with newspaper type reporting, like that's unbiased, right? But the idea that it's unbiased isn't how history ever worked. I mean the example after example we've just got tons of them now with Dead Sea Scrolls and other things, that history is on purpose biased. It's in order it well, ideology, right? If you went so far, I don't know if you want to go this far, but you'd say it's propaganda. It's I'm trying to show that Yahweh is the greatest God. That's my propaganda. It's not a bad propaganda. It's right propaganda. But it's still ideology. It's still it's still my viewpoint. And so Yeah, like all of hit all of Kings and Chronicles is identifying whether or not the king followed the laws of God and followed the the worship of God as prescribed by Moses. And therefore whether or not God blessed them or didn't. It's very biased in the direction of of how well each of these guys lined up with what scripture was all about. In fact, at the end of the day, that's what they all say. This guy followed Or this guy didn't follow God. Yeah, and then you struggle with the synoptic, right? The whole King's Chronicles question where some kings look really good in one book but not so good in the other book. Which isn't so much of a problem to me because I see people repenting and changing all the time or that started out looking really good but then go bad later on. You know, and so then you've got these two different perspectives that again of the same person because we all have bad and good in us. Enlarges on what's actually happening. Though the majority of the kings Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, there were a few that uh that kept it in the right in in a good place, though even those guys didn't seem to, you know King David was wholehearted and then there's like one or two others that were wholehearted, but all the rest seemed to kinda even if they were a good king, they still seem to not quite go all the way to do what God had called them to do. For example of David. A murderer, adulterer, yeah, I mean not exactly a great guy. Well but this is this comes to the question too about truth. How can we know that it's true as opposed to a Roman history being true, or Babylonian history, or Egyptian history You know, or writings being true. How do why why is it historical when you say true? Uh n no, I mean yeah yeah, I I'm grappling with what you mean by that. You might mean both, probably, if you were to parse it out, but but real quickly. Yeah, go ahead. Um Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh he's the one that's uh grappling. Uh Jace Broadhurst Foolsville Baptist is uh the one who's joining Jonathan in that grappling. And Troy doesn't grapple. He knows. I'm Troy Skinner. You listen to the Frederick Freight debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. Yeah, I just I just play a good game. I play it cool, pretend like I don't know what I'm talking about. Just for a fact Good. It would be a very interesting show if I actually shared everything I really know. You know what I'm saying? It's true. Even a fool was thought wise if he keeps his mouth shut. So I don't know if you wanted to continue your thought. Yeah, so the the point is is that When when an Egyptian history says this is what happened and the Egyptian god of you know, the d of of death, you know, made this happen and the the God of the sun, Rod, made this happen. Um we're led to believe that that is wrong. Because um those gods are not powerful enough to be the cause of all those things and that we can't trust those other gods, but that the God of the Bible is the God that is all powerful, and that when he curses, you're really cursed. And that when he blesses, you're really blessed. And that at the end of the day it's very concrete. I've got food on the table, I'm protected from my enemies, these kinds of things. Which is precisely the question of course that Job dealt with. But we're led to believe, at least through Kings and Chronicles, that the reason why those kings were blessed or not blessed was dire was because they did or did not follow God. That that's the truth that is coming out to us. When they honored God, they were blessed. When they didn't honor God, they were cursed, and their enemies rose up and ended up defeating them. And so when I say historical truth, or when I say that those are historical books that are presenting to us what we're led to believe is the truth, that's the truth that I come away with. All right, I'm with you. All right. Good. Then uh we have a real natural opportunity for me to ask a follow up question that I've been wanting to ask for a while because We're not going to get into all the different ways of trying to understand what the Bible we don't have time for that. Maybe we in a future show. But uh Jace shared that, you know, well this is my issue with systematic theology, and the reason is probably because, you know, I'm a b biblical theologian. So I think it might be important to explain what that's meant because aren't all Bible believers biblical theologians? I mean you have to maybe explain that term a little bit. Yeah. I mean I hope that's Exactly, exactly. I mean we're talking about the Bible, but this is just a technical term, just like Trinity is a technical term, or all these things that we use all these times. Biblical theology just means that we're following it as literature, that we're that we're moving through the Bible and trying to understand. So I would take uh as a pastor, for instance, and I know you do the same thing, as a preacher, I I look at Mark I look at the book of Mark and I look at the entire book. And so before I read before I preach chapter one, I'm also looking at chapter fourteen and fifteen. I'm Trying to understand that a sense for how he does says what he says. And why he's saying it. Why is Mark doing something very different than Luke is doing? Are they both just giving us history? I I think they're doing there's more than history going on here. I I think in my presuppositions there's at least history going on here, but they're doing it selectively for a very different purpose, perhaps or some of the same purposes, but You know, Mark has this whole secretive thing going on throughout the whole thing. You know, is he really the Messiah? And he's obviously trying to make a point, but he's pushing Jesus as keeping it more secret than the others are. You know, Matthew more of a Jewish Messiah So we have these differences of way things so I look at I look at Mark by itself, or I look at Revelation by itself. Now obviously we don't do that completely either, because as you're looking at the book of Mark, you're going to go back and say Well who's he stealing from? And I don't mean stealing bad, but who's he alluding to? What's he talking is he copying Exodus here? Is this a whole new Exodus thing that he's pr s he's bringing out? But I look at Mark instead of look at Homardiology. I'm not looking at the doctrine of sin. I'm looking at what Mark is presenting. And as I get to the topic of sin, I might talk about it some. That's biblical theology in a nutshell, I think. I've also heard biblical theology referred to uh as uh redemptive historical theology, but the way you just described it, it's not exact spot on. But are you talk about one aspect of biblical theology, what will be the broader view? Because the b the broader view as I understand it is redemptive historical theology would correct me if I'm wrong, holds that there's like this thread that connects from Genesis, which is the first book of the Bible, all the way through Revelation, which is the last book of of the Bible. Correct. And that there's this thread named Jesus Christ who the whole thing is about. And and the whole thing is about our relation to God uh in light of our need for the Savior Jesus Christ. And so there's this unfolding of of redemption throughout history. And that that's the that's the core central message of the Bible, and everything is understood through that lens And that's what ties it together. But it that that that that's different than looking at just Mark or just Matthew or you're right. I was probably more pushing the biblical theology in the literary analysis area of it, just very specific. But you're right. Normally when people talk about biblical theology, they're talking about a a von Radian A history. A Heilsgeschichte, which as I said last time. A history of redemption. His insight. Yes. That was good. Heils Geschichte. I'll say you're German, I'll raise you a German. But don't ask me anymore, it's the only German I know. Well that and Heil Hitler I Heard that one before. Blitzkrieg. Yeah Blitzkrieg, yeah. Okay. So holy history, yes. uh direction but I'm not positive. We have like sixty seconds. I I I'd certainly I'm looking to approach it from a um from a literature standpoint. Looking uh I I think I tend to find the themes though of scripture and try to identify the themes. So I think I'm I I possibly end up falling into some systematic um and I'm always looking for how it ties into Christ. So I don't know that that uh there's a term for Christotelic exegesis. Thanks. It ties into Christ. Not Christ Christocentric. It's not all every single passage isn't about Jesus, but everything every passage is Is the goal. Telic, great. Tell you. I'll just make that up. I did not. One of my teachers did. Christotellic, I like that. Sounds good, even if it's not real or true, you know. Telic is the goal. The goal is Christ. Like Telos. Yeah, tell us. Yeah. Tele teleological arguments. Right. Yes. All right. Thank you. Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. Yeah, you get what you pay for on this show. That's right. That's right. Jace Broadhurst, the senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist. I'm Troy Skinner, your host of the Frederick Faith Debate. Uh check us out online, wfmd. com keyword faith. You can link to the This show. You can listen to this show. Give us like twenty-four, forty-eight hours, and this show will be available on podcast. All previous shows over the oh for this year Most of the shows from last year and about half of the shows from previous years are up there. The goal was to have all the shows up on the website, but somewhere along the line a number of them got That lost. I call it Divine Providence, but I don't know about that. That's that, huh? Thanks for listening. God bless.