Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumb and plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? On the show this week, we have an author. We don't have authors very often. Most of the people on our show probably can't read and write. I don't know. Well you're kind of an author. You've got a blog. That's true. I've got a little bit of a blog. That doesn't quite make us authors though, does it? And I homeschool, so that's gotta be a really scary scenario. Anyway, I'm Troy Skinner, the one who I'm poking fun at Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and the author is Dave Grieber. He's wrote a written a book that just came out this year, right? That's right. Called The Lost Commandment Have We Missed. what Jesus really wants. So we're going to talk a little bit about um and the cool thing about Dave is that he's a local lawyer, goes to church right here in Frederick. And he's written this book that has really uh developed a uh a national following. And so um I'm really interested to see how it plays out here. J. I. Packer, Tony Perkins recommend it. Yeah, I mean I don't know if these names mean anything to a lot of people. But some of these names, I mean, these are names. J. R. J. I. Packer is a name. You know, Tony Evans, Gary Poole You know, there's uh uh uh I probably a couple local posse that know who Ken Sandy is, but I I don't, I apologize. But uh sorry Ken if you're listening. a uh national peacemaking ministry. Um teaches reconciliation. Oh, you know, I would love to get some information about that. Yeah. And here's a name we all recognize in Frederick. Well not we all, but Jonathan and I would anyway. Our Dallas Green. Yeah, he's the uh senior pastor of Grace Community Church, uh Which is where Dave goes to church. Yeah. If you disagree with anything Dave says you know where to find him on Sunday morning. That's right. Any Sunday morning you're gonna find you can throw rocks at it. And you'll get why that's so funny, because this is his his whole book is about love and so Uh if you can incite to violence uh uh from a book like that, that would be next to impossible. Now uh we're gonna have plenty of time to dive into the the the meat of uh of this book and probably not do any justice. And I so I don't want to get bogged down. I wanna have time for the meetings. I don't want to get bogged down in the the background saying. But if you could as quickly as possible Tell us the background. What what led you to want to write this book and how long did the process take? What was that like for you? That sort of thing. May of 2005, I was sitting in church listening to a sermon about love. Uh the focal point of the sermon was the well known scripture that we should love our neighbors as our s as ourselves. And as I was reading As I was listening, I was flipping through the Gospels to see what else was said about love. And as I did that, I came across a verse that I'm sure I had seen before. But uh on that day it hit me in in a way that it hadn't before. And the verses in John 13, uh 1334, where Jesus says, A new command I give you. Love one another, as I have loved you, so you must love one another. Um the lost commandment isn't a commandment that's like missing from all of our Bibles. No. It's there right in plain sight. It's there in plain sight, it's there three times. It's uh thirteen thirty four, fifteen. You mean this commandment isn't in the secret gospel of Thomas? No, not at all. Well, I don't know. I haven't read the secret gospel of Thomas. Well, you can, you know. If you want to have any any confirmation in your in your soul that the sequel gospel of Thomas is not an authentic gospel, just have a good read of it. Yeah, that's good. Yeah. So anyway, um after asking friends and pastors uh about it and then trying to find something written on it, I couldn't find anything written on it. Uh I went to That's amazing. You were telling me that before. That that's amazing to me. On the internet, to bookstores, to seminary libraries, everywhere I looked, I couldn't find anything of book length, nothing s uh a few short pieces, but nothing like what I had in mind, which is a a practical, plain spoken book about how to love others as Jesus has loved us. And so when I couldn't find such a book, I decided to write one. Which is and then it took you what, four years? It took um well, it took uh four or five months of of uh wrestling with uh the decision whether to write a book. Uh a year and uh three months of research. I started writing in uh December of oh seven, finished a draft in oh eight, found an agent at a writing conference in oh eight Uh and then it took um uh a while to sign with a publisher to do the editing and it was just released in July of 2009. So it's about a three-year process. About a four-year process. And because you're an author and it's now published, you're independently wealthy, I'm sure. Oh yes. Yes. The royalties are just incredible. You and uh Sarah Palin. Yes. My advance was somewhat less than than uh uh most it's it's shocking and if you're an author you should you shouldn't listen you should plug your ears uh from what I'm about to say but Um I heard a statistic that in 2007 there were about two hundred and fifty thousand books published, and of those two hundred and fifty thousand books published, ninety percent of them sold less than a thousand copies. Um now that is um that's just a terribly depressing thought if you're uh uh if you're an author. Uh so don't think about that. Just uh if you'll let you write, you're right. Yeah, yeah, just go for it, right. Be one of the ninety percent that don't say just go for it. And so at some point, you know this may be the last background question, but at some point you've got to maybe pull yourself up and say, okay, I'm up to the task of this. Would you feel overwhelmed and unworthy to write a book like this? Uh s um, certainly. I mean uh I knew that the only way I could write a book like this was with God's help. Um but even knowing of God's help it's It was uh daunting. I mean I ha I've not been to seminary. Uh um the premise of the book is that this commandment has been missing, essentially missing from Christian teaching f from almost Jump Street, uh well from Jump Street from the beginning from the early church fathers. And uh to to to be someone who stands up and says that I think that we've missed something major when I'm not a professional pastor is uh is a daunting prospect. Okay, so let's jump into this a little bit. What are we missing? What has the church for two thousand years not not had right? What I think that we have missed is that Jesus really wants us to obey this command that we love others as he has loved us. um we've missed it in the sense that uh the commandment itself is very seldom written about and it doesn't matter how far back you go. Uh it's absent from um the the statements of the early ecumenical councils beginning with the Council of Nicaea, it's missing from the creedal statements of the Reformation period, it's missing from most of the uh mission statements of modern denominations or churches, um what is taught instead is the commandment that uh we l that we should love our neighbors as ourselves. And and we re routinely hear that uh we're supposed to fulfill the Great Commission to make disciples of all nations with the great commandment which is to love our neighbors as ourselves. Um what we have missed, I think, is that Jesus intended to replace that great commandment, which he himself called great, with an even greater commandment which he gave us at the Last Supper. And that commandment is a very good thing. um dramatic shift from the uh you know, the the love your neighbor as yourself. I mean, love is what it's all about. Uh we hear about preaching about love all the time, you know, we we hear about that we should love one another all the time. So why why would this commandment that you're saying is a lost commandment really make that big a difference? I mean is it is it really that I mean it sounds like a hair split, you know, to somebody, you know, that just kinda reading through your Bible, okay, love your neighbor as yourself, love one another as I have loved you. Okay, love. You know, what's the big deal? The big deal is that particularly if you if you study intently John 13 through 17, it's a big deal to Jesus. It really doesn't matter whether it's a big deal to me. Um no one could care less, including me, whether it's a big deal to me. But the th the fact that Jesus um on the night that he was betrayed, among his last words, would choose to single out this commandment. The only commandment he ever gave us that he called his commandment. The fact that he would single this out as a new commandment uh and uh repeat it in such a way that we uh wouldn't forget it um d demonstrates the importance of it. When Jesus said that we're to make disciples of all nations uh baptizing them and teaching them to obey all that he's commanded us. He's only commanded us, outright commanded us, one thing. So it's it stands in a in a unique position among Jesus' teachings. Um so so you're saying it's so important because because Jesus thought it was important. Right. So and so why why would Jesus make make a distinction? I mean again it's it's it the the distinction between one and the other is seems on the face of it, almost like it doesn't exist. There is no difference. felt that it was so important. What what the commandment does w which was never done before is it places at the center of our lives Jesus as the source of the standard. When you when you Uh the word love in and of itself means almost nothing. It has unless you have a reference point. As an example, um Those of us who are old enough may remember uh a movie that was called Love Story. It's a really old movie. It was with Ryan O'Neill and Allie McGraw. And there was a famous line uh out of the movie where uh Ryan O'Neill says, uh love means never having to say you're sorry. Well that's Ryan O'Neill. But there's a definition Yeah but you never have to say you're sorry. In Troy, you need to start loving me. Uh and it's you want a m a more modern uh uh example of that is if you um if if you're a fan of the T V series NCIS, the the lead character Gibbs is uh frequently says, you know, don't say you're sorry, it's a sign of weakness and he smacks his his employees on the back of the head. Well Well come on, what's love got to do with it, you know? That's right. The fact of the matter is if you streaming her If you leave um human beings to define love, they're not going to come up with the same answer that Jesus did. Love m has everything to do about asking forgiveness when appropriate. Uh so I think that ge the reason that Jesus found this important was because by giving the new commandment, he told us specifically what we have to do. He told us specifically why we're doing it, and he's told telling us how we do it. You know, what we have to do is we have to follow in his footsteps. We have to follow his model of what it means to love each other. Um why we do it is because he first loved us. It's a response of gratitude and obedience to him. Of all people who've walked the earth, he is entitled to tell us to do something. And he's he saved the lives of believers eternally, and now he turns around and says, Now I want you to love others as I have loved you So that's why we do it. Okay, so so two thousand years of history where you're saying that there's no genuine uh uh writings about this book uh about this lost commandment that that is significant. And uh I mean doesn't it seem a little bit strange that I mean, why would God wait so long if it's really that important of an idea, you know, you'd think God would have thought it was important to to say something about it before now. I mean I mean God chose you to be the you know, the the great w what what's the what's the distinction? Why now I d I don't know why now. Um I don't know why me. I think I'm um I'm an unlikely messenger. I'm the first to admit that. It's five months of Telling God that I thought that there were a hundred thousand people more qualified or appropriate to write the book than I did than I am. But um Uh but I can tell you that I do think that this is a message that is particularly important for for right now. I could I could speculate, you know, and tell you why I think, you know, beginning with the apostles and then flowing into early church history why it it why it was overlooked but it would still be speculation and I could run through that. Right. But but um you know why What's strange is not only that he would choose me to write this book now, but that unbeknownst to me there was another author writing a book. on this commandment at the same time I was writing my book and we didn't know about it. Um on the night that on the night that's doing something something may be happening here. Um on the night that I fo m that my books came into the warehouse, which is uh in June of oh nine. I was looking on the internet, which I do frequently, and uh on this subject and for the first time saw a website by an author named Gaylord Ens, E-N-N-S Ens wrote a book called Love Revolution, Rediscovering the Lost Command of Jesus. He self-published it. He's a pastor in Chico, California. It it the reason I may have missed him, uh his book was released in 2008. My book was all finished, but because of the way he was self-published, because his subtitle was not necessarily uh in um included in the Amazon list was not included in the Amaz Amazon listing. I I may have seen the cover but But I didn't but it didn't have the subtitle in the first edition, I don't think. So here are two guys on opposite coasts writing books on the same commandment, both concluding that it's lost. Um Gaylord being a pastor of thirty-five years went back some of the some of the things I'm telling you I learned from Gaylord. He did the r he did the research. back in early in the patristic writings of early church fathers and the ecumenical councils, the the things I told you early, I learned from Gaylord. I found that it was lost in modern and focused a different place. I was looking at um modern attitudes of surveys of of uh how people are are um reporting their beliefs now and and that's uh and modern English language uh texts and that's w where I saw it lost He's Dave Grieber, author of The Lost Commandment, Have We Missed What Jesus Really Wants. I'm Troy Skinner, the other voice on the panel this week. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I I'm trying to I'm trying to figure out the navigate exactly w what is new, what's not new, and how it fits in with what has been old all these years. On one hand, this idea of Jesus is saying, do what I've done. I've loved you, love others like I've loved you. Follow my example. Well heck that's been a plague upon Christianity for years about Jesus as an example. But that's not what you're saying. You don't mean plague exactly, but you mean it's commonplace, right? No, I mean it's a plague that they should say that Jesus is merely an example. Oh. You know, he he's not Lord. He's not even a savior. Yeah, there's a whole he's just an example for us to follow. that say Jesus was merely the greatest moral teacher ever, he was not divine. Okay, that's clearly not what I'm saying. Right. I think Jesus is God incarnate. I think Jesus is Lord, God incarnate, Lord and Savior, and an example. And Jes Jesus himself said basically do what I did. And the Apostle Paul said, follow my example as I follow Christ. So in a sense Um the elaboration on the command has been there in the church, but it has been married up with a su uh sort of a summary command that doesn't fit. You know, forgive like Jesus forgives, you know, teach like Jesus is teached, love your neighbor as yourself is like a n it doesn't follow It doesn't add up. It and Jesus didn't mean it to add up. Jesus meant us to follow this new commandment instead. So specifically what is the new commandment? That we should love others as he's loved us. John thirteen thirty-four. Well, in the in the book uh it's a good thing. How did Jesus love them? And and us. And I uh what I s my the premise of the book is that I think that um everything that Jesus did, in essence, for us was an expression of love. So although we might put different labels on it, like forgiveness, like um uh service, that all of these labels or um elaborations on what it means to love us. Jesus loved us by you know coming um maybe the best way to explain this is according to the ways I described love in the book. I divide the book into seven parts. The first is joy because John 15 eleven says that Jesus told us this commandment so that our joy would his joy would be in us and our joy would be complete. So it talks about joy. Wait, so you're telling us that like this is the way to have joy? I'm telling you that um I'll read you John fifteen eleven. Yes. Complete joy. Is this a violation of FCC rules and regs, reading scripture on the radio? Here he goes. It's Grieber G-R-E-G-E-R. Um let me back up for the context. John fifteen nine, and I'll read fifteen nine through twelve so you can see the whole thing. As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Now remain in my love. If you obey my commands, you will remain in my love, just as I have obeyed my father's commands and remain in his love. I have told you this so that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be complete. My command is this, love each other as I have loved you. So having your joy complete, you're arguing, I think you argue in the book, is directly related to following this command. And doing things as Jesus did, specifically loving people as Jesus loved people. Exactly. And so so you're arguing then that that if we don't do that, then we're likely gonna miss joy? Yeah, uh you we're likely going to miss complete joy. Uh because there is there is an experience of Christ's love that you can only have, I think, when you follow this command. Because what this command calls you know how you I think you asked the question earlier, how do you love others as Jesus has loved us? It means that when when considering how to treat other people, the first thing that comes into your mind is a uh that you call into your mind is a remembrance of how Jesus loved you. uh by providing for you, by serving for you, by forgiving you, by teaching you through the Holy Spirit and through other teachers. And you call that you're arguing if somebody hasn't hasn't been received the love of Jesus Christ, you're saying that they they really can't experience this. Well that that's right, because you're pr you don't have a perception of how Jesus has loved you. See and you don't have the capacity through the Holy Spirit to do it either I mean this is something that is not done in human strength. Um this is done through uh the power that God gives us in the Holy Spirit. We we absolutely cannot follow this command just based on our own strength. It just doesn't this is not happening. Nor did Jesus, when he loved us, rely on his own strength. Jesus loved us in reliance in ob in obedience to God. He asked God to help him. Just as we have to ask you. So you're saying joy is related to obedience. I thought joy was related to salvation. Joy is related to well, w does it have to be related to either or? Well I don't know. It says that that now that we've been justified by faith, we rejoice because we know the testing of our faith leads to perseverance. James says, you know, rejoice in our tribulations because you know, God has changed the the the sense of what's happening in those tribulations. And so you're saying though that joy is not related to to God's salvation and God's transformation of our of our situation, but it's related to my obedience. Is that what you're saying? No. I'm saying y you're um I think what the the fancy word for what you're Uh your argument is false dichotomy. It says it's it's both and you we we rejoice in our salvation and we rejoice in the fellowship. So you're saying there's a conditional joy. Let me finish. Yeah. That we rejoice in our salvation. Uh-huh. But we also rejoice in the experience of Christ's love that we have as we obey him, as we do this It's it's like when we participate in his suffering or when we participate in in in a sense reenacting the same kind of luck he had for us, it gives us a uh a powerful appreciation for that love that he has for us. It makes him present uh in our lives in ways that we uh wouldn't ordinarily happen. So you're saying that joy dimin the joy of salvation diminishes and so we need this other joy or are you saying that that that joy remains and this is just an an additional joy? Uh I'm saying that that joy remains and this is an additional joy. We're we're in the family of God by His grace uh through the salvation made possible by Jesus on the cross. So we're we're in the family, and that's a source of joy. And then we get to um spend time with our dad. Uh uh I when I was growing up I liked to just hang out with my dad to do stuff with my dad because I got to be with him and I got to see how he works. Uh and it it taught me about him, to be with him, as he did things. And in the same way, when we obey this command, we're with our dad, you know, we're w we're with and with his son. uh and we're getting to learn about him and experience him in ways that yeah but don't Christians already know this? I mean why why would we why would we think that Christians don't know how to love? Well, um I don't I'm not here to in you know indict Christians, but I'll I'll reference some um some of the um the data that I uh mention in my book. Um So you're saying there's actual data out there that seems to give the impression that Christians don't know how to love? To me, yeah that some Christians haven't a a a uh very incomplete sense of what it means to love. Mm. Uh for example, there were surveys done by uh the Barna Group. Um and attitude surveys. And, you know, if you were to pick three things, three aspects of Jesus' love that were important, uh what were uh you might well say that the that one of the greatest ways he loved us was to t was to um step off the throne of heaven and come and tell us about the the plan of salvation. So you might call that evangelism, to spread the good news. Um you his th so that would be the first thing. It's uh that he shared the good news of the salvation he offered. The second thing might be his the forgiveness made possible for him. to us only because he died. And the third one is his association with the poor and suffering, including us in our times of poverty, either s either f uh uh material poverty or sometimes in in our loneliness, he c he comes to us and comforts us as he did before. So you feel like uh or you're saying there's some stats out there that are saying that Christians are not into this stuff. Well th they're um Only forty-seven percent of Christians uh believe that that it's important for them to share their faith with their neighbor. Only forty-seven percent And your point is that if Jesus if Jesus if we're supposed to love like Jesus loved and a and a big part of Jesus loving was that he came to us to preach the gospel, then If forty seven if only forty percent forty seven percent are willing to do that, then that's over fifty percent are not right. Willing to love like Jesus loved is what you're saying. Exactly. Well I've got a couple of things that I'm gonna want to chime in on these stats a little bit. We don't have time for that. We've got about a minute left uh in in this version of the program. But you guys can be back on next week's show, right? Great. No problem there. Okay. Uh Dave Grieber, author of The Lost Commandment, have We Missed What Jesus Really Wants. Uh John Sweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. I don't want to know what John Schweitzer really wants. I'm Troy Skinner. I want to uh thank our sponsor, Futman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Encourage you to visit us online WFMD. com keyword faith takes you to the Faith Debate page, or you can go to the audio vault section of the WFMD website and you'll find uh I don't know, there's gotta be a couple of hundred podcasts up there now of the show. Not every show we've ever done is up there. Uh some of them got lost in translation somewhere along the way. All kinds of money. Yeah, they'll be found in a cave somewhere in the Middle East. Yes, yes. In like twenty forty seven or something like that. The Dead Sea tapes. Yes, yes. Some people would say that. Yeah They're gonna say, wait a minute, they weren't good then, they're not good now either, so let's just trash those over. But anyway, till next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now. Thanks for listening. God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P has in your program. Preferred plumber. Pull and plumbing, how can we make you smile