Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host, Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Plitman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Mile. Last week we were listening to a whole bunch of different kinds of Christian related music in celebration of kind of Christmas, a different kind of Christmas music. And we left off with uh a song that I didn't have a chance to play enough of. So we're gonna uh it's a playing under me right now and I'll I'll I'll raise it up here in a second you can hear the chorus and all that sort of thing. Get this big build up my favorite band newsboys and this is my favorite song by that favorite band and I messed it up. Anyway, on the panel this week is my wife, Dina Skinner, as well And we're gonna be doing the same thing this week we did last week. We're gonna go through and listen to some of the different kinds of Christian music that are out there today that are that is uh uh uh more on the popular mainstream kind of level, but still some nuanced differences and give you a taste of what's out there. All right, here we go. Will you give me up? Will you in the care? Will you wash me clean in the blood of your hand? Will you hold me close so I can touch? When it's touching me, that's when I know I'm a night. Down here in the valley wanna grow as the light. Folks spend their days with these and will put diamonds and go till they just get old and they don't know if They don't know they're breathing better But I'll live and black live and now don't cry out Now I think that the newsboys are excellent musicians. I think that Peter Furler lead singer has a very good voice. He has a very gifted ability to share a testimony. Um he can move an audience. He's good in concert, all those sorts of things. But I'm kind of partial to the songwriters And Peter Fur Furler writes pretty much all of the songs by the Newsboys and not just that they're they're they're catchy tunes and that sort of thing. And they're very different by the way. They have some CDs that are punk rock They have a CD that's disco, blatant out and out 1970s era disco sounding. Uh they have some stuff that's a little more techno sounding. They have stuff that's very mainstream pop. They have stuff like Thrive a little more on the alternative uh side of things. They're a very diverse kind of a band. But these lyrics, down here in the valley nothing's able to grow because the light's too low. Well from a Christian we the the light would be Christ would be Christ. And where he's low, then nothing can grow. Nothing positive can happen. You know, it it it's just it's so deep. And the chorus, will you lift me up with tender care, will you wash me clean in the palm of your hands? Will you hold me close so I can thrive when you touch me? That's when I know I'm alive. Amen. Just powerful stuff. I I love, love, love the newsboys. But anyway, enough about the newsboys You should check them out. They have all sorts of CDs. I don't know, fifteen or twenty different CDs. Um they've had so much success as an individual group that they've had some uh spin-offs, if you will. They've had some uh solo acts along the way. Their bass player is a gentleman named Phil Joel. And Phil Joel has had, I don't know, two or three, maybe four I want that open. There we go. Uh three or four CDs come out uh solo projects. Actually he just left the band I think permanently uh about a year ago or so. I'm not sure who their bass player is now. Not that much of a He was Boy's Geek that I would know the answer to that, but anyway. Uh here's a song. Phil Joel don't um I'm not gonna tell you to run out and buy all Phil Joel's CDs because he's a little uneven. Some of his songs are Uh you can sample them online, no? Yeah. Okay. And some of them are very good. And this is a song that is, in my opinion Very good. Do you know the song Desperate? Do you familiar with that song? You know what you probably when I hear. Well you'll know when you hear you might know the the title anyway. Why is that not playing? Did I do something wrong? I don't know. Technical difficulties. Hmm. On nine thirty WFM. Oh here we go. Phil Joel and the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Lord, thank you for these days. Lord, thank you for these days. This has been the most trying year of testing and refining here. I wouldn't have it any other way. So Lord, I thank you for these days, and I will always choose to praise you yet. That's Phil Joel. Um Desperate is the name of that song and how appropriate for the times we find ourselves in, right? I feel like we're in desperate times. The economy is not doing what we want it to do, things around the world aren't going Well we have this new year facing us and usually that's a time of rebirth and renewal and this year maybe people aren't feeling quite so much because the year ahead maybe is daunting or scary or whatever and Here Phil Joe is reminding those who have a have a belief in Jesus anyway, what uh reminding them what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that you should thank God in all circumstances, praise God and find joy in all circumstances. And I just love uh Phil Joel's uh Heart for the Lord on those sorts of things. And again, this is the Frederick Faith debate and we have all comers on. We've interviewed Buddhists and atheists and Hindus and uh Muslims and Jews and Baha'i and uh you know, agnostics. I mean all all comers are welcome on the show and we debate those things, but it's no secret I I don't think it's a secret anyway that that I'm a Christian and so uh the things that I say on this show are going to have kind of a of a a Christian uh spin or or take on them. So now the darn it, I grabbed a C D case that's empty of a C D. There's a C D in the Turner, is that it? This is real life. Oh my goodness. Uncut and uh completely off the cuff. Alright, well we're gonna we're gonna skip and go to a different song. I was gonna go to another song by another guy that's in Newsboys. Paul Coleman. Paul Coleman. But I'll see if I can find that CD that somehow has been missed. And here's a great story. There's not enough good Christian music out there. You know, so we're constantly well I don't know if we're constantly, but I spend quite a bit of time trying to find stuff out there that you don't hear on the radio because, you know, the radio stations don't always play the best mix of Christian music in my opinion. So I'm I'm checking out what's online, I'm going to the m music stores and listening to samples or whatever, and I happen to hear a sample. I thought, huh That's pretty good. So I go to the desk and say, Do you have any more by that artist? 'Cause I'm not gonna buy an entire CD based on thirty seconds of one song And they said, sure, uh we happen to have a a copy opened. You can listen to it. Great. So I spent about, I don't know, five, ten minutes listening to about a minute or s or so of of every song on the C D and loved every single one of them. And so, oh my goodness, who are these guys? Well, they're monk and needle. And the first song that I ever heard by them, the one that captured my attention, is the one that we're going to play now. It's called The Twenty First Time Nowhere to live, nowhere to fall. You used to have money. But he's wasted it all His face is the photograph in my mind But I pretend not to see him for the 21st time He sleeps under stars, that's all he can afford. His blankets and long coat he's had since the war. He stands on the corner of Carter and Vine, but I pretend not to see him. On the 20th birthday It may be the chip turns going on the gray But empathy and I walk away I say I'm the body drinker the wine, but I'm still not stealing for the 21st time She's 29, but she feels 48 She can't raise three kill dogs no more. She's fine and back up a well bear line. I pretend that's beautiful for the twenty-first time to maybe a stranger trying to get free. Well that gives you a taste of what Monk and Neagle i is about. What I want to do real quick though is because Munk and Neagle is one of the things I love about him is so many of their songs sound a little bit different. You know, so let me let's uh I don't know see if we can get this to jump ahead. Um or or because here's uh let's see if this will just play. Will this just play? This is just random. Can you tell? Why is it doing that? Random's not working so well. It's like amateur hour here. What's going on? Uh anybody on the radio these days. I tell ya. Let's see what this one sounds like. Are the oceans and the seas no sound of your beautiful See that's pretty right? You like that? A little bit a little bit different. You don't hear that all the time. Time let's let's jump ahead to another song. Let's try it, let's see what this one sounds like. This one's called Stars Would Fall I'm Crazy. Have I told you lately how much I think about you? The way you life, the way you love, the way I feel around you. Would fall for you and I would die for you And how I told you lately how much I dream About you, the way your eyes dance in the sun, the way the heavens wrap around you, and I would walk the world to truth Who did I do? You are queen, and I'll give you everything. I'm clean today. I'm crazy. Is that good or what? That's good stuff. Uh, I tell ya. I mean, it's interesting, you thought when I mentioned um Newsboys last week I was gonna say the Monk and Neagle was my favorite band I will say that Monk and Negle is my favorite new band. I mean they're brand new. This uh this C D was their first uh their first major release Uh they had one other CD that came out on the independent label, and if you l search really long and hard you can find copies of it somewhere but not in stores. Um but Uh Monk and Negle, this is their first CD and every single song on it is just really, really good as far as I'm concerned. Hopefully you like the the three examples of that that uh I just played for you. And again they all the songs have a slightly different feel and and the rhythms are good and and their harmonies are are great and they're just they're good stuff. I wish that uh Somebody would wake up and you'd hear more of that on the radio. Yeah. Not that anybody ever listens to any radio except for WFMD. Of course. Of course. There's I mean, are there other radio stations? I didn't think so. Oh, okay. What am I talking about now? Making it up. Hallucinating Happy New Year by the something. Anyway I think that uh my f uh I all my favorites, right? My favorite female artist. Is that is that sexist? Is that I don't know. No I mean I have a f favorite male band and because there's different I mean, men and different women are different. They have different tones in their voice. So I don't know that that's Wrong to say, it's just an acknowledgement. Well, my favorite female artist b by Miles is Jennifer Knapp. Very bluesy, soulful. Um And if you're gonna buy one C D as a s as uh representative of her, the one to buy is called the collection It's kind of a greatest hits, but it's more than the greatest hits because she doesn't get played on the radio a lot, so it's not so much a greatest hits as it is somebody doing a good job, I must say. Whoever selected the songs for the collection Really did a good job. They they didn't pick any losers and they put all the songs that belonged on here on here, I think. There's uh I don't know, fi at least fifteen songs. uh on the C D. And here's an example of one of them. This one by the way is called Undo Me. What something do or something? I said I don't mean to do you're wrong with just the way nature I'm the right let's down You don't have to say a thing, I can tell by your eyes, exactly what you mean by Now to do justice to Jennifer Knapp Some of her stuff is uh wow you brushed across the microphone there. It sounded like we just got attacked by aliens or something. I don't know what they're or it sounded like one of those old school uh record like we're scratching a record. But not over stuff is quite as hard as that one sounds. So I wanted to kinda give a uh a a sense of of of some of the different stuff that she does too. So the part of this is post holiday shopping advice. Ah. You know? There you go. Y you didn't get what you wanted for the holidays, for Christmas as a present and you know, you're not sure what you want to go get, and maybe you'll hear something that you like, uh, as we play it through. This is still Jennifer Knapp This song is not hard, it's nice and soft. It's called A Little More. Turn your eyes from on this way. I have pulled a little dust to the literature Hid my face from the space and the angels who sing on the floor. You are in my weakness and try and show me great a little more That I can give, little more than I do I get another, little more than I can give, little more So there's Jennifer Knapp. By the way, uh we have an aunt who uh happened to be in the house one day when we had this playing in our kitchen and she said, Ooh, who is that? That's that's really good. Who is that? Oh, Sunday name Jennifer Knapp. Really? She now owns all of Jennifer Knapp CDs. She's a big Jennifer Knapp fan, and by the way, for the record, she's Not even a Christian. Nope. Although we're praying. We're praying for it though. Yeah. But uh it's just good all round music as far as I'm concerned. Here's somebody, if you do listen to Christian radio at all, you know this artist for sure. He's played a lot. Jer Huh? Why are you looking at me funny? He's not played a lot? Oh. The C D player was doing funny things over there. Jeremy Camp He's very good. And again, it's a little warm to him too, actually. And I and I will say that some of Jeremy's stuff has a tendency to sound the same Like e a lot of the songs will sound he's seems to have broken that mold a little bit lately. His most recent well it's not his most recent I guess he has a brand new one out which I haven't heard yet, but one of his most recent uh is called restored the C D. And that is a strong C D from start to finish. Uh I found some of those earlier CDs to be a little uneven uh in in in quality. But this one is good from start to finish. And here's an example of one of the songs. This one is actually called Restored. The title track from this CD. And yes, you are listening to Frederick's face debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WF I'm Troy Skinner with my wife Dina Skinner on the panel. Searching for the things I'll never know. I've been searching for this answer death. Will be found in your love In my feet The heart is being minted by your touch Isn't I hear your voice has shown my purpose in this world You ran restored from up your own open door So that gives you this feeling for what uh Jeremy Camp sounds like. Very alternative, a little bit heavier. He's got a very muscular voice kind of he's a very muscular guy. I actually I think he he works out. He's got a great story. I don't want to spend a lot of time on it, but you know his uh story as well, his personal story. Yeah, he is he he and his uh girlfriend were engaged to be married and she was diagnosed with cancer and they prayed and prayed and asked God to show them if whether or not they should get married and God told them to get married so she actually went into remission Um, shortly after they got married though, the cancer came back with a vengeance and she did pass and it was a gut wrenching time for Jeremy Camp and In that season he was at the hospital bed and as she passed he he just couldn't go on and he just was very angry with God and God told him to get up And to worship him. And he said it was a very powerful time in his life where he clearly heard the voice of God tell him to worship him, even in that. And that was a number of years ago, and he's obviously recovered from that and moved on with his life, and he's written songs to help him deal with that particular moment in his life. He is remar or yeah, remarried now and he actually tours with his wife. She sings backup with him. And you'll hear her on some of his songs on his CDs and stuff too. It's a really a really cool story. Whether you're a Christian or not a Christian, that's just a really cool story I mentioned before how you got to hunt and peck and try to find things, uh to n we knew who Sarah Groves was because she had some radio hits But for whatever reason she's fallen out of favor, whatever you don't hear her new songs played on contemporary Christian radio very much anyway Um so we kind of stumbled into this CD and said, Oh, Sarah Gilles has a new CD yet? Who knew? Well let's listen to that. Let's actually we didn't even listen to it. We just took a chance on this one. So let's buy it and see. How bad could it be And it's actually uh my favorite Sarah Groves C D. It's uh Tell Me What You Know is the name of the C D. And it I like it because it it doesn't have a sameness to it. A lot of her uh previous CDs has so much sameness to it that they could kind of lull you. Which which can be a good place to be if you want to listen to something that's gonna kinda be peaceful and and meditative and and lull you where you're just almost kind of sleepy by the end of it, then some of the early Sarah Grove stuff would have been good for that. But This CD isn't exactly as a little more mixed has more mixed up flavor to it. Here's an example for uh of a new direction that I think she took on this CD that she hadn't taken before. It's called Uh in the groom there's a room. I'll just play a little part of this to get a feel. In the girl there's a room in the room there's a table on the table there's a candle and it won't burn out In the woman there's a song in the song there is hope in the hope revolution In the boy there's a boy from the boy There's a call and you call, there's a promise, and a woman tried down the man there's a vision and the vision is a road, it's the road to his freedom. Don't tell me what you know I've got an old and human glory, and don't like Now I don't want to give you the wrong impression because her whole album does not sound quite as alternative or heavy as that s in fact that will be the exception probably on the CD. So I'm gonna play Uh actually the very first track that's on the CD. It's a song called Song for My Sons. And um I can't remember w exactly how deep into the song you need to get before you really appreciate the story behind it. But I'll let it play long enough for the story uh to establish because it's a a a good story song. The lyrics, if you can pay attention, hopefully you're paying attention to lyrics all the time. Uh something I'm trying to squill my daughter to do, uh to pay better attention to the lyrics on songs Uh and sometimes she does a better job of that than others and I'll say, Hey, did you know that there's uh questionable song uh lyric in that uh song you'd uh just spent one of your dollars on? And she is. So anyway Let's see if I can get this to play. Sarah Groves. Since we're running short on time. This is gonna play us out, I think. Alright, so thanks for listening to the Freddy Faith Debate on Freddiex News Radio 930 WFMB. Thanks to my wife, Dina Skinner, and thanks to putting up in heating. Help you make you smile. Thanks to you. This is a thought for my friends who will You know her life is full, you know we couldn't plan it. You're dead and I pray for strength and understanding The things we couldn't see or comprehend This is a song for my heart Small refrain and hold you for times when we're apart and I cannot console you. I can't say you're like will always go like it should But I can say that God is always good I'm gonna go with both back and go with And when you feel alone I can go in And I'm gonna go with both I can go with Don't let your love grow Don't let your love grow Don't let your love grow This is dumb from my comfortable and they understand You know how life is full, you know we couldn't plan it You're mad and I pray for strength and understanding Couldn't feel comprehensive This is a song for you to carry in your pocket Take on with you in love as you walk and heal yourself And don't forget to Can read your Bible every day in the cold with a bike and go with