Yes, I just admitted to Jonathan Sweitzer that I feel naked without music. Don't say that. We've been having this discussion for the last several weeks about whether or not they should uh the ELCA should accept uh homosexual stuff and and now you're talking about uh being naked and and these sorts of things. I'm just saying hey the truth will set you free For the record he has a striped tie with with uh dark red and brown stripes in it. And uh it's a classic. It's uh it's definitely retro. Yeah? Yeah, yeah, you wear it well. Yeah, well thank you. I'm sure your wife picked it out for you. Looks like the tie a lot of soccer coaches on the English soccer teams were wearing the other day when I was watching Little Soccer. Oh really? Basic white shirt, solid tie. Uh-huh. Anyway, you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD He's Jonathan Schweitzer a fashion commentator, senior pastor of Crossfords Valley Church. And I'm uh I'm Froy Skinner, your host and moderator, by the way, show brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating, although For how much longer I'm not sure. Uh put them floating and heating how can we make you smile. And Jim Devereaux, who ha has yet to do anything embarrassing on today's show. Yes. But we we've got time. He is a you might know him as a columnist with the Frederick News Post and you might not be as familiar. He is uh uh very articulate and uh uh and very involved uh lay person in the Roman Catholic Church. So he's speaking from the pew on today's show. So Um we've been talking the last couple of weeks about a couple of different things. Where we left off last week was kind of wrapping up on the whole ELCA, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America's decision to uh allow uh openly homosexual clergy as long as they're in a committed relationship. And then that kind of spawned a discussion about marriage in general and And we talked about how marriages in uh Christian families are no better than marriages outside of Christian families and Jim made uh the very important point that well does that mean that Christianity has failed, or does that mean that the people have somehow failed Christianity by not So I'm gonna ask this question as a follow-up. We had to wait uh one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours for this follow-up question, but It's been a week. Time does fly on this show, let me do it. I see it does. So let me ask you this question. Yes, the peop all Both of them. Okay, okay. Yeah, you're both yeah, you agreed to come on this show and and subscribe yourself, uh s uh to my questions. Yes. All right. Yes, we're going to say that the individual has responsibility for, you know, their marriage failing. The two people involved in the marriage, if if they're not doing what they're supposed to do as Christians and their marriage fails, fine. Uh uh I'm gonna grant that. Okay. Not even for the sake of argument, I'm just going to grant that as a truth. Okay. However, isn't it also true that when uh the divorce rate is over forty percent, approaching fifty percent uh set almost echo uh epidemic levels within the Christian church, the variety of different denominations that are out there, that somehow the church is failing Uh y I uh let me let me jump in here because um I've just read an interesting book that was written back in two thousand two by George Weigel, a Catholic theologian who can speak uh more authoritatively than I can. But he he l uh itemizes a whole list of things that went wrong since Vatican II, uh beginning with with the scandalous things of pedophile priests. Yeah. Okay. And the outbreak of that and the i the impact that that had on the church. And he he addresses a whole set of of situations that occurred that basically, you know, a as he would see it or say it I I think would be that people become more secularized than evangelized. That the culture the culture they got caught up in the culture instead of being caught up in their faith. And as a result of that, their faith is a watered down version of what it ought to be. So he starts at the top and says, hey, this all begins with the responsibility, the pastoral responsibility of the bishops, works its way down into the priests, into marriages, you know, into the laity. And that's where he begins. And I'm not going to get it. Trickle down morality. Put it that way. Yeah. Okay. Okay. It's what's coming from the church And is that being communicated to the faithful in a way that works? And the answer of course is no. It's not getting stuck somewhere on the way down. Because you have mentioned uh Vatican two, if you're not familiar, that's about forty five years ago when Vatican two took place. in the early part of the sixties. Um I've ironically uh I was doing show prep. That's gonna be my excuse. What back in the sixties? I was getting ready for this show and I saw I watched this horrible movie called License to Wed. Do you ever see this movie? No. I've heard about it. Can't be good. Mortified you'd be just mortified and horrified. He plays a priest. Yeah. Uh Robin Williams, the stand up comedian. Morgan Mindy, that guy. Yeah. Uh he plays a priest. No, no, no. And he's there's this young couple, like in their twenties or whatever, they're gonna get married and uh they wanna get m married in three weeks. And so he puts them through his marriage course, which is something along the lines of what a marriage savers in Frederick County here might do. Like you have to do these things and if you Abide by all these things and we'll we'll marry you in the church kind of thing. oversimplifying it to the point of of being erroneous comparison. But anyway, so he has to condensed this program down to three weeks. Yeah. And his program, the Robin Williams program and the licensed a web movie. Yeah. It involves espionage and you know, he spies on them, you know, puts uh little spying devices in their bedroom and I mean it's just it's over the top bizarre, weird, hor it's a hor and it's not even funny. He's supposed to be Catholic? He's a Roman Catholic priest. Well it well in the movie he is, I'm telling you. Well the yeah the Mind. So what do you believe everything in the movies? Yeah, nothing. What he does in the movie then is he is he takes your worst fears about what pre marriage counseling might be about and he plays to all of them. the movie does and then he not only plays to that but then he like overdoes it and makes it really funny. Yeah, well that well he tries to make it funny but I didn't find it very humorous. Well I I would not look to Robin Williams for any advice on marriage. No. I w I certainly definitely would not Mark Detlination. No advice Robin. Okay. But some of the things he does include um He has a one on one conversation with the husband to be and the one on one takes place on a basketball court. Huh? There's that's Punny right there. Punny has a one on one on a basketball court. Yeah, one on one on a basketball court. Uh he instigates a family fight and gets everybody to be saying bad things about each other to bring out the worst in each other so that they would know the true selves. They would know everybody's real personality before the marriage. Uh he gives them these really stupid mechanical babies that uh, you know to see what parenting is like. Trust me. Have uh being a parent, uh mechanical babies don't cover it. Right. You know, so anyway, those are some of the things that he does in this movie and they and they ho fail horribly and yet somehow within the last five minutes of the movie it all comes together and they get married and I and we're led to believe that they lived Half the ever after kind of thing. Yeah, well that's movyland. Yeah, so what obviously that's like some bad, horribly gone wrong parody. What should the church be doing? What should we do? I think the A number one thing, most important, is to hook uh those that are looking to get married up with people that have been married for a long time and that know that marriage is not perfect, know that it that there are ups and downs, uh but uh who have been successful at s at at staying married, at keeping the spark of life, at at understanding what's important, you know, to do so and uh the role that marriage plays. Uh I I would say that that one of the most important things is to provide a model. Well you're getting close to where I'm too from. Uh provide a model. It would be start out first is what is God's plan for marriage. Yeah. Okay? Amen. What what did what did God intend? Yeah. Male and female he created them. Equal and complementary, he created them And we we need uh to develop, I think, a better understanding of what marriage was meant to be. 'Cause here now we establish the standard by which we want to live. You know, every athlete has some standard he's trying to achieve to. He works hard to get there. And the same applies, I think, to marriage. We we set up God's plan for marriage and what it ought to be. Not saying that we're gonna achieve that in a day Not saying we're gonna achieve it by our twenty-fifth anniversary, but saying we never sacrifice our standard for our weakness. And the Bible tells us that, you know, the the spouse should be a a helpmate. that the you know, the husband should love his wife so much that he would give his life for her, that the the wife is to respect her husband and And honor him and uh Yeah and what is the purpose of their conjugal love? What is the purpose of their intimacy? Okay, to to have a good understanding of bringing new life into the world and into the church, the responsibility associated with that. I mean it can make you think twice about what you do in bed, right? I mean What w if if we have a better understanding of what we're doing and what God's plan for that was, if we believe in God, then perhaps we can begin to establish some kind of a standard that people can begin to try to live by. Now now they need a means for neighbor dealing with what they failed to do. This modeling idea, not not walking the runway in in skimpy clothing over in France somewhere, but this idea of having a mentor and somebody that you can kind of model your marriage after. It's a it's an intriguing and on the face of it seems like a really good idea. Sure. So let's uh but I want to pepper it with a question or two. Good. Um fire away. What would be the scriptural support for that being the way to build a good young marriage? Um the scriptural support would would be where it says that the older men teach the younger men, the older women teach the younger women Uh uh at the end of the day, what makes for a good marriage is uh a certain set of skills at communicating, resolving conflict. um uh anticipating the future, uh being clear about what your long-term goals are as well as your short-term goals, because you start out start out with the similar short-term goals, but your long-term goals are separate eventually there's going to be conflict down the road. But if you clarify those things up front, uh uh you know, alongside of learning these other skills. And the point is is that um At the end of the day, it's a it's a type of discipleship. It's a it's a in fact it's probably the most practical, the most personal type of discipleship because the practical guidelines to help us along the way because we're going to make mistakes. Okay, and and I I totally agree with that. uh people need good role models to follow. The one thing I do see though is that I think every marriage is unique. This is every people every person is unique. Of course. And and that uniqueness calls upon even a greater communication between the two. to as you say, are they achieving a common goal? For example, I would say that the marriage of a doctor and his wife would be somewhat different than the marriage of someone like me who decided that his priority was his marriage I d I don't have a particular skill to offer humanity. I'm not a doctor. I I don't have gifted hands like uh You don't think that your columns are are uh some people would call them amateurs, and I don't know. On calling it. And so that marriage is going to be affected by that differently from a guy who is able to be nine to five. Is the is the wife behind the doctor's vocation? Yeah. See Doctor Ben Carson, for example, a black doctor and neurosurgeon. has a won there's a wonderful story behind him. But uh the point is is that his wife is totally behind his gifted hands. Sure, you see? And it makes that marriage work. Now, for me, uh, I I don't have that to give society. What I have to give society is my manhood, you know, in my marriage, and what I have to give society is my children Mm-hmm. That's what I have to offer society. You know, this idea of roles I think is very important. This is part of the reason why I think so many marriages break down. Because we have We have stopped defining roles. It used to be like you said when you opened up the show that, you know, the woman's helpmate and the man's, you know, provider, those kinds of things. Because all those roles have been turned upside down, and this is a point I made on a previous show. Nobody knows how what role they actually have. You know, they kind of want to create it as they go along, but because they're creating their own brand new role, then basically their marriage is the experiment of them creating their own role and coming up with their own way of doing things, whereas if you if you're willing to accept that there's certain You know, a certain number of roles and if you're facilitated and helping to work those things out with good communication uh You know, when you really talk it out instead of just saying, Ah, well, we'll figure it out as we go along. We don't need to be so anal. We don't have need to be so meticulous. You know, you guys are You guys are overworried about it. No, we're not overworried about it. All these people are getting married and they've they they're they're crashing. Their marriages are falling into disrepair. And of kids stuck in between with all this pain and suffering that is unnecessary if we simply would be willing to take the time ahead of time to to talk it through, to work it through, to be clear about who's going to be doing what Well, yeah, certainly. How are we going to resolve it? And let's let's begin with with the vows that we take. You know, it it's interesting to me that we can expect world peace when we can't get two people to stay married together for more than five years Right. And they think they love one another when it starts out. Yeah. Uh you know, w where does this head from the world? World peace starts with the ability to learn how to resolve conflicts I used to tell my kids, look, if you can't get along with your sibling, how do you expect to get along with somebody you marry that's a stranger? Hello. You know? You can't do it. Learn. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. The one in encouraging you to learn is Jim Devereaux. Columnist with the Frederick News Post and a uh lay Roman Catholic speaking from the pew. And Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. You know, I've learned when I was in grade school that one of the best ways to try to catch, you know, uh errors in in a manuscript is to read it backwards. You know, you can find uh I'd let my wife lead mine. What we would call typos. You know, you you you know, you you find where you might have, oh, there's a period missing there or that should be capitalized because you can read right through it when you're going forward. So let's look at this backwards for a minute. Let's look at it from the point of view of divorce. Okay. All right, somebody has uh you know, a rocky go of it and they want to get a divorce. When is that okay? And when isn't it? Well, the church would say uh uh y there's no such thing as divorce. The Catholic Church would say no such thing as divorce. There is civil divorce, but there's no such thing as once a marriage is consummated and committed to In in proper form and property. What about for marital infidelity? The the church says that once married always married until death. I mean that's even with infidelity? He said except for marital infidelity. No, he said Moses allowed it for anything, but he said, but you should But but that marital infidelity is the only thing that you sh that you should allow it for. If Moses allowed it for more than that. But I'm saying what the c what what I understand the church teaching would be. Now the church on the other hand would say A marriage can be annulled. An annulled marriage means that one was never properly established to begin with. Something was wrong in in the establishment of it. So in a sense you could say, well, that's wordsmithing divorce. But th the the church is quite clear, if there is a valid marriage, that marriage holds fast. So let me ask a question. How many people do you think have left the Catholic Church because the Catholic Church is not willing to annul their marriage? I don't think it's a good thing. Do you think it's an issue? Do you think there's a lot of people that face that? But I don't know. I'm I'm just you know, I'd have to talk to some marriage tribunal. Yeah, I'm not I'm not speaking from a perspective that I'm encouraging divorce. Yeah. Just that uh it's become so pervasive that it seems like there ha there there needs to be a way to redeem those who have been culturally Well, the church would recognize a a civil divorce of two people living separated, but they would not They would not honor a remarriage of either one of those. Mm-hmm. Okay. It would say, okay, it's good that you be separated. It's free to marry. You're free to be separated. Sure. But you're not free to marry again because your marriage is still there That that would be a nuance of the way I understand church teaching. And that's only though if they were married in the Catholic church originally. Yeah, if if they were originally married in the Catholic Church. You know, fully commit properly instructed. Sure. You know, really committed to to that if they they discovered that they couldn't live together for whatever reason, infidelity could be one of them. Sure. They could be separated But the church would not would they say fine for the good of the two of you. I think it's probably already clear where I stand. I I I think outside of infidelity, you know, that uh getting divorced for other reasons is um is uh is is unfortunate and it's just like Jesus said, it's because our hearts are hard and we haven't learned to soften our hearts to learn how to genuinely work through uh uh conflicts and problems. I. e. any kind of an abusive situation. Uh you know, I have to say that if there's an abusive situation then then there's gotta be a way for us as a church to recognize that there's somebody in that situation that's abusive. Give them the grace to uh the the abused partner to have the grace because it honestly it happens very often where the man's the abused one you wouldn't think so but the the statistics are very common. But but we're not going to be able to do that. You you might find that in a lot of abuse cases where someone, you know, uh n never really had a proper attitude or understanding of what they were doing to begin with. That that could be cause for annulment. I don't know. I'm not a marriage tribunal. But John doesn't the New Testament also say uh Desertion or abandonment would be caused in addition to sexual infidelity? Yeah, abandonment in the situation where uh where one of the partners was not a believer, never was a believer And they leave the situation, say, I don't want to live with you anymore, and they're living as a as an unbeliever in that situation. Um Paul in Corinthians gives permission for the uh the spouse who is faithful at that point to not be bound any longer to the uh to the other partner. Yeah. In the circles that you travel, Jim, how often does this kind of question come up where you have to try to articulate what the Roman Catholics you know, view of the future. Not too often uh for the nor normally it would not come up too often. You just wouldn't encounter it unless it was within your immediate family or something. Uh so the only place I I even come close to encountering it Uh I'm a member of what they call the RCIA team at St. Ignatius. That's the right to Christian Christian initiation for adults. And sometimes we will have individuals searching you know, uh, for trying to understand Catholicity or coming back to the church who may have some problems uh in in a marriage situation. Now we wouldn't try I wouldn't try to handle that situation myself. We have We have within the Catholic Church a marriage tribunal and people who are are equipped to handle these situations and to try to figure it out what's the best course of action. for that couple. So I wouldn't be actively involved in it. I might encounter someone who has that problem or question, but I certainly wouldn't try to deal with it myself. You know it's interesting here in Frederick, if you want to go down to the courthouse and get a uh um you know, uh to to get married. It costs eighty five dollars. A marriage license. Marriage license. Seventy five of those dollars assume that that you're gonna get divorced. Seventy five of those dollars go directly over to the uh Hartley house which is a uh a a a local institution seventy five out of how many dollars? Out of eighty-five dollars. So is that like ninety something percent of the money? Yeah. There is no money whatsoever in that fee that goes towards uh requiring or helping people to get prepared for marriage, all of that money goes towards those marriages that have broken down and ended up in some kind of kind of abuse, which is what the Hartley House is a is a organization to help people that are in in abused uh abusive situations and marriages. And picking up the pieces after me that is that is It illustrates the problem. Everybody expects to get divorced, even the the the the courts of Frederick County expect to get divorced. And so what what Jim is saying that we need to build some anticipation. What is marriage supposed to be about in the first place? Build some anticipation of what it looks like. Hook them up with some mentors. Help to get some training about uh about how to survive in the marriage. You know, I you know what I think? I think that that we should uh at the courthouse provide some kind of or through the courthouse provide some kind of free uh like that you would have to pay a fee to get married or in order to get get get out of that fee that they would tack onto the uh the marriage license fee add another twenty five to thirty dollars. You could you could have that taken off if you will take a marriage training course. Yeah, but the pr that that would require everybody The the problem with that is you're trying to have a if you're trying to have a secular organization deal with something that has ramifications far beyond what the secular uh environments capable of handling. Uh I think, you know i uh it I I'm I'm So in your opinion th there there's really no way to have a successful marriage outside or train people to have a successful marriage outside of uh the biblical Christian Catholic conversation. Well I think that's you know that's where you're gonna find it because I I f I think marriages have a difficult time that are not in Christ. I mean it it's Jesus is the book. I I understand what it says. Well and once again I would I would turn to are we doing enough to prepare people for marriage and support them in their marriage? Now, I I understand that there are things like marriage encounter, uh, focus on family, marriage savers. There's a lot of support groups out there. But I think where one of the failings exists is within our own local church communities themselves. Okay. That's where I think the help has to begin. Sure. Okay. And I want to say that, you know. Which actually that's what Marriage Savers does though. Marriage Savers goal is to raise up mentor couples in the congregation. that are helping to to trend and work alongside. And in that meeting I attended where you guys were talking about marriage savers, I even even you mentioned the the one pastor that was there talking about, you know, how dealing with the immediate problem that he's dealing with. It it's it's within the context of his worshiping community that these things need to be able to be addressed. That's going to require not just pastors But a laity that is beginning to get on top of this problem. We have to be concerned about other people's marriages. And within our faith communities. Without a doubt, complete agreement with that. Yeah. Yeah. Those studies, I'm not so sure how they're asking that question because the people that I know that are truly committed to their faith, to to to God, to Jesus, and are involved in their church and that sort of thing I don't see those people getting divorced. There are an awful lot of people that claim to be Christian that are that really aren't Christians and they're getting divorced and they're and So no wonder the mirror society as a whole. They are society as a whole. But if you wanted to save them, if they say they're Christian, let's take them at their word and teach them what being a Christian is. Sure. Anyway, Jonathan Sweiss is heat here, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jim Devereaux, a lay Roman Catholic and columnist with the Frederick News Post. I'm Froy Skinner. Thank you for listening. Thank you to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And I encourage you to visit us online, WFMD. com KeywordFaith. Have a great week, God bless.