Welcome to Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Our show today is brought to us by Footman Floaming and Heating. Make you smile. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week on the panel by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and John Perbudos, the co-founder of the Federation of Indian American Christian Organizations of North America, lovingly known as Fiacona. Sounds like a Disney character name to me. Right? There should be like crabs and and various fishes uh singing songs about Fiacona. Could very well be, yeah. Yeah. So anyway, the Uh what we're going to be talking about today uh is relevant to what we have going on here because if you've listened to this show before, you know my position. All issues that affect worldview questions are relevant to us. here where we live. Yeah. So we we tackle some pretty deep media issues. If you were listening last week you heard a fascinating history lesson. And I'm going to try to turn uh a uh one half hour long show into a thirty sec second synopsis. So see how how well I do. I'm gonna miss some really important stuff, I'm sure But as long as you get the general gist of it, you'll be able to kind of track with what we're going to be talking about the rest of this uh half hour on the Faith Debate Show today. Thousands of years ago, there was a people in an area of the world that we now call India And that area of the world uh grabbed hold of a religious idea that we know as Hinduism and has defined the religious faith of the majority of people in that part of the world for millennia. Then about two thousand years ago, tradition holds that uh the apostle Thomas, doubting Thomas from the New Testament, uh trekked his way over to India and the first Christians um were converted in India. About, I don't know, five hundred or so years later, uh maybe a little bit after that Uh there was in an incursion of sorts of from the Persian Empire or Persians, it wasn't the Persian Empire, but the Persians who uh were Muslims They move into the area. So now you've got a lot of Hindus and an increasingly powerful and perhaps vocal Muslim community and this what currently exists as a 2. 4% Christian community in the mix. And then a whole bunch of geopolitical things happen. Uh the cork comes off the bottle of World War II. This is the hist the era of history when Gandhi uh walked the earth. Uh you're familiar with Gandhi. If not, there's a really long three and a half hour uh movie about Gandhi that you can uh you can learn and everything you need to know about Gandhi in three and a half hours. So anyway, Gandhi saying uh to the people who are who have this Hindu ideal saying we need to be a Hindu nation and he's saying no no no India needs to be a pluralistic democratic society And that's kind of how it was for a long time until I I'm skipping over a lot of history here. Yeah. About ten years ago things kinda came to a head with certain factions within uh the political uh structures uh within Indian politics rising up and saying, you know what, we need to protect our culture, we need to define re define our culture along uh traditional means We need to be a a a Hindu nation, and if we're going to be a Hindu state, then that means the Muslims and the Christians have to convert or get out or we're just gonna make their lives miserable somehow. And it was in this kind of an environment back in the late nineties, right around the uh turn of this most recent millennium, uh 1999, 2000 thereabouts that the persecution really got to be difficult. And so um people from India who now live in America and call themselves Christian about three hundred thousand of them or so, belonging to a variety of denominations and uh and Christian church groups, uh decided that they had a a a common uh interest in what was going on in their native homeland. They have banded together in the organization now known as Fiacona and they are trying to advocate for uh what's going on over there for the Christians, giving a voice to the Christians over there and trying to bring awareness to the issue. But my question now is, I'm now aware. And you're here advocating. You're advocating that I do what? Well, that's a good question. Um and by the way, you you did a fantastic job in summarizing. Um in your introduction. And I didn't even say anything about Jonathan. Nothing. Nothing. We got over four minutes into the show and I didn't say anything about Jonathan. I was talking about the history Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's a matter for the history of Jonathan. Um now here The Indian Christians, of course, um mostly they are first generation immigrants. Um Now the second and third generations are slowly, you know, coming into college and and workforce. But mainly it's the first generation that predominantly the retired are still actively um working uh and very much concerned about uh what's happening to their mother churches. And unlike the pilgrims who came in the early uh founding time the founding period of the US. Um these Christians uh from India who come to are for that matter even non Christians who come to the US these uh shores these days have w very strong ties m back there to their families and they travel so often, you know, it's um the travel has made been made very easy So all these um uh factors do affect um everything that happens in India uh on the daily daily day to day uh basis. Um the Indian Christians uh keep in close contact with their home churches. They they read uh the newspapers and they find out what's happening to the Christians and that does affect um them and and they come to us and say, what can we do? In um now Washington is influential Everybody is looking up to Washington. It's a it's a it's a unipolar world. And of course the US has a lot of um um uh Yes. Not with debt. We have a lot of debt. We don't have a lot. We do have debt, but but we have a lot of own I'm I'm sorry, you were playing word association there for a minute, I thought. We have uh I was trying to I was like, I say America, you say debt. We do have a lot of debt I'm sorry. Yeah, but and some of us I was still trying to struggling to uh pay the debt. But what happens is We have a lot of influence. We have a lot of power. Sure. And uh they do it through NATO, but you have other uh means to influence what's ha what's happening around the world And that of course the Hindu Americans also are very much aware of. So what they have been doing Whenever there is uh a violence against a Christian uh church or a pastor is killed by these mobs, d they get theirselves activated. The Hindu lobby in Washington goes into the overgear, I mean the the the the the uh the the active mode and say, Oh this is very isolated, it was run by criminals, look in two in two weeks time we are gonna catch them and and prosecute them. Oh okay. And go into spin mode. That go into the spin mode, exactly. And and they give that diplomatic cover, the protection, the political cover that these radical Hindu party members need in India. And so your job is to stop the spin. Exactly. And that's where the Federation of Indian American Christian Organizations Even with three hundred thousand Indian American Christians, um find it very difficult to do what we need to do because We are not able to that's a fact. I'm not ashamed to say that. The Federation of Indian American Christian Organizations finds it difficult to match the money power and the muscle power Of the Hindu American lobby in Washington. That is where you can help How many uh Hindus do you know the number live in the United States? Um there are about three million Indians that live in America and about uh three hundred thousand are Indian Christians. and you have about uh ten to fifteen percent are Moslems, Indian Muslims, and the rest of them are generally Hindus, then you have the small, small sections like the the Dalits and others who don't consider themselves religious Hindus. But you know, they're about one point eight million Hindus from India. Yeah, I would say yeah, close to to m to it would be sixty percent. He told me earlier sixty percent. So sixty percent of three million is about one point eight million. I don't see the problem. You can't out out fundraise those people? We can't do that. No no I I I don't I bet you could do it, Troy. I d I bet you could that nice two Coat you got on the right hand check. Yes. I'll give you a very interesting um uh scenario. China will back it up. This is a true story here. Well, you know, with with India, I mean Washington wants India to be a a balancing act for China. Right. You know, with all these geopolitics and the economic factors play in. Right. And and you can't really say, well, you know, you can't really put if I'm running this country, I can't really say, well, no, I'm going to put the Indian Christian issue in the center and everything else is going to take a backstage. I can't say that. I can't I I can't run a country like that. I can't have a bilateral relationship with a country or with a region based on thus that kind of a philosophy So I have to uh somehow um uh balance these things. You're talking about the American politician is thinking this way, that he has to balance Yeah. 'Cause there's only two point five percent Christians in India and the majority are Hindu and so And India is it's a little bit hard for allies. Yeah, India is a very foreign ally and you can't really ignore uh what happens in India. It's the fourth largest economy in the world. Um the most populous. Yeah, with the with a b m over a billion people. It's the largest democracy in the world and not only that, it's the largest English speaking country in the world. And if you can imagine that Um so are you interacting, are you personally interacting with Congressmen and Senators and people from the White House administration, that sort of thing? Yes, yes I do. And on what happened I said hi. I will I will enjoy Snabra congressman here. Yeah, Roscoe Bartlett. Rosco Barlett. He's probably very uh uh very uh appreciative of what he does. Now here is what we need to really understand. And this is this is a real story. Um about a year ago, a couple of years ago, there was a situation where uh one of the radical Hindu leaders who happens to be the chief minister of the state of Gujarat. His name is Narendra Modi. The chief minister is like a governor. is the top executive of the state. Can you say his name again? Narendra Modi. Okay. And he's the Mr. Modi called him Modi. Mr. Modi. Yeah, Mr. Modi. And he in 2001 No, I'm sorry. In two thousand two or two thousand one. Okay. I believe it's two thousand one. Uh he killed about two thousand Muslims. in his state because he was slipping away in the poles and he wanted to s consolidate the Hindu vote bank behind him. And what you do, you kill the Muslims, right? Everybody who voted against me, raise your hand. Off with their heads. Yeah. That's one way to get the job done. And we're laughing. Yeah, because yeah, we're so far f removed from it that we just can't. for him because he has been voted in for the third time. Who's gonna vote against him now? Because we have ninety percent Hindus, I mean eighty eight percent. So do the Muslims vote for him now The Muslims don't. And some of the Muslims I'm told these days, yes, they do because he is a he doesn't need him anymore. He's a he's an administrator he's a great administrator. Listen to this, he's a great administrator. Like You know, sometime back in the history I read that Adolf Hitler was a very great administrator. You know. And he gets things done. I I gotta turn political for just two seconds. Okay. Are you listening to this You listener to the Red Rodric Faith Debate show. Yes. Don't ever be tempted to think that character doesn't matter when you're casting your vote. Yeah. Oh, there They're really smart and they know how to run things efficiently. Charisma doesn't do it. Character matters. Otherwise you know, radically bad character you can see what happens. And even in s in smaller ways it's it's fabulous. By the way, you're listening to the Frederick Faith event on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. The one who's amazed is Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and John Prabudos, the uh co-founder of Fiacona. and um you can now go on with your I'm the one that's amazed and Troy's the one that's amazing with that nice jacket that he's wearing today. The uh the question that the the the thing that amazes me is how is it that In this day and age, 2008, you still have what 2009. Right. Yeah, fr from from our uh American perspective, what appears to be a um a Nazi-esque uh uh uh race purity uh movement in places around the uh the world. I mean I guess North Korea is still that way. I guess uh you run into that in China at some level. I don't know. I mean I'm not sure. Well Iraq Saddam Hussein they tried to wipe out the Kurds. This kind of intrinsic people, you know genocide based on You know, I I thought we were beyond that. No, unfortunately not. And the the the history actually repeats so often then we we like to admit. There's nothing new under the sun, though. Nothing new. And and are you quoting the Bible to me again? Is this a faith debate? He wanted to come I mean there is a there is a hot uh Asian American hotel owner. That sounds by the way like a Disney character too, the Kona and Mr. Modi. Yes. And Mr. Morty wanted to come to America. Yeah. And he had uh That sounds like a good title for the movie. Okay, sorry. Mr. Modi, why don't you come to America? Who is inviting one of the most powerful lobby in America, which is the Asian American Hotel Owners Association? Asian American hotel owners. And why do they want him to come? Because AHOHA. AHHOA acronym. Yeah. Ahoa. See, I picked it up without him even saying it. Exactly. I'm getting good at these acronyms. AHOAH Sounds Hawaiian. Hawaiian, that's right. Ahoa. Controls about eighty billion dollars worth of it's a bee. Um, billion with a bee. Oh, he can pay off Bernard Maddoss. Yeah. He he they they they own eighty billion dollar worth of hotels and motors in America. Wow. And you ever walk into a motel you know b um down south in eighty one and and you walk into um the the the reception room and there is an Indian guy standing because it's owned by an Indian. And and particularly that guy probably is from this particular state where Modi is uh ruling the state. Okay Now So Modi's together with Ahowa. With Ahowa and they wanted him to come because eighty percent of the membership in Ahowa is from that particular state. The names with the Patels, the Modhis, the Gandhis, they are all from that particular state. Oh. Now they So this state is like the most powerful state? It's most economically advanced right now. Yeah. Oh. And what's the name of the state? Called Gujarat Gujarat. This is m ironically this is the home state for of Gandhi where Gandhi was born in the state. So is this like the California of India? Yeah, you can say that. It's also on the West Coast. You know? There you go. Okay. Now now here is the the the trick. Um we went to the State Department, we went to the members of Congress. We said no, he cannot be allowed to come to the US. Finally, after a lot of hectic lobbying advocacy rather, we were able to get the uh convince the State Department to go along with our idea and deny him a diplomatic visa. And not only they did that, they they took his ten year multiple entry tourist visa and cancelled it and gave him the passport back. Now he got very mad. I guess so. He got really mad. He's got eighty billion dollars behind him. Yeah. And that particular Ahoa Yeah. Is every year, year after year they are trying to bring him back to the US. Okay. Because for h for them bring he his his visa was bringing up. Of Gujarat. Yeah. They called him the Chief Minister. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. And I think I've fallen off the tracks. Yeah, that's why I was saying that because I wasn't sure if I was. I I I I'm gonna need you to help me connect the dots again. Mr. Modi I'm telling the story because it's fascinating and it's uh I mean really uh I'm gonna think about this every time I go into a hotel now. Yes So y you you you You might want to use a different name. You have either helped me or scarred me for the rest of my life. I'm not sure what but why do I care exactly? Now when I went to members of Congress and I told them I need you to support a resolution in on the House uh that just basically says who Modi is and what he has done. Meaning that he killed two thousand Muslims. This is why we care because he's he's a he's a genocidal So you want them to ha say we resolve the United States Congress resolves that this guy is a homicidal man homicidal maniac. Yes. And we're sorry, genocidal maniac and As America we just wanted to make sure you were clear that we believe that. Yes. And and we don't let him come to the United States unless he's gonna admit that he's a war criminal. And guess what? About ninety percent of the members that I went to, they said, look, John, I totally believe what you say. I agree with you and I would like to help you, but please don't ask me to support this resolution. Because he represents the Hindus of the nation or because he represents eighty billion dollars at Ahoa? No again you're close. What he what this is this would be I'm paraphrasing it. This would what this is what I would hear Member after member from. Okay. They would say, Well, I have a patel that owns two hotels in my district. And he raises uh holds fundraiser for me once a year. So it is money. And I don't know political. Uh-huh. But I can't this time is short and I can't find out from him now, so I would pass on this thing. So everybody because they're gonna lose the fundraising from a hotel owner in their state. It was so frustrating to me. You know what I finally did? I I one one time I told the chief of staff for a member, he's from a southern state And I would even call it it's it's Mississippi from Mississippi. That member He's naming names. Yeah. And and this member's chief of staff was telling me the same story. And I said, Look uh buddy, if you think If you think there are two patels in the door that's not an acronym. I love that. If you think there are two patels in your district that are gonna get married you for supporting this issue. Wait until ta I talk to the Southern Baptist Convention and see how many people are going to be mad at you And so at the end of the day you gotta wield a little bit of political influence because this this genocidal maniac, Modi, in uh in Gujarat is uh he's just out of control And somehow we've got to stop these people. This is one to get away with this kind of genocide, this kind of persecution of other cultures. As soon as the State Department denied him the visa, in spite of these opposition in the the roadblocks in the in the Congress, we still were able to get his visa uh denied by the State Department. Yeah, you're working hard. Now Immediately the Hindu America Foundation issues a statement denouncing it, saying that you know this is a misplaced thing, this is a Hindu phobia. This um they they would call it um uh Hindu baiting. That that now you're you're talking down on the it's nothing to do. If you consider yourself as a Hindu and can and and support this guy and this guy's policies are this political party's uh agenda, then you are not represent you are not a member of the because I know the Hindus that that don't d that don't Okay, so let me trace this back. Modi is is a uh is a member of this BJP that is that is the political party that is that is so um They're I say racist in their approach or or they're so Hinduism oriented that that they want to restore this pure culture. What's the term for that? I'm trying to come up with the right term. people that are uh they're anyways he's pushing for a pure nationality. Well the the term is xenophobia. Xenophobia. Xenophobia Xenophobic. And so at the end of the day, xenophobic, hindophobic, xenophobic. Yeah. Yes. Don't say the other one. I know you're thinking it. But the point is is that we should not uh is is that if we're going to stand up for righteousness you know I I've been dealing with this a little bit with uh you know just recently the the gentleman that was that was uh last on the show, Jack Sarah, we were talking about the everybody's afraid to be pro-Palestinian and here he is, you know, Christians are being pure persecuted by the by the Palestinians. And there's a certain uh difficulty 'cause how can how can the State Department stand up for Christians when they're trying to develop relationships with the leadership of the West Bank. Well the same thing's true here. And so then you've just got this political mess where at the end of the day politics is not about justice, but it's about playing the angles in such a way that that you get the nation to support you And so you don't want to point out their foibles, i. e. two thousand mul Muslims being killed in the genocidal uh slaughter. Uh you don't want to point that out too much because otherwise they're not going to like you anymore. And well, that's exactly what happened. After this uh the genocide, you know two thousand people were killed, I was a part of an interfaith delegation that went to Gujarat A Hindus, Muslims, Christian. So we were three Christians in the delegation, three Hindus and three Muslims. Um we went to and one Dalit and we went to Gujarat and we were not Modi told us that we were not welcome and all that thing. So We um when when we came back from Gujarat we had we had a very um Um how do we say? Uh a sad day one day. We we were sitting in Delhi w in a hotel and the first second day. Delhi's in Gujarat? In D Delhi is in uh New Delhi, the capital of India. Okay. So we're sitting in a hotel after Gujarat's visit and we're sitting in the hotel. And the first secretary for political affairs uh from the US Embassy is coming to see me at the hotel. Okay. And I had two other peop three other people. One is the uh the wife of the the Under Secretary General of the United Nations who was with me And one of the uh another lady was the daughter of one of the members of parliament who was killed in that uh uh program, in that genocide in Gujarat. She was with me And this guy is coming and he I'm talking to him and he's a he's a American diplomat and I'm asking him, Where is the report? I haven't seen a report. I saw a British report, I saw a report from the Germans And he said, You know what, John, we don't have a report. I said, Why not? He said the ambassador at that time, Mr Blackwell, I will say his name. Mr. Blackwell thinks that it would It would anger the government if we went and made a report of this thing. He said, You must be kidding me. This was the ambassador to the UN. The the US ambassador in d in Delhi to India. The American ambassador in Delhi is telling his diplomats Don't worry about what happened in Gujarat because if you do that the ruling party there is BJP, they will not like what we are doing. You know, I feel like that same dance goes on with China and human rights abuses in China. You know, there's this constant dance that that is a political dance uh having to do with persecution of Christians around the world. Well next week Uh if you two Johns are willing. We'll we'll we'll talk about that a little bit more and more specifically we'll we'll begin to transition perhaps from the the political stuff that's going on and talk about what the the role of the church is or should be uh or can have in those situations. And in the very first show that we uh did with this panel the question came up in comparing what's going on in India with Israel and the question came up, is Israel racist for wanting to have Uh an ethnically pure, right. Not Mr. Prabhupado's. Right. So we'll we'll explore whether or not uh that Instinct is a racist instinct or not. Anyway, thank you both John Schweitzer and John Ferbudos. And thanks to our sponsor, Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? And thank you for listening. God bless