Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? Frederick Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson said the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom, and it's in that spirit that we seriously wrestle with important ideas. And hope that through our wrestling you'll develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this life. Uh did I mention our sponsor Footland Plumbing and Heating Has We Make You Smile? Uh we have now. Okay, there we go. Jonathan Schweitzer, who said we have now, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel on the panel this week. And Dan Sexton, uh Calvary Chapel Senior Pastor in Illicott City. Thank you so much for being on the show one more time this week. Uh last week we were talking about uh styles of preaching and Uh we've pretty fully talked about most of kind of what I was hoping for us to cover, but we didn't cover the fullness of it, and I don't want to spend an entire show on it, but I would like us to kind of talk about other kinds of things. Maybe someday we'll do a bigger picture on it. But I was gonna ask you, Troy, obviously he and I take a certain approach on preaching. But like what what do you tend to to think is the right way? You know? Have do you have an opinion on it? You know, you you're kinda sitting in the pew, you're on the other end of the It's funny because one of the things I was going to ask you, so I'll I'll answer your question in the meantime be thinking about your answer to this question. You guys both would fall into Well, I think Dan, more so than Jonathan, but Jonathan's still within the camp of being strong adherence to an ex expository approach. Let's understand the genre, the historical context. Right. I don't know if you get into literary style and how important that is, but you really want to get into the let's understand what this is all about, what we're grappling with. And if we need to In Jonathan's case it might be more of a if we need to, let's slow down, take our time and and focus on this. And uh Dan's more of a well, whether we feel like we need to or not, we need to, so let's slow down Take our time and work our way through this kind of a thing. And so there was a lot of agreement last week. And we were holding that up as the expository approach. Pretty vanilla large bag to throw you into. I and we were uh counterbalancing that against the other approaches, though there's only one, topical preaching. But there's really many other options. There's way more there's different shades of gray, if you will, uh you know, and varieties of that. And that's what We're going to talk about here in just a second what some of those different shades are and I want to get your opinion on some of those. Okay. Um I'm not sure if this is going to answer your question or not, but I'm going to do my best to to to try to answer the question. If you were going to be a pastor, how would you be able to do that? Go ahead. Have you sat under expository teaching before? I have, and I've and I've uh visited uh or uh or had short stays at churches that were more topical. I would lean more friendly to personally wanting more of the expository preaching experience. Interesting which most most mature Christians I talk to say the same thing. Well I guess I better change my opinion then because I'm immature. I mean spiritually mature. And you know a lot of times people will say You know, I I I really I was in this I yeah, just give me the word of God. Or man, I really grew the most when I was in this men's group or we just studied through books of the Bible or stuff like that But I think that i uh uh uh this might be a hybrid position or it might be one of these other categories we're gonna kinda define here in a second. I don't know. I'm okay with um the idea or pastors feeling you know what, I feel like I really need to preach on parenting. Yeah. I really feel like I need to preach on Marriage, I would need to preach on fiscal responsibility, whatever, and having a topic, a theme in mind, and tackling that theme but then tackling it in an expository way. Right. And really unpack maybe finding say these are these are the five most important parenting passages in scripture and we're gonna Working through them expository. Right. We'll take the next five weeks talking about those specific passages that really seem to, you know, capture the kernel of of of what's going on. Okay. So we could we could identify that as a uh as a expository topical strong on the word of god the word of god sets the agenda for the topic basically You you let the word of God s uh uh define what the topic is is and and your kind of the limits of what you know. And we didn't get to this in last week's show and so maybe we'll start to get into it a little bit this week uh without getting bogged down too much. But the the real Test for me, if you can put a uh a sermon message under the microscope, you know, but the the real test for me is whether or not at the end The point was Jesus and the gospel. Right. We've actually talked about this before. Who was, is Jesus and why should I care? Right. Right. If that's somehow missing, so if all you end up is is teaching some message about how you can have a better marriage, to me, I don't care if it was expository or not It wasn't what preaching is supposed to accomplish. It's not preaching, it's teaching for him. then something's missing. You know, the the point is is that you want Jesus 'cause it's all about Jesus. And even in the Old Testament. Right. It's my Right. No, I'm not arguing. I'm agreeing with you. There are some that might choose to disagree. For example, Jews listening would would would want to disagree. And we would have to argue primarily from the New Testament to prove our point, uh but I even think there's some interesting Old Testament arguments to to help us make the case. But anyway, going on. So I think that uh Topical, yes, but the end result's gotta be it's all about in Christ. So marriage. The whole point is uh you can have a good marriage, here's what a good marriage looks like, here's the things husbands should be doing for their wives, wives should be doing for their husbands However, let's not forget the real point of what marriage is all about. It's symbolic of God's relationship with us and we're Christ's bride and what does that mean? And w how did we come to be Christ Christ's bride as the church? Because he sacrificed himself Yeah, sacrificial love, the way the husband should have for the wife, and so it's all coming down to it's it's uh it's a symbol, it's an allegory, it's a metaphor, it's a type. But you know the of the of the Christian message. It all comes down to the gospel message. And so a lot of times it's been a great frustration. Jonathan and I have talked about this on the show before. We spent a lot of time off of the air talking about this. It's a great frustration of mine. I call it show prep. We joked the last few weeks that I don't that I don't practice the show. Right. Uh but I you know, I have probably four dozen, five dozen churches in Frederick County I have visited at least once. Mm-hmm. And it's the minority. that preach the gospel consistently. Mm-hmm. In my experience. And the majority of them, they preach they either Bible centered messages. Yeah. But they're not Christ-centered messages. They're not gospel center centered messages. And it's a great frustration of mine. But anyway, sorry, I don't know if that answers your that's a really long-winded answer. No, it doesn't answer the question. Yeah, all of which leads into then what are the different types of ways that people can preach? Right. And you were rattling them off before, right before we took Eric. Well, I was trying to. Okay, so so one approach would be that you're the One is that you're very biblical or that you're not. Like that would be a first grade distinction. If you're very biblical, you could take several approaches. You could take a theme or or um or you could go just straight through books Or you could take a theme like grace. You know, what does the Bible say about grace and yet still be, like you're saying, very biblical about the way that you approach it, you know, let really letting the scriptures speak for themselves. Uh or you could take like, okay, I'm going to go through all of the the saints of the Bible. We're going to preach about the saints of the Bible or something like that. Again, it's it's topical, but it's letting the Bible speak for itself, uh, you know, and letting you know the the the meat of the message come out of what does the Bible say and and what is the context of the scriptures and that kind of thing. Or you could go topical that that just deals with, you know, people's lives. Okay, parenting, you know, uh marriage, finances, and still be very biblical, meaning, okay, we're gonna find out what the Bible says about finances. The top ten most important passages in the Bible about finances are these and we're gonna preach through 'em. But it occurs to me then there's a whole group of, you know, people that could Say, okay, well, we're not going to necessarily let the Bible, you know, uh be the the meat of the message. We're just going to preach good stuff inspiring stuff for people and if we use the Bible that's great. If not, you know, that's great too. We're just gonna, you know, inspire people. Um So I don't know what would I be missing? What would be some other things that I think I think I think I think that's a good overview. And I th and what I mean by that is if the pastor is constantly picking these topics, it may not be presenting a full biblical view If he's only you know, I think our natural tendency, depending on our nature, is either you're gonna pick topics that you like to talk about or that aren't offensive, like marriage or parenting or finances or whatever it may be, or characters in the Bible. Your tendency will probably be to avoid topics that are controversial. I'm going to avoid what the Bible says about divorce because half my congregation's divorced or homosexuality or And you know, and whatever the controversial topics it may be. Or, you know, if you're a controversial person, you may pick on purpose. But you're not you're not presenting the full picture of the Word of God. If I if I'm picking the topics Well then I might get on hobby horses where I like to focus on these certain things because they're fun to talk about. It's a diet question. You need a you need a balanced diet. You need your protein, you need your vegetables, you need your fruits, you need you know, your vitamins and minerals, you need the whole thing. your dairy products and if you just preach straight through the Bible then what happens is whatever's there in the Bible ends up coming out. Mm-hmm and the you know so so the diet is the Bible, not me trying to you know, decide for you what your diet is. See and then other things could come into play with that. If for example, if half my congregation is divorced, which is pretty common today. And if I preach on divorce, I may offend some people and lose some people. Yeah. Which means my giving might go down. You know, and some of that may come into play in a pastor's thinking, and what topic am I going to pick Furthermore, maybe there's something going on in the congregation, the pastor's like, Man, I need to preach on this. But unwittingly, he ends up preaching you know, in such a way that the people in the congregation that are part of the situation feel like, man, he's using his bully pulpit. Right. You know, instead of you're just preaching straight through the scripture and it's allowing, you know, if it happens that That the topic comes up just coming straight through scripture, then everybody could say, huh, that's interesting that it's coming up. But Pastor's just doing what he's normally doing You know, there's not a sense that he's manipulating the pulpit that phone. He's not aiming at me with this message. It occurs to me that we would have to include another group of of um ways to approach preaching on a Sunday morning, not just biblical or, you know, um less biblical, but that would be those people that preach from the Bible and use the stories of the Bible as inspiration, but they they don't actually believe that the Bible is true, like that the miracles really happened in the Old Testament or the New Testament, you know, that Christ really rose from the dead. And that would be represented by a lot of liberal churches that that uh that aren't e you know, and so Sometimes they try to disapprove the Bible in their messages, you know. Right I've heard guys preach uh and try to explain why there were, you know, m multiple authors of the Book of Isaiah and Jesus is wrong. And they'll preach out of the Quran or they'll preach out of, you know, Buddha said this or Gandhi said this and that kind of thing. It's a very broad spectrum. Something that borders on a pop culture icon that you know the a listener could really get their head around. Joel Olstein is relatively well known. He's had a New York Times best selling book, maybe two. Yeah. Uh he's got a widely distributed television program that I think his church buys time all over the place. You can watch him locally on I think a DC station, maybe some other stations. Uh and so he's relatively well known. He's a very gifted, talented speaker. Yeah. If I were to preach uh a message, I w you know I would hope that somehow I would convey the persona that he does, this joy this joyful exuberance score excellence, you know, yeah, I mean that that's a pretty cool thing. I I I like how that part of it Yeah. But he'll preach a twenty five minute um I'm assuming it might be an edited version for television, I don't know. But he he preaches a twenty five minute message. Yeah. That We'll use tidbits of scripture. He has a topic. It's usually a s like a self-improvement, self-motivational type of a topic. Right. Well that's his big theme. And he does right. And the point is there's one theme, the Bible can help you to live a better life. You can be a champion kind of thing. Which tends to be the case, it seems, for most television evangelists, you know, whether it's you know the prosperity gospel or Norman Vincent Peel, you know, you Just to be inspire you to be a better you, the reader's digest kind of a thing. He ends every message which Now we don't want to end our broadcast here today without inviting you to accept the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ into your heart. So if you want to pray this prayer this prayer with me, And he leads them through an abbreviated version of the sinner's prayer. But he never actually preaches about it. Then he encourages people to get roots into a Bible believing church. It it it's that's like a non sequitur there. It doesn't it doesn't it doesn't fit. Anyway, he would be representative of what some would call the seeker sensitive movement. Right. Right. And they do a lot of topical preaching. And they might allude to the Bible or hey here's why I believe it because the Bible, hey, the Bible says this, I think you said it this way, Jonathan, off the air. Here's the message and oh by the way, the Bible agrees with me. Right. Right. Right. Right Yeah, you know, it occurs to me that that we could literally go through every denomination, you know, and every break off from those denominations and identify some distinctives about how they preach you know, whether it's it's more passionate or whether it's more, you know, low key. You know, there there's a whole bunch of different ways to parse uh uh styles of preaching. But what we're trying to deal with is is how do people deal with the word of God and come up with their topics. And um so much of it is gonna be what the pastor's motivation is, right? Is he trying to attract a crowd and and get giving up and he's gonna try to treat it as a marketing exercise? What do the people want? Let me give them that See, and by teaching expository uh through the Bible, I you know, I I'm insulating myself from that because I can't I can't teach on tithing until I get to a passage that talks about tithing. Right. You know? And so that way the congregation gets an accurate understanding of how often does God really talk about giving or hell or heaven or sin or the cross because I I'm just gonna preach through Mark right now and it's amazing to me how often demons come up Yeah. You know, I mean so it ends up being an issue and the point is the Bible if the Bible has that much of it in it in the diet Then let's let that much of it of it come out in the diet. Right. He's John Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossers Valley Chapel. The other voice you hear is Dan Sexton, Senior Pastor of Calvary Chapel, Ellicott City. I'm Troy Skinner, host of the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. And we've been saying things kind of critical perhaps, maybe unintentionally, of the more topical kind of approach. Is that fair? Are are we meaning to be critical? And if so, is there biblical support for us being critical of that? Is there some biblical reason to think that expository preaching is the way to go? That that's the way God intends for preaching to take place on Sundays The silence is definite. John, you want to take that one? Does the Bible say that you should preach expositorily? No, but it but it does leave us with the impression that that man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of the Lord. The case is that the Bible's abundantly clear that the Word of God is our daily bread. It's how we live. Jesus said that if my words remain in you and you remain in me, then you will bear much fruit. And so anything that's going to help the word of God to not just be an intellectual exercise, but to but to come alive, to to to open up so that it slips past our intellect down into our heart. so that it can bring a change, so that it can bring conviction of sin, so that it can bring a uh a sense of transforming us by renewing our minds. The emphasis is not on um you know whether or not you're topical or expository, but whether or not you know how to let the word of God speak for itself. And if you're doing that and you're you're allowing all of the the topics that are in scripture to be a part of your diet, those are what's key. And so so a an expository approach that preaches preaches straight through hits those things. And so if there was another way to do it that was you know, like lectionaries another way. Um y you hear about these lectionaries where there's somebody somewhere that's really intelligent that's thinking through what are all the major themes of the Bible that need to be hit and uh and so let's put those topics up there so that I I think most lectionaries work in a three year um uh rotation that every three years if you're in a church that preaches according to a lectionary you'll hit all of the most important topics of the scripture and you'll hit them in a solid way that's not too fast So that you can really learn them that kind of thing. You know, but the point is is that you want the word of God to speak for itself in the past. when he's on his way to Jerusalem for the last time where he's going to be arrested and ultimately sent to Rome, uh he stops to meet with the elders of the church of Ephesus there on the shores of Miletus, and he warns them. uh about things to come in the church. And one of the things that he says though is in Acts chapter 20, verse 27, I have not shunned to declare to you all the counsel of God. And he says, Your blood's not on my hands because I've declared to you all the counsel of God. And so whatever your approach is, you gotta cover all the counsel of God. And I think that is And hobby horses and personal vendettas and I think that's uh you know impossible to do How important is it if you're gonna if you're gonna try to preach the way that you're advocating for preaching, you know, to really get into the nitty-gritty and really understand and grapple with this in a serious way and be able to share that with the congregation on Sundays and other times. Yeah. Uh how important is, you know, the way pastors are trained? How important is it to consider the way pastors are trained? Is it important how important is the classical seminary training? How important is it that uh the person be uh through some sort of systemani systematized training that maybe a particular denomination will put you through to make sure you understand the doctrines of that particular uh you know, system of belief that that denomination holds or whatever. How important is that? Is it not important at all? Well th this is the thing. Those people that develop the great doctrines of the ages, Martin Luther uh John Calvin Augustine, those guys were students of scripture, you know, and and so their their treatises, their books, their writings covered all of scripture. But but on a Sunday morning you're not going to be able to present, you know, ideas that are going way over people's heads. You want to present the word of God to them in a way that it that it's real, that that it's relevant to what they're going through. And Um unfortunately seminary has ha uh around the turn of the century, back in the nineteen hundreds, was so infused at every level uh Harvard, Yale, all of the all the theological seminaries uh across the nation were so infused with s with a scientific world view that they threw out any kind of belief that the word of God was either inspired or whether or not it was actually true. You know, whether or not the miracles had ever happened. And so there there tended to be then from the nineteen hundreds on a move away from among uh people that really believe the word of God to be the word of God, away from seminary training and more towards, look, if we've got the Word of God and we know and understand the Word of God, let's not send them off to Yale where they're going to be taught that they can't believe the word of God anymore. Nevertheless, um there seems to be a little bit of an orientation that that the more intellectual you know, that you get in terms of trying to figure out all those things that the that that the door opens for the potential to go liberal. And so a lot of seminaries ended up being called cemeteries because it's where people's people with a strong faith went to die. Their faith would die, you know, at the cemetery, at the seminary while they were there. And so uh the orientation and and the charismatic movements, a lot of the Pentecostal movements was away from saying, look, if you go get a four-year degree, then we'll give you a sample of of approval and we think it's okay for you to preach. Instead of saying, well, you know what, Christ had his disciples for three years. They didn't go through any formal training from what we know. They just were trained up. And then according to their gifts they went out and and and preached and and taught and and were apostles and prophets. Well, let's just make sure that that people know the whole counsel of God and and when we feel like they know it and we feel like there's maturity and they they feel like there's strength that's release them to go They don't need to know what Augustine taught and what what Luther taught. They need to know the Word of God. And if they know that well, that's sufficient. Right. I I would say too, as you look in the scriptures, you look in the book of Acts What you see is men full of the Holy Ghost and that's their that's their, you know, authenticity. Except for Paul was trained by Gamelliel. Yeah. Yeah. But you know, uh in Acts chapter four, for example, there's Peter and John, uh they get arrested for preaching the gospel. Uh Peter preaches to the religious leaders and it says he's full of the Holy Ghost. as he preaches. And then it says the religious leaders they they marvel because they know Peter and John are ignorant men, they're uneducated men. But that they've been with Jesus at this point. For probably three years or so, but most at least conservative scholars would say So wouldn't that be the equivalent of a seminary education? To spend three years under the master himself? Well that that's the point. those people that are less inclined towards a seminary education will say is look, what does it mean to be with Jesus? It doesn't mean that you go sit under some professor that's going to tell you what Martin Luther and and Calvin and Augustine and Anselm and all the you know people through the ages said about Christ. But what it means to be with Jesus is to sit under somebody that that is a pastor, whoever it is And you're really growing. You're really studying the Word of God. In fact, John says in uh in in his uh epistles, he says that you have no need for anyone to teach you because you have an anointing from the Holy One that will teach you what you need to know. You know, and so if that's the case, what we need to know is whether or not a person's been with Jesus. whether they know Jesus and that they are that they know the whole counsel of God. We do need to watch our life and doctrine closely. We need to be very vigilant about these things. But like it says in Peter, that we make every effort to add to our faith goodness to goodness, knowledge, to denial and self-control, that if you if you possess these qualities in increasing measure that will keep you from being ineffective and unproductive in your walk with the Lord Jesus Christ. That that What you want to know is whether or not somebody is continuing to grow and really pressing into into Christ. That do they know Christ? In the little bit of time we have left, I want to make sure that um uh I th I think I'm going to be speaking for you. If I'm wrong, correct me, but I want to make sure that the if I am speaking correctly, that people don't misunderstand what either one of you is saying. I don't think you're speaking against seminary training. Perhaps you're just speaking against the n the necessity for seminary training. Right. But in fact there's some people that I think I think should go get seminary training because they have a calling on their life And and an anointing, it's it's a destiny in God to not just deal with just the word of God, but to understand what the saints through the ages have said and to to You know, deal with those things on a different level. There are conservative seminaries out there. In fact, I have a seminary training I don't know that you do. I have a bachelor's degree from a secular university and that's it. And I have a bachelor's that is a secular university. I mean a secular bachelor's, but then I have a uh graduate degree in uh seminary. Quick bragging for cran. Alright, that's gonna be the end of the show. Yeah, yeah. What do you have? That's what I want to know. I have lots of questions for answers. Yes I'm Troy Skinners, uh host of the uh Fa Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Footman Fleming and Heating. How could we make you smile? Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Dan Sexton, senior pastor at Calvary Chapel, El Cott City, thanks so much. Check us out on the web, WFMD. com. He word faith and thanks for listening, God bless.