Welcome to the Frederick's Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? It's your first time listening to the Frederick Faith debate. Welcome. You're in for a wild ride. Not really, because look who I have in the studio with me. Jonathan Swife, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dan Sexton, the senior pastor of Calvary Chapel in Ellicott City. Um if you're listening last week we talked about the inauguration and we'll think leading up to the inauguration that's now behind us, so let's get over it already and move on to other topics, all right? Great Uh well you said that was much news. I bet the news media is not letting us get past it for quite a while. But speaking of the newsbeat, I do want to uh kinda kickstart what we're gonna talk about today with this article or actually it's a uh uh uh like a Deer Abbey uh thing from the newspaper. Okay. Uh the title on this you can read these every day? No. This one just kind of captured my attention. This is the uh Thursday, December 18th edition of last year. Orchestrated greetings is strike sour note with churchgoers. And so that that headline kind of caught my attention. Huh, what's that? Orchestrated greetings. I will say on occasion by the end to answer your question a little more fully I will glance uh quickly kind of uh uh have you ever written to do have no have you ever read hints for Halloween from Halloween? Well wait a minute. But in like fifteen, thirty seconds or less I'll try to scan really quick and kind of see where she's going with some of her advice and kind of see you know what I make of that advice, whether I feel like it fits with my worldview, that sort of thing. But I don't read it uh on any sort of regular basis. I don't want to I'm just trying just trying to be accurate in my response. Anyway, dear Abby I take exception to your reply to minister's daughter, Cayukos California, September 8th, who objected to the greeting and handshaking moment during church service that is dictated by the minister. I happen to agree wholeheartedly with daughter's sentiments, as do many other members of my church. We feel that the moment is manipulated, interrupts the flow of the service, and creates a false What does that mean? What does that mean? Bonhami, uh you know, feel good, uh rapport, reporte, uh we're all just good friends. Word of the day. Bonhame. It's fun to say, I'll say that. Yeah yeah. Sounds like some f is it a foreign word or sounds like a foreign word. Actually I think it's Irish Bonami. Is it really? I think so. Irish, yes. Anyway, none of us great with gravy on it too. Can we get some potatoes without we're we're we're interrupting the uh the the letter to Abby. Oh right. Sorry, Abby. Very rude of us. Please forgive us. So where are we? We feel the moment so Van Hami. None of us is unfriendly, ungracious, or reluctant to make others feel welcome in our church, but we would prefer to do it spontaneously. before or after the service, when we actually feel moved to make the gesture. Lynn in Charlottesville, Virginia. Now um dear Lynn, Abby respond. Okay. I understand your sentiments. Uh that said, I stand by my answer. I told Minister's daughter that I didn't think it was too much to ask, to reach out for a moment to ensure that everyone felt included. However, I received a ton of mail on this subject, and opinions were decidedly mixed. Read on. Now, I don't know if I need to read on. I think that sets the stage for what we want to talk about. First of all Does your church have a section where in the middle of everything you say, by the way, let's pause and for the next 30 seconds Five minutes, twelve hours, whatever the production might be. Meet uh uh a your neighbor. Like in a Roman Catholic context, it's you know offer your the person next to you the sign of peace or whatever, you know, and they use the peace. Yeah, we do that and it's uh it's usually a good five to seven minutes that we do it, uh the sound guy brings music back up and and people will talk and embrace and hug and And uh use it as an opportunity to run to the bathroom if they need to. Uh it's John Crossroads. How how along those lines can I ask how long your services tend to go? Uh about an hour and a half, an hour and forty five minutes. Uh we also take a break. We'll probably go about five minutes. Okay, why do you do that? Well, I think a couple of reasons. Uh uh uh practically speaking, it gives the worship band a chance to get off the the platform and get down to their seats and that kind of thing. Um but i it's just I guess tradition maybe. It's always been part of it. It was part of the church I was in. uh before. Uh we planned at this church and so I guess tradition. Similar reasons at Crossroads? Practical reasons. And it's a little bit more. I'm trying to see if I can come up with some kind of a deep uh, you know, theological reason, but I don't think there is, you know. Romans chapter seven, verse eight says I mean when we come off, you know, being a more uh uh charismatic contemporary congregation, we've been singing together Oftentimes people have read different scriptures or maybe they they've they've uh had the chance to uh to pray, you know, for together about some, you know, ministry or something in the congregation. Just kind of gives the chance for everybody to connect, it gives a chance for the moms. or or dads to take their kids uh out to the nursery. Uh we take our offering during that same time, you know, so people come up and put their offering in the basket during the same time. So it's just kind of uh there's a bunch of things that happen right there. Though I would tend to agree that every good conversation that you're gonna kinda get started in that few minutes uh is going to end up being frustrated because I mean a good conversation It's gonna tend to go just a little bit more longer than that. Yeah, yeah. Five and a half minutes anyway. So I mean is is that's why we go seven minutes. It's amazing how much can be done in the next or two minutes. So what would have to happen? Like would you have to have people come and write you letters like uh Lynn from uh Charlottesville? See I I think for us it's and it's probably the same with your church, John. I mean we're the body of Christ, and Jesus said that people will know us by our love one for another. There's fellowship going on before the service, there's fellowship going on after the service. And I think even though it's only five or ten minutes long, there's genuine fellowship going on during those five minutes. It's a you know it's not just a formal kind of sterile you know, peace be with you in a handshake and you sit back down, people are really embracing, you see people walking across the auditorium to see to someone or talk to someone. But there's real connection going on. Do we get together just to sing together? Do we get you know, like in some churches, you know, you sing a hymn, stand up, sing a hymn, you sit down, you know, somebody reads the scriptures, stand up, sing another hymn, sit down, you know, and you uh you I mean there's all kinds of different uh liturgies that congregations have for various reasons And the point is that we're to be the body of Christ. Part of that is fellowship, greet one another, look each other in the eye with a genuine look that just says hello You know, some people get to church late so they can't do it ahead of time. Some people have to leave right afterwards, so they can't do it afterwards. You know, it just gives that, you know, a little bit of a chance in the middle. to connect with one another and to say hi. You know, in in our church we uh we have home groups as well that we encourage people to be a part of during the week And so, um, you know, maybe they just haven't seen each other for a couple days, you know, hey, I just want to say hi or or hey, we were praying for you. I saw that thing go around on the email, how you doing? you know, just just a little bit extra opportunity for people to be human and connect with one another, you know, around our fellowship, you know, of the ministry of Jesus Christ. I think too, in just watching the congregation, there are people And you can tell it's awkward for them, maybe they're uncomfortable with it, and they'll say hi to the person right behind them and then sit down and kind of look through their bulletin or something and and and not really interact with people. But I think overall people enjoy it You know, yeah, uh on something like Dear Abbey, I'd love to meet the person. And so often when you meet somebody and you find out their personality, you get a read on what they're like. you know, can go a long way or even the congregation, you know, to to understanding what's going on there. You know, it sounds to me like there's there's probably other issues involved, you know, there's a little bit of bitterness and resentment that I uh that that you know, clearly comes across they feel manipulated. Well feeling manipulated is something that tends to, you know, uh pile on if you're for some reason maybe in a congregation where the there's some s the the spiritual leadership is manipulative, maybe, you know, a little bit off. You know, so so it's such a complex question that to answer it at just the surface level I think probably ends up missing. Well my my experience. I don't know that my experience, you know, is at all representative necessarily, but it might uh might connect with certain people. Uh you're pretty normal. Pretty. Just for the record, I mean I felt like that needed to be said on the radio. But my experience, and I've I've uh been at a number of churches over the years and My experience has been those churches that already have uh a relatively close knit uh feel to them, where they're kinda connected anyway, where they're talking before the service and after the service in those churches where they have a moment where you get together in the middle of the service for three minutes, seven minutes, whatever it is it feels quite a uh uh quite less awkward than the the the churches that don't have that cohesiveness and then it does feel forced and there's an an antiseptic feeling like okay this feels really creepy. Yeah the pastor's working really hard to try to get us to each other. person goes to but she might go to a really large church where she doesn't know the people she's around and it's like came supposed to like pretend I care about these people. I don't even know them So maybe that's probably the same thing. with two or three other people, you know, share prayer requests real quick and pray with one another. And I was there and I was like, whoa, I'm gonna share like right now with these people that I've never met before and uh and yet, you know, if it's a pattern and pattern is key You know, if it's a pattern that you do these kinds of things then then you end up finding ways to milk it for all it's worth. You know, but You know, if there's a reason to to be resisting what's going on in the congregation, then there's all kinds of reasons to be frustrated with it, you know, and to to resist it. And so Um I again the spirit of how it's presented, what's going on in the congregation, change and those kinds of things. Here's a related question, but coming down from everything. You guys ever uh notice that people in your church have a tendency to sit in kind of the same place objectively. You ever thought about like, you know, having a forced seat exchange? Stand up in the middle of the service. Alright, you guys go sit over there. You guys go sit over there. We're gonna play music. Yeah. We're gonna take away chairs. You guys already know left and you gotta leave. No You should do that. Let me know that someday you can do it, I'll show you. It'd be fun though. You're right. And the purpose of church is fun. Everything laughter. Joy, right? Why not? Yes. Yes. One of these days Perhaps. You will have a chance to be a pastor. I look forward to that day. I think you know, from a from a pastor's point of view, I like that the people sit in the same place every week. And I can notice if someone hasn't been there for a couple weeks. Or the other thing too is that you know the same people start to doze off every week And so you don't have to worry about eye contact. I can always look at that guy. consistently pastor lets you go. It makes it easier for me. That's right. That's right. Well let's see if any of these other responses spark any additional conversation with the other thing. I will say too for me The first time I really set foot in a church I was twenty five. Uh and a and during the greeting time, I I distinctly remember uh during the greeting time The guy in front of me turning around and I just shook his hand and said, How you doing? And he started asking me these questions about myself. And here I was, I wasn't a believer, I wasn't born again or anything. I'm just first time in church. And this guy is, hey where are you from? What do you know? What's your favorite color? Yeah. And in fact what was really funny for me was uh there was a guy at that church, uh at Calvary Chapel Gulf Breeze that was a taller guy and he had a beard and he had long hair And he was married to a girl that was uh my wife or my girlfriend at the time. It was a friend of hers from elementary school that they grew up together and uh that my wife and his wife knew each other And he was born again on fire, full of the Holy Spirit, and this guy looked like Jesus. He had the long hair and the beard. And during the greeting time, this guy would come and find me. Give me a big hug and oh I love you man, I'm so glad you're here. And it used to freak me out. Yeah. And because plus he looked like Jesus, you know, it was really wigging me out that this guy would do this, but See this I'm okay, I'm a pastor now. I'm okay, you know. It worked out the biggest problems with church because for people that have been there for a while warm greetings, they know one another, but for people that are new, it's kinda like a first date. And on a first date you don't want to act too familiar. 'Cause if you act too familiar, like you're saying, it kinda wigs people out. But at the same time you want to communicate that you're interested in something more. And so there's kind of that that in between, what do they want more, you know? Well I kinda want more, you know, and and and do we go on a second date? You know, so so there's that sense with with you know when when you have a visitor that you want to be warm, you want to embrace 'em, but you know Yeah. You know, what is what does it mean when you've gone too far or too familiar with somebody? And you know, striking a healthy balance there is something of a cultural thing and we're such a multicultural society anymore where there's no norm socially that it's hard to strike a balance that Everybody that comes in is going to feel comfortable with. And I you know, going back to something you said a few minutes ago about being in a church where they had everybody pray for one another, we've done that a few times in our church. A lot of times Uh if a lot of people are coming up before the service with issues going on in their lives, they're heavy about something, and I can just sense by you know the Holy Spirit's shown me that Yeah. Man, there's there's a lot of stuff going on in the church right now. And instead of doing the normal greeting of saying, Hey, turn to someone and say hello, I'll say, Hey, why don't you get in groups of three or four and just share one thing that you want prayer for. You don't have to go into any detail and the person next to you just pray just a couple sentences for you. And uh And it you know, sometimes you'll see people they kinda you know the the blood drains out of their face at the thought of that. Yeah. But almost every time I've had someone come up to me afterwards and say I've never prayed out loud for someone before. Or something like that. You know And I think too for e you have to keep in mind, you know, you want to be sensitive to people that are new there or whatever are are visiting for the first time, but the church is for the body of Christ. It's for the it's for the the believers, you know, and for us to minister one to another. Coming back to the question about manipulation and that kind of thing. I'm of the opinion that Sunday morning is a discipleship time. Right. You know, you're not just there just to go through rituals because that's what you're supposed to do in order to receive the grace of God, but it's a time, you know, for us all to grow to be more Christlike. And so the leadership of the congregation should have a a certain vision and a certain uh you know, sense that they're that they're wanting to lead the congregation into more growth into more Christ like this and you know, to have them practice greeting one another. Well, I mean you practice everything else in life. You know, y you go to you go out to to soccer practice and you practice dribbling, you practice shooting, you practice, practice, practice. We don't practice this show. Why not Yeah. You can tell by the chair. I've been very concerned about the cat. Yeah. You let the cat out of the bag, that's hard. Now they know. They wondered. Now they knew. They knew. So anyways, yes. You're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer? Say hello. Hello. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor Cross Right Chapter. And uh Dan Sexton, say hello. Hello. Senior Pastor Calvary of Ch uh Chapel in Alicot City. How do you say hello so you could connect the voices with the names So you know who to be mad at. These are the last two letters on the subject to Abby. When I attended church with my husband and family, I never cared for the forced greeting custom However, now that I'm divorced and attend church alone, I realize that the human contact is priceless. He's looking to find a date during the greeting time at church. One Sunday our minister said, Turn to the people next to you and tell them they are beautiful I turned and the woman next to me said, Hello. Has anyone told you that you were beautiful? Even though it was a forced greeting, it touched my heart. Speaking as someone who lives alone and who never hears those words, it brightens my day. The greeting, like the church and life, is not about what you get, but about what you give to someone else. Greeter with a new attitude. Very interesting. So by the way, whether you're going to church today or not, go find somebody and tell them that they look beautiful. Huh? Seriously. Troy, I bet nobody said that to you for a while. You look beautiful. See now why would you bet that? But no, well that that's the thing, it was a backhand compliment. We kinda cancel it out, right? Totally, right, right. But you know, I think though you look at the ministry of Jesus And Jesus touched untouchables. He he physically laid his hands upon lepers. You know, and there were I think there was something to that with him. with touching people that no one else was willing to touch. And I think a greeting time, that might be the only time someone sitting in the congregation interacts with another human being all week. You know, or has a polite thing said to them, or a hand put on a shoulder, or a a to shake their hand, or a hug. You know, my wife is very careful, especially with women and and if they're a woman by themselves, she'll make a point to to touch their shoulder or to hug them. Even if they're uncomfortable with it, she'll do it. And the rallies men need that as well. Yeah. I mean if they're single men they you know they they don't don't have a chance to connect with people. But the man in the churches, if the woman's uncomfortable Don't touch her and press her women or whatever. Right. They care about it. Right. I think especially in our society uh here, you know, I I moved up here from the Bible Belt and from the South where uh you know, you you say hello to people on the street, you say hello to strangers. uh down there. You don't do that here. You know, people people here keep to themselves for the most part. That's true. And and so I I think it it there's something about that physical interaction that takes place during a greeting time or before or after a service that's important for people because they're not getting it out in the world here. Well said. Here's the last letter to Abby. Okay. We started this type of greeting years ago, and I also think more people don't like it. I hate it when people cover their face with their hand when they cough or sneeze. and then offer a handshake. We all know that colds and flu are transmitted this way. Is this a lady writing after? It's Andre in Ottawa. So that could be a a female or male name, right? Not Andrea. It's A-N-D-R-E-E. Andre? I don't know. I could go either way, okay. So anyway. After hearing complaints, our pastor now asks that we offer a sign of peace. Whatever that was a peace on all the two hand fingers? I don't know. Hey I'm not a crook, don't touch me, but hey, peace. I much prefer this and I offer a smile and say Boy, I wish I took Latin in high school. La Paxte's Signor. La Pag God's peace be with you. Yeah, La Paste's. I've butchered the Latin, I'm sure. I apologize for those that know how to say that in Latin However, I never refuse a handshake if one is offered. Yeah, but come on, we shake hands all day long. And I will the point is whatever you do during that time should be culturally normal. You know, and it's not that unusual to shake somebody's hand. Which is why I do think that uh it it does feel really weird on a semi semi-related note to have a shared cup. Right. For the wine. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Yeah, it's not a cultural norm anymore. I guess maybe once upon a time it was, but it's not the cultural norm to share glasses with anyone. Right So to have a hundred people or five hundred people or however large your church is all drinking out of the same vessel. But they wipe it off with that little tab. Yeah, but there's that little bit of spittle that comes out there, you know, that's uh uh you know I wouldn't want to be the last person taking a sift. You know what I mean? Where hurt is your face? Yeah. Step out of the boat. Well, I don't think that scripture tells me I have to take a drink out of a cup that five hundred people have just taken a drink out of. So I think I'm probably okay on that one. I don't know. But maybe so they can tell me. I uh I was asked that question recently by the way. Whether or not you're literally Yeah, j that exact question within within a week. Yeah, you know it's come up it's come up in a couple places recently for me as well. How did it come up for you Well uh how'd you answer it? Yeah, well I'll give you that 'cause give you the how it came up would take longer than we have left on the show to kind of set the the the the context and the and the frame it and all that, but Uh at first I wanted to make sure that we were defining the term. Yeah. Which is still my way anyway. Right. But I said, you know, that can mean literalists can mean different things to different people. So I wanted to define the terms and the person wasn't clear w in what I meant by the question when I said, Well, how are you defining literalists? So I offered a couple of you know uh m major understandings of the word and uh and then said now if you want to define literalist as somebody who takes all the truths as put forth in the Bible as being literally true I'm a literalist. But I don't believe that there are certain aspects of the Bible that should be read line for line, word for word, in some sort of wooden literal way, I mean some of the stuff is clearly poetry, and you don't read that genre literally. You know, sometimes an eagle is an eagle. Sometimes an eagle is a symbol. You know, see I think you know, I I think a po uh apocalypse needs to be read a certain way. In apocalyptic script. Yeah. I think that uh uh historical narrative I take it as historical narrative and I believe that those things literally happen, that they're they're historical truths, because that's the way it's it's put forth. I think parables are to be understood as, you know, allegory, metaphor, you know, that sort of thing. But that doesn't mean that the truths that are behind what's being. So you don't think that there's a beast that's gonna come out of the ocean that's gonna have seven heads and ten horns uh is literally true? I wouldn't put it outside the scope of possibility, but that's not how I understand those passages now. Yes. But it's so much more exciting. I mean nobody's gonna come to your church if you're a boring church. I mean come on, people come for that stuff. I'm kidding. Well we were talk was it off the year or on the air we were talking about the the the the the nudest guys It was off the air. Definitely off the air. Well we should have a new church in Frederick, huh? Oh, oh, oh. Wow, you just like really interesting direction of the thing. Yeah, keeping Frederick. I'm trying to not take you literally on that. That that'd get people coming. What? That's right. They'd at least show up in the parking lot. Now we don't we have like a minute left, so we're not gonna dive into any additional topics today. Parting thoughts or words on the you know Dear Abbey letter or anything else we've talked about thus far. Thirty seconds closing statement. Why should I vote for you? No, I'm just kidding. Fruit of the spirit is love. Love for one another. Okay. Jonathan beat that one. Uh I just think that uh we need to be very, very relaxed. We just need to relax. You know, there's certain things that we do in church and don't make it into bigger than what it is. You know, if your pastor's manipulating you then you gotta deal with the root issue, not you know, just some thing that you do every Sunday morning. Alright, so let's just relax. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Dan Sexton, Senior Pastor at Calvary Chapel in Ellicott City. Thank you for being on the show. Thanks to our sponsor. Footman, flooding, and heating, how can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. You've been listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Again, thanks for listening. God bless you.