Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator. I encourage you to visit us online as well as listen to us on the air. Simple enough to do wfmd. com keyword faith And you can listen to this show and all previous shows via podcast in the Audio Vault section of the website. Not every show we've ever done is up there, but uh probably seventy five percent or so are up there. The Frederick Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for local religious leaders to come together and talk about their view of things. And in to the last several weeks on this show we've had a a a really fascinating uh discussion uh brewing between uh Bupesh Mehta, the Secretary of the Jane Society of Metropolitan Washington in Silver Spring, and Jonathan Sweitzer, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. uh in Frederick. And we suspected this was the case before we started the shows and we've completely come to realize that we were right on the money that Christianity and Jainism are very very different. In fact they're possibly polar opposites. And the conversation was continuing in earnest uh at the conclusion of last week's show and if you were listening last week you heard me mention that uh we were kind of done with this subject matter for a while but Yeah, we just continued to go and I thought, you know, let's do one more show on this. There's lots of passion of and and difference here and uh and Bupesh is is very able to articulate uh what uh what Jaynes believe and is also asking some very um good um um In uh insightful, and to the point direct questions about Christianity to Jonathan. And so I th I thought it was it was worth uh picking this up again. In case you didn't hear of the last four shows. Yes. Uh Jainism is a uh what I'm going to call a micro-minority religion uh around the world. It's not like Christianity or Islam or Hinduism or Buddhism which have, you know, millions and millions and millions of adherents, uh b billions in some cases uh around the world. In fact, uh where we live, uh in this region uh of the world, there are, you know, five or six hundred uh Jains that we know of anyway in the Greater Washington DC area. Is that correct? Right. Uh but I want to say that uh there are uh about sixty three Jane centers in the United States and uh Uh and there is a population which is growing tremendously. Uh so uh the the fi five hundred and fifty members in this area alone, uh in in Maryland part of it, but Uh there's a uh huge number of Jains uh here in the U. uh Jainism or what it means to be a Jain by saying that. My point is you probably aren't real familiar with what it What you know, what's a Jane? I never heard of that before. Uh well, there's a reason you're not gonna run into a lot of 'em, uh at least in our neck of the woods. Yeah. So we spent quite a bit of time walking through what it means to be a Jane, uh, what their beliefs are and that sort of thing. And I'm not going to walk through what all of that is, but one of the real central points we've spent some time talking about these last couple of weeks was anti-violence. Um and we got into the the idea of uh Christians aren't pro-violence, but we define what it means to be violent so differently because uh for a Jain Uh a human being and uh a potato both have a soul. And so to do harm to a potato is is a violent act and it should be refrained from. Uh a Christian, obviously. Well uh well if you're not familiar Especially if you're an Irish Catholic, because potatoes are really important to you. So we have a very different uh uh point of view on that. And there's also a very different idea of who God is or uh even saying who God is is really a misnomer. Uh Jane would say what God is. They don't believe that God is a who. Uh well they believe God is in you. They believe that God is in you in your soul but it's not a pure perfect soul. It's it's really a qualitative thing. It's not a personal thing. The Christian view of course is that God is absolute and personal. And that raises the question that we don't have to spend the whole show on it, but I alluded to this uh in between shows about absolutes. Um I do believe that there is an absolute God and that he is a personal God. Jonathan would would concur. He's nodding right now as I say this. Um Because there's an absolute God, there is an absolute truth. Whatever God says is so, is so because God says so. That makes it absolutely true. We have hinted in earlier shows, not hinted is the wrong word, but we've spent a little bit of time uh on on um appreciating different points of view And that truth can be known from different perspectives. In fact you keep giving a word for it. What's the word that you give? It's one of the three principles. Antakatalad. Anikantua. So when you say that Jains value different points of view and different perspectives on the truth Are you s are you still saying what I would say is that there is one truth. We might understand that truth somehow differently because we have limited perception or whatever. Right. But that there is at the end of the day an absolute truth. Do you believe that or do you believe that If I h hold something entirely different than you do, that we could both be right even though they're completely divergent views. Yeah, do you think we're right? Well If you talk about killing or harm, uh I would disagree and say, No, that's not right because hurting anyone is is uh is not right. Uh but loving everyone, um, having desires and passion is again um I would not consider that as uh the right act, uh controlling yourself, being neutral, um being uh compassionate, being loving but but not being attached. There is a difference between uh loving and having and being attached. You might have uh things, uh, but wherever you have a fear of losing it, that's where you have the attachment of it. You know, there's a uh you might not have seen this and Jonathan doesn't get a whole lot of pop culture influence in his life, so he might not have either. But uh either of you seen Jerry Maguire, the movie from the mid nineties? Yeah. Did you ever see that movie? I actually see a whole ton of movies. Okay, just have yeah, I don't listen to a whole lot of music. But yeah Jonathan and anybody else who has seen this will get it pretty quickly. If you haven't, let me kind of set it up. The the movie is about this sports agent. who really doesn't have any sense of what it really means to love someone and to give himself fully into a relationship. He's He's really good at relationship and really bad at love. It's kind of a a theme, an overarching theme in the movie. And there's a critical point in the movie, uh, or there's a crisis point. He ends up getting married Um primarily because he has this fondness for the main character, the main female character's son. Yeah. Kind of this weird uh relationship that they have And she uh recognizes that this is not a in her mind a healthy relationship, and she says to him, You know, I realize that you really care about my son, and you sure do like me a lot But that's not enough. And it sounds to me like what Jane is talking about as being love is what I would describe as, well, you sure do like me a lot. But you're not attached to me in a passionate, viscerable visceral, heartfelt, gut-wrenching, self-sacrificial way. And it seems hollow. And I think that's what Jonathan was kinda getting at maybe in last week's show a little bit. What what is your first thing first thing I want to say is uh everyone is wondering for happiness. Everyone wants happiness. Any religion, any person, they all want happiness. They don't want sadness. That's No, I would say that what what all of us are looking for is unfailing love. Eternal love. Right. Eternal love. Why why do you want that eternal love? Uh that I'm saying that that eternal love is worthy of being wanted just for itself. It brings along with it a happiness. Joy. Tremendous peace. Again, joys and peace. No, no, no, no. Joy joy is very different from happiness. Okay. Joy in the in a biblical sense is something that rises up and that that is a very intense emotion that drives and strengthens everything that the believer does. It's a very attached emotion. There's nothing detached about it. uh in in uh in a biblical world view. And and the love is is something that you're strongly attached to in and in covenant relationship with one another. Yes, but I do I I I'm feeling this uh press to to mention this. Yeah. Uh Jerry Maguire is is a f fantastically well-made movie. However, it is rated R and it's rated R for a reason. Yes. So don't run out and And have the kids watch this or you know, if you can get an edited version or clear play, there's these these The bad part of it is right at the beginning because he He puts out this tomey about wanting to be more open with people and so he gets really open with them in a way that's very perverse. Yeah, and there's a lot of language stuff. I I don't want you to be shocked because you heard on the faith debate almost an endorsement of the movie. If you can't see an edited version of the movie and you're sensitive to those sorts of things, you don't want to watch it. If you want to see an edited version, uh then I would he heartily recommend it to you. I uh I apologize. I just I felt Like I might have been leading somebody astray on that one. Yeah. Um the first thing is um Well, my thought was basically everyone uh no one wants sadness, sorrow. They they're all looking for something healthy, something good, something uh joyful, something something happy so that they can live happily and s and things. Now attachment is again when you lose something You get worried. And and again you said that you love so much and you're attached, you you you feel the the passion. Why do you want to get that sadness? Because if you're you cannot have happiness if you're not willing to deal with the sadness. But why is that a justice? Like if it is my thing you don't become that sad. If it is your thing you g become that sad. Why I'll shoot straight with. with you. I feel like what you describe that Jane's belief is a robot. There's there's nothing worth living for there. It's just a machine. What you described to me, we're so we're so detached from everything that there is no joy of life. And everything that that Christ is about, everything that the Bible is about is that God created this world that's beautiful so that we would love the beauty, that has flavor so that we would love the flavor, that has all these animals and and people that we would love one another and most important that we would have this passionate covenant relationship with uh with God through Jesus Christ. like in the qualities which we term like it's not that we don't believe in anything. Second thing, uh when I say believe in God is believing the qualities, believing in yourself. So w And when you were talking about um uh like uh uh love and and things like that, those desires, those passions Uh basically if you think that you are being bore if you have too much attachment to something, what will that attachment, that desire, will cause if you don't get it? See, this is where I disagree. I I'm of the opinion that I can want something with every fiber of my being, right, and choose to not be sinful in my pursuit of that thing. I can I can love God with all of my being and be totally be attached to it. Uh so much so I feel like maybe I'm gonna, you know, lose him or something, so much so that I feel like I'm gonna lose my my relationship with a person and I so desire it to to to be righteous but to choose to not sin in my pursuit of it. Meaning that I don't let that control me. There's only one thing that I feel like we should let control us And that is our passionate love for God. We should be all out one hundred percent totally in love with God. Everything that comes b comes comes uh kinda comes down from that. My love for my wife is second most important. And you know, it's more important than work It's more important than my kids, it's more important than my dog. Are you doing justice to your wife by loving more other things than your wife? Will she feel better if you say I love someone else more than you? She and I were very clear from the beginning that I don't feel like she can love me unless she loves God with all of her heart. And then if she'll love God with all of her heart, then I know that God will teach her to love me. passionate love. Your love passionate is towards God, not with your wife. Absolutely that is first and foremost. So but they're connected together. But because of that, God has taught us to love one another with a passion and attachment that is uh that is heavenly at every sense of the word. It's an incredible. It's not an either or I think. I don't know that it i it it fits really to try to set them up as you're loving God and not loving your wife or whatever. They they're they're drawn together and there's a there's a a Well Jesus Christ does say unless you hate your mother, brother, you know, sisters, you cannot be my disciple. There is a sense that that you have to love God. Because of that, the Bible is this theme, particularly in the New Testament, but I think it's throughout the whole Bible about this th th everything is centered on Christ. Christ and and the Christian belief is that there's a unity in Christ. And Christ uh and Jesus Christ is God, because the the Trinitarian uh view that Christians have. And so you're loving God, but if your wife uh is also loving God, you are in unity with Christ. And so there's a there's an uh uh I I don't even know how to try to explain it, but there's this connection. You know, but what I feel I feel is when you say loving your wife is Jainism not broader enough to love all human beings, all living beings? Is that not love? When we talk about attacking that you should love everybody. Right. But uh but there's a see, there's a difference between a prostitute who loves a lot of people Um and you talk about a uh monk who loves everybody. Right. Now tell me what is different. Does God have a body and a soul? No. What is he made up of? He is spirit. He is spirit, so there's no body. Uh the b yeah, well he Jesus Christ is a body and a soul. But Jesus Christ is fully human and fully God. Fully man, fully God, and so the it's the human nature is really the the the physical part. He takes on humanity He did it one time in all history with Jesus Christ where he took on humanity so that he could die to show us how much he loved us. All right, so basically God came in the form of human and he died for us. Yes And now is he human or his spirit at this point? He is both human and God fully human and fully. The Holy Spirit is still spirit and God the Father is still spirit, but Jesus Christ the Son is both Fully God and fully man. And what we believe is that is that now that we have accepted Christ as our Lord and Savior, that when we die we will have a body just like Jesus Christ, which is a glorified body uh that um that is of a slightly different nature but it's still it's still a body. Right, see the body for eternity. So much different because we believe body as matter Right. So that that's that's a different belief altogether. Which is interesting because because the the idea of anakantvad is the idea that that all truth is different perspectives of the same truth. Like three blind men all touching an elephant in different places would describe something different, but it's all the same elephant. But you would agree that what I'm describing can't be the same elephant. Right. The it the evil things or the bad things is not the same elephant. But the truth is love, compassion. Um and and th those are all love with attachment is something that you believe is evil. And and love with attachment is is the thing that I'm saying is the only and greatest good. It is different beliefs and and I think that uh it it's two different through different totally uh uh di different beliefs. Uh but we're still blind, we're still touching elephant, but we're touching different elements. Or maybe just different animals. Maybe mine's a cat and yours is an elephant. Right, but like one thing I want to s uh be clear about is attachment, like uh it's not that Uh love and attachment, uh right, we we still love everyone. We love all human beings. The only thing is we don't feel sad when we lose it. That's the term with detachment. But it's not that we don't love. We love everyone. When we see any I s I was coming down and I saw trees that had been cut down. It makes me feel sad. Why love for trees, love for everyone. But there is no attachment part of it. Uh l lot of kings who became Tithankras basically they lived a royal life, but they were not attached with that royalty. They were not attached with the comfort. They they were there, they were living their life because of their karmas. Right. See, uh you need to understand that's very elitist I feel like. See w how do you become a king? Your current lifestyle is because of the karmas. You do good karmas, you get good lifestyle. Now Tirtankaras had did so much good karmas in their past life, they become kings, but then their soul was still wandering for the right truth. So all these Sirtankaras basically gave away all their uh comforts and Lord Mahavir if you see his um he's not even without the clothes. It's interesting because well first of all you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Uh he's uh Bupesh Meta, the Secretary of the Jane Society of Metropolitan Washington and Silver Spring. And uh Jonathan Swipes are a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. It's interesting because, you know, uh to offset what you were talking about, the kings and and and the karma and having a better life. I mean what would you make of the life of Jesus I don't know how much you know about it, but what what do you make of the life of Jesus Christ, who came and lived a relatively simple life? Uh the New Testament tells us he didn't have a place to lay his head, didn't really have a home to call his own and then he is convicted as uh a criminal and horribly brutally beaten and hung on a cross to die. Right. Uh like what kind of karma would I tell you exactly what I was what I was thinking about it. Um what my views is basically uh Jesus might have done something really good. He was getting into enlightenment, but karmas no matter what, even Lord Mahavir He they uh the uh the guy who uh takes the cow, he puts uh iron nails in his ears. So no no karma does whether the the guy who um the person who takes care of the cows he basically puts nail puts a nail nail in in Lord Mahavir's ears. Why? Because in his past life Lord Mahavir was a king and he was listening to music and uh he said not to shut down the music even if he falls asleep. He fell asleep, they turned off the music, he got angry and he put um uh the glass in that a particular person's ears because he got angry, he didn't like that he they did not obey. That karma after several thousand years came back. This person he was taking his cow and then he said He Maha Lord Mahavira was in his meditation standing in a jungle and then he comes and says, Can you take care can you look at my cows? I'll be back in a minute. He goes, he comes, the cows are not there. He gets angry on him He puts nail in Lord Mahavira's ear. How the karma cycle ends? Wait, and at that point Lord Lord Mahavira had already attained enlightenment or not? Uh no, he was still oh uh he was still in his human form. And uh the the way that karma got shed was because Lord Mahavira showed no anger or n no disliking. for that person. Right perception, right attitude. I might have done something wrong. In my past life, he's doing something wrong. If I have this passion of anger or anything like that, a dislikes, I'm gonna build more karma which is not gonna help me liberate. This you know view of uh of Passion or non-passion kind of thing is very stoic to use kind of a Western culture. In fact, that's the thing I was thinking about when I was setting up for today. having too m not having highs, not having lows. And it seems like a and obviously I'm agreeing with Jonathan on this, so I hope you don't feel like we're ganging up on you, but uh it seems like that sort of a life is so absent of the best things that that life brings. And I'm going to use an example that Jonathan once shared trying to explain what joy was. You know, and uh big baseball fans, all right. Um they root for their team and their team is about to win the pennant. You know, when they're they're gonna go to the playoffs for the first time in a long time and they're playing a critical game against their arch rivals and It's a close game, it's a seventh inning and you know they were in the lead but now their lead is in jeopardy and maybe they they fall behind again and your hopes are almost dashed, but then the the big power hitter comes up and he gets this towering home run that looks like it could be a h or this towering shot that looks like it might be a home run and you rise from your feet and you're so excited you're thinking, this could be it. We could win the game. We could be w winning the pennant for the first time. And there's this feeling of exuberance and maybe joy is uh the wrong word to use here, but that feeling that rush of This is what it's about. Right. I'm a Chicago Cub fan. They haven't won anything in a hundred years. And so I've had lots of disappointment. But I've and Now let's analyze the situation. But I value both. I value the sorrows and I value those high mountain peak moments. Right, the high peak moments are because of the attachment. Yes, and it's good. It's and that's what I'm saying. Right. And and you know, in Jainism we think that the illusion that we get get of happiness is because of the mohuni economy, it's because of the attachment. The thing that you feel by earning, by having a good house, you get happiness. You're never content and you want more. You want more. Those happiness See see I would agree on a whole slew of things. I would agree that money can never bring that. Mm-hmm. I would agree that my wife can never bring that. I would agree that my kids can never bring that. And so there there is a sense that that I I don't allow uh a level of attachment there that is inappropriate. But I would also say that God can bring that through Jesus Christ. And that therefore I need to be as attached to him as I could possibly be. Right. Now this thing sounds so close like Um you're not that attached to your wife as you're to God. Yep, yep, I'm seeing the the distinction that you're making, right? So nevertheless I'm encouraged to be very attached to her. Right. It's basically we're talking about the same thing you seem to describe. You're talking about your too much attachment to the God. Gautam Swami, who's the first disciple of Lord Mahavira He was so much attached to Lord Mahavir. And he was the first disciple. Lord Mahavir, when he attained uh Nirvana, when he got liberated, he started crying so much. When he started crying, he realized the attachment that he had towards Lord. However What I'm saying is that God created us to be in deep attachment with Him. See, I don't know if creating God's love for us that we would be Intimately connected with him. We're we're gonna have to wrap up and you know this will be the last show for this. It's been nagging at me and I thought we would just kinda naturally get to it and we didn't. So pardon me for kinda ending it with this point because you're not going to have a chance to to respond but and neither is Jonathan. But the Bible does teach uh that the husband is to love the wife as Christ loved the church. And so it's not like our love for our w our is so different than our love for God. It's the same kind of love. We are charged with, we are commanded to have the same kind of a love. So it's not like it's a different love or a different grade of love. It's It's a logical position as opposed to a real position. Logically, God is first, the wife is second, but in reality they're both first. That is the command of Scripture. And we didn't I thought we would kind of swing around into that. We never did and Um anyway with that heavy finish. Well well but I want to say just one thing that when you say logical, right? When you say logical, the qualities of the God are basically logical. We love the qualities of God We love the qualities of God, not as a person but as a quality. We go to temple to pray Him because it's the qualities that we like and we see in us and that's what I want to say that we love every human being But it's not with that passionate, with that attachment. We love everyone because each soul has equal uh equal um, you know, uh potential to be a god. So I Appreciate so much the discussion with that Bhupashmenta, Secretary of the Jane Society of Metropolitan Washington, John Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner, our sponsor is putman plumbing and heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks for listening. God bless