Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Well then plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930. WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, thanking our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. On the panel again this week, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Michael Payne, founder of Take a Stand Ministries. And um this is show four, I think, now in this series. And it likes it will be the last show in this arc. Uh as if you listen to the show with any regularity you know that we have a tendency to kinda to go in arcs with the same panel and And uh it it's worked out well over the five years now that we've been doing the show. It's five years ago this month that we've been uh doing. Happy birthday to you. Well, it's like the second time you ever sang on this show and just make it the last two. Yeah. Anyway, now Jonathan actually can sing. You can too. And he can play a meme too. Whether or not you can sing well is always the uh question, yes And he plays guitar. What else do you play? Uh yeah, tiniest bit of piano. Yeah. I'd l I'd I tell you I'd like to by the end of it all, you know, when I die at ninety eight years of age be able to play. Yeah, well, you know, it's long, but it's not quite a hundred, you know, I don't want to, you know, arrogate too much to myself. That but I'd love to be able to play the violin. You know, it's another stringed instrument and the voice on a violin is so, so emotional and heart wrenching. So play well when it's played poorly. God help us. Anyway. Uh we've talked over the three weeks uh in in different segments and different uh aspects about Michael's life. You know, we started with his his testimony of his life experience after the age of forty-nine and then he had a conversion uh to Christianity. And then he talked about that er the the early stages of what that meant and then we touched on uh toward the end of last week's show how uh shortly after becoming uh a Christian he got involved with Christian radio, the old WJTM. uh which uh went off the air as a Christian station five years ago. Um and then we kinda left off there And I don't know if it's tied directly with Takestan ministries or if it's an indirect connection, but you're involved with we talked about this a few weeks ago, just in passing, that you go overseas as an embedded reporter And are involved with uh the troops that uh are mostly you've been to Iraq, but I guess you've been to Afghanistan also. Um And knowing you now a little bit better after having done a series of shows and stuff, I mean you're all about like, hey, Jesus baby That's where it's at. Do you know Jesus? That's where it's at. You know, I don't think that uh somebody can know you for very long before you're gonna get around to asking them, you know, w what their relationship with Jesus Christ is. That's my sense of you. So is that is that what happens overseas? You go and you're an embedded reporter reporting what's going on over there, but you're interacting with soldiers who I mean, they're in harm's way. You know, that's the the pleasant politically correct way of saying that they got bullets flying at their face. Yeah. Um and so there's there's maybe even more urgency perhaps in that environment. I mean how how aggressive Uh are you, how aggressive should we as Christians be in sharing um our faith story, our testimony to try to bring people to a place where they'll accept Christ as their Lord and Savior. Yeah. Well We need to be uh when you say aggressive, we need to be always on the uh watch for things and those around us who don't know Jesus. I've Went to out to uh fellowship and have a cup of coffee with a man I'd never met before who was the brother in the Lord and the waitress kept saying, um she kept coming to the table, young girl, earring, nose ring and saying, How's everything? How you doing? And, you know, she's working the table right and doing for tip and so forth and I respect that. So finally She came up for about the fourth time and we were drinking coffee for a good while and I said, We're blessed and highly favored. How are you? And she says, I'm great And I s then uh I said, Do you know do you know the Lord? Do you know Jesus? And she said, Oh yes, I know him. And then the Lord said, Ask her if she follows me And I said, Do you follow him? And she starts stammering and so forth. And I said, You don't even have to go any further. I know your answer now. So the point is this, um time is short and we can I say time is short. I feel that the Lord is coming in our lifetime. And I feel that for many different things which I don't specifically think behooves us to g the signs of what's going on around the world. The talk of having uh UN once a one world currency, uh the ability to implant chips and track people and uh do all this information on this chip which could be used even to m to scan to for sales uh or purchases. But Many things are going on and the tsunami and the pestilence and which is disease and we have the flu scare and so forth going on. But Even if I am wrong and Jesus doesn't come in my lifetime, our time is short because our life is but a vapor and we don't know when my specific life ends, yours ends, our parents end. My mother is ninety-eight years old and I had the awesome privilege of leading her to the Lord on May 3rd of this year. So she is set. She repented of her sin. She came to a point the Lord has allowed her to have to uh cancerous tumors in her bladder. Okay, aggressive. And this brought a sense of mortality to her. Because you know, people start telling you you're gonna live to be a hundred, a hundred and five, joking with you, and maybe you start believing this. But she came to a point with all these things that she realized she needed a savior. She w and so So so you're telling me that because there's all I I feel I feel the uh devil's advocate rising up here again. I need to give him a name like Ebenezer or something like that. I feel Ebonese are arising. Smeagol. Yeah, yeah. Do I need to like give credit to uh you know or pay them? Yeah, cocaine's gonna uh you know want royalties. Yeah, yeah, yeah. If if I ever make money off of this, I'll send it to him. So uh so Me too. Yeah. So so the point is is is is you're telling me That because you think time is short, that it's okay for you to proselytize people for your religion Now I th I I know that what the Bible says that if you believe that you are to be baptized and you are to go throughout the world and that includes around your house, your family and so forth, and you are to preach the gospel to the poor. And anyone who doesn't know Jesus is poor. So th this is the command, this is the great commission, this is what the Lord tells us to be. No, I'm not judgmental. But I know in my heart, I know in my heart that uh this this word of God is true and that w everything in it is true and that Jesus is the only Savior Uh, but the Muslims l listen, listen, you're taking your Bible so serious And, you know, if a Muslim takes his Quran seriously, uh, he's, you know, gonna give himself permission to slay the infidel. You know, or if uh if a Buddhist takes his li his uh his you know Sanskrit or or whatever his holy scriptures are seriously, he's gonna give himself permission to leave his his his spouse and his kids and just go off to be enlightened, you know, which we know would be irresponsible. I mean, isn't it just a little bit too Serious, you know? It is serious. Why why should you take your your Bible so seriously? I mean I mean back off a little bit. We live in the United States. We're a tolerant society, a pluralistic society You know, uh why why don't you just let people be, you know, the i if they feel like they need something, you know, l let 'em come talk to you, you know, like hang the shingle and say, look, if you wanna Talk about it, I'll be happy to talk with you, but why do you have to do that? What trying to just let I you live your life, I live my li I can do anything I want because if I'm not harming you if I'm not harming you then why can't I do anything I want to do? I know I know plenty of people that are not on drugs and alcohol that don't feel like they have to be uh uh proselytizing people everywhere in life. Well, all I can say to you, brother, is this. This is what we're called to do by the Bible. So that's why I do what I do. And uh you want to know another reason I do why what I do Yeah. It was it was hell on earth in there as far as I'm concerned when it's in your head and you have no hope. And you have you're filled with despair and no place to go and no way to get relief. And nothing that you it comes to a point when everything that you do, nothing you do, helps you get out of this. There's only one way out, and that was Jesus. Okay. So the devil beat me so hard and and it it caused me so much agony in my life as I look back upon it. My mission in life now is to reach out to those who have come hopefully not to the same place. But if uh I am here to say brother, or he's not a brother until he comes to Jesus, but I'm here to say to those people who are in this place and in this predicament, there is hope for you. And his name is Jesus. Here's the here's the thing for um really the crux of the issue. Everybody's going to have their own predisposition. You know, the Christian's going to have their point of view, the non-Christians are going to have their point of view, and and they're coming at things from that point of view. And the Bible teaches, you know, speaking as a Christian now, the Bible teaches that the non Christian is not going to accept the truth of the message until the Holy Spirit does a work there. They can't do it in their own strength. So Uh those devil's advocates out there, they're never going to come to agree with our predisposition until there's a change in their heart that they can't make on their own and we can't cause them to make. You know, God might use the Christian as a as a vehicle, as a tool to to effect change, but it's God that's doing the change. So until you've got these these different predispositions that are set And the kinds of questions that that Jonathan you've been asking so far would bel would belie more of a of a humanist orientation, a predisposition that this is all there is. And if we if Michael and I, as the Christians on the panel today in the in this context, if Smeagol be in the other one, Smeagol If if Michael and I agreed with you that this is all there there is, then it would be logical and it probably would almost feel like the loving thing to do. So, you know what, yeah, let's just all go along to get along and Live and let live and let bygones be bygones. You do your thing, I'll do my thing, because in the end it doesn't matter anyway. We're all gonna die and rot and turn to dust and You know, next generation will rise up and die and rot and turn to dust and nothing really matters. The problem is the Christians it's now hardwired into our DNA because we recognize the truth from the Bible that there is a reality beyond what we can see. And so it's what is here isn't all that there is. There's more beyond this. So when you, Jonathan, die It might seem like the nice thing to do is, oh, Jonathan's going off the deep end, he's taking a bender, he beats his wife, drinks lots of alcohol, shoots up heroin. um lives an alternative lifestyle on the weekends uh and and and has all these horrible things. I'm gonna let him do that Or, not to paint everybody who's not a Christian in that light, you're a pretty good guy. You show up for work on time, you work hard, you're diligent, you pay your taxes, you're nice to your wife, you're trying hard to raise your kids right, but you haven't been perfect because nobody's perfect. So either one of those two extremes, you die, unsaved, non-Christian, the other reality is eternal. So what's the loving response for a Christian? Is the loving response for a Christian let you die and spend eternity in hell? Or is the loving response to risk being accused of being closed minded and being arrogant and being mean spirited and unloving in this reality, in the here and now? so that you have the chance at an eternal reward in heaven with Jesus, that's that's the issue the Christian is is is is faced with and a Christian has to deny their faith to not proselytize So why do you Christians have to proselytize? Because our faith tells us we have to. And to not proselytize is not loving. What's the greatest commandment? Well, there's a two-headed answer to that. You know, love God with uh all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself. So, without love, all of our prophesizing is nothing but the banging of gongs. Right. Here's my point. Love. What is love? Love is not always all mushy and Lovey dovey. And you know, this is too much of what you see in uh too many uh denominations now or what they're speaking of is us just all Bring them on in, let's just all get together. We we're called to have unity. Well we're s we're called to have unity, but we're called to have unity in one the the one spirit that God is speaking of And that's the Holy Spirit. Not in all these spirits brought in and stirred into a pot in a big old apostate stew. But love is about uh uh not wanting anyone on this earth, and that would include Saddam Hussein or Adolf Hitler, not wanting any one of them to have died without Christ because When you die without Christ, as wicked as they were and as evil as they were, some will say that's justice. Well, that's not our call. If they had turned and confessed Jesus and repented truly repented of their sin, they would have been saved the same as we are. Okay? So here's what love amounts to. Not wanting anyone around us, strangers or relatives, to die separated eternally for God from God. And we are called as Jude says, to either uh draw them in in a loving manner as we see it, or to snatch them out of the flame, which is a violent act. I want to I'm going to make this real for us. By the way, Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Michael Payne, founder of Take a Stand Ministries. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. This Thursday is Thanksgiving. Okay. We're going to be spending time with family in some s sense, probably almost everybody right now who's listening to the show is gonna probably be spending on the holiday with family and in most cases with family members you don't see all that often. You only see them on the holidays. You see them on Thanksgiving, maybe Christmas, Easter, whatever. Maybe you see these these family members three times a year, four times, five times a year. Okay. So you only get so many shots at them. Right? And now you're gonna use up that time to evangelize? Is that what you're telling me? Well in your case, Jonathan, your family is uh i is been so involved in the church for generations now. I don't know if there's anybody in your family that you have concerns about their salvation. Yeah, there's not. You know? At this point. Uh but by the grace of God. But Michael grew up in uh a situation where his family was not church going. He had a very late in life conversion. He was almost fifty years old, which is pretty you know pretty late. And so odds are you've got people in your family that are not saved Um well if we judge them by their fruit. Number one, we we do not judge a person's eternal salvation. That's not up to us and we are not capable because as the thief who turned on the cross right at the end. He was saved, one saved, one lost, who mocked God. But the so if we judge him by our fruit, by their fruit, and according to the word of God, then yes I have people in my family that are not saved and one of them was my mother again if I didn't speak this on the air uh but in her conversation had the pleasure of witnessing or asking her if she would allow me to lead her in a prayer of forgiveness and redemption at the age of ninety-eight. So yes I have unsaved back. Now Smeagol asked a question there a second ago or started asking a question before. So do you spend your family time on Thanksgiving evangelizing your family and proselytizing over the Turkey dinner? You do these things as the Lord, the Spirit of the Lord leads you. You say what He would have you le say. And uh many times I've kept m I've I've had to or the Lord has not led me or allowed me to uh confront and or proselytize, but we are You know, th uh there's my family members see the change in me. You know, they see what God has done them. So coming from from a tough background, a family that comes from tough background. Okay, they don't have any other way to kind of be helped. Right? Again, I'm talking as dev devil's advocate here. Then great. Go and and evangelize them. But you know, if if there's somebody in your family that that you know is is seeking help and Hinduism or Buddhism or or Islam or or or some you know some other Judaism maybe or Kabbalah or whatever. You know, why why try to proselytize them? You know, that person is already fly you know finding truth. They're spiritual. They're seeking, you know, that yeah they are spiritual. They they they found something spiritual, you know, why not let them be You know? Why not just focus on those that that nobody else is Because their soul is um is eternal but Muhammad I mean Islam deals with eternal stuff. Buddha deals with with Well let's take it to this area. Uh yeah, if eternal stuff if you're at a roulette wheel. And and you put your uh chips on red and it comes up black, you've chosen the wrong direction. And I you know, so my answer to you is there's gonna be many people out there who are gonna refuse God that even It speaks of those who even when they see the things start happening at the end of time in the book of Revelation that they uh mash their teeth and they uh curse God as these things are happening all around them that have been prophesied and they will not through stubbornness and disobedience repent and turn to him. They're going to perish. That is the choice that they will have made. And I cannot help that. And I guarantee you there are gonna be members of even my own family. that will not turn, that will stick with their uh good person analogy, even though Jesus says and they they this specific uh cousin goes to a Catholic church and you know, but I can y we that's why we need to and I'm not s saying anything but we all need to, I don't care what church you're involved in, you need to read the word and you need to discern the word for yourself because your soul depends upon it. So this Thursday, um you're gonna be interacting with uh extended family perhaps. So What's that gonna look like for you? Uh it's gonna look like this. Number one, I always you you spoke earlier, w none comes to the Father lest the Spirit draws him. So I pray th that those people in my family that will be at that dinner, I I pray uh a prayer um as we be are be get ready to begin dinner, I will pray a prayer that boldly announces the name of Jesus and our need to thank Him for everything in our life. If the situation or circumstances are spoke of uh around me at that dinner or spoke of to me You know, I will pray for those, ask, you know, an individual if it happens. I don't know how that would happen at the time because I don't know who would come that hasn't already heard this Is there anybody there that is of a different religion? No, there won't be at at our house, but there are some there that I that I question uh are they devoted to the Lord and then are they truly saved? There most likely will be And you do this based on their fruit, like you were saying before, you can't really eternal salvation. You know, we can say one thing, but as the word says, you can only serve one God. You can't serve mammon and God. So how is that received? I mean, do they get resentment? Well you don't say it in a a way of com uh condemnation, but I think it's very here's where we're especially called is if you if you're sitting in a circle and you hear someone say something that is not scriptural that is um goes against scripture I might not have been in the conversation and they might even be strangers, but I am going to have to at that moment in love and calmness address what they have just said You know, it's like my cousin said, We all believe in a supreme being. We call it whatever we want. Is it, you know, uh one is a Buddha and Um so they they ha they have this little apostate mix going on there. We are all worshiping God. We just call him whatever we want. The Great Father meaning Native American Uh but grate father speaks nothing of um Jesus and the Son who died upon the cross for our sin. So therefore that's not the same God Same with Allah, same with Buddha. So when she said Supreme Being, I had to clarify, yes, God is the the Supreme Being, but he is not Buddha and He is not Allah. Yeah, and I always find in those uh situations that it's helpful to to ask the question whether or not all spirituality is positive. Like for example, Hitler clearly uh had a very strong In fact it was a Buddhist mentor uh that that he looked to for insight. In fact, even the swastika is a uh Falun Gong symbol. It's a Buddhist symbol that that has to do with uh reincarnation in the cycle of life and and uh uh you know well w would we have to assume that whatever spirituality was behind Hitler, I think we'd have to assume that it was negative. that it was not positive. And if that's the case, then of all the spiritual paths that are out there We have to assume that some of them are going to be negative. Somehow we have to clarify which ones are positive and which ones are negative. We have to judge. We can't just accept them based on somebody's uh, you know, experience, oh well it worked for me, oh well it worked for me. There has to be some some measurable standard, you know, for for uh judging where these religions come from. You know, I hear people say, well, he's spiritual. Absolutely every person on this earth is spiritual. But what spirit is it? There's only one spirit. That is of the Lord and that is of the Holy Spirit. And the rest of 'em are of the world. That's that's the cut The Holy Spirit or darkness? Now in in fairness, you know, uh those who aren't Christian could say, well, you know, under the Christian banner we have the Crusades, the Inquisition, and some really horrible holy wars and the Ku Klux Klan. And the Ku Klux Klan claims to be Christian. And so that's why it's so important, you know. Uh there's a boldness about Michael that uh is endearing from a Christian's perspective and is probably a little uh off putting to some non-Christians, like who does he think he is or whatever, but Well I don't know because that because uh because I've been listening to him whether or not I've I've been asked my question uh my myself the question as we've been talking whether or not he comes across you know, as as uh irritating to people and uh the reason I th I think it's possible that he might not uh is only because I I I hear him saying that he's led by the Spirit. And and not that there's not times that the Spirit might not lead us to say something that is going to end up b bugging somebody and bothering them But I think it's true that that when we let the Spirit lead us, that that we're not just being dogmatic we're just not being in people's faces just because we feel like we have to be in their face, you know, like we're anxious that we have to share, but we're sharing out of the abundance that is there and oftentimes that's not so off putting it. And he's careful to share the truth. And I don't know. I mean maybe he's rude sometimes, but I don't know, yeah. Well I'm sure he's gotta be rude sometimes. We haven't seen him be rude yet, but I'm sure he must be you know you know what I tell people is this. You don't you don't have to believe me. Go disprove me by reading the Bible. Go to the Bible yourself and I pray that every one of you Will allow y say this to the to God. If you are real, show me, and he'll do it. And that's gonna be our final word. Michael Payne with Stake A Pan Take a Stand Ministries Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you to our sponsor, Putman Fleming Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith Have a great week and a great Thanksgiving. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Put McPlumbing, that's with a pea, as in your preferred plumber. Povin plumbing, how can we make you smile?