Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to you by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How? Can we make you smile? I'm Froy Skinner, uh affable, capable, loving, kind, well dressed. And yet still uh prone to error that we call sin. Did your wife pick your tie today? No, actually I've picked well she picked it out originally. What about the rest of the suit? Today is one of those rare days that I dress myself while I play it safe and go with like you know the blue suit and the white shirt and a tie. Yeah. You know, I I thought that maybe my wife had put this ensemble together before. Mm-hmm. So felt pretty comfortable usually to go. Yeah, 'cause your wife is so aesthetically you know, attuned. The face debate fashion critic Jonathan Sweisser, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel and Michael Payne a wisely staying out of the fashion commentary with our take a stand ministries uh on the show for uh week number three, I think it turns out, time five. Yes. On the uh uh on the fake a date clock. Yes. Uh last week if you were listening we we we Took a little bit of a divergence towards the end and Jonathan was playfully playing the uh role of uh devil's advocate. Um but about halfway through I was trying not to sound Playful. Did I sound playful? Well, I know that you're being playful. I don't know how how much you sounded playful or didn't sound playful to um to to the average here, I don't know. But Michael talked about you can't be a Christian, you can't be saved, you can't have been redeemed if you didn't come to a place of repentance. Where you had this moment where you recognize I need to repent. I'm sorry for all the bad, horrible, sinful things I've done in my life. If you haven't had a moment like that Then you can't have ever been saved. Yep. And I'm I I I don't want to uh convey any point of disagreement with that, but I did want to add that I don't think it ends there. I think that for the Christian and this You're saying you don't think repentance ends there. Yeah, I don't think that repentance and truly being uh in a position of having been saved uh is necessarily true. It could just it could be like the parable of the of the uh of of the uh soil. You know, the the casting the seeds on a different soil and some people sprout up and they're like, Hey they're they they repented and they see it was real and then you know, a week and a half later they're right back into what they were doing. You only have to go right back and it really was a momentary thing. So I think that really the key is to maintain some sort of an attitude of repentance, having a contrite heart and recognizing I didn't once need a savior and now I've been saved and go on my happy way, I continue to need a savior who sustains me in every moment of my life and I need to be not that you want to be morose and beat yourself up and say I'm always prone to evil I've got evil heart and I'm sinful because no we've been redeemed from that. And I liked uh Michael's point last week. He said, you know, I'm not a sinner, I'm a saint. Uh I don't want to overstate that either. I think we're still sinners who have been saved and therefore are recognized as saints. By God, not because we're worthy of it, but because God chooses to recognize us as such. So my point is I didn't want it to get lost, and I wish I had we had time for me to kind of make this point last week because I think it's an important point. It's not about having a conversion experience and having this moment. And that's that it's all about that. Some people don't have a moment that they can even point to. But if you look to them and you ask them about their attitude toward life, they're going to say, you know, I couldn't point to a beginning moment. But I can tell you today and yesterday and the day before that and for quite some time now I've had an attitude of needing a savior, of recognizing that I can't live up on my own, that I am horribly sin-filled in my own desires, and the things I've done I'm ashamed of, and but now I'm redeemed from that. And I don't know when it all began. I don't have that moment that I can point to, but it is something that defines who I am and how I now live my life. That to me is Christianity. Okay, devil's advocate, doesn't it seem that that's a negative way for you to live your life where you spend all your time apologizing for this, apologizing for that? I mean why not Why not again be more positive? I mean isn't isn't that apologize for this, you gotta apologize for that, you gotta apologize for that. I mean I mean why why why be so negative all the time? Well the Bible says I don't think it is negative. I think it is of you're you it frees you, it sets you free of the bondage that you were um encumbered with. But as uh Troy said, I totally agree with what he said, and Paul it's scriptural because Paul said he who strives to the end will be saved. You know, we have to strive to the end and we have to that repentance let's use a couple um markers here. The repentance you were talking about to come to salvation removed all uh debt of sin. from you for up until that point. But after not just be comfortable in your own skin. Because God tells us to apologize for yourself on that. In first John it says Yeah, well why is that so bad? Well it's so bad because scripture denies it. I mean weren't you the one that just a few weeks ago was saying that depression is like from the devil Yes, I am saying. I mean isn't d isn't it depressing if we're always apologizing for uh this, that, and the other thing? I mean why why can't we get to a place of just feeling good about ourselves and accepting ourselves for who we are? Well the Lord you can't feel good about yourself Oh, truly feel good about yourself. You can you can tell other people, hey, I feel good about myself, but what do you feel like inside? Do you have peace? I have peace because I I say it like this. I'd like to keep my repentance list short. Meaning of But that's not about guilt. That's about freedom from guilt. I know plenty of people that that go and spend their time uh doing yod yoga and various things and uh they seem to testify that they are at peace. And so uh i you know, yoga as far as I understand doesn't spend any time repenting from things. You know, they just go and they just kind of clear their minds and, you know, they do some exercise, they do some breathing exercises, you know, and i I mean So they got peace. I mean if if the goal is peace then they're good to go, they would say. or your own ideas and thoughts about things. The key here, uh and I'm speaking and Jonathan is too, but he's speaking as a devil's advocate, uh and it's kind of Playfully or maybe not so playfully speaking as not a Christian. I'm you know s I'm being uh I hopefully being true to uh my faith, my my Christian faith in in the answers I'm giving here. So Uh just to make it clear how the how the roles are are being conveyed on the show. We need to know ourselves. We need to know who we truly are. And there is a peace that can come from knowing who we truly are. Um but it's not necessarily about that per se. But we know who we are because God tells us who we are. We're not on this journey of self-discovery, like, oh, I'm going to try to find myself and figure out who I am. We've got the creator of us, the creator of us all, who's telling us. who we are. And so we can know with certainty. It's not, oh, I wonder if I got that right. Did I read that right? Do I really know who I am? Do I maybe not know who I am? You know, I used to think I was this, but now I'm much more mature and I've gone through all these yoga classes to use Jonathan's example. And so now I've arrived at this place of enlightenment, so I really know who I am. But then ten years later You know, I thought I knew who I was ten years ago, but now I really truly know who I am. There's never any certainty about knowing that you've got it right, that you really But when you come to a place where you recognize the authority of God's written word, and that becomes the foundation upon which you stand and rest all of your beliefs and and thoughts about things You know who God is, you know who man is, and man in a humanity sense, uh, and and you know what salvation is, because the Bible tells you what those things are. So I know who I am and with that comes a sense of peace because now I know. I have no more doubt. I have absolute certainty about who I am. I have absolute certainty about who Michael is, about who Jonathan is, about you listening to this radio show. I know I don't have any met you, but I can tell you this, you're a sinner in need of a savior. I know that. Okay, so why why is it then still playing devil's advocate, why is it that that that that it's a better way of life to to find out who I am from something outside of myself than just to go on a s on a journey. I mean Uh for that matter, I feel like it's arrogant for you to tell everybody out there that they're a sinner and you haven't even met 'em and yet you know that they are. I mean, how do you know you've never met 'em? You've never talked to them, you've never interacted with them, you know? And so so your your certainty is like so certain that it it's arrogant I mean who are you to to be so confident? You know, I I mean, I'm I'm on a journey and isn't it more humble for me to to say that I'm on a journey and and I'm and I'm still searching and I haven't found what I'm looking for, you know, like like you two. you know, but I'm still looking, you know, and and and I'm on this journey a as opposed to, you know, you you've got something outside of yourself that's told you who you are and now you're certain enough that you're gonna tell everybody else who they are I mean why not allow for a little bit of mystery in it? This is a bit of an aside, but it strikes me as ironic th because on the one hand, you know, Christians are going to be accused of being uh these pansies in need of a crutch with no spine, no intestinal fortitude whatsoever, and they're you know, and they're they're dependent on their faith. And then on the other hand, you have a strong faith and then you're accused of being you know, arrogant and having too much confidence in your beliefs and too much certainty. And so which is it? Is the Christian too strong or is the Christian too weak? And I would say the answer to both of those is yes. I mean yes, the Christian is completely dependent on their faith and is weak in it, but once they recognize their own weakness and they trust in a strength that isn't their own, all of a sudden they've got immeasurable strength because they've got God's strength. There we are. That's what the Bible says. When I am weak then he is strong in me. Amen. Yeah, yeah, I know that the Bible says that and I'm I'm played a little bit more devil's advocate with You know that well then you know more than the average uh devil's advocate would know Oh come on. The devil knows what God's teaching. He twists it all he wants. Um but the but this this whole idea that um that it's better to find truth outside yourself as opposed to finding it inside yourself. Uh I I mean I feel like you're giving me some some good assertions, but why why is your assertion that it's better to find it outside of yourself any better than m than another person's assertion that they're finding it inside themselves. I mean as long as you find it or as long as you're at peace with where you're at in the process, why You know, why why do you have to come in and rock the boat and tell everybody that your way is the right way? I have I'm going to use uh dangerously use an experience uh explanation here. And this is going to under the undercut potentially some of what I said about not trusting our experience. But I'm not saying and I haven't meant to be saying that you can't ever trust experience. Experience is a part of of the game. So I feel that's why I'm comfortable using this. Mr. Devil's Advocate, you think that um this I'm holding up my left hand. This is the truth. You've identified as this is what you understand to be true. And part of that is going to be it's my truth. Yeah, you're right. Your truth is it's better to discover yourself. It's better to go on this journey. It's better to have an experience and to arrive at your own conclusions that that is better. Yeah. And I'm holding up my right hand now and saying, my view is It's better to have that truth be revealed to you from something greater than yourself, outside of yourself, something that is absolute And that can't be wrong, and that you can have a confidence drawn from that. And you're gonna you're gonna reject my view in the right hand, and I'm gonna reject your view in the left hand. Okay? My experience has taught me that in those and maybe someday I'll have an experience that would undermine this story, but I haven't had it yet, and I dare say nobody's had this yet. I have yet to have an experience where There is anything but three options available to us. Okay. Either you're wrong, okay, because we're diametrically opposed. Complete disagreement. So either you're wrong or I'm wrong. Or we're both wrong. Okay. We can't both be right. Would you agree with that? Uh n uh no. A devil I've playing as a devil's advocate. No, because if you go to eat an elephant You could be describing the trunk of the elephant and I could be describing the buttocks of the elephant, and it sounds like we're describing two totally different things, but But we're not. We're just describing different I mean, it's a big God we're describing. And so maybe we're both right and you're just describing that Yeah but the elephant analogy has been used a zillion times and the problem with that is in describing the tusk of an elephant, you're not describing an elephant, you're describing an elephant's tusk. And the person who's describing the tail of an elephant is not describing an elephant, they Describing an elephant's tail So when you're talking about an a an aspect of God, you know what? False religions have some truths to them. And so they might have aspects that are right, but we're talking about the elephant in totality. And so again it it still fits. If you're describing the tusk and claiming it's an elephant, you're wrong. If I'm describing the tail and claiming it's an elephant I'm wrong, so that's where we're both wrong in my s story of our three choices. Either you're wrong, I'm wrong, we're both wrong. In that particular case we'd both be wrong. Okay. So you're willing to accept that? I'm saying that that's that's no no I'm saying that you're willing to accept that you're wrong and that I'm wrong. I'm not sure that I'm following what the question is, but I mean you're saying that that's an option that you're wrong in your description and I'm wrong on my description Absolutely. I would ex Yeah, because I'm talking about you're coming up to your conclusion, I'm coming up to my conclusion. Yeah. I can't trust my conclusions any more than I can trust yours. Because I am a finite being. I have limited exposure to experiences and knowledge and and my brain is only so big. Okay, so then I could be wrong. So then you go to your Bible. Which is exactly why I need something bigger than me to reveal the truth. Somebody else goes to their Sanskrit, somebody else goes to the Quran. You know, there's a lot of holy books out there, right? And so uh way to them. So if I you know, if I go to the Sanskrit uh for something that is holy to me. Um I guess in that sense and my journey, my personal journey. I'm going to I'm it's not like I'm not looking for uh for help and guidance from things outside of myself. I'm still looking for something outside of myself, just like you are, and it helps me even. You know, Buddha and Muhammad and and these different guys, you know, they they they help me in my journey. And so how's that any different from what you're doing? You're just getting help from outside yourself. Well the one of the big differences uh about those other holy writings, quote unquote, and uh and and holy scripture from a Christian's perspective, uh, because I I respect Michael's uh jump in there and say holy to them. And and they would say the same thing to the Christian. Well the Bible's holy to you. And so what makes the Bible more authoritative than than these other things? And I would say this, we've been talking about the authority of the Bible and I'm a strong believer in that and Michael is and I know when he's not playing devil's advocate Jonathan is too um but the Christian faith isn't ultimately about the Bible either The Christian faith is about Jesus. It's about a person and his finished work on the cross and God condescending to become man to save man from his own sinfulness. So Christianity isn't even about the Christian. It's not about the church. It's about an individual who truly lived, existed in history. Uh and we can have confidence outside now, yeah, this is a d de difficult place to go sometimes, but we can have confidence that Jesus really existed from things outside of the Bible. There's evidence that somebody named Jesus existed. Even if you were to throw the Bible away, you could you could you could build a case that there was somebody named Jesus during that time. But it doesn't acknowledge him. It doesn't acknowledge him as being the Son of God. And here's uh what we're talking about, you we hear many people I think say that well we all worship the same God. That's the um It's like a universalist Unitarian type of I mean our president George Bush got on the air and said that several years ago and several times. Um He's supposedly an evangelical, but if I had been his pastor, I would have had to have called the president after his first statement and said, uh listen, you know I love you and I know what you're trying to do. Your eye can understand what you're trying to do, but your statement is not true. Because this is the God that you and I worship and this is this is what distinct us from Buddha and Allah and New Age and uh even the Native Americans and their uh they have a great father and uh and uh the great spirit and Um, so forth. But here's what dis here's the where the distinction comes, and you said it earlier, and this is where I stand with you, brother. Jesus was conceived through the Virgin Mary by through the Holy Spirit. He was God upon this earth walking in the flesh. He went to the cross and took our sins upon his shoulders. He died upon the cross, took the stripes. Died upon the cross, was laid in the grave for three days, and rose from the grave through the power of the Holy Spirit At the order of God, not at his own rising, God resurrected him, not Jesus resurrected himself And and he rose in the flesh, not in the spirit, as some even in the church across this country would say, that no, he didn't rise in the flesh, he rose in the spirit. He rose in the flesh And then he ascended to heaven. And this is the God we worship. Amen? So how do you know that their testimony is better testimony than Buddha's or Muhammad's. I know in my heart from my experience and what I have felt the Lord do in my life. From the answer of prayer that I have seen him um perform things in my life when I cried out to him even to save me as that thief who hung upon that cross. There was two of them up there with him. One mocked him and the other one said, Remember me this day when you enter um paradise and he said, today you will be with me. And those are experiences that you know and you know Troy and I know and those out there who have had a true Humbling and surrender to the Lord. For that's what it takes. It takes surrender to Him. Amen? And it takes love of Him. For there will be no one in heaven that does not love Jesus. Love Jesus. Love Him. Because in Luke uh see the thirteen ten or ten thir thirteen thirty-three, he you know the man comes to Jesus and he says, he's been listening to Jesus preach. He says, Lord, is it true? Because he calls him Lord. He says, Is it true that not many will enter the gates? And the Lord says, Strive as you may, for when the master closes the door there will be many outside weeping and gnashing of teeth And he says, But Lord, you taught in our streets. We ate and we drank with you. And he says, Be away from me, you evildoer He's talking to someone who in today's analogy sat in church. He said, Be away from me, you evildoer, for I never knew you, and that means he never knew Jesus. He went to the meetings and he did this and he did that, but his heart was never of the Lord. It is the amazing thing about the Bible is that um Jesus, the life of Jesus, that he uh he was prophesied to come. uh and it was prophesied significantly uh by several different writers, hundreds if not thousands of years before he came, and he came precisely as he was prophesied, and he lived and died in history and then he birthed the church. And so the the foundations of Christianity are not just just another person's experience, but it is first of all you've got the the testimony of the thousands that left Egypt together. You know, and so you you know, it's one thing to to have one person have a spiritual experience, it's another thing for, you know, millions in the desert together to have a spiritual experience all together and to attest to it. and go into the promised land. So you have all this history uh of the Israelites that's backed up archaeologically, plus then the prophecies of what Christ was going to do when he came. And so the uh the the experience of the people, so many different people, uh, in scripture, sixty six different uh uh books And uh how many different authors was it forty some different authors? Oh we don't really know for sure how many authors right because we're not sure who the authors of some of the books And the unity uh and the extensiveness shows that it's not just another guy that has had his experience, but that this is a book that is is profoundly um attested throughout history and certified and accurate. Yeah, because we have over fifty five hundred uh extant copies from within a few hundred years after uh they were written. We don't have that for any of the the Roman Empire, we don't have that for any of the Greek Empire. You know, we have more uh uh proof that Christ existed and walked on the earth and that he said what he said and that there's been no change to it. That's the amazing thing. And it all laces together properly. Yeah, if there was only one copy out there and it was held in the Vatican, they could change it whenever they want, we wouldn't know. But we have fifty five hundred different copies that were spread all throughout the Roman Empire at the time that that we've collected from all around the world and they're all in agreement with one another So uh the the people that wrote it early on and distributed it, uh they were in remarkable agreement with one another. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner, and the other voice on the panel, that of Michael Payne Now, where would somebody on the radio possibly have heard that name and heard your voice before? We got, you know, about uh two minutes left in today's show. Why don't you uh reveal the mystery? I had the utmost pleasure and honor and blessing in my life to uh be associated and manager of WJTM, the old WJTM Christian Radio on Braddock Mountain up until the year it was sold 2004. So that would be where some have heard my voice and um I'd just like to say hello to each and every one of you out there that used to listen to us and support us then and still thank you pray for me. And so you did that within two years of when you were saved. You you started Yes, I was saved ninety in December seventeenth ninety nine and I started working there as a volunteer um January two thousand one and a month and a half later they offered me the job of radio manager and I just uh it was and the before I Two months after I was saved, you know, the story about the buying the two C D's, Christian music. Well, I thought I had discovered sliced bread I'm thinking, these people need to get a hold of this Christian music. This doesn't good. And so um it wasn't long after that this this the Lord just laid it on my heart that I was gonna be involved in Christian radio and that was my zeal and Ten months later I um had a little program. My start was a little program on a secular station in Leesburg, Virginia, Royage Radio, and uh drive time five to seven every night, five nights a week Wow. And then um I came over to WJTM. Yeah. And it's interesting I hadn't made the connection on the timeline before, but two thousand four, you know, the ownership change takes place for JTM. It's an NPR station now I think, right? National Public Radio. It was two thousand four when this show began. Wow. So we kind of bridged the gap, maybe. There you have it. Well there we go. Shake your hand anyway. Michael Payne with Take a Seahead Ministries, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. Thanks to our sponsor. Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? I encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith takes you right to the face-to-bate page, and you can even listen to this show again. And I know you'll want to over and over again. See you again next week. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's where the P has in your preferred Hummer. Pum and plumbings, how can we make you smile?