Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Yes, that's right. Sans music today. Jonathan threatened to whistle, but I don't think we want him to whistle. I don't know what's going on here. I I I think that uh the gremlins have got us. The gremlins, there's something in the machine. It's kind of like uh when they say it rains on a wedding, that you can have a blessed marriage. Right. That's a great idea. A politician. Anyway, welcome to the Freddy Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. The other voices you hear, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Jaffel. Good to see you. And Jim Devereaux, a Lay Catholic, also uh known to us as uh a uh columnist for the Frederick News Post, his column appears uh about twice a month, is every other week? Every other Tuesday. Every other Tuesday Um good thing it wasn't Monday, I guess, right? Yeah, they uh kinda would have gotten shortchanged there. So anyway. Uh what we're gonna talk about today, since we got somebody from the newspaper on, uh huh there were a few things and it's more of a coincidence coincidence than anything, but there were a few things in the newspaper recently that caught my eye. And um you might be able to tell how far in advance we uh record this show by some of the stuff we talk about from the newspaper. But anyway There's a section in the paper, I guess it's been around for a while, but I never really took real strong notice of it uh before as far as where the contributors came from. But Paths to Peace, it's uh in the religion and ethics section of the paper And I guess they solicit columns from different people who are preachers or at least have something important to say about faith matters or something. I'm not sure what the criteria is. But it caught my eye because Peter Kevin who is a friend of the show. He's been on the show several times and uh and uh see him from time to time uh away from this show. Good man. I saw his picture in the paper and I was like, hey That looks like Peter Kemene, pastor of uh Good News Presbyterian here in Frederick. Yeah. I wonder what he's doing in the paper. And I was like, oh, he wrote a little article thing. So he writes this article Basically the gist of his of his column was, you know, dot of the old testament is the same as God of the New Testament. Okay. Nothing real Right. And uh but he talked uh some people say that you know there's the mean, big, bad judging God in the Old Testament and the loving, forgiving, mercy filled. Uh can I tell a quick story about that? Oh, my wife, uh when she uh uh when she and I first got married she was she'd she'd known the Lord for uh a couple of years but uh hadn't necessarily been uh super well discipled and uh hadn't been taught about the Old Testament. So she started reading the Old Testament for the first time uh after she and I got married and she got so frustrated Because the God of the Old Testament was so patient and long suffering when she felt like she would have wiped out the Israelites a long time a before then, or you know, it's so many different situations where where the people would get so wicked, so wicked and God was so patient. And so interestingly enough, her perspective of reading the Old Testament God, after knowing the New Testament God was that he was almost too patient and too kind and too loving. And so uh I think it's uh a little bit Uh it's interesting to hear difference perspectives of how people uh perceive the Old Testament God. Yeah, maybe I could uh talk about how uh I started reading scripture. You know, Catholics were never particularly known for reading scripture, although their Sunday services are full of scripture. Interesting. But um Back in uh let me see, oh about nineteen sixty-seven. Okay. Okay, I was in my thirties. Yeah. I'm I'm an old guy, you can see how many years I can see. Yeah But uh you know, I I was living a great life, uh uh nice family, four or five children at that time, uh good job, nice home. And I came home one night and I said to myself while I was changing my clothes, you know I don't know God like I know my wife, huh? And like I know my children. Interesting. God was like George Washington to me. Just somebody in the distant past. Wow. And I asked myself, how do you get to know God? And a strange thing happened. Two words came to mind. Read scripture. Wow. Uh oh. Are you like a heretic at that point? Or like no I mean I'm a cradle practicing Catholic. Yeah, okay. He became a heretic later. Interesting. Well it's interesting because in response to Peter Kemeney's uh column, I guess you call it a column, right? Uh not an article. Yeah, column. Whatever. They call me an independent columnist, so in response there was a letter to the editor. It's like wow. Somebody besides me and Peter and his family. People only write back when they're angry. That's not always true, but that's true. So a and it's got a little uh little headline here for the letter to the editor greater than I will ever know as the headline. Okay. In reference to is it appropriate to for me to say who wrote this letter or I shouldn't mention who wrote this letter? What um Oh you mean on the air? Yeah. Um I don't I don't want to be disrespectful by not mentioning it, but I don't want to you know put him on the spot and I think you're good to go either way. Okay. Well if you want to know, look it up in the archives. How about that? Okay, this is the response. But I'm not not mentioning his name out of disrespect. Okay. In reference to Peter Kennedy's words of faith column, I couldn't agree more with his biblical analysis of the Old and New Testaments as portraying the same God. I'm sure that's a weight off of Peter's shoulders. However, I must confess that while I was attending seminary, it bothered me to believe in the God of the Bible who is depicted with so many human attributes such as both loving and hating. I needed to think in terms of a God who so transcends the human condition that to know God in human terms would be to fabricate God. In my seminary studies and blah blah blah, he goes on, no, I'm not I'm not going to read the whole thing. That's That's the gist of his point and that he's trying to make. So his point is that God is unknowable and that any attempt by even the Bible to describe God ends up failing miserably and so in his mind because of the extent of the human condition uh w it's it's unwise and unhelpful to use Language, human language to describe God. So that's where his title was God is unknowable. Right. A lot of a lot of people today, Jews, they'll spell God with a G dash D, they don't even spell it, that sort of thing. And uses that as support for his position. The Bible says you know, uses human idea the you know, human personality ideas in helping us understand. You know, we do have as a Christian we do believe that Jesus is God the Son, uh, who is totally human. and divine. Um so I I don't know how we can totally separate uh humanity from from God by saying God is you know, has no characteristics so we we we're we're made in his image. Yeah, you know, and a funny twist on that would be, uh well, who is he uh I mean h his very awareness of the human condition is by using words that apparently God gave us to describe the human condition. Who's to say that that uh his awareness of the human condition hasn't uh been poorly described in his own mind and so therefore his perspective is skewed of of even God. You know, it's i i y you just get into a whole twist there And and in my mind, if God has effectively if God has decided to communicate with mankind, he's gonna have to use language that we understand. And so at the end of the day, if we believe the Bible to be inspired, the Bible to be the Word of God, then we can trust that uh that He's chosen the best language. And I feel like when we use biblical language to describe what's going on I feel like it it's more precise, it's more effective for describing things than you know, so much of the the confusion that comes up in the context of scientific words and psychiatric language, you know, that person's depressed, that you know, blah blah blah. That the biblical language at the end of the day be ends up I feel like being a lot more helpful. Now he mentions his seminary that he attended here and he it's a pr a Protestant seminary. So now we have Uh on today's panel, two Protestants and uh Roman Catholic agreeing uh opposed to another Protestant. See that we can all get along. We can figure this out, we can hash it out. This can work. Very nice. Oh absolutely. That's what the show's all about. Uh-huh. Whoa, here we go. I deserve it And he's he's good to do it. Now my take on uh on where we should fall on that for what it's worth is uh we shouldn't limit our understanding of God by these human uh ideas and these words that define what human personality is. God is somehow more transcendent than that, but he's not so transcendent that he sees it to be imminent. So that the imminence language, the God is with us and close by and a person who's actively involved and engaged with our life. So I think that his point is God is so big and I would agree. But he's not so big that he can't reveal himself to us. You know, God has revealed himself to us through his word. And if we're going to use language to describe God and how and how we're to understand him, it seems to Jonathan's point use the scriptural language and you're on pretty good you know we put you you and I have had this discussion a couple of times. The theology when it started being done back in the, you know, two, three hundreds A D started to use what was Greco-Roman language and Plato and Socrates and this kind of thing And theology itself started to ask questions about God that are not clearly answered in Scripture. And uh I think I've told you this several times, you know, like that God is immutable. You know, or or there's there's certain phrases that that didn't come from the Bible but came from the old uh came from Socrates and Plato and and the ancient Greek philosophers that I feel like end up being very unhelpful for talking about God. I I think if if we're going to be a Christian theologian that we do best to limit ourselves to what Scripture tells us. We can ask those other questions But we need to be honest with ourselves when Scripture doesn't answer 'em, as opposed to when Scripture does, and not try to force Scripture to answer something that it doesn't. And if that and that's the point at which we really begin to divide and cause the biggest problems is when we try to force Scripture to say things that it doesn't quite say. You know, it's it's just a problem with what you're saying though, and that is to know what scripture says you'd actually actually have to read the Bible. Yeah. Well that yeah that gets back to I've been thinking about that for the last couple of weeks. That gets back to uh you know reading scripture. Um to see what what was there that was revealed to to man. Mm-hmm. And uh, you know, my experience in that, what led me to that was knowing love to begin with from my family my spouse and my children. And uh I I see the Bible as words of love. That we begin to understand God as a loving God as we read scripture because he he is concerned And we see that both the Old Testament and New Testament. I've heard the T. God is just plain old concerned about us. I've heard it described as uh the Bible as uh God's love letter. Yes. Song of songs is the big one, of course, but that's uh Yeah Yeah, though all of it is so effective. Yeah, so so anyway, so this captured my attention with this uh past So now you're reading the past. I agree with Peters. Okay. And I read this one and I was like, uh I'm not quite so sure I'm this one say. This one was written by uh Irvine St Staff Jr. , uh a Lutheran pastor in Uh Germantown. That's that's not quite Frederick. He's allowed to write in our request I don't know what the rules are. You you should write one. Yeah, see that's the problem. Why don't you write one? Uh how when do you want me to get mine in by? Uh well, how much time what do you think? How long should it take to write an article? You do this all the time. Well I'll tell you how I'll tell you how I got to be an independent columnist for the Frederick News Post is I just wrote a lot of letters to the editor and then they have things that bothered me And to get and I guess to get all my letters off of uh the editor's bank they decided to let me do it every other week. There you go, Jonathan. So so it just start pestering them and eventually they'll be the bring me on the back. So you know, it's both a lesson and perfecting what you want to say, articulating what you want to say. Published in the paper, you run the risk of having somebody like me try to poke holes in it without you around to try to defend your point of view. Right, right. So there's There's the risk. This guy, Irvin, you knew what you were in for when you wrote this. Lutheran from Germantown. Uh so uh what do you want in life? I don't think it's too difficult a question. The answer is pretty much universal, may be vary a bit with locale and ethnicity, but there are universal desires and he runs through a number of things that we want. Happiness, fun you know, that sort of thing. And there's there's nothing wrong with wanting these desires uh of our heart and But more importantly, you know, we we long for and desire for heaven kind of thing. So so far I'm tracking. I'm fine. Okay. I'm good. So he ends up at heaven. Yeah, and then he gets into um you know, but we still have a lot of things that we want. We want, want, want, me, me, me give me, give me, give me, give me, give me, give me, give me, give me that, give me that, give me that. Yeah, consumer, Yeah. So he sa so then he says greed and lust for power are so much in force And then he lists a number of examples of greed and lust for power that are inappropriate. Okay. And here's one of the things he lists. Okay. The scheme of a fund manager to gain billions of dollars from unsuspecting investors I'm with him on that one, right? A fund manager. He's talking about Bernie Madoff. Sure. Oh, this is he's talking about Bernie's bad. Yeah. Bernie's bad. Okay. A ball player player getting a one hundred million dollar contract. Um I don't think I'm with him on that one. I'm not totally uncomfortable with that. I I do feel like it's a little bit of a reflection of a society that Yeah. Yeah. It does speak to the the society placing its priorities maybe in the wrong place. How do we know the ball player's not giving ninety-nine million of that away to like his church or something? He might be. Before the nineteen thirties they say that that most people's heroes tended to be like war heroes or you know, or people that were really making a difference in every p everyday lives. But after baseball, basically, they say that people's greatest heroes, kids instead of growing up to want to be like Ulyss Ulysses S. Grant or something like that Teddy Roosevelt, they decided they want to grow up to be like a baseball player. And so I feel a little bit like like sports, you know, has uh has somewhat distracted I'm you know, I'm not like negative on them, but uh there's a little bit of a The fact that he goes so negative on it is interesting. Yeah, well I think part of the problem is the you know the the real question I think we face is doesn't start out with heaven. I think it starts out of who am I? Why am I here? What's what's this all about Uh baseball. Yeah, and but I I think if if you address that question, and that that's not even a religious question, just people ask that all the time. Who am I? You know, what what is man? What what should we wh what's our purpose? Yeah. Why do why are we here? Yeah. Uh and And that's kinda where the article's going, am I right? And I I think that's the more important question and that's a good b a better starting point. I think for for people. Uh if it's just to make money, well, if that's their purpose in life, they're they're probably gonna make money. Right. Uh He rips the executive bonuses too, by the way. Big executives shouldn't get big bonuses, apparently. Okay, so he's against that. Yeah, so I don't know. It's almost like an anti capitalist type of a stance. Yeah, yeah, I'm following him now. I'm not saying that capitalism is necessarily Christian, but I'm not saying that capitalism is anti-Christian either, you know. But anyway. But this is the divide right down the body of Christ, because there's plenty of anti-capitalist pastors and there's plenty plenty of pastors that are pro-capitalism. So anyways, you what what el what else does he say? Here's where he ends. He ends with Jesus calls us to trust him and be content with what the Lord provides. There is no kingdom on this earth. I disagree with that, by the way. There's no kingdom on this earth? Right. It resides only in the hearts of those who love Jesus. I'm not sure I agree with that exactly. Uh there is something other one. Yeah, there is something other than what we see with our eyes. There's a difference between saying my kingdom's not of this world and saying my kingdom's not on this world. It's kinda like you need to be in the world, not of it. It's kinda that sort of thing. Jesus comes and says, Repent, the kingdom of God is at hand. You know, and he is and he is uh Prophet Priest King and he is ruling right now. Well if he's not ruling a kingdom, what's he ruling? Yeah but his first temptation his first temptation he he turned down the rule of this land. I mean that was his whole he he denied Satan said no I you know That that's not what man lives by. Man lives by God's word. And when when he spoke to Pilate, he says, My kingdom is not of this world, otherwise my people would you know, my my servants would rise up and and overthrow But because my kingdom's not of this world. So that there is something other than what we perceive with our senses. But in terms of being on this world is a is an interesting thing. That that's a whole Discussion. Yes, it is. Yeah, so we'll get into that at some point. This is how my brain works. Okay. Scientists are getting into this parallel universe. We'll be patient with it. I actually wrote an article about that one time. Did you? Yeah, it seems to me like they're beginning to prove there's uh there's something more than just this world when they start talking about parallel universes. But that's that's another hole Story. Yeah, that's how his brain works. Other than some some issue with maybe the grammar, uh I like where he ends. Okay. Only in Jesus Christ we will know the good life we long for. Yeah, no I'm good with that. I don't like his grammar, but I I I do like his uh his point. So anyway. So so he does. Well he his last sentence is good anyway, right? Uh many paths to many paths to the Father, they all go through Christ. Actually, actually I'm concerned with just the last sentence being correct. I'm not comfortable with that. How many movies do you go to that by the end of the movie they strike just the right chord and say just the right thing and so you leave feeling like everything's okay, even though the whole movie was preaching the fairness. You know the ugly more than just the last sentence that is right. But there's there's a general tone that I didn't like and I I was kind of nitpicky on his whole kingdom thing there. But Anyway, you'll listen to the Frederick Faith Debate. Nitpicking is what we do. On WFMD 9 30 AM on your dial. Visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. On the panel this week, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And Jim Devereaux, who is a uh lay Roman Catholic and columnist for the Frederick News Post. And here's something from the Frederick News Post from the Associated Press. Uh and if you pay attention to any sort of the uh faith issues, you've heard this story already. Uh-oh. In breaking down barriers restricting gays and lesbians from the pulpit, the nation's largest Lutheran denominations has laid down A new marker in a debate. Am I allowed to break in whenever I want and just say like I'm frustrated right now or should I wait until the end? How about at the end of each paragraph you can jump in? All right. So they've laid down a new marker in a debate over the direction of mainline Protestant Christianity, a tradition that once dominated American religious life. Uh well I'm about to but keep going. Alright. He's not gonna listen to me anyway. He's gonna jump in my own. By voting Friday, this is uh going back uh you know a number of weeks By voting Friday to allow gays and lesbians in committed relationships to serve as clergy, the four point seven million member Evangelical Lutheran Church by the way, four point seven million members only makes it the seventh largest denomination. What are the other six? Uh well you start with Catholics and then we have the Baptists. That's two. Right, and then is Pentecostalism is probably included in there somewhere. Yeah, well I think they're they're counted. I think they're coming on. Yeah, but Pentecostalism is a is like a school of thought or a it's Well it's actually Pentecostal churches. No, it's it's actually a a Okay. Well then you got B Baptists Yeah. Methodist, Presbyterian. Episcopalian, Methodist, Presby, I forgot about Freudian. And then Assemblies of God. Uh what else do you have? So Anyway, I just was stunned that the seventh largest. Well maybe that actually puts them at the end of the list. The Evangelical Lutheran Church in America Shorthand is ELCA. ELCA is the largest Lutheran denomination. So for the largest Lutheran denomination to be seventh just surprised me. But anyway. Okay. Okay. Um so the uh Uh this vote will either show how a church can stand together amid differences or become another casualty of division over secondary. Okay, see I'm very frustrated there. How about you? Uh yeah, I think this is a uh uh another question that divides. Uh how we how we get to not divide is another whole issue. Um I mean the whole point of that sentence was that the onus is on the church to prove that they are Christ-like and they'll stand together. And that they are powerful by standing together. uh by accepting homosexuals. It's a whole slant of that last paragraph that somehow that that is the litmus test of their religiosity. Well I'm not I'm not a theologian and an expert on canon law in the Catholic Church, but my understanding is that a homosexual could be a priest as long as he's not a practicing his sexuality because there is within the priesthood evolved chastity. So, you know, in in one respect no one is denied no no man is denied, uh women are certainly denied priesthood in the Catholic Church. That's another whole argument. But uh But homosexuality is only an issue when it becomes something people practice. The same would be true for heterosexuality. Every uh priest is heterosexual. takes a vow of celibacy and he is not going to practice his heterosexuality. Right. Well that's where they've moved the post now. Oh yeah. Yeah. That's what they voted for. They allow they voted to allow gays and lesbians who are in committed relationships to serve as clergy. So it used to be that you could that you could be a homosexual and being being clergy as long as you were abstaining, is that what what what used to be for them? Correct. And so now so basically they're going through the basically they're taking the same steps that the Episcopalian church took just a few years ago. We all watched it nationally, and now these guys are taking the exact same steps, going down the same path Yeah, well I think they're moving a bit forward. When you start talking about committed relationships and and clergy, uh now you're talking about what is a committed relationship. For example, in the Catholic Church, the priest committed relationship is the Jesus Christ He's a servant of the people, presenting Jesus Christ to the people. So the only committed relationship that a priest has is that to Jesus Christ and his church. That is the marriage uh and and a committed relationship. So that's the problem. I understand that nice little caveat about The uh the clergy. That's right. So clergy is allowed to marry in Protestant world and so these guys are basically saying that uh homosexuals are free to be since marriage is not an issue unless you're in California wherever there's more to have a ten uh a chance to talk about and we're running out of time because we've got about a minute left in this show. Time goes by faster. It certainly does. So Uh we were planning on doing another show uh next week talking about marriage issues anyway. This might be actually an interesting way to launch into uh the marriage question. So maybe we'll kind of finish up this discussion on this next week and then start uh going into uh marriage issues. It's just amazing the way that uh the newspapers that are out there will will throw their weight in the direction of uh what seems to be undermining the uh the standards in scripture. They do it so repeatedly. I'm here. Columnist with the Frederick News Post and a Lay Roman Catholic. I'm Troy Skinner, your loving host and moderator. What'd you call him? You look very nice today. Affable. Jonathan said I was pretty record. Amiable. Yeah. Anyway. Thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile. Thank you for listening, visit us online, WFMD. com keyword faith with a uh blog that's updated Monday through Friday, uh at least by me, and a link to Jonathan's uh uh blog from there as well. Thanks for listening. God bless