Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumbin' plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick. News Radio, 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Footman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner joined this week again by Dan Fabricatour. Good uh German name there, right? Fabricator? Yeah, that's Catholic for uh that's uh you were can't have been raised Catholic. Uh with an Italian name like Fabricator. Uh nine years of uh schooling. Yeah But he's not Catholic now. He's pastor at uh Grace Bible Church, uh meets at Monoxy Middle School and also an adjunct instructor at Baptist Bible Seminary, specializing in in Greek, teaching people how to s uh how to read. I don't know if you teach them how to speak it so much as how to read uh read and translate. And translate uh uh New Testament Greek. And Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel Which meets at uh Crestwood Middle School. I have a Greek neighbor. I mean that's gotta count for something. Yeah? Yeah. You should you should bring your Greek neighbor some of this Old Greek and see if he can read any. My next door neighbor, he's he's always cooking up some good lamb on you know behind his house. The whole neighborhood smells of it. Anyway, if you were listening last week, we had this panel assembled and we were talking about what is Pauline theology and uh you know what's this new perspective on Paul kind of thing. If you missed that, I would just encourage you to go online, wfmd. com, go to the audio vault section and find the podcast of that show. Uh it was one of my more favorite shows in recent times. I thought we had, you know We've tackled some pretty meaty heady subject matter in a way that I was a great show that was hope was relatable. So Amen. Um I wanted to have a chance to kind of flesh out a little bit more of of of that. And I'm going to start with this. I'm going to tie into we probably won't finish here, but I'm going to start here. Tie into Dan's specialty in Greek. Okay. So last week we are talking about the new perspective takes like one word, which we traditionally recognize and translate into English as Faith, you're saved by faith. And they choose to understand that word is being translated as faithfulness, which is completely different view on how what that means then as a as an impact for the Christian life. It literally turns it into a work as opposed to a belief. So Dan can articulate with you know with with some uh confidence, well, it really needs to be faith, and here's why. And yeah, faithfulness maybe it can be translated that way, but given the context and the blah blah blah and all the sort of things. It really should be faith, and I feel confident about that. And the people who are in his church benefit, you know, he's the pastor and they benefit from that. And John Sweitzer, he's uh he's in the word and I don't I don't know that you you would consider yourself a Greek scholar like that does. But you're you're always looking back at what the Greek words are and trying to grapple with and understanding and making sure that you don't have to be a good one. My computer tells me what they are and all that sort of stuff. Most people aren't doing that. You're only doing that so that you because you know your people aren't doing that kind of thing. Are we missing the boat there? Should the church be doing a better job of of getting the the average layperson to maybe be a little bit more informed of what is the ancient text? What is the original language? Should we be doing a better job on that? I I don't know if we need to be teaching Greek in ch churches, um, although some churches do do it. We have to remember that when the early church um was founded and Paul and Peter and John wrote their letters The church could read them and understand them, they didn't be translated. So for us, we're trying to bridge a a gap. That's the language gap But I I don't wanna uh I mean I love New Testament Greek, but it's not a it's not an end in itself. It's it's only a means to an end. Uh most of your English uh you have we have great English translations and and oftentimes The advantage of Gree could probably best be described as the difference in watching television in black and white or color. uh you still get the gist in black and white, but the color TV allows you to see sometimes a an emphasis or a shade. that you may not normally see, but it's all always was there. So I mean I I love Greek. I don't spend a lot of time at all preaching and making mention of it unless there's a significant point. Um there's an old expression in preaching that you want to put the cookies on the bottom shelf. And uh there's nothing worse than boring people with the signific uh this is the Greek word. I mean I don't have to tell them what it means. They know what it means 'cause it's been translated into English. But there are times when s That is important. There are uh the the the uh the noun uh we were talking about last week, faith, can sometimes have a semantic force of faithfulness. And really the only thing that um can d help determine that as context. Paul's whole argument in Romans 4 is rooted in the example of Abraham. And there, Genesis 15, 6, Abraham believed God and was reckoned him as righteous. You remember, God came out and he said, Hey, Abe, look up at the heavens, count the stars if you can, so shall your descendants be. God made a covenant with them. God took him at his word. That's all he or Abraham took God at his word. And God imputed righteousness to him. Abraham believed God and was reckoned to him as righteousness. It would be foolish to think that Paul, in citing the example of Abraham and faith would would change the whole force of it to faithfulness. It's poor exegesis. Yeah, Paul defined it very clearly by using the illustration of Abraham. Yeah. Yeah. And exegesis means? To read the to to lead to to to take the meaning out of the text, to to lead out basically. Sure, I'm sorry. That's why you're guilty. Within a hundred years of when Guten Gutenberg created the printing press, you've got Luther's 95 thesis spreading throughout all of Europe and everybody can read it. This was something that previous to that time nobody could do. And immediately there was this idea that everybody should learn to read so they can read the Bible for themselves. And this is where the difficulty comes. The average person in our day and age can read, can read the Bible, and so they come up with, you know, perspectives and theories on what they read for themselves. And this is where the difficulty is because if if the if it's not interpreted correctly, you know, it it's it's just during that time that people are like, oh well What is the Catholic church church teaching anyways? And does that even line up with the Bible that they say is the you know, the book that that is authoritative and that defines who we are? And they began to question, well it doesn't seem to measure up. I mean we even questioned today how much uh a a did Lutherite that actually lines up with scripture. You know, and there's there's there's something that was born at the time, this idea was born that Wow, now we can hold all the you know, the the priests, all the the the higher ups, the hierarchy accountable for what they're teaching us because we we can read it for ourselves. And ever since then, this is why where I wanted to get to last week, ever since then we have had this mentality that, well, let's not just accept what the expert says, quote unquote, but let us let us examine it for ourselves. Yes. The problem is that at the end of the day, who's got the time to sit there and examine it and read? I mean we can all read for ourselves, but who's got the time to get into the Greek to be an expert. Dan Dan is an expert in in Greek, you know, and he's and he's studied under people that are even more expert than he is in in Greek. You know, and and and But who's got the time to do that unless you're going to be an expert? And so in the meantime, somebody's got to be able to help the rest of us to get the cookies off the bottom shelf. with pastors, teachers, and and it it's their job to feed the sheep. And uh we need to f pastors need to be free to preach according to the dictates of their own conscience and they need to be able to have the time to study and to and to preach and to feed the sheep. The Reformation was a a giant success for uh the priesthood of believers because uh uh it got the word of god into the people's hands because up until then uh the word of god was not to be read by the um by the common man. It was a job of the clergy And uh Wycliffe and and uh Tyndale and those guys, they they they made it their their life goal to allow the plowman and the and the to to read the scriptures as he plowed the field and um in fact the idea of universal education that everybody should read really came from the the mentality that we gotta teach people to read so they can read the Bible for themselves. And around the world that's still the case. Going into Africa, going into India, going into China where it is wherever it is, we want to teach people to read so that then they can read the Bible. We get put it in their hands and then, you know, just let God do his thing. emphasis um taking the gospel of Christ into all the world. One of the ways in which that was done was by teaching English as a second language. And um missionaries went in and taught English as a second language and But this is precisely where the problem arose because then people would read it for themselves. And uh Erasmus, the the guy that was set up as the Catholic foil for Luther, that that uh kind of argued back and forth that Luther shouldn't leave the Catholic Church. Erasmus uh also drove back to hey we need to study the you know the original texts. We need to study what the Bible actually said way back then so that we could be more in align with it and it and it gave rise to an approach to studying the Bible that now is known as the historical critical or higher criticism method that has led to this Pauline theology. You know, and and basically what it is is, well, we gotta go back and we gotta re examine the original texts because we can't trust the Catholic Church anymore. And uh maybe we can't even trust Paul. Maybe we can't even trust Calvin. You know, we we gotta study 'em for ourselves and and now science has come along and science and history and sociology have given us all these new tools by which to understand mankind from a scientific world view. And uh and those arose on the heels of of the uh Reformation and the Enlightenment. And so let's use all that and go back and re uh study, reapproach all the original Greek texts and see if maybe the Bible says something different from what we thought it did. And so the very thing that gave rise to you know, being able to read the Bible for ourselves unfortunately gave rise to the sense that we can't trust any authorities on the on the topic anymore either. Uh the Bible Fortunate fortunately has uh built in redundancy. Um it's not really hindered by by heresy or error. As a matter of fact, you can make a case that historically, uh error and heresy has been the healthiest thing in the world for the church. Um Having good doctrine does not in any way guarantee success in a local church. You can go through Europe and you'll find a lot of state churches. They've got great doctrine. The churches are dead. You know why? They stopped contending for the faith. The one thing that heresy and error and theological issues and Things like that, when they can't when they come up, they are actually very good for the church because they drive the church back to the text. And when you no longer have to contend for the faith, you just have this church doctrine that's passed by the state. We have a state church. And what how how are the state churches doing? Interesting because at first you hear somebody say, you know, well heresy is good for the church. What? But you know God uses all things for good. Well church history, you know church history validates that premise. that heresy, the introduction of heresy into the introduction of heresy is what gave us most of the New Testament epistles. Sure. Paul responding to the Judaizers, to the philosophers in Colossians, to the the the the incipient uh that well Gnosticism wasn't there in the first century, but the seeds of it were there. So, uh the first Paul Paul Paul has Paul writes First Corinthians. I mean, if you if you read the first nine verses of First Corinthians, you'd want to join the church. And then you read the rest of the epistle. That's a messed up church. They misunderstand the gospel. They misunderstand the ministry. They There there's a s there's a case of immorality going on in the church that they're allowing to take place. They've got i they they've got a warped sense of the gifts. They've they put undue emphasis on the wrong gifts. They they have some in the church who deny the resurrection And yet, 1 Corinthians 15, I'm doing a major research project right now in 1 Corinthians 15, but it's 58 verses It's one of the most compelling passages in the New Testament. And it all flows out of the fact that they misunderstood the gospel in chapter three. So then by the time he gets done answering all their questions, in chapter fifteen he says, I now make known to you the gospel. That Christ died for our sins according to the scripture, that he was buried, that he rose again the third day, according to the scripture. And he appeared to Peter and to the disciples and to five hundred at one time. And then he goes on to unpack the doctrine of the resurrection in like fifty some verses. We we have that treatise today because of heresy in the church. See Jonathan, heresy is good for the church. So I I'm good for the church in other words. Well I Yeah, it's interesting. Contending for Contending for the Faith. Jude. My question is why did they quit contending for the faith? That uh I have I actually have some uh Some thoughts on uh Yeah, why did they quit contending for 'cause this I feel like drives that this whole question of what does it matter to to the average believer. If the average believer doesn't care Or or or feels like, you know, well you're just splitting hairs, this kind of thing. You know, but but what makes us then then feel like it's just a waste of time to do this? It's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Ellie Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner, and uh Dan Fabricatour is pastor at Grace Bible Church. And uh uh yeah, I would love to hear your response to why the church stopped contending. In the last twenty or thirty years, we have uh we have been observers of a very unique experience in the evangelical church, mostly in America. We have set aside the pulpit For pragmatism. Uh I know a church back home that has a NASCAR banner hanging for six months in the church. Why? Because people like NASCAR. They took they and they covered the NAS the NASCAR banner covered the cross. The NASCAR banner covered the cross. Um, f look for the pulpit. That'll tell you what emphasis they place. Is it off to the side or is it in the center? Okay, that's very interesting. Give up that emphasis because the church was far more interested, is far more interested at times at building a kingdom here on earth. We we judge success right now uh in church based on how how fast and how big you get. There are no injunctions in the New Testament to grow numerically. I can't find one. Hm. It just happened that they did grow a lot. Yeah, we do see we do see that God added to their number. We see we see the work of God in adding and adding. But a lot of times you young pastors especially I'm I'm I'm writing uh I I I a n a a book that I there's about eight or nine of my buddies who are all contributing at least a chapter to a book on pastoring the small church, The Many Roles of a Shepherd. And what we're trying to do is to encourage young pastors not to abandon biblical principles and biblical truth. in order and set those aside to come up with every gimmick in the world to bring people into the church. It's interesting because you know, we've talked about this, I think, on the air, off the ear for a long time now, Jonathan and I have, and you know, it It oversimplifies it a little bit, but I've always felt like, you know, whenever the church the the the the truth the real deal, okay, the the Christian church Whenever it loses its way, you can usually if you drill down and keep drilling until you get to the really the root of it, it comes down to a question of the church forgot who they are. They're citizens of a kingdom that's not of this world. It's you know it's it w w it's not about uh being worldly. But we can't ever forget that we are about go going about the business of transforming the world What's the only hope for the world? Is this a trick question? No. I mean Christ, obviously. The gospel of Jesus Christ. But here's the thing. Jonathan asked a good question. Why? We n Subconsciously, we no longer believe in the sufficiency of the gospel to do its job. It needs to be helped along. Right. Why do we feel that? Why? Because we are under many young pastors we we watch you know we watch too many T V Our people go off on vacation, th they come back from a fifty million dollar building with twenty thousand people, and they look at their church and say, What what are we doing wrong? You know, I love what Lincoln said. He said God must love the common man. He made so many of them. There's a reason why ninety percent of Bible-believing churches in America are under 150 people. How do you shepherd 10,000 people? Yeah, well I agree with all that, but but but I I still feel like it misses the reason why it is that people uh uh have uh have quit preaching the gospel because the results are not as good as all kinds of pragmatic programs to break the pr I got a buddy who's who who had to learn this the hard way He pastors in a I won't I won't even tell you the state, but he's he he was a assistant pastor who oversaw um a youth program in his church. He wasn't the youth pastor, but he oversaw youth. And there was a battle going on in the church philosophically. And the uh this the the the the battle was We need to reach out and bring as many of the high school all the high school kids we can into our church. And this young pastor said That's inherently a dangerous situation. We ought to be bringing the gospel to them, and as they get saved, they should come into our church. Well, he lost out and um They did, but they brought in all the all the jocks, the athletes. Last time I talked to them they had three young Chase girls in their pregnant. Now Jonathan, you keep asking the question, are you asking it almost as a as a prod or do you do you have some thought on whether the answer to that? Yeah, I feel like the answer is that from the founding of our nation, we had a religion uh whose whose founding father was Thomas Jefferson and Ben Franklin. And and their religion was precisely what you're saying, a pragmatic religion that that says that what really matters is that we be moral people, that we be good citizens. And if all it you know, in and it you can believe it's a it's a Oprah religion. You could believe whatever you want. You could believe in, you know, was it Thomas Jefferson or or it was Ben Franklin that said, you know, it matters not if my neighbor cares and tw cares uh believes in twenty gods or one God. You know, what matters is whether or not he's gonna let me carry on business and whether or not he's gonna steal from me and lie to me and cheat. And and so from the beginning in our nation was this ideology that that our founding fathers, people that that we respect, that we built memorials to down in Washington, D. C. , that at the end of the day, according to the gospel of Jesus Christ, These people, because they did not believe that Jesus was the Son of God, will not be in heaven. Yeah. American philosophy is expansion. Uh we rip uh Manifest Destiny. It is. Uh we uh where the where the mom and pop shops today. They're they've been gobbled up and replaced by big box stores. Right. We we we're doing the same thing in church. The pragmatism comes from, you know, this whole enlightenment idea that we that we don't need the Bible to find out truth. Let me take this idea. this whole enlightenment r you know idea, you know, going back a few hundred years. Yeah. And let's throw it into the way, way back machine. We're already going into the way back machine, going back a few hundred years. Now let's throw it into the way way back machine. Okay. What is it that caused the church to lose its way and stop contending for the faith five hundred years ago, a thousand years ago, fifteen hundred years ago? Well, I mean From from about let me see the first Pope was uh Gregory in five ninety AD. From five ninety to fifteen fifteen hundred, for a thousand years the church, the bulk of it as we know it, was uh under the auspices of a state church. It was the Holy Roman Empire. What's there to contend for as a whole? Church and state are one. Uh so it's the same idea then. It was it would become a morality and could citizenship and pragmatism and same idea? Yes. Religion is the opiate of the masses ends up being true. Um uh you know it was Chesterton who said it's not that if man doesn't believe in God, he'll believe in nothing. It's that he'll believe in anything. Man's wired to worship something. And Oh and and we know from Rome and that's why this two thousand twelve Mayan calendar end is is is I have enough trouble living. Because people quit believing that that If the mountains fall into the sea, even still God will protect us. So because we quit believing that God you know, the God of the Bible, now we believe anything. Oh, you know, everything's gonna be destroyed. It was only a decade it's a decade now that people were panicked about Y two K. Yeah, yeah. I remember that. I had to work late that night, uh all the way to up to and past midnight just in case all the computers where I was working would crash and we could deal with it and all that sort of stuff. Yeah, you forget how how uh How time flies. And you know that's almost a decade ago now. It's amazing. Eight years. You mentioned the movie really quick. We got a couple of minutes. Two thousand twelve. Yeah, two thousand and twelve. Um Thoughts on that? Could that somehow be used in a weird kind of counterpunch way to the church's advantage? Probably. I mean but we'd we'd have to tell them to expose the uh the the weirdness and just say another example of If you're not familiar, by the way, the the the the ancient Mayan uh culture had a had a calendar that had a they had a definite start time. and a definite end date for their calendar. Their calendar had a beginning and an end. I just wrote a blog on this a week ago. I did. On this very thing. And so and their calendar ended in what now we would recognize as the year twenty twelve. It's either I think it's the s uh According to uh the the count their counter is not exact. It's either december twenty-first, two thousand twelve or december twenty-third, twenty twelve. Okay. But according to the words of Jesus, we can be confident of one thing. If anyone comes telling us the day of his return, it won't be that day. It won't be that day. So curious what well not quite. I mean i I I guess there's one of the one guy may have if you wake up every day this is a possibility. So what's the gist of your blog in thirty seconds? And uh oh I what I write on? Or oh I just I write on ish it's called God Incarnate and the It has to do with my favorite time of the year which is Christmas and Okay. Is it something just for your church body or anything? So how do you find it? Where is it? Can I really I I think it's Oh he's not prepared to answer that? I don't even know what it is. He doesn't even know how to find it. But uh cannot it's uh ntdan. word ntdan. wordpress. com. Ntdan. wordpress. Wordpress, yeah. It's interesting. It's funny what goes on out there. Talking about blogging, but blogging has become one this would be a great topic sometime an incredible way to quickly communicate what is going on in the church, uh in acad academia. Um my blog doesn't I only get about A thousand hits a month. is having and should have on the church. How about that? Sure. All right. Uh Dan Fabricatour, he's a pastor at Grace Bible Church, meets at Minocase Middle School and also uh a adjunct instructor at Baptist Bible Seminary, specializing in teaching folks Greek. Love that. Jonathan Sweisser, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, meets at Crestwood Middle School. I'm Troy Skinner of I Don't Really Meet. I don't know. I don't have a church that uh I I go to other people's meetings kind of thing. Anyway, uh thanks for listening. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Again, I encourage you please go online, DWFMD. com Keyword Faith takes you to the Faith Debate page. And if you want to listen to this show again, and why wouldn't you want to, over and over again, you can find it in the audio vault section of the website. Uh until one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours have passed, may God bless you. Bye-bye. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Pop and plumbing, how can we make you smile