Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel on the show again this week. So is Tim May, Pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren. You might know him as a man who wears other hats too, but in the context of this show, he's a pastor. Pastor Tim. That's it. That's the on the faith debate. Brought to us by Putm, loving and heating, how can we make you smile? Um we've been doing a series of shows uh about the brethren tradition and we've we've kind of spent an awful lot of time talking about uh um taking up arms and last week you got me all raw above we almost got in a fight or Pastor Tim uh he got out his gun and said if we talk about this anyway one more time Bang bang halt. Bang bang halt. You know what I'm interested in, isn't it true that there's a uh peace training in the Church of the Brethren of about how to be a peacemaker. Yes. Like l you know, like almost like you could be like a professional level peacemaker. Sure. Tell me a little bit about that. That's interesting. As you see it's has not stirred a lot of my interest. I only know that we do offer it to uh I am not a warmonger, aren't you? You all have I I spent a whole week since the last I should just be totally upset about this. I think the last thing you had me say was I was going to take up arms to defend Christ. I love my church. But uh um we have uh the Church of the Brethren has it's uh one of the greatest things in the world is we have a brethren relief It's located in New Windsor, Maryland, and uh we do uh some of the greatest worldwide um uh relief for famine and and uh floods and everything. It's and it's it's it's a unbelievable project. And we have we have I I won't have the exact right uh that's improper to say, I don't have the exact name of our peace resource system, but we do have training in the peace movement. We actually have degrees now in our seminary that you can graduate with a peace degree and uh I think that's uh wonderful for those who are pursuing that. I I And what do they do with that? They go say Israel and Gaza and try to help peace there. They go down to where there's genocide and they go in to engage the peace people involved and to help to bring peace. Yeah. And and they do that job and with the the use of relief aid. They always They always I uh have their lead-ins with that. So for lead in is the a fact give a platform to win them to the idea of reconciling with their enemies. There are more Church of the Brethren members in Africa than in the United States. We have no Church of the Brethren churches in Europe. So our growth and our missionary work is all in Africa now. And and and uh course of the islands, the Pacific Islands and things like that. And it's growing by leaps and bounds. And it uh uh is really beautiful in that area. And a lot of the peace people there too because you're dealing with a different time a tribal peace And uh it's it's really beautiful what the churches do. Now when you're dealing with that kind of peace, you're dealing with very political issues, you know, uh right, 'cause you have to interact with the people at the at the highest levels of politics Um and it seems to me that if you're effective at winning peace between peoples, then it could be argued that you ended up being political, powerful politically. Right? And and uh and so how do you uh is there some concern about that about how to maintain purity and Being in the world but not of it, you know. Uh well I think you're saying you haven't been in as involved with that personally, but also I know that's it. It's in our tradition. But we have there have been senators and congressmen elected who are members of the Church of the Brethren. Okay. Uh so Uh obviously they didn't take Should I ask if they tend to be Democrats or Republicans? They're Republicans, but I won't say that. As Christians. And that that's a difference way to vote. I don't know if I I don't know if I'm a Democrat or Republican. I vote for people Yeah. Uh and and I think that's important and I want to see their value system. I don't care if they're uh uh I don't care uh their color, race, uh or party. I really don't. And uh I've done it all my life and I hope to continue to do that. If I were asked to be elected I couldn't be elected just as a re only I have to register as one party. And uh I I so I I don't really put a lot of um care. Well again, I feel like I feel like the issue of uh taking up arms and uh involvement with politics and those uh you know, it helps to to get a feel for you know, the Church of the Brethren and his background, you know and kind of where they come from. Right. Which is that the you know, coming back to we spent a lot of time on these issues, but You know, I think it makes sense in the Church of the Brother context. It's not necessarily meant to be a question, but if you would like to, you know, opine, you're certainly welcome to. Um I don't but I'm sure other you know other people would uh but we're we're talking about uh peace and you know going out and and having peace training and being peacemakers and surrounding them out and all that sort of stuff Uh, as though everybody's in agreement and of one accord on how to define peace as understood and how truly. Right. So I'm not sure that uh you know, the common understanding of of peace is political peace, absence of war, all that sort of stuff is really what the Bible is talking about when Jesus is talking about blessed is the peacemaker Well, where's the root of true peace? True peace is found only in Christ, and so if you're going to make peace, you're going to preach the gospel, you're going to share the word, you're going to make disciples. So if you are living your life as a missionary, so to speak, if you're a walk if you are a walking sermon in shoes, then some would say that you are a peacemaker. It has absolutely nothing to do with geopolitical concerns or absence of violence or anything like that. Personally, I kind of hold to that view and I found it to be a helpful view because it helps to make sense of the other parts of the Bible that seem to be opposed to that. Like, wait a minute When God said go wipe out all the Canaanites, how is that peaceful? Mm-hmm. But it's the advance of the kingdom, it's God's purposes and his will being executed, and if you're advancing God's will, you are making peace. even though from a worldly point of view it looks like the absence of peace from God's perspective it is peace. So anyway I'm kinda saying that as a comment and a commentary but if you have a reaction you're certainly welcome to share. Oh I'm sure we have a reaction. And I and I think I I think I agree with you. Um the peacemakers that that I know uh uh from our from our faith are exactly that. They're walking witnesses of Christ and that that's their Uh that's their missionary, that's their mission. And uh uh we certainly uh uh I I don't uh hold them back one bit for doing that I think each of us as Christians or each of the Christians and uh have a have a have the same purpose. I think we're all if we are the a practicing Christian then we are peacemakers. Okay, I have a deep thought. Uh oh But I but I'm gonna I'm Wow, it only took us four years four months to get to this point. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We should celebrate. Break out the champagne. Uh the The issue of being a peacemaker is so hackneyed and jaded in uh ever since the sixties, you know, that that peace, all the peace, pop, Woodstock, Make Love, Not War, you know, that whole crowd uh I feel like has given me the impression Pastor Tim, that anybody that that is a peacemaker and a peace guy or a pacifist or or anything that leans in that direction must be a flaming liberal, you know, that that wants nothing to do with God, that wants communism, that wants socialism, you know, all these kinds of things that that is oriented towards you know, uh Marx and Nietzsche, which interestingly enough wouldn't quite make sense because the ones that claim to be peacemakers are always the the ones that are throwing bombs and throwing rocks and and you know they they they go out to these peace rallies and they're the most violent things anywhere in the nation. Right? And exactly. And the reality is that Is that I I'm just now coming to the place where I'm like, huh, I feel like I can entrust your approach to peace because you're not any of those things. You're not right. You're not socialist, you're not communist, you're not um uh of the you you're not gonna go out and, you know, agitate for peace, right? Which doesn't make sense in the first place But but you're gonna work towards peace. Like do you find yourselves like uh attracted to the UN and particip uh uh Church of the Brotherhood, you know, to working at those kinds of things? Pastor Jonathan, but uh when I speak it I use the word Pastor Tim, I didn't mean to be so formal with you. No, he wasn't no matter. We're trying to feed the world through the heifer project. And that's the project where it originally started, uh where we sent animals to buy 'em a heifer. Buy 'em a heifer or buy 'em two. Yeah. And then let them go from there. Now the heifer project is a a multi million dollar business that sends money And animals and feed and things such as that. And that's grown all over the world. So so you can see it. That's our piece. But do you find yourselves Okay, and again I'm asking you to to speak for brethren people. Do you find yourselves then as a result of your orientation towards peace? uh rubbing shoulders with some of these peace nicks that, you know, make make love not war guys out there. D do you find yourself ever connecting with them or that they're attracted to you or that they want to invite you to their peace conference and I think the the latter is is closer to the truth that they're attracted to us. Yeah. Um I I I just came back from annual convention not long ago and I I looked on the stage and I saw all the wonderful group of invited guests and pastors and bishops and things such as that and and love those titles. Uh but uh I see them trying to attract attach themselves to us. We are not out after the um make love, not war type of people, the hippies in the past. And I don't mean that as hippies, but I mean as that movement. Uh we're not in communes. We're not uh you know I I don't see that. But like for example, there's there's even a whole um uh theological orientation sure uh that I identify as a theological liberalism that throws out uh Genesis one through ten that throws out the miracles of the Bible uh in the you know kind of a Thomas Jefferson, a Jeffersonian approach to scriptures that that would also say that all of those passages that deal with sin and deal with hell You know, we'll just kind of cut those out and and we just want a God of love. He and a God of peace and he just loves and accepts everybody for who they are and he doesn't judge anybody. You know, and and so their their theological orientation leans in the direction of of this tolerance You're speaking Unitarian now, you know. Totally, totally. Because the Unitarians would call themselves pacifists. Right. I think that was kind of shocked a little bit. The uh Denomination is very old. At one time there was an association with the brethren. Yeah. But when the brethren started to see their doc uh their policies or their Whatever it is. Their orientation, if you will. Where where the divisions began to become clear. But we totally separated So they're peace oriented. Yeah, they're they're all kinda oriented, but they would claim similar roots, but they're very different now. They are totally different because we believe the word of God, word for word, the Bible is complete. No difference. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on British News Radio, 930 WFMD, the gentleman that just said very interesting, John Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Hello. And the person that says unto the May Jonathan say very interesting. Tim May, the uh pastor at Pleasant View Church of the Brethren Uh one of the things uh one of the threads that uh in the argument that Jonathan was making um might lead us into something that could take the rest of the show, I don't know. But On the one hand you're talking about the UN and these and the socialists and the communists and r really political organizations, political parties, political worldviews. And then a little bit later in your in the thread of your argument talking about um uh what is called hiercritical uh um liberal theology, you know, whatever whatever label you want to put on that the what is very in vogue these days in academia. Princeton, Harvard, all all all of those uh northeastern uh uh theological centers uh pretty much a anybody who uh has PhD after their name and is proud of it and that sort of thing. Uh you've got to be careful to ask them where they stand on these issues because most of them are going to s are going to go to what's called the hierarchical where they deny the miracles, all that sort of stuff. I don't know if those two go together necessarily. I think that they might end up hanging out together, having some common worldview issues going on. And then you mean what's the thing? So I don't know if he's going to think, where is he going with this? I think it's quite possible for somebody to be a Bible believing, quote unquote, conservative Christian and somehow f see fit to support the UN. To somehow see, be a socialist or a communist. Uh the the part about socialism conservative. I mean I've wanted to get some people on the show that lean in that direction because I think there are those out there that are very sincere that lean in that direction, but I can't seem to find ones that that are uh that are Bible believing Christians that lean in that direction. True. And in fact if there's anybody out there listening to the show, please call because I want to have that discussion. Because what what I find time and again is that the ones that lean in that direction are the very ones that are uh they tend to be pro-homosexual, they tend to be pro-abortion, they tend to tend to um not believe that uh that it's wrong to sleep around outside of marriage any longer, you know, that those cultural things have passed away and and you know that the miracles of the Bible aren't so important. They tend to be at least in my experience and I would agree it that there might be what you're describing, but I'm I'm looking for 'em. And I think there's a reason why they would end up hanging out together. So don't I'm not totally naive and Pollyanna and think, oh we could Yeah, I think that your politics the way you vote, you talk about voting Christian. You know, was it this week, last week, I don't remember. Yeah, instead of being Democrat or Republican, vote Christian, yeah. So I mean important distinction. And that will color your political worldview, your your theological view will color that. There's a reason they hang out together. Uh the it's like who's drawn to who though. I think that the those that have a a liberal political mindset are drawn to those that have a theological liberalism because their theology allows them to have a home. Yeah. Mm-hmm. They find a theological home. Oh, they don't believe in the miracles. They believe in a lot of things that are subjective. They think it's okay to you know I believe that homosexuality is okay, and they seem to think that too So they're drawn there. So they end up together. Exactly. Uh there's a um what's the theology from from Latin America? Uh I'm forgetting liberation theologies. the you know, black power theologies, they all kind of lean in the in a in the direction of a of a socialism, communism, and they tend to not think it's so important that Christ actually rose from the dead or think it's so important that that there was actually a Moses Exodus event where he split the waters. What's important is just that we We're caught up in the stories and inspired by them and and uh and so then as a result they end up watering what I feel like watering down the scriptures. And so pick and choosing. I call it pick and choosing. Yeah and I think it's Jeffersonian. Well well this is the thing. In fact I've I've been wanting to get to that that question to ask it, but I wasn't sure how to do it because You're so peace loving, I didn't want to like break the peace. I'm gonna hurt you so bad. I I'd like to find somebody like that. Well, I know you're listening. Yes. Send me an email. Troy at WFMD. com. Simple as that. Conservative Christian, Bible believing. Or leave in a socialist political body. And yeah, I don't want to get bogged down to this, but I'm trying to envision who would that person be, what would their point of view be? They're probably going to come on and say, I believe the Bible is true and errant and all that sort of stuff. But I lean in this socialist direction. Because I believe in taking care of the poor and the orphan and the widow and the servicing and taking care of those who are without and that seems to be what socialism helps us to do and look at what happened in Acts with the church and they also care and they shared the resources and they're gonna have that kind of a perspective. I would uh argue against it from scripture for there's reasons why I'm not uh politically a socialist. I think that would have to be why how they would try to marry the two points of view. Well I think they were looking they would look for any common denominator. I wanted to go back to uh uh the question that was posed is w would a br brethren, uh not the brethren church, would a brethren support the UN Um one of our and I'm kinda smiling because one of our uh tenets again is not an ordinance sacrament, is the understanding and the frugality of of lifestyles. We were called plain people again. Uh we don't spend a lot of money. Um and and w we we think that's an important way to live. So would we just throw money away? Absolutely not. Would we th would we support the UN? I personally not anyway in the world. Because they don't Yeah but my my resistance to supporting the UN is that it it it Well it promotes causes us to be in a covenant it promotes with people and nations that that are so different from what the Constitution of the United States and its values fit that it would end up subverting our constitution a political issue and not a theological issue, right? There's a theory of difference there. Yeah. That's a political issue. We probably don't have a lot of time to get into great meat on this But I'd I was hoping we'd have more time as we did this series of shows. It came up early. Uh in the very first show we kind of touched on it. And I gotta ask you mentioned about uh forward dunking. You have the dunkers about the that was one of the one of our nicknames, yes. The brethren or the dunkers and you talked about forward dunking and I think you said triple immersion, right? So you dunked three times three times forward. In the name of the Father, dunk, the name of the Son, dunk, name of the Holy Spirit, dunk? Correct. Okay. Interesting. And we do and we do it with the person on their knees in the water. We're not standing, you're kneeling. Now why forward dunking? We believe that's the way that John the Baptist uh baptized. Now the Baptist would believe what, Jonathan? They went backwards. But how would you like I wouldn't know how you would make a case either way. Well here's what the point would be. Do you think Jesus Christ scares us? I don't I I think a lot of times it's political politics and churches themselves that all at once went to the scripture that leaves the impression that the I face first. I can't come up with any. Yeah, I'm I'm I thought it would be nice to call forward doctors and backward baptists. I always thought that was a good thing to be called. I think it's so murky. There's a play on words and water. So there's clearly no sense of dunking forward back. Well, I think the Bible teaches that, you know, we we're to we're to follow the footsteps of Jesus in that uh Jesus was baptized in the river Jordan, which is why we use moving water. Uh now there are more progressive brethren churches that have bab uh uh baptismal uh uh uh I just preached on this in the book of Mark, you know, about uh baptism. And the word baptism uh it comes from the word Greek word bapt You know, where you dip the garment and it comes out stained, it's forever changed. You know, and um and so Theologically, the idea is that you are immersed in this new thing that you're sustained, you're different forever. And um and so I'm more concerned about the theological sense of it And and and so then to to do it in a way that it it illustrates the theological meaning, you know, like sprinkling. I don't just want to be sprinkled with God. Right. You know, kind of a, you know, nice little sprinkling. I want to be immersed in his purposes and his calling. So I I don't know that I'm that I'm absolutely committed that you have to dunk somebody, but I feel like it It it serves the metaphor well to go ahead and dunk the immersion with that. Yeah. But do you think Jesus was was Baptized emerging from memory, I d no, I I don't think he was. But from memory. My wife said thank you for that's a good job. get so hooked up in in in in in things that whether do I cross myself right or left. Do I make the sign of the cross? Do I wear a collar or I don't wear a collar I can imagine God I know has a great sense of humor. Look at these fools. Well they're worried about you know And actually this is a this is a very pietist instinct that you're describing right now. Right You know, because the world has to do it just right. And the high churches, you know, with all their vestments and very pious systems. Some wear collars, some don't. Uh I wear a collar from time to time, most of the time I don't. I don't think God through Jesus Christ really cares what Tim May's wearing as long as he's proclaiming my gospel to the world Uh my Christ had long hair. What's your problem? I don't have any hair. But you know, one of the things is one uh here's one of my favorite, you know I can't make everyone in my church happy. Christ couldn't make twelve happy Yeah. So don't expect me to make two hundred and eighty-five happy. Think about it. Exactly. I'm ready. So should we if somebody has b uh considers themselves baptized and they're baptized via immersion that was backwards, should we recognize them as baptized? Sure. If they were baptized via a sprinkling as an infant should be recognized as baptized. to to be baptized by choice. Yes, rather than by uh subject. Though if they were infant baptized and and they're very confident in the the validity of that to you know for them to be baptized into Christ. I'm I'm not gonna argue with them. I'm not gonna kick them out of the church. I'm not gonna make it a bit of a that that's fine. Again, I I think baptism is a personal choice. I I much prefer that. Parents seem to baptize children to protect them from dying. Now I know that may sound terrible to say so that's that's part of the Roman Catholic uh uh leftovers if you're a Protestant and if you're Roman Catholic currently it's not a leftover, it's part of the Roman Catholic belief system and the sacraments are effective. So if you baptize them, they are saved. Whether you brought them kicking and screaming, they believe that it their the sacraments are effective and so if you want to ensure the salvation of your child before they die you have baptized. So that's just And if anybody's Protestant believes that it's just a holdover probably for the Sure, exactly. I I think it's more of a myth. I I I don't mean myth against the Roman Church, but I'm saying I I think the parents have been uh that are that are unchurched that come down and say, Well if we don't baptize little Johnny Yeah, well we don't have time to get into the big problem is Christendom, confusing the the church with Christendom, you know, and thinking that uh Uh, you know well, it's the cultural norm. Of course we need to you know. You were joking off the air about somebody who had perfect church attendance one week. Mm-hmm You know, and that's kind of the way America looks at it. And I well yeah, I'm a Christian. I went to church, I think it was nineteen seventy three. It was a It was a March Sunday. So of course I had to get my children baptized. Well in that Since, you know, is it really a Christian baptism? That's a whole nother show. We don't have time. We have thirty seconds. Enough for me to say thank you, John Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapter. Thank you. Thank you, Tim May, Pastor at Pleasant View Church with a background. Thank you, Troy. I appreciate it. Thank you to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. Help We Make You Smile. Please visit visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. I'm Troy Skinner. You've been listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. God bless.