Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman, Plumbing, and Heating. How? Can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. Be sure to visit us online, WFMD. com. If you're listening last week, you heard Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Tim May The senior junior uh the third Esquire Pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren on the panel. They're back this week. Uh last week we touched briefly toward the end of the show on Pietism, but I knew that that was a longer conversation than time would allow in what was left last week. It might be more time than allowed in this week's show, and we're starting with it. Sure. Uh but we're going to be tackling that. If you don't know what that even means, and I'm gonna guess that um if you're a longtime listener of this show and you appreciate the kind of things that we we do and talk about You might have some sense of what I'm talking about. If you're a casual listener or a first time listener, you probably like what pies? Is that like Blueberry, apple, what? So who would like to try to do like a uh you know common vernacular type of definition of what we're talking about? Let's uh toss that year away, Tim It's a person, uh, Jonathan Troy that makes pies. We uh uh Pie Chanism is a was a movement uh that came out of Germany, as I recall. And it tied in with the Anabaptist movement. It was a separation of a people of believers that tended to be uh pacifists in their thinking, separatists from the rest of the world, and basically wanted to be left alone. They had this idea that uh they could grow in numbers and that they would grow in faith by just staying to themselves. And uh they continue there as several Pietist movements still uh around the world. The Church of the Brethren Well the Puritans have been considered scientists. Definitely, definitely. And Mennonites uh and and Uh you know, Amish Amis definitely. And you see when when the Church of the Brethren uh we came to America, uh we were called dunkers. And that was when I'm I've been known as a dunker. Now what's a dunker is that's how we baptize. It's a donut thing, isn't it? That's a dunker donut, yes, that's good, Jonathan. You've been around a lot. Uh but dunkers That's true. That's right, that's right. And it's the sheriff's department. We don't want to separate that out. Oh, the donkers were the way we baptized. Uh Alexander Mack, the founder of the Brethren Faith, uh, in Schwarzenald, Germany uh major writings were about that uh there is no infant baptism. Uh you only have adult baptism. There's no such thing as b baptism. It's not it's wrong. Well the church of uh in those days and the church and government were much of the same decided Well you're going to preach against this, you're going to be in trouble, we're not going to allow you to exist. So they met privately and secretly and they And they persecuted them pretty certainly. Very much so. In fact Didn't isn't Calvin on uh record as saying you want to be baptized again, fine. You baptize them again and hold them under. Yes. This goes back almost to the very beginning of the Protestant Reformation. So there was uh there was a one universal church or still is, but it was they they were all kind of getting along and coexisting. And then there was uh a power struggle that had a lot of political influence uh involved that caused the first major split in the church was the Eastern Church and the Western Church. Western Church centered in Rome. We know it today as the Roman Catholic Church. Right. Eastern Church was in uh quite a few number of years later, a couple hundred years later Uh Martin Luther, a Roman Catholic um priest priest and monk, uh felt like the church had lost its way on some points and uh nailed his famous feces uh up on on a door. It was a uh a very common protest thing to do in the t at the time, sparking uh or really igniting what was already beginning to uh uh to be ready to the surface. It broke it. It was already beginning it was ready for kindling and he lit the match and the Protestant Reformation takes place and a lot of times the story ends there. Right. And nobody really knows a whole lot more. Maybe you've heard of John Calvin, maybe you haven't, maybe you've heard of uh Zwingli, maybe you haven't. You're not really sure. Well Zwingli was was actually a predecessor of of and a and they uh lasted longer than uh Luther And uh his his far uh part of it was to get the the church out of the government. That was another one of his means that he didn't say there had to be that they could not serve the same uh same master so to speak. And so Zingrol, he he was a a a a a uh contemporary. And the reason I'm sharing all of this is one I mean that's one of the purposes for for the show I think is to kind of give people some historical perspective, understand and it's one of my great used to be one of my great frustrations is growing up used to watch on the news, you know, Israel this and Lebanon that and Gaza Strip this and Egypt that and Jordan this and I had no idea why why are they mad at each other? What's going on? What's but they never provided any context. Yeah. You know, it wasn't until I got way older and took some time on my own to try to figure out the context that you start to get the beginnings of what the heck's going on there. So I think it's important for us to understand, so really a better way of understanding it is is it's been shared with me, and I think this makes sense. There really wasn't a reformation. The Protestant Reformation, there were many reformations that took place almost simultaneously across the European continent. And it wasn't like it is today where there's the internet and television, radio, and that sort of thing. It was Everything was kind of happening in pockets. And so up in Germany you've got Luther and then um you know uh in the northern regions of uh of Europe you have Zwingli. And then in France you've got Calvin. Yes. And so and those guys didn't see eye to eye on everything. Um in fact uh uh Luther basically threw Zwingli Zwingli out of a room once, pounding his fist on the table. Basically told him, Get lost You know, you're you might as well be the devil as far as I'm concerned, I'm paraphrasing. So they started even having differences there then. The big issue for them as I understand it, I'm really paraphrasing a lot and making it more simple than I probably should, but the real issue between Zingley and Luther had to do with the Lord's Supper and whether or not the transformation was the actual body of Christ or was merely symbolic. Right. Calvin came along about 15, 20 years later and kind of split the middle on that. Well Luther said it was, and Zingberg said it wasn't. So but anyway. So that's the con that's kind of the turmoil of the context of what's going on. And now in the midst of all of this, you've got this group that comes along and disagrees with the what is now known as the Calvinist way of thinking about things and the power structure in place at the time were were the John Calvin adherent type people, and so like you said, they were going into hiding and all that sort of stuff. And a big difference is Calvinists do believe that it's okay not only to sprinkle infant uh to baptize infants, which there's a difference there, but that you can baptize by sprinkling. And if that's a suitable baptism And the uh Anabaptists said, No, it's gotta be believer only and it's gotta be by submersion. Submersion, immersion into water. And so in fairness to John uh Calvin, I've heard that same story, you wanna be baptized, I'll hold yonder and see if you know if God will save you. And I've read a number of other things that would, you know, mitigate that a little bit, that that might not be a r s uh an entirely fair characterization of Calvin. But it does capture the I think the spirit of the age by some level. Sure. So All of that's going on leading to now we have all this this uh d uh denominationalism that sure that came over to America, setting the con so now we're having this conversation asking you to explain what's Pietism and it all has its roots. in that. So hopefully that's helpful. And specifically the the the thrust, the motivation behind the Pietist was that we want to get as much out of the world as possible. We want we want to protect withdraw and protect ourselves from being worldly. You know, and so if if uh the Bible says to be in the world but not of it They wanted they they were really concerned to be not of the world. That meant g withdrawal from politics, withdrawal from culture, you know clothing, cemeteries Churches. Anything that smacked of paganism and we're anything that identified them. In fact, Troy, when when you and I around Christmas time come back to the to the all the Christmas traditions that have pagan roots behind them and how it bothers you deeply. That's a pietist impulse that says that we want nothing to do with the world. And and we with no compromises. We don't even want to borrow their days and try to sanctify them. We're just going to do our own, you know, us in God and and and God will bless us if we pull away and just, you know, just be with him a very Puritan uh orientation and that was the Pietist thrust was to get the world out of the church. You know, and so when it came to the Catholic Church that meant uh all of the the hierarchy and the vestments, you know, for the priests and uh in the sense that they're they're tied to politics, you know, to pull away from all that. You know, anything that that would that would allow them to not be associated with in any way the things of the world. And in fact, many many of us today are of the opinion that that there should be a separation of church and state. Well that separation doesn't come from Luther and it doesn't come from Calvin, but it comes down through the Pietists, through the Puritans and those guys that said that we want uh that there needs to be a separation and the church needs to be the church and have no uh pull or uh compromise whatsoever with the politics and the power that can be a good thing. When you speak uh um Jonathan when you speak of that, you have to think back to how the church was in those days and the Roman church. The uh the uh the the atonements were you could purchase and you could you could buy uh uh you could be uh you wanted a a priesthood or you wanted something, you could buy it And this is what was driving the the uh Reformationists uh uh w so far away that this isn't right. And the Pietist movement just grew and grew by by leaps of the Bible saying, We don't want part of this. It's corrupt and we're not God isn't corrupt and we have to we have to pull away. And uh I was gonna take it all the way to modern times that in America when uh when m my denomination, the brethren established, because of our the way we were treated in Europe Uh when we opened up here first it was originally in homes we didn't have a have a church. We went then we had meeting houses. No crosses, no no uh Our our tombstones had no identification on because we didn't we w uh a lot of the older people felt we know if they know that I'm a breakaway that that something can happen. So we were very low key and uh we were called plain people or peculiar people. And uh that was that was our tradition And and of course the Dunkir tradition is the way we baptize. We baptize three times forward. Yeah, in fact Baptists trace their route back to that same tradition. you know, to to the to holiness or orientation. Even even the holiness Pentecostals would would trace their roots back to uh the holiness orientation, you know, pulling away from the world and not being worldly. And worldly again can come in the in the in the guise of clothing. It could come in the guise of politics, it could come in the guise of the type of music that you listen to. Sure. It could come in the guise of movies, uh staying away from movies, anything that Well you weren't even allowed, so it did you know you don't have to worry which one to see, you weren't gonna see any. Because that was world levels. So here we are, we're, you know, uh more than a month into two thousand and nine. Where do we stand on these issues today? Where does the Brethren Church stand on these issues? we maintain today many of those sta same uh belief systems. Uh we have uh uh I uh we have modernized to an extent Um families are still uh for example the Creed in uh say, Tim, what is the Creed in the Brethren Church? Our Creed is the New Testament. Uh they'll say to you, Oh, well do you believe we believe in right and wrong uh in in our in our denomination, although there are grey people, we have everything or black and white issues. And we we fought with uh the New Testament. We were called New Testament people. And that's a great way to live. Those those those tenants of our of our uh denomination are still Still in effect today. I have a blessing to have many elderly older uh members who can tell me how it used to be like in the twenties and thirties and forties. And it's and it's It's really terrific. And it was not until the late forties that we even accepted transfers to the Brethren Church without having our submerged baptism. Now we do, since nineteen forty, uh the church uh in general we have an annual conference voted that we could accept uh members from other ch denominations who who were either infant baptisms or or not I as a Lutheran was baptized at age one. I don't remember that was a Sunday I think, but I don't remember well. When I became pastor of my uh my parish I requested and was re baptized because not only to show my uh uh uh uh commitment but to but to but but to want to be baptized as the Bible says. The Anabaptist or re baptism orientation fits with with with the bigger idea that that we don't want to be like the world, that we want it we we want to be godly people, we want to be centered on Christ. And so if if my parents baptized me and and I look to that as my source of uh uh guarantee of salvation, then I might not need to really deal with the heart issues. It's too cultural that okay my parents baptized me and I'm confirmed so therefore I'm in the church and and it and it carries too much of a connotation of you know just going on with the things of the world whereas if I chose myself to to publicly identify with Christ and to be baptized, then there's that sense that that I'm pulling away from the world, I'm communicating to the world that I want to follow Christ, that He's Lord now. And I'm showing the world This is who I am. We call them uh ordinances. But one of our most important uh other than the baptism is the love feast. And we celebrate that fully, completely twice a year. And that's the most beautiful service that I've ever been to in my life. In fact, you guys wash each other's feet whenever you have that that love feast. Twice a year. At least twice a yeah. uh in an error that has been the precedent, uh one 'em only Thursday before Easter and then in the fall and we physically wash each other's feet And we have a meal and we have the the communion, uh which we call bread. uh uniquely disconcerting about having somebody else touch your feet. It's a very vulnerable and very intimate act that when people are doing it for one another like when you know Christ did, you know, and he told his disciples, do this for one another, you so that's a that's a precise literal obedience to that passage uh it i the intimacy of the act. If you've never been in the ceremony like that, um it it brings a whole new picture of what it must have been like to have the Messiah, the King of Kings, you know, being the one that's washing your feet. It must have been very disconcerting for Peter to have that happen. Listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, that was John Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick. The other uh gentlemen on the panel today, uh Tim May, pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren. I'm Troy Skinner, our sponsor is Putin, Plumbing, and Heating. Um So let me ask you because uh we've alluded but I'm not sure that I'm a hundred percent clear and that means somebody else might not be a hundred percent clear. So let's talk about some practical application things about being in the world, not of the world kind of thing. Do you go to movies? Yes Do you uh certain certain movies? Certain movies. Do you vote? Certainly. Uh you're obviously okay with being involved with politics because you you have a judgeship. Yes I'm assuming. Well I didn't want to answer the question for you, but I think it's fair assumption, I think. I think it's fair assumption. Uh uh do you uh do you do those things more than the average brethren might tend to I think uh no. I think the uh uh if I if you were saying do do brethren vote, yes, I would say n ninety nine percent of the brethren vote. Uh we uh th they don't take an oath in court. They don't swear to they all affirm, they don't uh uh swear because we're not to take any other than that. So that's a difference. Uh movies and yes, we've come a long way. It's but again, we can be uh I I think what killed the Pietist, the Pietist movement for all intents and purposes is gone. And I think what killed it was because you as in in many things, with the exception of what Christ says i common sense has to come into play. Um you know there there there's so many uh strange religions out there that, you know, I won't eat this. Well if you're starving that may become the exception, or I won't I won't use medicine. Well that may become the exception if your leg's falling off. Uh I think what has happened is we've never given up our roots But obviously we have to exist in this world and we saw that we cannot exist if we're so uh if we're cloistered If we're if we're if we're become monks, we can't we can't exist. So it's sort of like as I look to we're great fans and and of the Amish. Yeah. Who maintain even a stricter code than we do. Uh but they are there are the times when you can make the right decisions, you know. Is it acceptable within your tradition to sign up for the military? Yes. Okay. We don't carry weapons. We we prefer if you sign up and if it's your calling, if Christ has called you to serve in the military, uh the brethren uh in the past have said I I want to serve But I I choose not to carry a weapon. And we've lost uh I mean the history of the Brethren Church, they were called uh white coats, uh on the battlefields dying as medics and and ambulance personnel uh but they didn't have weapons. Now can I ask what is the you know uh scriptural argument for that? Well that they would that they would not take up arms against anyone. That uh they w they feel that uh uh as a pacifist, which they're not. Um of course I I told Jonathan earlier that uh uh I think all Christians are pacifists. We prefer not to fight if we don't have to But that certainly doesn't mean we won't defend. Yeah, yeah, and I made the clarification that I that in general I think the the the understanding of pacifism that's out there is that a pacifist is somebody that that does not um refuses to refuses to go to war in any situation. We're not passing. They would never they would never go to war. No, no. Sergeant York. Yeah. You've seen the movie Sergeant York? Yeah. Yeah. But he starts out as a pacifist and ends up becoming a war hero by taking up a machine gun and killing a bunch of guys. Well I I think, you know, and also time and necessity and and and And I think you see, we everything we do, and I hope my the brethren do, is we pray first. We we do a lot of praying. We're we're praying all the time. And we're led by God by Jesus Christ. So that when you say to me, uh well, would you take up arms? Well yes, if we if the need arose, I I think Well and again I think that this is another important um instinct in the Pietist movement even from the very beginning. that we don't just do things that are external but that we we uh and and I say we 'cause I I think I tend to have a little bit of a pie test uh orientation my own background. Um however you would s you wouldn't uh your tradition your f your your understanding of your Christian faith wouldn't keep you from taking up arms in the military, correct? Or would you have a problem with that? Uh no, me personally no. But I think I think going back a couple generations that that might have been the case. What about if you had a preference No, no, I'm in agreement with you. Okay. Um uh here let me let me come back to that. So the instinct of Pietism is whether or not i is is not that you just do what what some great theologian somewhere has told you you should do right but that you're personally going into the scriptures and praying things. Otherwise you go back to the jowing to the Lord, you know, and and and really searching out so that there's a heart conviction about what you do, about everything that you do. And that that was a very strong, you know, that every every believer would be that way and not just have a priest that is telling them what to do, but you go to the scriptures for yourself study them out. Yeah, and come up with the thing. Personally. And not the church. Because remember that's that was part of the fall of the Roman Church is that in fact we're not even going to give you a Bible when they're printing because you're too dumb to read it. And so there's a priesthood of all believers orientation there, that the pastor's not better than anybody else. No, I am no exactly. In fact I've preached a sermon before uh we have an altar. Yeah. Uh very plain but very beautiful because it in the simplicity. We see a lot of beauty and simplicity. And and but I preach from the back of the of the congregation because I am no closer to God th or I'm no closer to Jesus Christ than I think. Every Sunday you preach from the back of the connection. No no no one would like that just to make a point. I that's that's that's uh I I drone that into him. That I am no closer to Jesus Christ than any one of you here. So even on this issue of whether or not I personally would take up arms. We're just going that direction a second ago. Um your instinct there is not okay, well, what's my official policy position? Right. Your instinct is to drive deeper. Well Well, Lord, you know Lord Jesus, lead me in the situation. You know, w what's your instinct, you know, when you go to the Lord? Right. All of which is saying let's drive a little bit deeper. Let's not just have a policy on the thing about what we do, but let's each of us really grapple deeply in our hearts with these. But it sounds like that would end up and being one of the gray area issues. Sounds there's right and wrong, there's black and white. This sounds like a personal heart issue Well I I think with the Lord is no grey area. I I think that uh when the Lord leads you then you you're you're you're not gray, you're black and white again. So whether it was a policy, I think sometimes people wonder, well what's the church policy on war? Uh we're opposed to it What's your policy on on abortion? We're against it. Oh, see I'm not sure the church is a is opposed to war. It depends on how you're gonna find it. Well, there's a war that's going on. Well obviously God's not opposed to opposite war. Well right. I mean I'm not trying to flip. No, but you might not be a flip. You're the but you're you're you're bringing in If if I I'm talking about would you want to see the world at war? No. And nobody in the right mind or I know you're in your right mind. uh that he's wanting you to hear uh that that says that well we're all opposed race to war let me let me ask a question that because I think this will help me. You earlier had talked about, you know, there's these rules but there's some common sense that has to come in. Um I know I know the story. But let's for the sake of argument, let's assume There's such a thing as common sense and we want to apply it. And and you're applying it to the can you live with this? Well, you would normally wouldn't take medicine, but I need to take medicine to because that's gonna allow me to l So does it pass the liveability test? If everybody held the view that I really don't want to take up arms, I'm willing to serve, but I'm not willing to fight with arms, could if everybody held that view, could we then live with it I I think we could see if we're see war has never solved anything. But wouldn't we be overrun by somebody who didn't share that view? Like, well this is precisely the point, Troy The Church of Jesus Christ. See, see, you walked right into it right into the argument. Okay. And I'm not sure that I'm completely in agreement with it, but um but The Church of Jesus Christ was born into persecution and being overrun. No, no, no, but follow this. If a whole nation went Christian and decided to not take up arms and they got overrun by the pagan uh uh you know uh neighbors that that just totally overran 'em. Well the point is then the then the Christians, if the whole nation was Christian would willingly then say okay we will be your servants and serve them with the with the orientation that then they'll be one to Christ And then maybe they too would choose to not be able to do that. Well, but that's precisely the point that that our That's a good idea. Not here. Not here. And so for uh unless maybe we're a centurion who is in the armed forces and has a responsibility that we that we would be willing to go ahead. So we're gonna have to pick this up in another show next week. Be that way. Frank who? Frank Mitchell? I've heard of him. I will personally do that. Right? I will personally threat do that. Uh Tim May, thank you. He's the uh pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile Again, I encourage you to visit us online, WFMD. com keywordfaith. I have a uh ongoing blog there. Jonathan does a blog you can link to from the Faith Debate page. Listen to the show on uh in the audio vote section podcasts, and uh make sure that you take care of our sponsors.