Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman, Plumbing, and Heating. How can we make you smile? Starting Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson said that the clash of ideas is a sound of freedom and it's in that spirit that we seriously wrestle with important ideas. Our hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this life. And this week on the panel, by the way, I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator. Check us out online, wfmd. com, keyword faith. Pastor Luke Robinson, Minister at Quinnchapel AME Church. And Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you so much for being on the show. If you were listening last week, the same panel was assembled to talk about a variety of issues that had to do with Uh well, we ended up talking about things that had to do with racial diversity in the church and that sort of a thing. And and I I I do kind of want to use that as a lump uh a jumping off point uh for us this time. There definitely is Uh but you can't deny the fact that there is there are differences in the Christian church. You know, there are there are church it's it people identify them. It's known as that's a black church. You know, that's a white church. You know, you can't help you can't deny that the labels are more formal church. That's a charismatic church. That's That's a Roman Catholic church. That's a Protestant church. That's an Orthodox church. That's high church. That's low church. And yet there is this idea, right, in the b Bible about unity in Christ. And so we don't deny that that's true. So th how do you harmonize those ideas? And Last week we were talking about uh s some some of the kinds of things, the some of the discussions or arguments that are had about how to try to bring that unity and and what's the right kind of unity, what's the wrong kind of unity, that sort of thing Um let's not just focus on um you know how do I want to say this? I don't want us to go off on tangents right away, so I'm trying to make sure that I ask a a a a clear Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're trying to be clear for my sake, aren't you? Pretty much. Yes, yes. I appreciate that. That's what friends are for. If we go to a church that is predominantly uh attended by African Americans. Okay. All right, and they're dressed like modern American you know, African American people dress and their the music that they're worshiping God with is would might be identified by people as, you know, the kind of music that African Americans enjoy listening to and all that sort of thing. And then they go to another church that is white and people are dressed there how we imagine white people dress and listening to music that we imagine white people like to listen to. Okay. Is that in and of itself a bad thing? Can we just rejoice and enjoy the fact that there are these differences and people find these pockets, these enclaves within the community if they're comfortable? And you know what? I like being surrounded by people that are like me and live in a neighborhood like mine and drive a car like I do and listen to the same kind of music that I do and that's where I'm gonna go co Is that necessarily a negative thing? Is that for a non Christian believer? Is that a point for them to point a finger and say, Aha You guys don't really get along. You don't like each other even. You don't even worship the your God together. Is that a fair accusation? If so, you know what's the Bible say it and how do we deal with it? And if not What's what's a good biblical loving response to that aha? Well, I I I think that um uh First of all, um I I I pastor a a a African American church, African American church. And um Uh that's defined by the fact that um first of all uh it just it it it it wasn't always that way. I I think it started out in uh Philadelphia, Pennsylvania uh it used to meet an in the Methodist Episcopal Church and through some discrimination stuff. It it it separated and put the A in front of it for African American to the point where uh people could know uh that Africans people of African descent was welcome in that in that congregation And I think over the years, uh, culture has helped us to kinda be comfortable um do the things that America has taken us through. And I I think that we are working uh every day to overcome some of the things that are uh not negative and I think God himself would not have us to be caught up in his his is the separation because of the differences in the races and et cetera. And even the music style and etc. So people say, Aha Um is this such a bad thing that there are differences? No. God created uh I think all of us different. Uh He made us are unique. Um I think in in our church you will find some everything that and I I think last week when we were talking, I talked a little bit about the fact that we have all kinds of music. We do the hymns We do the worship, we do some of the European type songs, we do some of the African songs, some of the uh spiritual songs. So am I right that you probably do all of those with a decidedly uh African American twist to them? Probably a tempo a little a little different than uh than uh that which would be of those who are of the persuasion of European type stuff. Yeah, because we don't have rhythm. Yeah. At least not. Well y those who come to my church do. Precisely. No, but I mean we have people who are uh are white that come to our church and they worship with us and they have no problem with that. Are they given a biblical model on this? I mean I'm pretty sure that most of the people gathering in the Corinthian church were Corinthians. And most of the people g gathering in the Roman church were Romans. I mean America church was probably the most mixed because it was known for kind of being a uh a very cosmopolitan area where you had everybody from all over the Roman Empire there. But the Roman Empire was primarily, you know, Mediterranean, right? It wasn't uh or was it? Maybe I don't know my history well enough to answer on that, but I I mean they probably had Persians, they probably had Egyptians, they probably had, you know, Libyans, they probably had um, you know, maybe even some Germans at that point. Uh, you know, some of the uh Well I think then you go back to the Book of Acts, the first few chapters of the book until you get to chapter ten, you're dealing predominantly with the Jewish nation. Precisely. And then in chapter ten, God opens this whole thing up and then the other nations become a part of the Gentile nations, those nations who are not uh uh Jewish uh uh they're not moved well. God called Paul to uh Saul uh uh Paul Well he called him to go and uh and start preaching to to the Gentiles and stuff like this. that they they kinda still had a hard time breaking out of their own uh cultural mold. Oh yeah that was and and so as a result God had to uh bring persecution in order to disperse them out right so that they they then would do the very thing that Christ had told them to do that he was kinda helping them to go out to into all the world and preach the gospel. brought about some of its better days because when you uh when you are really hungry, you never ask the question Did the person who had who cooked this food uh uh wash their hands or d did the food hit the floor? You're not as choicey about things uh w when you uh in going through hard times. So um hard times have a way of uh causing people to stop focusing on small things. And so right now in our country with the economy and some of these other things that are going on. I I think it it's gonna bring the church together. The church will work together. Uh very much of uh of what we did in uh the church did when it came together and uh in in Frederick Park for Christmas in the park and and and and um uh many uh denominations and many ethnic backgrounds came together to help us uh collect some funds and gave food and coats and clothing to the people. And right now people are suffering in the nation and so the church is coming together and it will come together and I think um As times get worse, we'll find out that people will get get away from the cultural things about how I how I like my music and how I like this. We're gonna be looking for our savior, we're gonna be looking for Jesus Christ. Uh persecution will be put against the church. Uh the church will suffer and people of all ethnic backgrounds gonna forget about that. All they're gonna remember is that Jesus Christ is Lord and He's Lord of all and we're gonna pull together and we're gonna make it together. So I think um uh that hard times is not always a bad thing for the church. It's a good thing that'll break down some of the stuff we've been talking about as far as Who comes, who does what and what what. That's not going to matter anymore when when we begin to see that we need to pull together and do like Jesus taught us to do Yeah, you could almost at some level even argue that that part of the reason why the church is so divided is because we have the luxury, uh because of we have so much prosperity in the United States, we have the luxury to to sit around and split hairs about things that really aren't that important uh at the end of the day and for people that are starving or people that are under significant persecution or people that are um you know in war type scenarios a lot of the things that cause division, even styles of music, you know, or or styles of dress or rhythm or you know, th the these things that are so surface. At the end of the day, you know, I think it's very likely that we would have to do that. Yeah. God needs to bring us some persecution. And I think it's coming up. have persecution in order to be in unity. Nevertheless, a and to be effective and to be pure. Nevertheless it seems like uh because of the way that things are in the world, maybe just because of the way that sin is in the world, that it leans in that direction that when persecution comes, it helps them to provide the atmosphere for true Christians to be true Christians and to put aside all the petty stuff and to, you know, be purified and do things the way that Christ intended us to do it. So that's an interesting uh uh uh yeah, ob observation that you're making. And I think also like in China, uh the church is in great persecution. They have these uh underground churches and stuff. And those people come together and again it's great odds. They they stand together, they support one another because they're such a great persecution that they are facing. I I don't think this should be uh how it should be all the time, but I think God will use that because right now uh if you've been paying attention to the um uh news reports and what's going on in the world, you will find out that um uh The whole world is is looking for a messiah. They're looking for someone to lead them and set them free and and um Yeah, there's there's I I've been deeply impressed by the amount of euphoria and uh the the uh i uh it's almost this guttural instinct rising up. Whatever you think of Obama, it's clear that that people around the world identify with him in the sense of of they're looking for somebody that could be a leader, that could bring peace and those kinds of things And the point is is that is that we know that it's not going to be a political leader that does that. Jesus Christ is what they're looking for. Nevertheless, it helps to uh to illustrate the fact that the world's looking for that. The world's looking for some people. and he will be the Antichrist and and they are looking the world is looking for someone who can bring them to pe peace. They that can meet all these needs that are uh existing in the world. There are rumors and and more rumors of wars and and people are hungry and the the financial and the financial portfolio of rich people are falling by the wayside and there are troubles going on. So um People are looking for somebody who can bring all this back together and they are hoping in people. And um eventually what I believe according to these scriptures is that that the Lord Jesus Christ Himself will come back. Um I think that um one eyes is at at the current time looking at what's happening with Israel. It's always you keep eye on what's happening with them because the Christian scriptures and the Hebrew scriptures is filled up uh with what's gonna happen with Israel and how that nation uh will come to a point where it's hated by all the nations of the world and and and then they will call out for uh the Messiah, who will be the one that they have rejected. But they will call on his name and they will know him as as as as the Lord of glory. They will know Jesus. They will call he will come to save them. And so sometimes we We see what's going on in the world, we get discouraged, but I think at the same time we have an opportunity to be really excited because uh things are being put in place for the church to really get involved with doing what God called it to do. And we're gonna see that happen. And I think some of this other stuff that we get caught up in was going to drop by the wayside. And I think God's gonna cause that to happen. You can almost argue that That the most powerful thing that Christ did when He created the church w and He died on the cross and rose from the dead is that He He created the church that thrives in the midst of hard times. Yeah. That that is most effective and most glorious when it's dealing with pressures and the hardships and whether it's, you know, uh I don't use the term Antichrist, because the Bible says there are many Antichrists that have gone out into the world. So so I I I would use the term beast, you know, that there's a beast that rises up that has been given author authority by the dragon, you know, by the enemy of our souls in and that beast is is a a Babylonian system, you know, that that is political, that is economic, you know, and that is not oriented toward um godly things, but is it oriented towards greed and lust and uh um uh power and selfishness and pride and that that when that arises and as it continues to arise and it certainly seems to be the case that now's time for the church to come back into unity, to set aside all those uh small things, to set aside all the all the petty things, and to come back to what's most important, that we lift up the name of Jesus Christ That we take care of the poor and the hurting, that that we uh that we serve sacrificially, that we serve one another, and that we proclaim, you know, that that Christ is the answer, not politics, not economics, not all these other things. mind to ask you, do you think that there will be a one world leader? Um well it's interesting because I threw that out there 'cause um i it is clear that there's a man of sin that will be revealed in the last time And I am the of the opinion that there will be, you know, there's going to be a actually two beasts, one that comes out of the sea and one that comes out of the land Uh and uh it seems that one of those is a political system that will be headed by, you know, some kind of a political leader. The other one is a religious system. that we ha be headed by some kind of religious leader. And so um I yes, I'm of the opinion that that something like that will happen though I'm of the opinion that that's happened many times through history and that there will be one ultimate final, but like like Hitler, Stalin, those guys definitely represented Antichrist spirits. And certainly it's true when you read about the church, the the true church in Germany or in Russia at the time, those guys came together and were working together to to do what was right. You know, they they there had to be a separating out between that church and User and that that was not Um if if if uh there has been disputes like Hitler and et cetera, uh you many times through history. Yeah, but uh do you see a coming time when this one guy's gonna take the world over. I do have a sense that there's gonna be a one final thing. Uh I'm a little bit hesitant to say that that we are at that specific time, except to say that Uh we're in the end times, you know, but we've been in the end times for two thousand years. Yeah, that's true. You know, you know, from from the very beginning. And so so that being the case Uh I'm willing to believe that we're in the end times and for it to be another two thousand years if that's gonna be the case. Well I don't know if it's gonna be another two thousand years, but uh uh uh and it could be four thousand. That meaning it would be another two thousand years. But on the other hand, um I think that the church, uh, they uh We need to prepare our people. They need to be prepared every day for it because the coming of the Lord is like a thief in the night. And I think that the church is so laid back and comfortable that it it's it's not really meeting the need preparing people for that uh eventual kind of stuff Yeah, I'm I'm also of the opinion that just like the church in Germany at the time of Hitler, yeah, much of it literally got behind Hitler and supported him in everything that he was doing. I think that we're likely going to see that same kind of compromise uh here in the United States and everywhere in the world. Uh I suppose that because at the end of the day, just like uh Paul said and Peter and different ones that uh that We don't know who's Yeah. Who's who. We d we don't know who uh e uh whether or not people's hearts have truly been circumcised to the Lord or whether or not they're just a cultural Christian that just do it because it's easy or not. And I thank God that God's the one that's gonna work that out. But certainly persecution will help to expose where that's the case and where that's you know, where people really are true Christians and are not true Christians. Well, you know, I think Hosea um Uh Hosea chapter four talks about he said, My people are destroyed because of a lack of knowledge. Because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject you, that thou shalt be no priest to me, seeing thou hast forgotten the law of your God. I will also forget your children. And here what God is saying to us, he said, you know, I I I you have forgotten me. You have turned your back on me. The church for some reasons and and people in America, I think what's happening in America, why we haven't so much difficulty with with with um the situation that's going on in our schools and children can't learn and and there's disrespect and we haven't I do prison ministry and um And and and there are so many people are in prison and and many many people don't even finish college and and they end up in prison and all kinds of stuff like this is going on. So we have a lot of b brokenness in our country. And I think Uh with the more education we have gotten, we've been educated on other things and on the things of God. We've left our first love. And I think that's why we haven't seen that. He said, Woe to you, because you have shut the kingdom of heaven in men's faces, you have taken away the key of knowledge, you have shut the door in other people's faces, and you yourselves won't enter yourselves. And I I think that that's right at the center of it, that that that Christ is the center of knowledge, the center of all knowledge, and in the name of education in trying to educate the masses here in the United States, they've thrown out the key of knowledge. They threw it out. And as a result, there's more disrespect, there's there's less learning, there's there's less you know, and they keep dumbing down the standards as they say, you know, the the the standards keep getting lower and lower because they can't meet the ones that they used to have, you know, and nobody even cares to try anymore. And we are supposed to be the more enlightened agent period in time. We are the ones that's supposed to have you know, the the benefits of all the blessings of of a new generation, new schools, new everything and um personally I went to a uh I went to a two room school s uh schoolhouse. I grew up in right outside of the Confederacy. Capital of the Confederacy. Some kids wouldn't even know where the capital of the Confederacy is, Richmond, Virginia. And um and um and uh during the time of segregation. And um I I substitute teet taught in uh Allegheny County and I did that about twenty some twenty f six years ago and um I found out then that I knew more that's an integrated kind of school situation and all so everybody should have uh be up to their top with learning and et cetera. And um I found out that in that school setting that um I knew more I could read better at the s at the sixth grade level in a segregated schoolhouse than these kids coming out of the twelfth grade could. So we we took God out of the schools and and um and and so we uh whenever we took God out of a situation It it caves in. And yet every time that you talk to the guys that are that are the um the the minds behind current school system today They will tell you that it's because of the need for diversity, because of the need for being integrated, because of the need of of taking care of the poor and these kinds of things, that they have to push these nouveau educational techniques that throw God out, that throw out, you know, a a European, you know, oriented or white approach to history, that throw out, you know, a a a drill or kill approach to math. That kill out, you know, a phonics. Anything that has to do with basics and learning the basics. you know, and and really training people up has totally been thrown out. And so even if our nation happened to have any kind of a of a Christian roots to it, it's totally been thrown out of the schools, but it's been thrown out in the name of integration in the name of diversity, in the name of of taking care of the poor, and I'm very disappointed with how that's turned out. And I think it's because they removed the key to knowledge, which is Jesus Christ. Yeah. Prayer, the Bible. He's not there. It's a lock my people ha are destroyed for a lack of knowledge. And he says for that reason God has forgo forgotten our children. Yeah. And his children are messed up around about us because They do not have uh foundation on on those scriptures in the Word of God. Yeah. And so um we've we've kind of gotten away from that Yeah. I actually ran for Board of Ed at one point because I was uh hoping to see if I could influence some of those things and and yet even if I was on the Board of Ed, there's not a whole lot you can do. I mean it's a pretty We are heading down the final uh home stretch here. So I wanna speak of education and stuff, I don't know if you know the answer to this, but it's uh question that popped in my head uh earlier in the show and I kinda wanted to wait to the end. Didn't want to disrupt the flow to ask it. What do we know about the history of let's let's use the Corinthian church as an example. What do we know about the the the h historically about how that church met. Was there one church in Corinth or were there a whole bunch of little house churches or you know, when we talk about the church in Corinth, we talk about there was only one, there were so few believers there was just one, or did they meet in a whole bunch of different places? Do we know the answer to that? Uh I think the general uh sense is that there tended to be one main place where they met in a particular city and then uh that they met in the temple and from house to house. And so you probably had smaller home group type things that were going on all throughout the week as people were meeting in in each other's houses, but there tended to be uh either at the synagogue or w then once they got kicked out of the synagogue, you know, uh like the Hall of Tyrannus in Ephesus and uh I think there was also a place like that in Corinth where where they're meeting every week and there's kind of the sense that the whole church of the city was a very important thing to do. And I think also when the Apostle Paul wrote his epistles or letters to the churches He said the church at Corinth. Yeah. And it seems to be rather they had little separate meetings or something or another, but there was when Paul wrote he wrote to the church as one. And until the great Protestant Reformation, whether you think it's great or not, there was only one church, one main church. per city. And the larger cities had a very, very large building and everybody came together in one place. And uh it wasn't really until uh the Protestant Reformation that you tended to have You know, why even after that for a period of time, you know, uh they would still have one Lutheran church in town or one Episcopalian church. And certainly the Reformation is a big part of it, but also just the population explosion. I mean we it's a different kind of a time now. You know, back in the uh in the days of Luther, I think you could travel from the uh west coast of France all the way over to the uh the mountains that lead to Russia under cover of a canopy of trees the entire way. You know, well now there's so many people and so many, you know, so much infrastructure built. I don't know, if could all the people in our region gather together on Sunday? Is there a place large enough to To to hold all the believers in the greater Washington, D. C. metropolitan area? Right over in my church. I can hold most of the American. Lot of seats left. No, I think the answer to that is that if there was a situation where all the church was still one like that that we probably would just see people have would have adapted and built buildings, you know, in that direction. I I wouldn't be surprised to see that, you know. Frederick would have one church. I would have. Walkersville would have one church. It was just I don't know that we need to go back to that. They could have the they would probably if it was one church in the sense of the leadership, then um They would be teaching the same thing, having the same style of music, etcetera, like a denominational church, but it'd be just one church. And that's basically what hap is is is is the approach of the Catholic Church. Right. And and and that's why we got to be Protestant, we left that. Uh well maybe we could uh come back to that next week and just kinda explore that a little bit. I hope not. Yes, uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and Pastor Luke Robinson, Minister at uh Quinn Chapel AME Church in Frederick. Thanks for being on the show. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinnervis Visit us online WFMB. com keyword faith. Thanks for listening up