Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? I got this interesting cadence going on in this show this morning. Yes, you are feeling uh a little bit rhythmic, little Rhythmic today. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And John Prabudos joins us again this week on the panel. He's the co-founder of Fiacona, which stands for Federation of Indian American Christian Organizations of North America. Fiacona. Absolutely. That's what I was saying. That is not a Disney character. It is not It's a very important organization that is down and and their office, Fiacona's office is directly across the street from the Capitol building. in the uh United Methodist building that is right next door to the Supreme Court. Yes, you are right. And so uh when he does this, we are not a Disney we are not a Disney character. He doesn't have to go far at all. Now let me uh try to set a little bit of a stage here without getting into all, because we've done two shows now with this panel. This is show number three for those counting. uh along and checking it off on their calendar. Show number three of what I would anticipate might be a four part series, but you know, we'll we'll see how that goes. Yeah. Um if we survive this one. Yes For the purposes of what we're going to talk about now, suffice it to say that there is a um uh a faction, a a power faction in India today that believes that the nation of of India should be culturally pure and it should be a Hindu state And they don't like that there are Muslims in their midst, ten, fifteen percent of the people uh in India are Muslim. They don't like that there are these pesky two point five percent of the population who are Christians And over the last ten years particularly they have made life very difficult. Uh one of the leaders I forget his first name, but I'll never forget uh his last name is Modi because we've been calling him Mr. Modi, which sounds like a Disney character. What is his first name again, John? Narendra Modi. Narenda Modi. Narendra. Um he um eight years ago-ish um decided to wield his political power and secure his political power by um Killing two thousand or so people in a whore Muslims in particular. Muslims in a horrible sa uh act of genocide And so Fiacona is an organization here in the United States of people from India who are Christians, who are a voice of advocacy. um among our political leaders here in the United States saying, hey, you guys gotta know what's going on there and if at all possible America needs to try to do something about it, needs to speak out against it. Um and It has been uh not received as well as we might hope from our leadership based on what we've heard from John. He's gotten let's put it this way, he's gotten a very political response. from the people involved and uh they're more interested in the political issues than they are necessarily in the justice issues. How can they still maintain a good relationship with India as opposed to uh standing up for the rights of those who are being persecuted whether Muslim or Christian. So there's kind of a quick recap of what we were generally talking about last week and we teased at the end of last week's show what we were going to talk about this week and so we'll kind of pick up with that It's important for you to kind of understand that because what we're railing against is this instinct among certain people in India that they need to have a Hindu state and a culturally pure state And there seems to be on the face of it, on the surface anyway, some similarities, by the way, to some instincts in the United States for that matter, but more specifically to what's going on in Israel And you know, Israel being a um a Jewish state, a culturally pure type of state, and there's this xenop xenophobic uh instinct. We uh talked about that in an earlier show, xenophobic, uh you're you don't like or you're afraid of people who are different than you, kind of thing. So we want everybody to be like us. And so a question was I don't know if it was it wasn't asked in an attacking way. It was more of a curious question. Hmm, okay, if we think this is a bad instinct, and perhaps it's almost like a racist type of instinct, although Jonathan Schweitzer was was quick to say that that word didn't feel exactly right, but until we find a better word for it, we'll use that word. It seems like that's a bad instinct, certainly when it goes to the extreme and you're killing people and committing acts of genocide Uh, and yet and America doesn't want to get involved in that in India, and yet America's very supportive of Israel. Which on the s again, on the face of it, on the surface of it seems to have some similarities in the dynamic, the political structures that are in place there. So What are the differences, the nuances, or the important d differences and nuances for us to think about there? Well in the case of Israel, if I can uh pick it up, you want us you know, in the case of Israel If the state was um this established from the aftermath of what happened in Auschwitz and and other places. World War Two, yeah. The World War Two. Germany, yeah. And you know, the Jewish uh people were coming out of the Holocaust, the horrible thing that happened. Yes. Um, you know, people can argue back and forth about how many people were killed, how many people were uh rendered homeless. That's that's irrelevant. uh whether it's one person or one thousand people or one hundred thousand, it's all the same. Uh we're killed in the name of um Uh it's it's it's it's it's a very strong racial yeah, racial xenophobic policy of Adolf Hitler. Now, in the aftermath of it Um the Jewish leadership uh in Israel had a very strong case, uh not in Israel yeah, in Israel and in Europe. At a very strong case to create the state of Ur I should say in Palestine at the time wanted to create um uh the state of Israel for the Jews and and and one thing that I remember in one of my trips to Israel in in Jerusalem. I was walking down the street and there was just a bombing across the street from where I was living, uh or staying in the hotel And the the bombing was in a pizza place um m next to the the municipal uh courthouse. And I was walking towards it to to go and see what really happened the previous slide So and I saw a soldier, a young soldier, uh sitting and taking a smoke break. Um and I just asked him which way uh exactly that that bombing was, and he showed me and he asked me uh whether I'm a tourist and I said, Yes, I'm um I'm a tourist and he said where I'm from. So we started little chit chatting. And we ended up talking for about thirty minutes or so And and and he made a very strong case which which was very touching to me. He said, Look Our people were killed in thousands in Europe because we didn't have a home to go back to. Yeah. We didn't have a homeland. If we had an a state for ourselves perhaps maybe we could have avoided the the bloodbath, the killing of so many of our our parents and and and their parents. And what is wrong in us asking for a small piece of land to call it home? For ourselves, where nobody else can come and meddle with us. God forbid if something like that repeats in in Europe again or in any part of the world Do you think that we shouldn't have a place to go? Because some many of the Jews were able to um get on a boat and and and come to um Palestine but they were not allowed inside. And many people went to America and they were not allowed to mm the come off the uh ship. They were put back on the ship and sent away. Now You know, we hope it will not it will never happen. But if it happens, don't you think we should have a land that we can call home and then and and go back no matter what and we will be accepted there? And this is a very powerful argument. Yes it is. And and and and and and and I I actually he made me to to think for we're gonna Why didn't they give him a piece of Germany then Well you know Well that is you know that is I mean then you if you go Mahom uh the the the support of it, why don't we give him Rhode Island? Well then the No no the point is is that what land are you gonna give away happened at that time that Great Britain uh w had had the mandate, the Palestinian mandate, that they really didn't have a whole lot of vision to do anything with it. So they're like, you know what, uh why don't we just send them back there? It was their homeland originally anyways. You know, so that was the beginning of of the state. It was it was a convenient uh coincidence. or as some people believe it was uh uh ordained by God. Whatever it was convenient providence. It yeah, convenient providence or or convenient providence. I fully support I fully support Father Rodney. But at the root of this whole thing, uh John, is this question of What is what is the foundational covenant that rules a political nation What what what what kind of covenant is the right kind of covenant? Like for example in in Israel, their covenant is based on the fact that we're all of Jewish blood and we can trace ourselves back to Jewish blood. And they're saying that that is sufficient for being for being the foundational distinction for their nation. In the United States, what we have tried to say is if you will swear allegiance to the United States, to the Constitution, and uh be willing to come underneath of the Constitution, that's our covenant, then then you can be a part of the nation no matter what religion, no matter what race Uh that that's kind of been the the big idea behind the melting pot that is the United States. Some p some people, like these Hindus, are uh uh in India are saying that What should be the covenant for India should be Hinduism. And they're not necessarily uh it it sounds like they're not necessarily arguing for blood lineage. like like the Jews are. In fact, ninety percent of the Jews that live in Israel are secular and not uh religious at all. And so that being the case, it's i in fact I know a bunch that are Christian uh that live there and uh I imagine that there are some that are that even practice Hinduism or practice you know other um uh you know Eastern mystical kind of orientations uh there in Israel. But but the question is what is the covenant that is a righteous type of covenant w to to base a nation upon? I mean again w let's remind that we we we uh remember that we are talking about India and and and and this is very important. This is an important point because this is again playing Um this this has an effect on what's happening in India. Totally. So I will come to that uh you know shortly. But you know, uh directly uh answering your question. Yes. Um The Jewish leadership basically uh is saying that the God gave this land to Isaac. And that is God's covenant. Or to Abraham. To Abraham. Then down through Isaac and then Moses and and when they came to the promised land. It's a good thing. That is the that God made the covenant. The covenant with the Torah. Yeah, that the God made the covenant with them. And and if you ask the the Palestinians or rather even the Christians, because the Christians in Israel cannot be Jewish anymore because you have to be religious religiously and ethnically a Jewish person to be um considered, you know, Yeah, the reality is that the d the Jews that are there that are Christian uh have had a hard time getting in and getting citizenship and some have been denied. The ones that are there They're kind of there because people don't quite know what to do with them and they weren't quite sure that they they should refuse them. But it's been a very difficult question because But the native Christians in Israel um are Palestine. They don't consider themselves as Jewish. Maybe they may they may have Jewish blood, but you know they are the Samaritans are the are the are the are the Palestinians rather too that was with us. uh just before you s you came on for these couple of weeks, Jack Sarah. He was uh he's a he grew up in Jerusalem on the Via Della Rosa, in fact Uh and uh he's a Palestinian Christian. And and uh and Benihan is a Palestinian Christian. I mean his um Uh cousins uh still live in um I believe in uh Haifa area, if I'm not I if I'm not mistaken. Interesting, okay. You know, but but anyway, then you're not familiar, Benny Hinn is a very famous televangelist who does um events in large stadiums all around the the country where uh he's a controversial figure in Christian circles because he he claims to to heal people people are quote unquote slain in the spirit and you know there's uh he does it with a measure of flamboyance that some people are uncovered. You might have seen him he has kind of uh speckled gray hair and he typically wears a white Uh very kind of flamboyant white suit, almost like an Elvis suit. Um so anyway, yes. But anyway, so um now here coming back to this Indian radical xenophobic group, uh which was formed um saying that Hitler was a great leader and was formed in Heimler's uh vision to create uh Heimler's vision in India suddenly saw itself close to the Jewish leaders in America. Yeah. And I will explain this in a in a you know in a very small uh a brief uh incident. When the Well I want to say in c in case uh a couple weeks ago we talked about Heimler, but if you weren't listening a couple weeks ago, um He's ki for lack of a better word, architect for the um for Hitler's for Hitler's Aryan race idea. Yeah. And how to have a a a a Gerate a pure German race in J uh Area nation. So one nation, one one culture and one you know one people philosophy. And and these people have adopted that into the Hindu, Hindi, Hindustan. If you are an Indian, you should be a Hindu by c by religion. You have to be speaking Hindi language. uh and it is you should live in a country called a Hindustan, not India. So it is their ideology. Now these guys, their main opposition, their main opponents in India are the Muslims And and and they could not really uh forgive them for dividing the country. And you know, it we're not talking about no why the country was divided, India was divided into Pakistan and India. That's a different subject uh altogether. But when they saw that the Muslims are the main um enemies for creating a Hindu nation and they were able to simply connect with the Jewish leadership in America saying that you and I are fighting the same enemy so we have to come together and you are against proselytization, you are against uh uh w conversions in Israel. We are against conversions in India. And so we have a common bond. So the Israeli leadership in America, I have a grudge against it. I I have I have spoken to the Israel with Jewish leadership in America saying that look, you come to the Christian evangelical conferences and say that we have to support you. But then you go to the Hindu radical groups and say that you're supporting them because they are against the Muslims in India. So you find a common ground, whereas those Hindus are trying to kill the Christians in India. Now how do we reconcile we have to compartmentalize it, you know, we you know we don't come We don't support the the the colonists? This is fascinating. Yeah, politics means strange bedfellows and put it very very succinctly. Now Here. And before Jonathan jumps in with the balance, he's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh the other guest on the panel this week, John Probudos, the co-founder of FIACONA, the Federation of Indian American Christian Organizations of North America And I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator. All right. You know, unless people are agreed, they cannot walk together. There has to be some some sense of unity. And whatever the basis for that unity is, whether it's uh whether it's blood line, whether it's religion, whether it's culture, whatever it is, there has to be some basis for that. But at the same time, we have to be willing to embrace the foreigners that are in our midst. And so either you you go on the side of supporting the foreigner and the minorities and you're always supporting the minorities, or you're on the side of trying to support the majority uh that that kind of represents the covenant of the nation. It seems like you've got these two things in uh in tension with one another because Israel is a nation that's based on uh being Jewish. But somehow they need to have a way to uh to embrace the ones that are foreigners and or Palestinian, whatever it is. The same thing's true uh at some level there in India, th that that if you've got a majority culture Uh what right does a nation have to have a majority culture? It's a very good question. I have to answer that in two-part answer. Do you have something to say? Well I I um I'll mention y you give your two part answer in a second, but I want to uh in true faith debate manner, I want to uh give Jonathan an opportunity to respond to a challenge to his premise. Okay, so what's your challenge? So well th you put out these two things in tension and you held out one as maybe being better than the other. I'm not saying that I didn't need to imply that one's better than the other. Okay. Okay. Well I was maybe this isn't going to be a challenge then, but uh the question Alright, I'll put it out there anyway. Even if it's not a challenge, we could have fun maybe answering it as as the show goes on. I'm always challenged by you. On the one hand, you're saying it's appropriate for a nation to want to have these cultural things, these distinctives that hold it together. First of all Is that you're a Christian pastor? Is uh could we biblically support that premise? And on the other hand, you said, but you want to be welcoming to these others, these foreigners, these people who are different, you know, that that's also an ideal Is it? Biblically, could you support that? Yes. Is there a pressure? Yes and no. Um the the point is this, is that is that there is a statute of limitations on what um what nations are acceptable before God. Right? And a big one of those is whether or not you worship him versus whether or not you worship idols and idolatrous uh you know uh uh other you know, pseudo-gods. And when it comes to the Bible, at the end of the day it's okay for you to be a nation under yourself. Uh in fact there's a sense in the Bible that that God uh that that God intends to divide the world as it were up into peoples, languages and cultures and each culture would be maintained, but that that the basis for them being allowed to continue to exist, you know, into the future is whether or not they're willing to come under the lordship of God most high through Jesus Christ. That ultimately that's going to be the case. and to let them uh to not uh what's the word to not um discriminate against them but to to bless them and to let them participate provided they would submit to the law of God. And that's that's the biblical approach. However, in in uh in the world today Those that don't submit to a biblical approach. In the UN, there's this this problem that they're trying to argue for unity around the world. But they do it by magnifying all these different cultures, but in magnifying the different cultures, they end up falling again and again and again into this trap. Why do they fall into the trap? Because they're not coming they they don't have a basis for unity. i. e. God, through Jesus Christ, that that is workable. Their basis for unity is faulty. We're going to be unified because we're going to be diverse. And each culture is going to be its own we see that here in the United States. So we magnify the the women, and we magnify the blacks, we magnify all these different uh groups. And at the end of the day, we find that there's no basis any longer for a common unity because we've thrown out God, which is the only thing that is capable of bringing a sense of unity. And so I guess my point in in raising the question what is what is a appropriate basis for the covenant foundation of a nation, I raise that because I think that's precisely the issue. that outside of God there is no basis for that. Though the world is attempting to come up with a basis for a covenant that is democracy. You know, or whatever it is. And at the end of the day I I just personally I have to say that those are gonna fail, even though at this time I think it's the best government style out there is democracy is is the most just I don't want uh our other John to not have a chance to make his two points though. So why don't we do that to make sure that we get that in in this? Well the the the way India was created, you have to mind one quickly uh uh well give the bullet points. The way India was created was that During the Mughal, the Persian kings and uh during the British time, uh there were hundreds of small, small kingdoms. And and they they were able to create an administrative structure over the land which they called India. The in the hind the valley of the Hindukush Mountains. And there was no such thing as India until then And when And that was about eleven hundred? No, this was this was we are talking very recently in nineteen forty seven when the British left India that the Indus rallied They took a pencil and they said this is all called India. Oh. And there was no this was an artificially created uh country. Yeah. And even after the independence there were there were kingdoms, there were pr the princely kingdoms and there were um um uh uh um uh countries that were under the British rule in different different small small pockets that were all all created. took over in nineteen forty seven. And it basically it it it overran these separate kingdoms that were the basis to the other. Yeah, people with nine hundred different languages and everybody all you know, different races, different cultures, different uh everyone two came together. Now there was uh how much time we have? Two minutes. Two minutes. There was a very simple um thing that I wanted to tell you about your previous uh point. Yeah. Yeah, how do we as as a as a as um if if you are a foreigner, you know, living in the midst, and how do you feel? I mean what what is the what is the covenant? Yes. Let me give you a quick example. The Archbishop of Canterbury in London went to the Balaji temple, the Hindu temple in London, he was invited as a guest speaker. He went just three months ago, three, four months ago, and he he he made a very s a simple point and he said, look We bend over backwards and we we we go out of our way to make you at home, make you feel at home as Hindus. When you come here we give you the privileges that you you should feel at home, you should practice your faith without any conferences. But I can't say the same thing about my fellow Christians in India. Right. Now, as a nation, the nations of uh the nation is not formed as as a homogeneous entity. If it is, then Hitler would have won. Right The nation th today we are talking about a pluralist democratic states. Yeah. And if we are really talking about promoting pluralist democratic states, whether in Iraq or in anywhere else, then you have to consider the rights of the the the weaker sections. Yes, and there's a whole slew of issues that come off of that that I'm sure that we're going to get to it actually ties into what we were talking about before when Jonathan was talking about uh you know the foundation the pro appropriate foundation for a nation and it's, you know, recognizing the true God and all that sort of stuff. They all tie together and man I got a zillion things I wanna say it and and ask questions about. And so they'll have to wait one more week because we're wrapping up this edition of the Frederick Faith Debate. Thank you, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And John Prabudos, the co-founder of FIACONA, the Federation of Indian American Christian Organizations of North America. Uh did I say my name? I can't remember. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsor is Footman Plumbing and Heating. How Can We Make You Smile? Again, I want to encourage you to visit us online, WFMD. com. If you can't spell WFMD, that's W F M D. You're amazing, Try. So many levels. It's like Sesame Street or something. Uh WFMB. com keyword faith. Should I spell that one too? P H E. No, I'm kidding. Oh my goodness. Okay. That's why I am the host. Anyway, uh you can find our uh our blog there. There's a link to Jonathan's blog there as well. And if you would like to Suggest a guest or a topic or a question or offer a constructive criticism, or maybe not even a constructive criticism, a critique of the show, you're welcome to do so at WFMD. com Oh, and if you want to go to the Fiacona website, it's www. fiacona-fi-a-c-o-n-a. org. All right? Thanks for listening. God bless