Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WF FMD, brought to us by Football Plumbing and Heating, How can we make you smile? The faith debate is an open and honest forum designed to be such anyway for our local uh or area uh religious leaders to come together and talk about things that We've decided beforehand or sometimes not beforehand are gonna be of particular interest and of our pressing importance. Clash of ideas of the sound of freedom as Thomas Jefferson, that great theologian himself said. Uh tongue in cheek, firmly implanted in cheek, by the way, on that last comment. Yes. Um Jonathan Sweitzer saying yes, yes, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel on the panel this week, and Dan Sexton, senior pastor of Crow Calvary Chapel, Ellicott City. Uh same thing I've got the last couple of weeks, but we're gonna take a uh a left turn and talk about something a little bit maybe more serious minded as far as theological issues uh than we might call that. Or a right turn, whatever. Uh than we did the last uh couple of weeks. Uh but we'll see. Maybe it w won't be that at all. Yeah. We don't we as you never know. As you learned last week, we don't practice this show. So Uh I don't know if I introduce myself. I'm Froy Skinner, your host and moderator. So uh what I want to talk about uh the very first time I had an opportunity, I think it was the very first time I had a chan opportunity to talk with Dan Uh we were talking about his church and how you know, how he got into it and what their church is all about and you know, what are the things that he thinks are important about how they do church or what's distinctive about his church or whatever. It was in the context of having that kind of a conversation. I can't remember exactly at what point. But a number of things came out, and one of the things that he talked about was how important it is to him and to his congregation that they preach uh in a a very solid expository manner. Meaning and and I'm gonna define the terms here a little bit for those who have no idea what I'm talking about. Excellent. But he he they like to go tackle like a book of the Bible one at a time. And if and tell me if I'm doing this right. And maybe go, you know, line by line, word by word. Here's what the Word of God tells us. And you might spend An entire message on maybe one verse sometime, yeah. Well last Sunday I did one verse. Last Sunday morning. Um So how long does it take you to get through let's say you're gonna do uh Romans? Uh how long would that take you to get Romans. Uh it took me two years to go through Romans. Um And so I you know I do I have two services and on Sunday morning I'm going really slow. We're we're usually taking just a few verses at a time. Uh sometimes like last week we did one verse, this week we'll do one verse. Uh what was the verse you did last week? Uh we're in uh the Gospel of Mark, we're looking at the crucifixion of Jesus and we looked at the Roman centurion who was there at the cross when Jesus died, who said, Verily this man is the Son of God. And so we just looked at that Roman centurion. Next week we'll look at uh the women that were there at the cross. Right. But you know the real quick, you know, snippets like what other parts of the Bible did you pull from? How do you turn how how long do you preach, typically? Usually on Sunday mornings I go about an hour. Maybe fifty minutes. Okay, so you went in the ballpark of an hour on one sentence. Yeah. So what are some things you do to fill the time? I mean he he obviously just don't read that same sentence over and over and over again for an hour. Right, right. So for somebody who hasn't been to a chance to do it. You know, I talk about what a centurion was. How did someone become a centurion? What did a centurion believe? What did a centurion stand for? So it's part history lesson. Yeah, absolutely. Put it in historical context. We look at other passages uh where Jesus interacts with centurions um and that kind of thing. And then we talk about, you know, what it what would it mean for a centurion to say that Jesus was the Son of God. Certainly the Bible talks about the Messiah or Jesus being the Son of God. Forty-seven different places it talks about Jesus being the Son of God. But what about for that centurion? We talked about that. And uh and we talked about, you know, what the centurion lived for versus living for Jesus Christ. And um, you know, basically You know, th th sort of the thrust of the message was the fact that, you know, for the centurion, he lived for Caesar. You know, his he was under Caesar's authority. And it was believed that Caesar had all authority, but here Jesus has the power to dismiss his spirit or send his spirit away. You know, why is that important? Because it shows that Jesus has power over life and death, which is the ultimate authority, you know. And and for this for this uh centurion, he's at a crossroads now. For he realizes that Caesar doesn't really have all the authority. Here's a guy who has power over life and death and can dismiss his spirit. And so we talked about Jesus having power over life and death. We talked about Jesus um Having the keys to to hell and death it talks about in Revelation and and passages like that. Now we talk about now I at at some level this discussion could end up being as you set up w what some would call topical preaching versus ex expository preaching and considering them opposites. But would it be fair to say that the general theme or topic of the message that you last preached was about Christ's authority over life and death? Right. So what so was it a topical message using an expository mode? Yeah. Yeah, I think within that context it was Um whereas on Sunday nights I'm going you know, this past Sunday we did three chapters and we take it just go straight through and it's more of a verse by verse straight through Whole chapters. We u on Sunday nights we usually do uh at least two chapters, sometimes we'll do as many as three. the last message on the one verse, are you then jumping to other parts of the Bible? Absolutely. I try to let the Bible interpret itself as much as possible. Now how does that compare with what you do across Rose Valley Chapel, John Um that's a good question. The a little more thematic maybe? Yeah, the the reality is that both of us I think are are uh attempting to let the Bible's and and the Bible's themes set the agenda As opposed to me saying, okay, well I want to preach about these ten main themes. You know, I'm gonna I'm gonna let the Bible set its own agenda. you know, what what is it that we see in these passages? Uh and you know, I I do a similar thing in that I just preach straight through one book after another book, you know, so so I go through book by book. We just came out of Job We're heading into Mark right now. You know, we did Hebrews, we did Romans, you know, we did uh we actually did Leviticus at one point, you know, in and preaching straight through, meaning pulling out what are the lessons that are in the Bible and letting those lessons speak for themselves. And so um I don't know that there's a whole lot of difference except that it sounds like uh you will take more time. Like how long have you been working through the book of Mark? Probably a year and a half. Yeah. At other points I was going faster, but now that we've gotten to the crucifixion, I've slowed down considerably. Um we I think I've done maybe six messages just in Mark chapter fifteen, which is the body of the crucifixion. I wouldn't say um if if somebody wondered you guys are in some agreement here. I'm sure there's some differences and we'll probably figure out what those are and we'll discuss those maybe but I'm gonna take a you know, an opposition point of view a little bit. Aren't you concerned that, you know, by having this pre you know what you're gonna be preaching on for the next year, maybe. Mm-hmm. Um Jonathan, maybe not for the next year, but you might know for the next number of weeks that you'll be preaching on this material. Don't you w aren't you opening yourself up to charges that that you're not open to the movement of the Holy Spirit, that He couldn't lay something on your heart and that, you know what, I know I've planning on preaching on Mark chapter three, verse twelve, but by golly, I feel the movement of the spirit and I need to preach on something out of the Old Testament or something from Revelation or from wherever. I'm not you know, I'm not completely opposed to doing a topical message But what I've discovered is wherever we are in the Bible is where our congregation is spiritually And wherever whatever passage we happen to land on that particular week is where people are. And the Lord will use that passage to minister to them Right there. And I don't have to do topical messages because it it the Lord just works it out by a spirit. We just happened to land on The passage where Jesus dies on the cross, he gives up the ghost, says, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit, the veil in the temple is rent. and two from top to bottom. That was uh the first Sunday of the year is we hit that verse. And I was already kind of thinking that week of just Sort of where circumstances are in the world right now with the economy and the housing crisis and we're about to have the you know, the the change of the administration and all the the different things kinda coming up and And I I thought about doing a topical message then about just sort of exhorting the church to seek the Lord and draw closer to the Lord in two thousand nine with the things that we're facing But that passage does that for me, you know, the veil being rent. I was able to talk about how the veil's been torn and you have access to God now anytime you want and and make it sort of into a topical message about seeking the Lord in 2009 with the things that we're facing as a nation and as a people, but I was able to do it within the context of the passage we were on. And so God just works it out every time where I uh you know, another example uh when I was teaching through Romans, uh, you know, the opening chapters where it talks about homosexuality, we had a lesbian couple show up that Sunday You know? And and for me as a pastor, you know, I'm just going verse by verse straight through the books, you know, I I I'm not I'm not gunning for the people, you know. So so the the couple that came in that particular Sunday couldn't say, Well, you know, he saw us walk in and now he's just aiming for us. That just happened to be where we were that particular Sunday and the Lord brought that couple to our church that particular Sunday. You know, so the Lord just works all that stuff out. You had a similar experience or do you feel when you move when the topic hits you that you'll you know, go with the topic? Uh it's an interesting question. Does the appro does the approach that I take at crossroads um not allow for like the spirit to move in terms of preparation? And I think that Um I think for any pastor that is authentically praying for his people that that is a shepherd and understands where his people are are what's going on in their lives and things that they're going through, um, that that his preparation is is always in the context of his congregation. Yeah. You know, you you can never get away from, you know, as I'm preparing going through Job, you know, and and dealing with his different friends and their comments. you know, I'm always thinking to myself, okay, you know, who in my congregation tends to maybe give, you know, certain kinds of comments similar to this and who who would who would maybe feel like they're in the Job situation or or y you know, and so the context of the congregation, I think for any pastor, um, you know, you just can't get away from that. And so in terms of y you know, well what's the spirit leading to do or not do, uh I don't know that I can figure all that out. I don't know that I'm so in tune with the Spirit that I every time can say, Well the Spirit led me to do that. You know, well was it the Spirit leading me to do it or was it just my flesh? I don't I don't know that I know myself so well that I know all the time. I'm I'm wanting to grow in discernment along those lines. I'm wanting to be more sure, but that's an interesting question that I don't know that uh I don't know. I I want the spirit to be moving. I often have people come say, Man, thank you so much for this. Thank you so much for that. But, you know, I uh Again, you know, God's the one that's working all that out. This is the Friday Faith Debate. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crosswitz Valley Chapel. Dan Sexton, Senior Pastor of Calvary Chapel in Ellicott City, also on the show. I'm Troy Skinner And uh this is the Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? And we're talking about you know preaching style, uh expository kinds of preaching, which means to kind of really get into the nitty-gritty, to to go in and do serious exeges, another big word for you. What does that mean? Yeah, trying to kid trying to really unpack the meaning of Right. Sometimes individual words and getting into the nitty-gritty of the the ancient Greek or the ancient Hebrew means this and all that, uh, versus something that's more about This week I have a message for you about marriage, you know, or or something like that. And uh and and and I said that maybe in a way that would make it seem mocking, condescending And I didn't mean that. I was trying to just illustrate a strong uh uh difference there. You ever get concerned that your congregation or even you or getting bored, particularly Dan going through, you know, one book over two years? No, no, not at all. In fact what I have found that it does is our congregation knows where we are every Sunday. They know where we're going to be next Sunday. And it actually uh promotes Reading the Bible among the congregation. Uh I I think it creates in them a greater hunger for the Word of God, a g a greater desire to get into the Word on their own wrestle with those passages, try to figure out what we're gonna talk about next. Uh w I had one Sunday a a family came up to me after church and they said where they had uh high school age kids and they said every Sunday on their way to church they drive about thirty minutes to get there and they said that uh they read the passage that we're gonna be studying next And in the drive for the thirty minutes, they tried to figure out what I'm going to talk about. Hm. And I thought, man, what you know, that's for me as a pastor That's the kind of stuff you want to hear that your your sheep are doing, you know. Yeah, I mean. That they're they're discussing the word with their with their children, you know, and and that's the thing is is is you're going through the word verse by verse, and I think too, you know, to kind of back up a little bit, I try to be sensitive to the the the Holy Spirit in the sense that I don't want to get too bogged down in the passage. You know, I don't I d I don't go too deep into the Greek or the Hebrew that it's like a you know a Greek class in college or something like that, you know, because the the average guy sitting in your congregation could care less about the Greek or the Hebrew. You know, they're they had a fight with their wife on the way to church and they just they're just trying to figure out marriage, you know, kind of thing. So You have to be careful with that, and you have to be careful with going too slow through it as well. But I I think what it does, going back to what I was saying, is it it it promotes reading the Bible. People for the first time they understand it. You know, maybe they've never read the Bible before. It always seemed too complicated for them. And now they understand it because you're breaking it down for them. What we have going on now with the Gospel of Mark We've spent the last year and a half or so looking at the life of Jesus and the Gospel of Mark. Now we're at the crucifixion. These people know Jesus in a way that they didn't know him a year and a half ago. And there's people crying during the the study, you know, because They've been going through this for a year and a half and there's a depth there now that they didn't have a year and a half ago. Yeah, I think that's that's the uh the key to an approach that is more exegetical, just going straight through books, is that your your hope And your desire and the fruit of it is that people will know the Word of God, that they'll take it seriously, and that they'll that they'll see themselves, they'll see the relevance, that that it comes alive in the context of their everyday lives. You know, and they they realize that that these these are things that really happened, people that really lived. So the lessons that you take away from it are not not just lessons about topics, but it's it's you know something that you feel like the scriptures are a part of your life. You've been uh pastoring at uh Calvary for about ten years? Five years. Five years. Five years. So in five years you've preached maybe three Books? No. Uh Sunday mornings I've done Matthew, Acts, Romans, Mark. And Sunday nights I've done uh Genesis through Joshua. I'm in Judges right now. Hmm. Oh so you do two a different message for each one? Yeah. And on Sunday nights I'm doing uh usually two chapters, sometimes three chapters. Occasionally I'll do just one chapter. Okay. So I mean I'm just trying to do math in my head. If you if there's uh in the Protestant Bible there's sixty-six books. If you spend an average of uh two years, let's say, I don't know if that's an average or not, we'll say you spend an average of two years on each one, then you have uh but you're doing two at a time, so on average it's really one a year On average. Well, yeah, I think almost together. Still the the point is if we're talking sixty, seventy Eighty years to try to preach through all of the Bible. It'll work out to be about ten years. So through the whole Bible? Yeah Oh okay so you're not spending quite as much time on it as maybe I was Sunday Sunday nights. Because of the Sunday night you see. So the Friday night isn't the verse by verse thing. It's still verse by verse. It's just we're covering more ground. It's not as in depth. I'm not spending time on one verse. I'm g I'm doing more of a overview, still going verse by verse, but more of an overview kind of survey. Just things that jump out, themes that pop up as opposed to getting into You every concern that uh the people they're they're reading their Bible may be in response to the section that you're in, but you know, if the last year you've been focusing on uh you know judges and mark that maybe all the people are reading is judges and mark and that they're not reading other parts perhaps you ever heard about that? No not at all because it what it does is It develops an appetite in the congregation for the Word of God and for the pure Word of God. And so I can even see as people will come up to me after a service on Sunday And almost without exception, every Sunday, somebody will come up and say, Hey, you know when you were talking about this, did you think about What Paul did in the book of Acts here, I thought that would be a good tie-in. Or hey J think about this ver verse back in Psalms or remember when David did this? That that's kind of the same thing, you know? Or they'll come up and they'll have a question and and it's You know, there's uh immediately after the service people are coming up with questions and I didn't quite understand this. Can you explain this again? Or I how do you get that or and And it it just feeds itself and and the people develop this hunger for it. I found that to be true. I I find consistently that I've got people coming up, um, you know, from across the congregation. uh that are are constantly saying, you know what, it's just like what it says over here, you know, and you were talking about that one thing and it made me think about that other passage and You know, there's there's uh yeah. And you'll see as you're looking out of the congregation. You know, I when we started we just started five years ago. Uh we didn't know anybody. My wife and I moved here from Florida without knowing anyone. And when we started, uh the idea of just teaching through books of the Bible for the handful of people that were showing up was so foreign. I actually had people say to me, Are you really just gonna teach straight through the Bible like this every week, week in and week out? What are you gonna do when you finish? You just stop holding church or what what happens then? Or you know, what happens when we get to Revelation? And then we just start over or what, you know, and Not realizing it was going to take you seventy years. No. No. The point was, they weren't on board with it. They thought it was a goofy idea. But now those same people are you know, one of one lady in particular, she reached through the Bible in a year now. You know, she told me the th the first time that she uh I met her, she said, I don't think people will just sit and listen to you teach through the Bible like that And now she's reading the Bible herself in a year, you know? And so it just i it creates in the people this hunger for the Word of God. And it produces its own fruit, you know, and that's what's so great about it for a pastor. And a lot of times you'll be able to look out of the congregation as you're teaching and and just as John was saying You can see that the Holy Spirit has his own little sermon going on with somebody in the audience. Because you'll see them flipping all of a sudden when you're not telling people to flip. Yeah. And they're writing down things and you can tell God's got something going on with that. Yeah. You know? Now, you we've you've pre preached through, you know, half a dozen uh books in the Bible so far over five years. Mm-hmm. Um but I'm assuming that there's been some change over in in uh the people that attend your church over those last five years. You ever get concerned that, you know, there are the people that you're preaching to now are hearing all about Mark, but maybe they weren't around for Matthew and they might not be around when you're going to preach, you know, Revelation or whatever. Does that trouble you, weigh on you at all? No, no, not really. Uh you know, I I think at least so far, most of the people that we've had from the beginning are still there. Some people have moved away, some people have moved on to other churches and that kind of thing. But uh you know, they'll they'll be there and uh you know the idea is it's it's to equip them with the word of God. Hopefully they'll get into it on their own and and dig into it on their own. How far advanced, John, do you prepare a message? What when do you s or begin preparing a message? Maybe it takes you months to prepare but you s you know, or when how does that work for you? And then I'll ask the same question to Dan. Yeah, I feel like it's uh It's something that that grows. Uh I I I start studying a book. Well actually I'm anticipating a book, you know, as I'm as I'm coming coming up to the end of one book, you know, I'm anticipating okay Where do I feel like as a congregation would be the right place for us to go? What books, you know, represent um topics and ideas that that would be the right direction for us to go? And as as I'm coming up to it, then I start reading it. I'll read it through a couple times, you know, and then you know, it's just kind of a it's something that grows in me. And so by the time that I get to preaching on a certain passage, there's been a uh you know, just a a piling on of coming back to ideas and and and researching, you know, different thoughts or different words or different themes, you know, and how they how they weave through that particular book so that when I get to a certain um uh Sunday, you know, what's coming out is just kind of a a a pile of of uh study and notes. Clearly you know today what you'll be preaching on. Um you know what you're gonna what you're gonna be you know, because it's hours from now. But do you know what you'll be preaching on a week from now? Do you know what you'll be preaching on three months from now, with pretty close accuracy, or you don't know that far out in advance? I don't know what I'll be preaching on next Sunday. I don't You know, I'll I'll usually Monday I'll look at the passage for next Sunday. Well you know the passage though, right? You just don't know what's going on. No, I don't you know I mean I'm going in order, so uh I'll look at whatever the next passage is. And you spend that week preparing for that upcoming Yeah. And usually I won't actually I'll just read it and read it and read it and then probably Thursday, I'll s I'll start to look up you know Greek words or whatever, or maybe look at some cross references and that kind of thing. And it's really Thursday, Friday, Saturday. is when I do the meat of it. I know another uh pastor who preaches in expository uh style and uh he shared with me once that he's prepares his messages three to four months in advance, which is wow. Yeah. He hasn't plenty of time to really digest whether or not he got it right. He can go back and tweak it later. He reviews it the w you know, in the days leading up and might make some some changes. How long has he been a preacher? uh uh thirty years. It's interesting because I have felt like the longer that I preach the m the farther ahead that I get. Like there's a there's a sense that all of a sudden just you know that next section just p came alive for me and and and I'm ready to go and then and then I you know can shoot out a couple of weeks. So so I have had a little bit of a sense of of kind of getting ahead, but you know, it it comes and goes, it kind of waxes and wanes. How do you decide when you're done with Mark, what are you gonna Do next. And how do you decide? Well yeah, yeah, what I've done is uh I've I'm going straight through the New Testament, but I'm taking the gospels and I'm spacing them throughout the New Testament so that we don't do The four Gospels up front and then don't get back to the four gospels again for fifteen years. I'm spacing them through. So I did Matthew and then I went to Acts and Romans and which was about three years and then I went back uh to Mark. And once I finish Mark, I'll go to 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, and just sort of see how long it's been since I've been in the gospel. Yeah, I'm doing the Old Testament. Testimony on Sunday night, so um you have the same group of people going to both a Sunday night and a Sunday morning service? Yeah. Oh okay. Good church. Well we don't get everybody. Double the fun. If they come on Wednesday night, Jonathan doesn't have a Sunday night service. If they come on Wednesday night, it's because they like God. Ooh, wow. Wow I guess I gotta start going on Wednesday night. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Anyway, I don't have one no no I don't I don't do traditional. We do Sunday morning and then we do home groups. Yeah. Yeah. We do home groups as well. Um so It's you know, I I mean I feel like my you know my my gifting is teaching the word of God. Uh which is a classic Calvary Chapel orientation. Calvary chapel churches are led by pastor teachers, right? There's not five Right. Gift min ministries, there's a pastor, prophet, evangelist, pastor, teacher. You know, and so if you're the pastor, that means that you're there to teach. You know, you're you're an elder in the congregation, you know, it has to do with their uh sense of ecclesiology and in how churches are the same. Let me jump in and thank the two panelists this week. Dan Sexton, Senior Pastor of Calvary Chapel, Elicott City, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Frederick I'm Troy Skinner, our sponsor of Footman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Please visit us online, WFMD. com keyword faith. This is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD.