Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. If you uh hear something said on today's show or on previous shows or on future shows and you'd like to uh send me a comment, you can Troy at WFMD. com Um if you want to suggest a topic or if you think you'd be a good guest on the show or you know somebody who might be or that sort of thing, uh email me that or call me at the radio station. I'll be here throughout the week. Um This uh this radio show that we do is kind of like a uh a hobby part-time gig that they they let me do. Um uh the rest of it we used to keep me trapped in this uh like eight by ten s cell It's a dirty word called job. With a yeah, a job. A job. It's a dirty j job, but somebody's gotta do it. Work. It's a four letter word. Yeah. As it is, as it turns out, literally. Yeah. Anyway, that's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and uh back again from uh last week's show is uh a pastor from a Christian church a uh Protestant evangelical type, so you get a sense. He's not Roman Catholic or anything like that, but it's uh you know it's a Protestant type of of uh Christian church in Jerusalem. And we're not giving you his name. If you're listening last week we went into great detail on why that is. Just trust me we can't give you his name. All right? Sue me. So if you missed last Next week's show. Go online, listen to the podcast because it'll help you to understand everything that's going on in Israel over the last uh what is it now? So nineteen seventy. Since nineteen forty-eight, we're right at sixty. Sixty one years. Sixty-one years. By the way, uh happy Memorial Day weekend. Thank you. Weather's nice. Yeah, it gets sand in your toes and that sort of thing. Um if you were listening last week, we kinda talked about what was going on Thousands of years ago, thousand years ago, hundreds of years ago, and we kinda got up to nineteen forty eight. And in case you don't know, that's when the It feels like a really long show. We crowned it all into twenty seventeen. Uh but nineteen forty eight in case you don't know, you know, something uh in the late thirties and into the early uh forties took place, known as uh World War Two. Yes. There was some guy named Adolf Hitler who uh decided to kill a lot of Jewish people in a pretty heinous way. And uh Stalin shortly thereafter. Yeah, and for years and years and years and years and years that we talked about in last week's show, the Jewish people had been pining away to have their their their land back or to have any homeland at some point really. Uh and opportunity was there and a lot of things came together and coalesced. So there was an opportunity where bang the nation of Israel as we know it today exists. And then Well not quite as we know it today. Nineteen sixty seven, uh Egypt and Syria Lebanon amassed on their borders uh to attack and uh Israel attacked back and in so doing they actually took more of the land to control and uh to have authority over and so very short battle but but that whole six days war yeah the six days war that whole battle is uh is a big part of a lot of discussions. People want to go back to the nineteen forty eight borders ab as opposed to the uh sixty-seven borders. It's a question of hundred and forty four hour battle, not a forty-eight hour battle. Yes, six days. Yes. So and and that war and that war uh what happened is it put more and more Palestinians under the Israeli occupation. Because in the first war, nineteen forty eight there was uh Only about uh four or five hundred thousand Palestinians who were uh under the Israeli rule. So from nineteen forty eight to nineteen sixty seven Uh with the war of nineteen sixty seven it put more Palestinians under the Israeli kind of rule or occ occupation where uh you get up to one point five million or more people now um occupied and uh uh lots lots of their houses or lands were stripped away from them because of either uh the whole idea uh the whole refugee uh part of uh the Palestinian history and now we end up with about Million refugees all over the place. And and that's where I was going actually with when I said you know Israel as we know it now, meaning that there wasn't an Israel. Yeah. And it's not like You know, they had a big reserve sign on it and saying someday we'll let the you know, the Jewish people come back in and there's and there's this vast open space. There were people there. Yeah, because there is why I say this, Troy, and this is a good point that you pointed here, because somehow there was a statement that uh that uh was used in the history of uh of uh just the current the recent history of all this occupation or the all this war That the Jews were people without land who came back to a land without people. And this is not true Yeah, and it's people there. Yeah, there were people there and they just dropped a nation on top of it. Bang, new nation, we drew a map and that's the way it is. And so and as a result of that now we got a lot of people who are like, Hey That's not fair. And it causes a lot of angst and anger and resentment and deep seated issues and then you throw in the religious part of it and it becomes very complicated and uh very entrenched. Yes. Right. So You know, a and and at this point I think it'd be healthy 'cause we're 'cause we're only um you know, a certain distance into the discussion, I think it'd be healthy to recognize that Pastor X here with us and many of the uh Jewish Christian congregations that are in the land uh are have have s gone to significant lengths to bless one another, pray for one another, have each other in their congregations, to uh to communicate in Christ a sense of unity. that uh that seeks to transcend uh everyday politics and that that seeks to genuinely recognize that only in Christ will there ultimately be any peace and unity and that that everything has to has to happen there and that that whatever eventually is resolved between these populations that that Christ is the one that's going to have to uh kind of bring that peace. And uh the testimonies that Pastor X has shared and others that I've talked to about what's going on there are uh uh just phenomenal. Against all yes. Like against all odds and against uh the current kind of move in our area where, you know, you have two peoples fighting, you know, we we see in the middle of this uh part of this people which is mainly you know the Christian believing community trying to reach out to the messianic uh believing community and the messianic means b uh Jewish people who believe in Christ And the Messiah. The Messiah believers are Jews who believe in Jesus. And both have found uh a way of relating to each other through Of course the blood of Christ and uh and the unity of his spirit that uh he's uh given us. Of course it's not easy, there's still the political part of it, there's still the geographical part of it In many ways a lot of the Palestinians cannot cross over to the Israeli side because of uh the wall. The wall that is built there, you know. The wall is not only a security fence, it's a it's a big wall of twenty foot high, you know, two meters wide and In fact you were telling me what is the uh unemployment rate at one point it was up to like seventy percent. Four years ago, but uh thank God it dropped down to forty five percent. Which is still outrageous. One out of every two among the Palestinians. At the height, as I understand my history, at the height of the Great Depression in the United States back in the nineteen thirties, the unemployment rate reached twenty-five percent. So we're talking about now he's saying thank thank God it's dropped to forty five percent, which is nearly twice what the unemployment rate was in the United States during the Great Depression. And it's uh uh five times or some s thereabouts what it's uh you know what the unemployment rate has kind of been hovering around in the United States uh this year or so. Especially nowadays where we're living in the twenty first century. It's not like You know, before people could bink it up with uh you know, cheaper living. Now now life is more expensive than before. So You know, if unemployment rate is like that, that means really it's it's a catastrophic for disappointment. A mi mix of Muslims and Christians, mostly Christians, mostly I don't know what, or you know, who was the who was there? Well I would say uh the majority were were uh Arab Muslims. who in the in their history of course there were probably a good part of them were not Muslims were also Christians. But you know, we talked in in the p in the last week about uh When the Muslim came in the s and the Muslims came in the seventh century there was already most of the people were Christians. Yeah. So they uh whether uh you know, we like it or not, you know, they they occupied the land and uh in a way Islamicized you know the country. Uh they gave us the Arabic language and uh Christians became anyway Arabs. Uh and m Arab means everyone who speaks Arabic So you could become uh you you could be an Arab who's who is a Christian and Arab who are who are in a Muslim uh kind of uh religion Yeah, in fact a couple of years ago, uh I found a book on um one of my dad's shelves called I am a Palestinian Christian and uh the term was fascinating to me 'cause I was just, you know, at that point I it must have been, you know, twelve, fifteen years ago, I was just starting to understand the the Palestinian Israeli uh warfare that was going on in the reality is that though most of the Palestinians are you know are Muslims that there's there is a population that are Palestinian Christians and Pastor X series. of the Palestinian population. Yeah. Uh nowadays that you know, within uh fifty or sixty years it's dropped down to two percent. And um this is not because they convert to Islam or you know, anything. It's uh mainly because of immigration. They left. They leave the country. Right. Yeah. Yeah. They would uh rather live in a more quiet, peaceful kind of atmosphere. In a more promised land in a way, you know, like the US or Canada or Australia and uh leave the whole uh uh struggle that's there. And uh of course it's bad for us Christians there because that means We're becoming not only a minority rather almost minority of the minorities in that area. And for you know, fans. We have fans, fans of the faith of HS on the show. We do, yes. Two? We have at least two? Yes. Your wife and my wife. Okay. Fans of the Faith Debate show. We will be transitioning into more uh overtly spiritual kinds of things, but I think uh the practical you know situation of what's actually going on is important to understand. It provides a sense of foundation of the And the reality is that is that if we weren't careful we could get into a major political debate. uh about what happened with the land and what what should be done politically and and all those kinds of things. And uh Pastor X and others that are that are Christians in the land have really endeavored to to find ways though though they're honest with one another about where they stand on those issues to really try to lift up Christ and magnify Christ. And it's not an easy thing to do because these uh these realities uh impact economically, they impact their families, they impact at every level And to be able to rise above those issues is a spiritual endeavor that that is is very hard for us to get our heads around. here in the United States. It's a very significant thing for them to be unified with people uh that are Jewish Christians. It's it's uh uh amazing, Jonathan Troy that probably I visit a lot of uh countries and mainly share about uh Christians or preach in churches or speak in conferences. Every time I'm here in the US I probably uh talk politics more than anything else. Yeah, forgive us. I I don't know whether it is the American uh kind of mentality or culture but uh but the problem is then the paradox is that even though um you know we we talk or in the US we talk a lot of politics Still people don't understand a lot about the politics of uh the Middle East or the international politics in any way. And what's going on really in the world. And sometimes uh As if only the media and uh you know, of course I'm I'm on the on the radio here where it's also media. Yeah. But as if the media is the only one, the only thing that shapes The mentality and in specific I'm speaking here to the believers or the Christians or the evangelicals. As if the media is the the the means that is shaping. the the mentality of the believers in America. Well if it makes you feel any better, it's my opinion, and here comes the hate mail. Uh the vast majority of Americans don't understand American politics. It ha it has nothing to do with they're not paying attention what's going on over there. They're not paying attention to what's going on over here. Yeah. It's it's true. You know, they they might know something about Paris Hilton. Yeah. And and they might have heard vaguely once that Paris was also a city. But that's about as far as it goes for a lot of Americans. You've seen Jaywalking on uh on NBC. Tonight's show, Jay Leno. Yep. And he he goes and talks to normal people that don't know their middle name. I mean it's frightening. So people just d the the public school system doesn't focus on some of these things as part of it perhaps. Families aren't talking about these things with their children perhaps Yeah. Um people aren't having serious minded discussions about it like we try to as best as we can on a show like this, perhaps. I don't know, but it's so don't take it personal. No, I'm not taking it personal. I'm just uh Uh I really you know have this zeal in my heart that I want to see at least my my Christian brothers and sisters here in the US. Well that let's transition into that for a second then. First let me say that you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, uh Jonathan Sweitzer. If you listen to the show at ever before, familiar name and voice, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and the more unfamiliar voice is that of a pastor who I cannot introduce to you. We're just calling him Pastor X, just because we want to make sure that nothing bad happens to our friend. So anyway. Seems to me we can't I mean you can't put the genie back in the bottle. You got the Jews who want to say, and I'm making this really oversimple, okay? I apologize up front for that. Yes. Who say that Way back when God promised this land to our forefathers, it's rightfully ours, we want it, and then in 1948, you know, the United Nations and the British people agreed and said, okay, bang, it's yours. Uh but then that seems to make the would make the Jewish people happy. But then you have all these Christians, I mean Jesus uh you know, started Christianity. In Jerusalem. Yeah. And the church was based there for a long time. And then when the Roman Empire and all the other Western uh powers that be and became Christianized, they ruled there for a long time. A lot of Christians lived there. And so they feel like this is our home too, spiritually sh sure, but uh at some level, but just practically. It's where I live, it's my home. And then you got uh the Muslims, you know, Islam encroaches in there and they dominated that geography for generations and generations and generations. I mean th you know hundreds and hundreds of years. So they say we have a rightful claim So who are you to take the Jewish people and and shove them back down our throats? So you have three people all claiming that they have a legitimate claim on the land. And I I would go so far as to say it's for the claim. I think they all have a legitimate claim on the land. You're not gonna ever make any of them happy uh unless they all decide that somehow they can coexist, because you're not gonna kick two of them out and keep one. That's not going to happen. So now you're left with you're a pastor. And you've got two percent of the population on your side as a Christian. And they're looking at you and say, you know, I still got grandparents who keep the key to their old house, thinking back into it someday. And Yeah. What do you say to them? What what's what what what is the spiritual message that you're sharing? I think uh uh you you've used the word that I do believe in and I think that we have to uh overemphasize it uh coexistence. I think for uh Palestinians and and Jews if I speak uh to both I think coexistence is the word. I mean I cannot uh wipe up, you know, a a whole nation uh for uh for the sake of my people. Can you either. No I can't. But can you code this Not you personally. I know that you feel you can. I can and you're in a room with Jonathan and I, and that's pretty hard to do. So I give you kudos for that. But I mean you meaning people who live over there. And the people who live there, can they do it? It's it's it it's still hard. I can I can uh witness that it's not that easy, you know, amidst all the struggle, amidst all the suffering, amidst all the uh poverty or the the the hysterical hurt or the you know, still people would tell you, you know, I lost a brother in a whore or I lost a sister in a car bomb or I you know, I lost uh a cousin and a suicide uh kind of bummer thing, you know, in a and a bus or I lost it. you know, that uh two clans back in the I guess it would have been Kentucky, you know, in the in the hills of Kentucky here in the United States that that they don't remember why it is that they started fighting each other but something happened way back when and all they know is that they're supposed to hate each other and so they just go on it Well it's it's like that sometimes and uh The issue is if uh if something could start on a on a more like a bigger level than just me as a pastor in Jerusalem. It seems like the issues are are so varied It's not just a spiritual issue. It's not just a political issue. It's not just an economic issue. It's not just a practical living or life out issue. It's all of those things. And then the you throw in there envy or jealousy or anger or Hurt. A sense hurt and a s sense maybe for wanting revenge or all those other things, those emotions that complicate all of those. But if you had to pick a top couple, a cop top two or three really core issues that the people need to somehow either uh get help having addressed for them or need to somehow within themselves begin to address. Um what is it? Is it revenge? Is it political power? Is it economic equality? Is it religion? Like what what is the core I think justice is is the word. Wow. Uh you know, there are That's a huge word. I think it's a huge word, uh but it's uh it's a word for the whole world. You know, I think uh God's heart for the nations is justice and uh Wow and what does justice look like? Well justice for my people as a Palestinian is uh to live peacefully in their own land without the threat of uh either kicking them out or uh having their uh honor stripped out of from them and dignity. Now living in peace in your in in your own land is the probably the same answer that Anybody who's fighting against your ideal would say about their situation, right? So how how do you make that work? That's why I think uh you know if I speak again politically, I I do believe that our country should be divided into two. um with uh with the privilege for the Palestinians to have their own state with the international uh kind of community interfering in terms of having peace, uh forces, etcetera, you know, of uh of at least uh accountability for keeping uh kind uh each one his own right And at the same time for Israel to exist and uh you know have their own country as they are now. You know, we're talking about now four million Palestinians who are living in in that area, one point four million people in Gaza strip. the most condensed and and overpopulated area in the whole world. You know, we talk about forty kilometers uh from uh north to south and five kilometers from west to east and one point four million people live in there. And this is injustice. You know, it talks about the West Bank, two point four million people who are living in uh anywhere between Hebrew and Ramallah, Bethlehem. Nablus, Tulkar and Talkilia and all these cities are uh are are there cut in between because of Israeli settlements Jews who believe that this land should not go back to the Palestinians. That's why we need to exist in the middle of that. So anywhere in the future it will not be given back to them And you have this whole uh wall that's built around these Palestinian cities and even separating Palestinian cities from Palestinian cities, not only Palestinian cities from Israeli cities So that Israel would keep their own and I d I do understand the need of Israel for security. And I do understand that they want to keep their people safe. But yet why uh should I do this on the freedom of others and on the stripping of land from others and on uh Cutting families from each other. And you know, at the end of the day this question of justice, uh it actually says um It says in Psalm, I want to say Psalm 85. I'll look it up here. It says that that justice And peace will kiss in the public square. No, it says righteousness and peace and justice and mercy will kiss in the public square. And they the reality is that if you're gonna have justice It's gonna bother somebody unless it's justice that is absolutely just so that everybody can be at peace with it. But if you bring justice and it's not quite right then there's no peace. There's no sense of of uh of things coming into uh into a place of alignment and again this is why you know the the great the the tabernacle of the Old Testament is this way that that a holy God can d dwell with unholy mankind. Right? And Jesus Christ is is is the representation of that. that God who is holy has made a way for sinful mankind to to be made right with God. But when you've got so much sin on the side of the Jews, so much sin on the side of the Palestinians, so much sin on the side of everybody on the face of the planet. in order for there to be a a a a just solution, somehow there has to be a way for everybody to have their sins brought to account so that everybody 'cause you said the issue was justice and when my kids come to me, Daddy, you know, Jonathan said this to me, or Christopher said this, and I and I sit them all down. Invariably what I find is that one said one thing, another one said another thing, that they're all at fault at some level or other and I have to make them apologize for different things that they had done to one another. And it seems to me at the end of the day that that's the problem is that we man we humans have hurt one another so many times in so many different ways. You know, for that matter the rest of the world persecuting with anti-Semitism the Jews in so many significant ways and yet at the same time the Jews have been less than perfect. And there's been plenty of times that like with with Bernard Madoff where they're guilty of of some of the stereotypes, uh, which is unfortunate and very painful. Uh Uh but the point is that they're not the only ones at fault and Gentiles are are equally at fault, but then Muslims are at fault and then Palestinians And in the midst of that, some somehow there's got to be a w uh way, you know, for coming to terms with all that. And it's not easy to do. It's interesting. At some point we you know You gotta have a reset because if you go back far enough you could find where you would owe some sort of reparation to anybody and everybody who's ever lived. And we have an example in this country, and you know I'm not gonna go off on this tangent, but I'll just throw it out there. It strikes me listening to what we're talking about, Native Americans Yes. Could say the same thing in this country. Exactly. They had their land taken from them. It's our land. I want it back. What would how would we like it if somebody decided to drop the Apaches on Frederick County and say Frederick County is now the nation of Apache? The Blackhawks or the Chippewa or whatever. Right, and of course then there will be those that say, Well, so same thing with the with the Canaanites. Except that with the Canaanites God had decided that they no longer were worthy of of keeping the land. And that's the only place in history that I know of that God said, okay, the Canaanites, they've lost their right to live there. We're going to get rid of them. We're going to bring the Israelites in uh they actually tried to use that same uh uh ideology or theology down in South Africa with apartheid as if the the uh local native black people down there were somehow the Canaanites and they're gonna drive 'em out and have produced one of the ugliest, most oppressive injustices on the earth. And so, you know, the point is at the end of the day is Somebody somehow all that's got to be worked out, and that's a hard thing to do. Yeah, and there's a huge theological issue there that I wish we had time to talk about, but we we don't because I have twenty seconds. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, thank you. Um Pastor X Thanks for being on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. You've been listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman, Clumbing, and Heating. Healthy Make You Smile. Visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith.