Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMG, brought to us by Footman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? We're going to make you smile for the next 26 and a half minutes at least on the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Joined this week again by Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Sweitzer Right here in Frederick Beats at umd school. Crestwood Middle School. Draw a blink there for a half a second. Yeah, Crestwood Middle School. And uh special guest Really, since I was a little boy, it's always been a dream of mine to have an opportunity to interview Racer X. And and I have an opportunity to do that now. Here it is. Yeah, no. Um we're not going to use Razor X's real name just be and this is not like for radio made up high drama kind of thing. You know, there are legitimate security issues around the world and we have with us a pastor from uh a church in Jerusalem and that is a uh hot spot in the world and in case you haven't been paying attention for the last I don't know what five hundred years Uh there's a little bit of tension there between uh Islam and Christianity and Judaism and uh right in the heart of all of that is is Pastor Racer X. Mind if I call you Razor? So never be cool like that, but it's okay to give you the phrase that's a good thing. Yes. So anyway, uh We we we fully vetted him. We know his real name, we know his background, and uh we put him in the witness protection program uh for the for the radio show. Uh and in fair first for uh the Frederick Faith debate to bring somebody on who's uh who uh whose involvement in ministry uh leaves them in a place where their life is in danger and the life of those with whom they minister uh their lives are in danger and so uh it's really a special opportunity for us. And in fairness uh to our guest, I don't want to leave the impression that he comes on the show fearful Yeah, we talked before the show on whether or not he'd be comfortable having his identity revealed, and he said that he would be. Uh so he's not running around scared like a chicken with his head cut off and the sky is falling, and oh my goodness, if people find out who I am, I'm I'm a dead man. Right But out of sensitivity for the seriousness of some of the things we might talk about on the show, uh Jonathan and I, uh with agreement from Racer X have uh just like saying that. I don't know. I get a smile on my face every time I say it. He does. I have decided to t to play it safe. Because the end of the at the end of the day It's not really important that you know his name. Yeah. You know, it might be nice for you to know his name, but it's not really important for you to understand what we're talking about and and that's w this show is about ideas and the exchange of ideas. Yes. So whatever his name is, you know, his name was Ralph. Oh, see and I just gave an indicator. Now you know that his name is not Ralph. So I've limited the the field. That's right. Now instead of a possible Uh five thousand three hundred and sixty two names. And uh yes. So Why don't we start uh with um just a general explanation of what life as a Christian pastor in that part of the world is what I haven't been there. Jonathan has. I think we should say as well that he's not Jewish. Yes, well Jonathan said that. Yeah, yeah, blame it on me. Nevertheless, so yeah, so the point is is that what's it like uh to minister the gospel in Israel, uh either among Muslims or among you know, the local population there, Palestinian population. Well thank you Try and Jonathan for this opportunity for me to be able to go on radio and uh share with I don't know how many thousands are listening, but uh it would be at least great for them to know uh a lot of facts, a lot of important issues that are uh playing on the scene of the Middle East and especially in an area that uh a lot of times you just see on the T V and uh listen to the voice of bombs but uh very few people will listen to the voice of people Yeah. And uh know what life is uh really like in uh Jerusalem or uh the the West Bank, Palestine or Israel. Or even in Gaza where uh a couple of months ago it was almost daily on a daily basis on the T V because of things uh that have been happening there. I uh again I grew up in Jerusalem, uh a city of uh About nine hundred thousand now. Uh at least two hundred and fifty thousand of these nine hundred uh are Arabs or even more than that. Uh Arabic speaking people, Palestinians who uh grew up there as well, you know, and uh they make up almost a third of the residents. Uh Jerusalem is very segregated in terms of the population, so that you would know where is the Jewish neighborhoods and where are the Arab neighborhoods. Um in a city where I grew up like the old city it's even more segregated. There is a Christian quarter, Muslim quarter, Jewish quarter, and uh another small quarter called the Armenian quarter Yeah, now I I've been to Jerusalem. I've only been once, uh and uh I could only be considered at best a tourist of Jerusalem. Uh you know, I have no real expertise. But the thing that I noticed about Jerusalem is that In comparison, Old City Jerusalem where you grew up is about as big as a very large mall in the United States. It's literally it's really not that big. It's it's uh it's uh somewhat small. In fact, it seems like a lot of people would go there to shop You know, kinda like you'd say, Hey, I'm going to old Jerusalem, hey, I'm going to the mall, you know, 'cause there's a lot there, there's a lot to do, but the point is that people live and worship and do business and everything in this in this one tiny little area of the world that that is so uh well known and uh there's so much is going on there. Yeah, I'm all of about forty five thousand people who live in the old city of Jerusalem. How many? Forty five thousand. In that tiny little Yes, in that tiny little area. It's all uh condensed, you know, overpopulated and uh You know, houses there you would be surprised if a lot of them are like uh caves probably. Uh forty five thousand is like Mall of America then. Yeah. With the small shops all over the place. Everywhere, yeah. Small shops everywhere. Yeah, but people have a unique life there. And uh It's interesting that you happen to be uh in the Frederick area now when we can so that we can do this show on the heels of it wasn't that long ago we did a show in which I was talking about the whole Israeli situation you know, over the growing up in uh over the last, you know, forty some odd years every day in the news. It's this car bombed that and a bus exploded on a bus here and this guy hates that guy and you know, President Carter's trying to work out some peace accord and President Reagan's trying to work out some peace arrangement and President Bush is trying to get involved with peace and peace and now uh Bush uh W uh tried to do an Isra uh a a peace pack as part of his legacy at the so It's just like for more than a generation now, it's been on the news every single night pretty much. Yeah. And every single night when I was a kid growing up, even into my well into my adulthood Oh, they're fighting over there still. Why is that even news anymore? And why do I care? And what are they fighting about after it's like there's no context ever provided. Right. Right. This guy's fighting with that guy, and it's horrible. We need to stop it But there's no sense of anybody ever stopping to say, by the way, it's been a long time since this started, so in case you've forgotten, here's what's going on. So let me ask you, you are living it. Yeah. What's going on? What are the issues? Why can't er the people just get along for crying out loud? Yeah. Well in a l in a in a uh in a big sense, you know, of course it's uh understatement just to put it in a few words or a few sentences. In fact he said that ahead of time. In twenty seven minutes there's no way that you can address these kinds of issues. And uh we're talking about history here. At least a hundred years of history. So You know, some people might want to go back uh further than that, especially Bible believing people who want to say, you know, this fight had been for centuries even since the time of Abraham or Isaac or or Esau or Ishmael, whatever. But uh I mean for me to make the story short it's uh at least a hundred years of uh turmoil You know, um talking about uh a nation that had a dream to come back to their own promised land that was promised to them a few thousand or a couple thousand years ago uh or more even. Yeah. And uh and uh you know suddenly they started coming on small groups of people coming to a land where they thought maybe nobody lives there, where in fact there was uh you know, hundreds and hundreds of thousands who are living in there in their own houses in their own land. And um the these people who are living in uh or the Palestinians suddenly found out that, you know, those uh new immigrants are not coming uh only to settle but also to occupy And uh we have to defend our land. Yeah, the really long the really long view history I think most people can try to piece some of that together and then the really short term history is this is just like violence and fighting all the time. Yes. It's really the mid view history of Uh so maybe we could talk about the long view is in case you don't know the story, I'll try to do this in f you know four seconds. God makes a promise uh to Abraham that his descendants um will be as numerous as the stars in the sky and he's He's gonna have this promised land and then um his descendants end up in Egypt in slavery, they get uh rescued from that, go through the Red Sea. You've probably heard about that, you've seen uh Charlton Heston hold up the the staff and all that thing in those waters. Separate and they end up in the promised land after forty years of wandering. These are all pretty common Bible stories. And then the the nation of Israel is established and uh that line of Abraham continues through all the way up until now you have uh Jesus is born. And at that point, the history of what happens with Israel and the and the Jewish people as a Jewish people kind of gets fuzzy because now Western civilization history Right. Doesn't really pay a whole lot of attention to that. It's more about the advancement of the Christian worldview and and the Roman Empire and that sort of stuff. And so it gets a little bit fuzzy, but it obviously they continued to exist as an ethnic people for a while For a long for a long time, yes. Um and must have s still felt like they had a homeland, even if it was occupied. They were still there, I guess. But they started spreading out all over the place. And then apparently a hundred or so, maybe two hundred years ago, a hundred years ago, whatever the time frame is, something changed where all of a sudden they wanted a homeland again. And I don't know what that part of the story is. But I then I do know you pick back up with World War Two Adolf Hitler has this thing against Jews. He decides to kill a whole bunch of a bunch of Christians too, by the way, but uh millions of Jews get killed and Um and so on the heels of World War II, uh the United Nations decides that, you know what, we need to give the Jewish people a homeland again and they carve out this niche of land. Great Britain gives them the Palestinian area. Yeah. And so and then all of this well the modern, the short term part of the story where there's all this fighting seems to kinda come from there. So from nineteen forty eight to now Somewhat clear, and from ancient times up until h let's say hundreds of years ago anyway, reasonably clear. But from like seventeen hundred until nineteen forty eight, what the heck was going on? What happened? What w why how'd they lose their homeland or how they lose their identity of ha not having a homeland, do you know You mean for the Jews? Yeah. But they uh of course uh at the at the first century after uh you know uh Palestine itself was not any more uh under the rule of the Jews. It was under the rule of the Romans. And the Romans were, you know, it's the Roman Empire were from uh east to west they were the ones who are uh you know ruling. So the Jews were they had like an autonomy within their own land but then they were not satisfied with it and riot after riot to the point that uh the Roman Empire got uh really came to Jerusalem, you know, destroyed everything, uh including the h the temple and almost expelled all the Jews. that uh were in the land and uh they all went in the diaspora all uh all around uh common word at that time. And in fact it was about the uh time of Constantine that they finally uh the Roman Well, the church became free under Constantine so that they were no longer persecuted right about the same time. They they made some rules that no Christians that were of Jewish background were any longer allowed to celebrate the Sabbath on a Saturday. They weren't allowed to celebrate the uh religious holidays on uh the the Jewish dates, but they had to, you know, celebrate other like Christmas and and other other holidays and so uh there's this there's a sense that at that time in history that the Christian church totally kind of re-erected the wall between Dr Jew and Gentile, uh saying that that the Jews had to you know, act like Gentile Christians. They could no longer be Jewish, you know, in any way whatsoever. And so from that time until now there's been a sense that kind of the the Jews have felt that they've been chased you know, around and not really given any any respect or a place to to settle. And how do we insert Islam into this? Well in uh for uh from the century from the fourth century where just chance I mentioned con Constantine and uh when he in a way adopted Christianity for his own uh government and uh and uh rule, you know, he declared that all the Roman Empire is Christian So uh from that time, you know, in the fifth century then the sixth century we have what we call the Byzantine Empire, where it's mainly uh had to do with uh the Christian government or you know anyway Christian by name, political government that was ruling the world and uh uh little by little uh as well uh failing in its power and its strength to rule, you know, the common world at that time. Right. And um on the background of this you have uh Uh you have a prophet comes up or a someone who calls himself a prophet in Mecca and says, you know, I am uh a messenger from Allah or from God and uh I'm led to to bring people to the right faith. And uh this is in the sixth century where Muhammad uh came out with a message that uh He believed and people around him believed this is uh from God, including the Quran. And we have to deliver the world from the sin and from uh the adultery that they're living in and uh call back Christians and call back Jews to come to the true and one God and uh bring them back to faith so that they become one part of the Ummah or the Muslim people. And that's where uh Islam started and uh it started um as small as it is with Muhammad but yet you know with uh How many people who followed him, you know, said we have to in a way they use the word open fate, you know, open the lands for the Islam, you know, so that they accept Islam. Hm. And when they came to and became a big crowd, I mean became a big army. And as they moved up to Palestine, Syria, all the Byzantine Empire at that time, uh, they almost had no strength to fight them. So they uh the Muslim armies have uh overcame the Byzantine armies and came to Jerusalem, came to the Middle East and almost In a way, uh Islamaz uh I don't know how to use this word, but may people accept or uh uh converted in the words. Yes, they uh in in many ways it was either you become a Muslim or lose your life. Convert or die. Convert or die, that's the word they use. And Jerusalem in particular uh is supposedly where Muhammad uh was taken up into heaven. So like the the the ideas that he left from where the dome of the rock is there in Jerusalem to go up to heaven and and by them setting up their dome of the rock in Jerusalem, they're of the opinion that since that is the founding place of Christianity in Judaism, you know that the heart of Christianity and Judaism, by having their mosque there, it shows that Islam is is more powerful, superior uh over all religions on the earth and so that's why uh it's so important to them because if it were to be taken down then that would somehow uh give the impression that they are no longer superior to Christianity and to Judaism. So when Muslims came to Jerusalem and to the to the Palestinian or Palestine at that time, you know, most people were uh have embraced Christianity. And when Muslims came they you know they uh converted a lot of uh of most of the people uh into Islam and they uh And those that did not convert had to stay under uh jizya or uh uh pay pay a jizya tax. They had to pay a tax in order to be uh allowed to live underneath Islamic rule. And so it was a special tax that that is still applied today in Pakistan and in various places around the world, Iran, that if you're a Christian living under Islamic rule you have to pay a special tax for the privilege of being there and yet being a Christian. And so during that time of Islamic rule they they enforced that tax on the people Yes, and uh then Christians became minority and uh Muslims became majority and uh Uh yet uh there was, you know, uh or they they have developed into what they call the Palestinian people up till uh the nineteenth century You had uh you had at least uh one million uh over a million million and a half people living in Palestine who are of a Muslim background and a Christian background Because still Christianity also retained in a way, you know, that we we we are here, we will stay here. And the Muslims uh I can say, you know, and and and totally, you know, respected that, but uh they gave tolerance. They were in intolerant of the the Christians, still lived there. Each one had his own faith. Actually when when uh the Muslims occupied Jerusalem 'cause uh Khalifa Omar, a follower of Muhammad, or the Khalifa is the g the men the Khalifah are the men who came ruling t the Muslims after Muhammad. And one of them is Omar and he's the one who uh who came and uh entered Jerusalem and made a pact with uh with the Archbishop, Greek Orthodox Archbishop of of Jerusalem. uh Safronius to uh to leave the Christians worship, give them the freedom, yet the government would become under the Muslim rule. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. My apologies. I can't introduce uh our one of our guests in the panel today by name. We're just calling him Racer X if you missed the beginning of the show. It's it's it might be overreaction or over concern, but rather err on the side of caution and because of uh him being a Christian pastor in a pretty sensitive part of the world in Jerusalem Uh and that we do audio streams, so you can listen to us around the world. Um you can podcast the shows. Um there's you know, email and telephones if somebody were to hear the show even in the States and say, hey, there's a guy who said something he shouldn't have said that wasn't nice, let's do something about that. I mean it's just it can be sensitive, so we're we're being sensitive to that Uh and our other guest of course is Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel here in Frederick. So we're kind of trying to set the historical stage. So you've got, you know, the the Jewish people are in the promised land and then uh Christianity comes along. And about uh thirty-five, forty years after the crucifixion of of uh Jesus, the temple is destroyed and it's as if uh Judaism or the uh a Judah the Jewish people as uh as a geopolitical people kind of fade from the scene and then Christianity rises to the forefront. You have Christ the rise of Christendom, you know, uh government and with the name of Christianity attached to it. Yeah. And so then and then you have the rise of Islam shortly after that And so then you have this this back and forth, this seesaw battle as you got the Byzantine Empire and then the so you got the Muslims and you got the Christians and they're they're in fact it's fascinating when you visit all the holy places in Jerusalem because they uh they have um a Byzantine no, they have the Roman architecture and then they got Byzantine architecture on top of that, and then they've got uh Muslim architecture on top of that. You know, and then they come back to, you know, uh later Crusades uh architecture. Uh, you know, he came back trying to take back the promised land. uh from the Muslims and and so literally you can see the history of all these different groups because all of them have uh those uh uh some of their ruins uh remaining to this day. And then you have not only does Jerusalem have the privilege of being on the fifty yard line of that uh football field war. Yeah. But also having incredible significance religiously for the people that happen to be fighting that war. You know, it's a it's a spiritual center for the three major monotheistic religions in the world. So Uh, you have all that going on. Yeah. And so now for at least it's gotta be what, fifteen hundred years or so Where it's all about the Christians and the and the Muslims battling it out and there's the there's the crusades and all those sorts of things going on in the middle of all that And again, s almost sort of disappearing from from uh mainstream history anyway, is the flight of the the Jewish people. Well sometime in the in the eighteen hundreds and that's what I'm saying. So Great Britain changed. Great Britain came through uh the Middle East and won some major battles so that so that they uh had political authority over the area of that we now call Israel. And so coming up to the end of the eighteen hundreds, it was no longer under Islamic rule, but it was under British rule. Uh and that's the reason why when it came time to give the Jews a land after uh after World War Two, Great Britain was able to say, Well, hey, you know, we're we're ruling over their old homeland. Why don't we just give that to them? And that was kind of the orientation that that led to then in nineteen forty eight They gave them that land and the Jews immediately rose up in war to take it back, to take the political ownership of the land, and that's kind of where things really got difficult. In fact, isn't it true that your parents lost my grandparents your grandparents lost their their house that they lived in in Old Town Jerusalem. uh during that time frame. Uh they were kicked out and they had to leave. And I know some other people that uh lived in the Jaffa area that had to had were moved out and ended up in Nazareth at that time frame. Yeah, people had the dream that someday they would come back to their houses or the war would last only a few days and uh after a few days they could come back to their houses. lot of families, lots of Palestinian families, Muslims or Christians. You would uh find them having still their old key, you know, the house key still uh hanged on their wall, you know, thinking that You know, one day we might come back to our own houses in Jaffa or in Jerusalem or Haiphen or or wherever they uh their houses were taken away from them. But we're heading down the final moments of the show now, believe it or not. But you know, if if you're like me, or you know, particularly I'm a little bit more uh in tune this stage of my life than I was even five, ten years ago. But e even uh even in this show, you know, it I've connected some dots that helps you understand what's going on. So if you're anything like me, you found this Background helpful as state setting the stage for what's been going on over the last 50-60 years or so Uh but I think we're probably going to need to, in next week's show if we can, talk a little bit more about okay, what exactly is the dynamic that is in place now and has been for the last number of decades. and really understand what's happening now and what it means to be living there if you're comfortable talking about those sorts of things. And you know what, uh in terms of ending uh the the debate part Uh the big question uh for this week is how is it that God could decide to create a nation and drive out people that are Christians that had been living in the land for thousands of years, potentially at least hundreds of years, uh how could it be appropriate for our guest race or ex grandparents to be driven out? Is there something injust in that whole process that uh that should somehow be reconciled in the purposes of God. So often eschatologically we're just we're just celebrating here in the United States that Israel is a nation again, but we forget that Uh if they handled it wrong when it happened, then God's gonna have to bring some kind of judgment. By the way, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, used a senior pastor word there, eschatologically. uh has to do with the end times or the view of what how of what's going to happen at the end of uh of our current state of things. So if you haven't heard that word before, write it down. Es catalogically yes E H H A T O L O G I C A L There you go. That's astrological. Yes. And you can add another Y and L-Y on the end of that and you get the word that Jonathan used. Anyway, word of the day There'll be a quiz next week. Yes. Thank you, uh Pastor X. You're welcome. Here it is. Pastor X. That's good. Thank you for listening to the show. Thank you to our sponsor, Clipping Flooming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Please visit us online, WFMD. com keyword five. Faith and what else is oh you can email me Troy at WFMD. com. Again, thanks for listening. God bless.