And name me Who have mine That I should company with something so divine First he wakes all for joy Prospects of finding me loving the things that I'm sure that I could leave. You want the way that you brought things for cure over joy. Welcome to the product face to the. I'm your host, Troy Skinner. Drowned one more week by my lovely wife, Dina Skinner. And these weeks surrounding the holidays, we're now past the holidays, understand that. It's now the eleventh of January, but uh We kind of wanted to finish up. I had some some songs and different kinds of music I want to introduce you to. There's a couple of uh key artists that I didn't get a chance to do the last couple of weeks and I felt like in fairness uh uh needed to do one more week of this kind of oddball programming for the the show that we do. Next week we'll get back to talking about some hair splitting theological issue that uh will make everybody mad and that sort of thing. So but this week we're uh going to be Uh introducing you perhaps or reinforcing for you if you already uh are kind of up to see what's going on in the contemporary Christian music scene. And then we name an artist. Right. And so the song we opened with this week was Overjoyed by a longtime Christian artist, and they've had some crossover success uh over the years, Jars of Clay. Um They have a bee Gees feel to them. That looks that song at least. Yeah. They're they're very uh uh airy. Yeah. You know like a bee Gees. Well they're not Bee Gees like disco or anything. No, but Bee Gees have a tinniness to their voice and I think they a little bit in that song at least I felt a bit of a kickback to uh that I would be you know confusing people though it's not are we having a debate? It's not all falsetto and all that. Are we having a debate? I just want to know. We are All right. Here, look at this. What track number? My wife picked this song. Barlow Girls, an excellent band. I actually picked it for my daughter. Um enough is number four. Number four? That's the one? That's the one. And it's basically the gist of it you'll hear. All of the Lord is enough for all of us. Why'd you pick this for our daughter? Well, because it has it's a girl band and they like guitars and uh when you have a teenage daughter they're into that and of course it's the word And when we, you know, meditate on the word, good things happen. So all glory to God. Alright, here we go. Barlow girls. Enough. Already. For all of me, for every person, every need you satisfy me with your love. Then I'll have any you're more than in there. You a my supply, my breath alive. Still more awesome than I know. You a mice You know who these guys remind me of? The Bengals. A little bit. Yeah, a little bit. Maddox Monday. Yeah, listen. All the free for everything. Everything you dead. I would agree. Yeah. No debate there. No. And I like the Bengals. Yeah. Right? Just another one. I admit it I own some and Bengals music at home. I've got their greatest hits. I even have Susanna Hoff's Yes uh album that came out, you know I don't think it's a little bit of a somebody else. Okay, no more. She did boys, you know, to have all the fun or I don't know, she Oh. Anyway, it's actually actually pretty good. It's twenty years old now. But uh That was BC, huh? Yeah. Before Christ. Yeah, for you, yeah. Uh anyway, Barlow Girls, we've listened to a second ago enough was the song, and my wife shared that she selected that for our daughter. Well, we shared last week that we went to a concert, when was it two weeks ago, that we went to a concert to see the Newsboys. Well we didn't realize that opening for the newsboys at that concert was this artist known as Toby Mack He's hip hop guy and I'm like, oh great, I gotta listen to some hip hop. You know what hip hop art that's rap, okay? If you're not hip on the hip hop. You know, okay, whatever. And I didn't have any idea who this Toby Mac guy was and I gotta tell ya the best concert show I've ever seen. Anywhere. It's quite the acrobat. And I've seen some big name artists. I've seen I've seen The Eagles, I've seen Tom Petty, uh Journey I've seen Journey, Genesis, uh The Temptations, uh Madonna. I've seen my wife seen Madonna. And I'm telling you, Toby Mack put on the best show I've ever seen anybody put on. Yeah, it was very good. Believable the acrobatics and the fun and the way he got the audience involved and And okay he's hip hop, but he's melodic hip hop and he's just a lot of fun and we thought, Man, our daughter would love this guy. So we bought a couple of his CDs and she went on to like him and now I think we have uh all or pretty close to all of uh Toby Mac's CDs. And here's a sample of of what uh Toby Mac sounds like. Okay, minute now here we go. Alright, this time I'm just for real. One time, one world, two times, one love, three times, rewind and dedicate this on everyone again. Come as you are, come just like you be. It's the warms and curves of our history. But no blocks in the road that we can't traverse And no wounds from the past that can't be nursed All hate gonna dissipate from all day No shit together we got a check made All things gonna dissipate fade away To make room for a brand One world is not everywhere. You can see our daughter D bomping around the kitchen. Now that gives you a feel. Now I don't think you I don't know if you hear this one on the radio or not. Mm, I don't recall hearing it on the radio. Here's a song you do hear uh on the radio. What's it called? It's called Lose My Soul. Man, I wanna tell y'all something, man. Man, I'm not gonna let these material things get in my way, y'all. I'm trying to get somewhere. I'm trying to get somewhere that's real and pure and true and eternal. Toby, can you do what you boy? Father God, I am clay in your hands. Help me to stay that way through all life's demands, cause they chip. And they nag and they pull at me and every little thing I make up my mind to be Like I'ma be a daddy who's in the middle And I'ma be a husband who stays legit And I pray that I'm an artist who rises above The road that is wide and filled with self-love Everything that I Love the message, right? Uh take time. Compare that with what you hear from regular hip hop. You know, where it's all gangsta and I'm gonna shoot this guy and I'm gonna do this guy in and I'm gonna go have lots of babies with lots of women or whatever it is they they rap about. And he's talking about he wants to be a daddy, he wants to be a husband who's, you know legit. You know, he's really good stuff. And then here's the rap stuff. No, no, no, no. I don't know if I could find it fast enough or not. No, don't try. Don't try. It'll be bad news if I try. But she was American Idol. She was on she was one of the twelve finalists in American Idol. She got maybe in the top six or something. I don't remember. A couple of years back when she was on and s she's on this song. But I don't know if we'll be able to find it. It's it's toward the back of the song, isn't it? think so but it's it's actually it's it's really good that she was able to hold her own in the pop culture and she really was very grounded, very well um mannered, not she had a lot of grace and she did, you know, the Christian community well, I think the way she conducted herself. It was quite refreshing. I'm wondering if this is what Mandisa's coming up. This is Mandisa coming up. Eternity, for eternity, how do I sit the time to rising? How do I take the side of the Anyway, it's a beautiful song. You know, it's it's uh as soon as I heard it, oh that's Good. Who does that? Of course it was Toby Mack. I should have guessed it was Toby Mack. Now that has rap in it and they play that on contemporary Christian. They do. That's probably one of my favorite songs by him Yeah, I think it's uh it's a relatively it's a current song. It's a song that's being played right now. It came out, you know, within the past year and they're playing it a lot currently. And I think it's my favorite current song. But I love even the message in the chorus, I don't want to gain the whole world and lose my soul. That's scripture. Right there, he's singing scripture and that's Right on. Now I'm not positive, but I think that this next band is one of Bob Miller's favorites. You know, Bob Miller does the Morning News Express on on the WFMD. Monday through Friday, five AM to nine AM, get upright and early, listen all four hours. I encourage you to do so each and every day. Anyway, uh This band, uh, Casting Crowns, exploded onto the scene with their debut album called Casting Crowns. They've had I think two, maybe three CDs come out since then. But this first C D, I mean, it was just loaded with hit after hit after hit, at least in contemporary Christian uh music circles. And uh We'll just I mean we'll play a sample of one or two. We just ingusted off their swords about to set the captive free And now let's be You have one more. What if the judge for heaven state? Finally stepped up to the plate, took a stand upon God's promise. Don't help us engage! What if his people prayed? So that gives you a feel of that one. What if his people prayed? And let's see, let's try uh let's just skip ahead. Let's go ahead and fuse I don't even know what song this is. I just skipped ahead and I hit skip three times. An uncle Steam. He's chasing the American dream. He's gonna give his family financial. This one's called the American Dream. Uh I think Praise with the Dances. I will came to the Lord. I will lift my voice for you have heard my cry. I will think to the Lord. I will it wave for you have brought me out. What about it? Do you have right me however? I'll sing glory, hallelujah. You'll hear that song on uh this song on Sunday mornings in a number of uh worship services around Frederick County I'm sure. It's uh Praise You with the Dance by Casting Crowns and like I said they exploded under the scene and they've had just a string of hits They're uh a a really uh hot band these last couple of years. So you hear a lot of them on the radio. Now there's somebody else that uh we've we've come to like and we own uh a couple. We don't own all, but we own two or three of of their CDs, a band you don't really hear. uh on the radio. At least not very much anymore, maybe once upon a time, a band called Out of the Gray. And I guess I can understand why they're not played on the radio a lot. They're not exactly uh, you know, commercial friendly. You know what I mean? They're not A lot of times you'll hear a song, I don't know if you do or to meet after all these years in the business of radio, but you hear a song, Oh, that's a radio song. It's got a strong hook, it's got, you know, a clever lyric, it's got a certain kind of modern contemporary beat or something going on with it that makes you say, Oh, okay, I I could hear that on the radio. You don't hear that quite so much with a uh a group like or a duo like Out of the Gray, but here's a sample of what they sound like If I can get the darn thing. I'm having all sorts of trouble here. This is why I'm not a DJ and I'm a talk show. By the way, you're listening to the Frederick Baith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. This song, by the way, called No Leaving. I haven't before to claim my Christian. Unguided to work I look through the window moving them off then some of the blind for one that's been Now the ground is one of the very nice. Right. I I will say that we did some homework on them and uh listen and we own more than one of their CDs and and uh if you're gonna buy one, it's my opinion that you buy the uh uh out of the gray I think it's just called out of the gray Sea Inside, I think might be the uh the the name of the C D, Sea Inside, I believe. It's uh some of their other ones aren't quite as good as this C D is, but this CD is actually very good Now here's this artist I don't know if I don't think we've ever heard her ever on the radio. No, and the reason why I know of her is I was uh making a purchase at a Christian bookstore uh when we used to live in another state and it came as a frizzy uh a an album from Page and loved it. Absolutely loved it. And just recently, I think just last year She had her second album produced. She's young. She was sixteen, I believe, when her first album was produced. Very talented. She writes her own stuff. She plays the guitar. She's just, you know, a wonderfully uh godly young lady. So here's Paige. This song is called Love Is. Is this the song you wanted? So the decided for my soul. I don't wanna get carried away. No, I don't wanna get carried away M is yes and no I know Now this isn't when I think of page, I don't typically think of this kind of style of song, so In fairness, anybody went, ooh, I really like that. I'm gonna give you a sense of what she's more w what you're more likely to hear. That's a great song. It might be her It's kinda Beatlesque, actually. You know, it sounds like something the Beatles would have produced if they were around today. I don't know why I say that, just that's how it strikes me. But uh I think the very first song on the on the C D is uh is more of an up tempo song, correct? And she's more of an up tempo kind of an artist. So let's see if we can't get Uh a sample of that. Just really quick. What's the name of it? Open your eyes. No wonder who you are. So much for up tempo, right? It's a good song though. And I don't think it's a good thing. I'm gonna just skip because I wanted you to get an extra idea. Well, whoa, we will be yeah. Well, whoa, we will be Yeah, I don't recognize my shadow anymore I don't think we thought I thought before If you said you would be walking through the door, I'm not sure Would you be walking? Don't you see the something stirring in the sky? Yeah Leaving me to wonder why, why, why, yeah Help me out if this is never gonna fly But just be sure that I will try Try, try, oh, how will I see you again? I can see your face, but I can hear you calling Oh, how will I see you again? I can get to find the So there's an example of something upbeat by Paige. And if you like that or you have a son or daughter you think would like that or whatever, you got your work cut out for you. You're gonna have to go online And go to Paige's website. It's the only way that I know to get it. It's uh and she's simply known as Paige, P A I G E. Um I don't know how this the C D is called the best thing. Her first one I believe was just her name. Yeah. All songs are written by Page. I'm trying to see I don't know, if you d if you go to Google or something like that and type in Paige And can remember plus. Yeah, I'm sure that uh she'll show up and if you like that you could find it because yeah, th the the this CD I'm holding in my hand right now is not in stores. She's very talented. So anyway, she's yeah, she was sixteen right when her first one came out. She's still only maybe twenty, nineteen, twenty. She's Yeah. How about that? Something like that young girl and I think she might be in school, which is why she's not maybe Doing the tour thing and the record deal thing or whatever, I don't know. Years ago, my best friend probably in the whole world, uh you know, was trying to introduce me to Christian music, contem contemporary Christian music before I w really considered getting into it and uh I was not receptive to it too much at the time, but I did like this C D that he bought for me and gave to me and it was for the longest time the only Christian C D I owned. Um and it still has a special place uh for me. It's not quite as popish or or uh you know dancy or whatever. It's a little more country uh sounding. It's uh Russ Taff, and this is from the CD The Way Home. The song is called Table in the Wilderness. There's a table in the wilderness. Line can see. And the poor possessed, where the weak are strong, and the first one's last There's a table in the golden deck. There's a table in the wilderness, where the blessed saint of a standardness, where the lame can walk and the weary rest. At the table in the wilderness We just worked so hard for the promised land But there's going to be a blind You hang your head and you wipe your brow and you shout it out shout it out with the table in the So that's Russ Staff. Uh we'll tell you that my experience not all of his stuff sounds exactly the same. His career is taking on different arcs uh and stuff. So If you think you might like him, listen to some samples of different music. And if you don't think you like him, listen to different samples of his music because other albums might sound different and you might like them. better than what you just heard, perhaps even. But I I love that song. And it builds such an emotional crescendo uh as the song goes on that it just gives me uh goosebimples uh up and down my spine when I hear it. Uh we have yeah we got time. We're running short on time, but I wanted to play a sample of another female artist because we had a lot of male dominated stuff the first couple of weeks when we did this so This is uh an artist called Point of Grace, a CD called I Choose You, and it's uh kind of in the spirit of Wilson Phillips. It's an old female uh quartet actually. Uh maybe it's also the spirit of like a Dixie Chicks or something too, I don't know. But anyway. This is called Point of Point of Grace I Choose You. Heart affection, every heart cry, every rhyme Everybody's worshiping something. Life devotion had been emotion Virgin doesn't for a time Everybody worshiping something We were made you the yes. Should I mean it started out Dixie Chicks? Ended up Wilson Phillips. It's amazing what these artists all do. They all borrow from each other anymore, you know, they're all influenced by all these different people and stuff in their lives. Anyway, you'll notice we didn't play Michael W. Smith, we didn't play um um Amy Grant, you know, not that we don't like them, not that we don't own CDs by them, but everybody kinda knows who they are and they've had so much crossover success that You've heard of Andy Grant, probably. You've heard of Michael W. Smith, probably. But this next artist is special because a girlfriend of mine, my one of my very best friends and sister in Christ introduced me to this artist because she went to high school with them. Oh, cool. Yeah. And this is probably what we're gonna end the show with, I think, or If I can get this. It's live in concert, can you tell? It's called Cartoons. Chris Rice is the artist. Do it. I was thinking the other day, what if I do that came? Save back to him praise in a whole new way. Yeah, I was thinking the other day. What is Cox do? Thanks for listening to Project Faith debate. Thanks to my wife, Dina Skinner. I'm Froid Skinner. Check us out online. WFM. Our sponsor, open plumbing and healing, too, be too and say, Gooby di beluya. smile. Thanks for listening. God bless. Get some dog named after. I was singing the other day. What did Cocks do? It's gonna save. Take suck sing and pray in a whole doe