Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Flaming and Heating, How Could Make You Smile. I'm Troy Skinner. Encouraging you to visit us online at WFMB. com Keyword Faith. You can email me at Troy at WFMB. com. The last three weeks You've uh heard shows featuring a panel of Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crosshoes Valley Chapel, and uh an unnamed pastor X, uh a pastor at a uh a Protestant Christian church in Jerusalem. And um we can't well we could, but we've decided against sharing uh Pastor X's real name just because uh he's doing ministry work at a pretty dangerous part of the world and there are certain people that might take great enjoyment out of uh uh holding something against him that he might say on this show. So we've decided to uh y it's not important that you know his name. Uh let me just tell you I can vouch for him. He's a good guy, sharp dresser Um and even though he did insult me by bringing his own coffee, I'll f I'll forgive the offense. Uh anyway, inside joke. Um We we spent the last three weeks talking about what's going on in Israel. Uh we've talked about the historical context, some of the geopolitical issues, obviously tip of the iceberg on Almost all of that sort of stuff. We started to talk about some more serious spiritual matters. Dealing a little bit with the eschatology, but again just the text. Um uh in in last week's show we got a little bit more spiritual, a little bit more faith debatish, if you will. Uh and this week I think might be a little bit more of the same. So if you miss all of those shows Uh hopefully you know enough about what's going on in Israel. You know, you got Islam, Judaism, Christianity all kind of coming together there, and it's uh it's uh it's an important part of the world. for all of those major world religions and and they don't like each other very much, not just for religious reasons, but for political, economic, and uh gosh darn it, you hurt me and my family and now I want to get back at you reasons. There's all that sort of mess. So all of that said, we're talking about the the land of Israel and Uh I asked the question, it might have been last week or the week before, uh the pastor asked like, what does justice look like? What do you want uh to happen there? Uh Uh and uh the gist of the answer was, well, I want my people to be able to be in their land with uh in peace and without fear of you know, whatever. And And then I responded back saying, Well isn't that what those who would disagree with you would say about what they want for their people or whatever and it kind of unravels. So that planted the seed in my mind of this question which I've very patiently filed away and now I finally have opportunity to ask it. Okay. Go ahead. And Given what Jonathan has had to say theologically and and uh some things referring to the Bible, I think that this question goes to both of you. Okay. Have we as a Christian church, by the way if you're not listening to the show very often, uh I am a uh publicly professing uh Christian, so everybody in the on the panel this week is a Christian. So I include myself in this question as well. Okay. Have we as a Christian church, for a variety of reasons, error, made an error, error, uh, in making an idol of Israel the land of Israel, the geopolitical nation of Israel? Has it become an idol for the church? Okay, well uh it'll help me just to kind of identify what a biblical definition of an idol is. An idol is something that that we build with our own hands. uh and we uh we bow down to it and start thinking to ourselves that it can uh do for us what God can do, i. e. provide for our needs, i. e. protect us, i. e. um um uh meet the deepest spiritual needs of our lives for love and for uh sense of forgiveness and reconciliation. And uh that's what a what a what an idol does. So, um, I don't know, thinking along those lines, I I would say there's probably those that that have in the church idolized Israel in that way and uh in in taking the passage where it says, if you bless Israel, then God will bless you, you know, to be that, oh well then our relationship with Israel is the most important thing. Uh and therefore, you know, it it is the source of our prof protection. It is the source of our provision, those kinds of things. I think it's Um I think an argument could be made in that direction. And I just have to think it through a little bit more. I think uh um along also lines of uh uh what we said last week, uh we said that a lot of Christians have uh seen Israel uh rising as a sign of the end times. And uh for them this um of course because they love Christ and they want him to come back again and uh sure they want to see the biblical prophecy in a way fulfilled. Yeah, it's good. That's why um in a way seeing Israel rise up uh and uh of course it's not a new testament prophecy, it's an old testament prophecy. Uh I do believe that all the Bible is is infallible and it's the word of God. Yeah. Yet we have to see things as well through the eyes of the New Testament. But in the Old Testament uh prophecies, uh as if there's a promise of a land that would come back and then as if the end uh times will come after the land will come back to the uh people of God, uh i. e. the Jews. And uh so Bible believing people who love Christ here in the US uh seeing Israel as uh the sign of the end times and saying, okay, you know, heaven is coming back and Jesus is coming back to take us home and we miss the Lord. We love the Lord and we want to be with him all life uh to eternity and uh Uh anyway, you know, Israel becomes as a as a purpose for the means, you know, and uh and uh this purpose is Yeah, where the end justifies the mean. Yes. Yes, and it's uh in a way it's misused. You know, even they joke about it is the Israelis even joke about it in in politics. They say, you know We love the money of the Christians but we don't love their faith about us. You know, they want us like a step uh to step on us to go to heaven in a way, you know. And uh some other Christians have in a way put Israel as an idol in a way that they think, you know, this is uh where you know God's people are, you know, this is where In a way God dwells, this is the land of uh uh uh you know that God have uh loved and cherished and uh in a way have all the history played in in there So it's anywhere between emotions to to uh uh to the f to kind of see Israel uh as an idol. You know, I I I gotta add this in this context. You were just talking about Even the Jews in Israel feel used at times, like the Christians are trying to try to to send them money because somehow that's going to get them in better with God. You know, and the the Jews know that that's happening. Because the the definition of the end times is uh in the the Antichrist is what? The whore Babylon And if if there's one definition definition of a prostitute, it's somebody that is used for some other means, where you don't care about the individual, you just want to get something from them and you pay whatever to get that thing from them. And when I was uh in the Nazareth area interacting with several pastors, they kept saying to me that they feel like all the Christians come to Israel And they get all excited about all the history, but they forget that there are living stones there, meaning people that are Christians that are that are ministering the gospel and so they're so caught up and and again they end up feeling used. And it seems to me that that um whether whether or not it's idolatrous, it can certainly get a little bit salacious uh and um uh the the relationship where we're using the people that are in the land to make ourselves feel better instead of really caring about the individuals that are there. We're just using them to meet our needs. We're using them for our own pleasure, for our own uh pride's sake, and uh it seems to me like like that is a major problem with people in the United States. trying to use Israel for their own purposes. And that's one of the points behind the question, you know, i if and if uh If you only have a very strict definition of of idol, then it might not exactly fit. But the but I think loosely understood It could because we're trying to prop up Israel of through our finances, through our political uh maneuverings you know, whatever, we're trying to build something up of um because we want something from it, like you said. Uh and then we put all our hopes our hopes rest on that. We need to have Israel because without Israel then there can't be this this uh temple thing that's gonna happen with the abomination and then Jesus can't come back and you know so we need so I understand that the motivation would be uh a positive motivation, but you can have positive motivation motivations and do sinful things anyway. Yeah, and so so the the correlation is to uh to the law, to legalism We say, okay, I'm going to follow the law because if I follow the law, then I will be uh in close with God. I use what is a good thing, the law, to try to earn God's favor. And I could use something, you know, that that may or may not be a good thing depending on on uh your theological stance, I could use Israel uh as a as a tool to win God's favor. My relationship with Israel is a tool to win God's favor instead of going to God through Jesus Christ. And so so then again, you know, in any relationship or anything that I do for the kingdom can be that way. As a pastor, I could use my pulpit. as something to make myself feel better, you know, and and something that could be good. Preaching the gospel could be used in a salacious and uh ultimately immoral way. uh depending on where my heart is and whether or not I'm allowing my heart to be pierced and divided by the Word of God, you know, where the Holy Spirit is convicting me of sin. You know, or whether or not I allow myself to continue to do things out of a fleshly worldly orientation. So if we have a healthy or if let me change healthy, that's the wrong word. If we have a uh In your understanding, and in my understanding, okay, we're not speaking for everybody here. Yeah. If we have a biblical view of what's going on in Israel, What should we be doing? What should what should the not we as individuals who who call ourselves Christian. Let me let you answer this. But what should the church, the organized church, be doing? I think uh I appreciate this question through. I think it's a very important question for uh for us and uh the church to tackle, especially in in times where we really believe that uh uh you know it's It's going fast and the end times in a way, you know, uh seeing all the suffering of the people and the wars and rumors of wars and all of these signs, etcetera. Uh I do believe that the church should be really Head on uh preaching the gospel. Head on praying, you know, for the kingdom to come. And um this means that uh American Christians should pray for the believers in the country. Uh, when if if to simplify it. You know, if course uh most believing uh Bible believing Christians or evangelicals don't live in Israel Uh but there are evangelicals who live in Israel with the same cause of evangelicals who live here. And that's spreading the gospel and that's winning people to Christ, whether it is Jewish or Palestinian, whether it's a Muslim or of uh different background. And we have to stand with with this church, with this uh uh community that's there to uh in a way uh to fulfill their cause and to fulfill their uh their mission Whether it is by praying or whether it's by uh sending funds, whether it's by at least let them know that uh, you know, you're standing with them. You know, I uh of course I I being in Palestinian, I don't want to be biased about it saying uh you know, uh uh a lot of things about Palestinians because uh you know and we are in a very good relationship with a lot of the m most of the messianic pastors and uh believers and uh we feel both of us are anyway caught up in the middle of all of what's going on in the Middle East. Yeah. Yet uh you know, when I come here to the US one thing that I think uh believers across this country don't know um is the mere fact that there is Palestinian Christians. There's many Palestinian believers. You know, uh many times I stand up in front of the church and say, have you ever what's the first idea that comes to your mind when you hear the word Palestinian? And you know, if they are honest enough with me they would say terrorist. Yeah. And I say, Have you ever thought that uh a Palestinian would come and preach to you the gospel? Like I know. Yeah. And uh this is very important because uh so then you know what do you think about the Palestinians? It's very important. You know, if you think that there is a Palestinian Christian and you come uh, you know Your ignorance is wiped off and now you know that there are Palestinian believers who are living in there. Your whole perspective about the the even the land uh changes. About all of Israel changes. Right, amen. And you start thinking the right way in a way, or praying the right way in a way. Instead of praying, Lord, give Israel to win over their enemies And the enemies then you realise that the enemies that you've been been praying that they'll be crushed are also Palestinian Christians believers like me. Right. Perspective changes. Yeah, and I think that that's uh we've talked off the air a little bit, but I think that's one of the reasons why, you know, I have my view of of Israel and and and uh the the moniker, the label of Israel as of whether it relates to the church today or a a a nation or or an ethnic group of people or whatever, is I think we you can end up praying in ways that would actually do would do damage to the kingdom of God if God were to answer those prayers. And if not go and even if didn't God answer the prayers, the problem these prayers are are on the air These prayers are heard by us and they hurt us. And they are heard by Muslims, for example, that we serve with. And they become a stumbling block for the gospel. You know, you get very good, you know, preachers, really uh I don't say, you know, negative things about them standing on the TV and and saying, Oh, we love we love Israel, may Israel win over their people and crush the Palestinians away and we pray for the i etcetera, etcetera. You know a rhetoric that you know when I hear it I say, Lord, don't let my people hear it because then they would not hear from me. Well I was reading something recently that was talking about you know how to pray um m uh more effectively or whatever the the gist of the comment was and it was talking about how important it is to uh pray specifically. And you can't pray specifically if you're not informed. Also you can just say, Hey God, I pray that your gospel message will be proclaimed. Where and what's a pretty short prayer. Well, one of the ways to get informed is to develop relationships. Yes. Yes. And so then you can start praying for specific people in specific situations. And well then your prayers can't be long enough because I mean Uh you know, back in the Cold War days, you know, the great hated uh Soviet Union. Oh, I ha I I hope everybody I hope the whole Soviet Union just Disappears and gets blown up to bits, but there were Christians there. So we can't confuse our geopolitical politics with with, you know, the the real issue for a Christian anyway, of, you know, what's what's really at stake here. And this is the power of the gospel that God sent his son into the midst of sinful humanity, not just Israel, but then to all the Gentiles that God has sent his Son to uh to not destroy the earth, but to win a harvest of souls from the midst of e evil nations and evil groups of people that the point is that all of us are that way. In fact that's abundantly clear to me through Romans that the Jews were just as wicked as we Gentiles ever were. You know, and that being the case, you know, the the passage says that uh that I don't want you to be ignorant Israel has experienced a hardening in part until the full number of Gentiles has come in, meaning be saved, that that God's goal is not just to save Israel. Or not just to save a few righteous people, but to save righteous uh th those that would choose him from all nations of the earth And I feel like that's where we again we can get confused with our uh holding Israel up in idolatrous ways we as we get distracted from the fact that God is penetrating what appears from the outside to be evil groups of people and he is transforming them from the inside out and I'm one of those people. The United States is one of those places Well you know when you come to under understanding like that, I think the next step would be repentance. Amen. And uh you know, I said about praying for the specifically, I I I do salute you for mentioning that 'Cause when you're informed you pray for the right things. Besides that when you you're informed and you realize that there are things that you've been uh you didn't know about or you've uh ignored for some some reason, I think uh then comes repentance, you know, repentance on behalf of my nation. repentance on behalf of the nations of this land or of the lands around us. You know, uh remember the the old verse that We you know, we teach in Sunday school and we always mention and say, you know, John 3 uh you know sixteen, you know, for so love the for so God love the word. that he gave his only begotten son so that no one should perish, rather have eternal life. And you know, I think when you say God so love the word includes everyone, you know, who lives in the Word, including Palestinians. Yeah. Including Iraqis, including Pakistanis, including uh Afghan, including Israelis, and including everyone who lives in the world, and that includes also Muslims. You know, it's a very good thing to know now. I mean uh to give a bit of information that a lot of Muslims are coming to Christ these days. You know, among the Palestinians, the people that I serve with You know, we talk about of course not in the in the hundreds of thousands, but hundreds are coming to Christ. And this is i in history, never happened I mean in the twenty first century we're saying things for f one thousand four hundred years did not happen. It's now happening. Not only in my country. You can ask across the Middle East, across Muslim nations Lots of Muslims are turning their hearts to Christ. And this is phenomenal. This is something uh uh Christians here should pray for and continue to pray that the Lord will uh continue to move uh lots of them are experiencing dreams and visions. You know, I I never preached this before, but when uh a Muslim after Muslim, you know, with tens and a number, you know, we have counted up to thirty percent of those who believed in Christ. Relating to us an a supernatural experience. Yes, they were not Sylvafic, you know, or or salvation experience in itself But they were eye opener for them about where Jesus showed up and something. Trope with the glow, you know. Yeah. And glory, you know, told us read the book or healed us or uh told us I am the true God and uh people turned this person. Yes. And uh and uh you know, this is just to prove that God really loves the Muslims. Yeah. It strikes me that it's important for Christians to not be praying for uh a specific nation over and above the causes of the kingdom. Ultimately we should be praying for God's kingdom. Now we want to pray for our leaders, we want to play pray for international peace and those sorts of things, but ultimately the most important thing we're praying for is uh praying for God's kingdom. And so if you're gonna do that effectively, it's not just being informed on what's going on in the world politically or, you know, weather disasters, that sort of thing, and also developing relationships. It's also about being informed W what what the Bible tells you. You know, what does God's word tell you you should be praying for? What should what should that perspective be? So we gotta be informed. On all fronts. Perhaps that's the most important front on which to be informed. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer, a senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. And um the other voice you're hearing is known as Pastor X to everyone in Frederick because we're not telling you his name. You couldn't put bamboo shoots up my fingernails and make me give you his name. That's not a dare, but it's not related to race or X. No, no relation to race or X. Now you're talking about, you know, uh evangelizing or spreading the gospel and that sort of thing. I remember in the very first show uh you made mention of that there's kind of a like a a Christian quarter in Jerusalem. Is that out of just physical necessity and for safety and numbers reasons or is that the uh a a a bad instinct, a human nature instinct to try to insulate and cocoon and s and safe ourselves and not put ourselves out there to try to advance the cause of the kingdom. Well it is uh part of uh a historic pact called the status quo that the Ottoman Empire have put in Jerusalem and other places. Means uh you know uh Muslims want uh to stay in their own neighborhood and Christians want to stay in their own n neighborhood in order for them to lessen, you know, kind of uh any uh negative conflict interaction, you know, that could happen. Um but uh I think You know, nowadays they'll you'll f you'll see a lot of mix up. It's it became more of a name rather than a real. And of course in the Muslim quarter majority of the people there are Muslims, but there are lots of Christians who live in there And in the Christian quarters majority are Mus uh Christians, but you find a lot of uh Muslim families living there and uh as well in the Jewish quarter. Given that that the uh the percentage is small, how how mature would you say the average Christian's faith is? in your church or those the Christians that you know where you live in Jerusalem. When I say uh Christians, you know, we have to also distinguish between more phenomenal Christian and also committed Christians. Yeah, so well when you throw that two percent number out, is that any professing Christian or is that what you're saying are the committed Christians? No, the two percent are Everyone who calls themselves Christians. Okay. How many of those do you think are truly committed Christians? I would I would say about six thousand people. Okay. Six thousand, which is what percentage of the total? A fraction of not even one percent. Yes. It's a very small percent. Right? Yeah. Yeah. So we'll call that a remnant. Yeah. Might be zero point twenty. Yeah. In a percent or something. Yeah. So You know they're pretty serious. It's not It's fascinating to me because in uh we don't have a lot of time, but maybe you can get a a quick take on this. In this country, being a cultural Christian makes sense because it's the culture. Right. Where you are, what are these nominal Christians all about? Like how can you be a nominal Christian? How can you be a nominal Christian in that context? Why wouldn't they become Muslim? Well, uh just being born, you know, because m the the mentality of people there if you are born for a Christian family by name, then You know, you are Christian if you're born for a Muslim then the you are a Muslim. they're a small portion of the population, but they still consider themselves Buddhists because the the there there's a a complacency out there and and there's probably some of that uh there as well that that there's complacent Muslims, there's complacent Christians, complacent Jews. Yeah, but one of the So complacency is common. It doesn't matter what you're complacent about, but what you know, complacency loves company. So burn down your house. Well there are some that kind of weirdness that goes on. Clearly not anywhere close to what you face. Lots of the Christians back home, I mean just the whole idea uh if they were not born f in a Christian family like they were Muslims or they were Jews and became believers, uh their lives are on threat always Hm. Well on that uh heartening note. We're gonna wrap up the faith debate show. Hope you're feeling better today. Thank you, Pastor X, for being on the show. Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you. Thank you. Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thank you for sponsoring the show yet again Please visit us online, wfmd. com keywordfaith. You can email me Troy at WFMD. com Uh if you would like to nominate yourself as a guest on the show, I'd love to hear from you. You uh you have to have some minimal requirements, but we can talk about that. I want to make sure that you can uh give voice to uh your point of view in a way that would be respected by those that would b that agree with you. I want to make sure you can argue your case. If you feel like you can argue your case, let me know. But if you have a question or a comment or something you want us to tackle on the show, I'm glad to hear it. Anyway, thanks so much for listening again. God bless you.