Welcome to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930. WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Joined this week by Dan Sexton, the senior pastor of Calvary Chapel in Illicott City, and Jonathan Sweitz or Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick And before we got together to do the show, we had uh talked back and forth uh a little bit, not in great depth, but a little bit about some things we wanted to talk about. But uh I decided to throw a curveball, so If it's only me offering an opinion or pontificating in any way, shape, or form on this early portion of the show, it's my fault. But today is January eighteenth. Tomorrow is the big So well well tomorrow well no the big big day is January twentieth. So we're two days away from the big big day. The big day if you're a George Bush fan because it's his last day. Right. And there's all sorts of big parties going on, inaugural parties, but there's also lots of going away parties. Uh I understand it. There's a big uh Texas Society delegation that does a big thing and they're really going all out for this George Bush thing. With that going on, I think it'd be silly for us to ignore that. Yes. Uh this is a religious uh oriented kind of a show. But it is a worldview show and ideology sometimes gets mixed and blended with theology and so sometimes part of this challenge in this show is to parse out where those things separate. De Toqueville said that when he came to the United States, when he looked for a politician he'd find a preacher, and when he was looking for a preacher, he'd find a politician. So there you have it Well that leads perfectly into this news story. This is going back uh a couple of weeks, but it's a nice segue. Uh headline on this story is Library to Collect Sermons for Obama Inauguration. Yes, yes. Inauguration Week sermons would be videotapes to highlight Barack Obama's rise to power in an unprecedented quest by the Library of Congr Congress to capture this transfer of power for posterity. Now folks, like how the AP is trying to be all Conversational and folksy. The folks. The folks. At the library's American Folk Life Center. Look at that a pun from the AT. Uh where are we? Folklife Center are soliciting churches, synagogues, mosques, and others for copies of sermons or passionate speeches that focus on the significance of the January twentieth inauguration of Obama as the country's first black president. Um the last time they tried to preserve some stuff was after uh the terrorist attacks on nine eleven. They also did it after Pearl Harbor Um if a historian asks how did Americans react to Obama's inauguration, we'll have immediate responses to this powerful event, says David A. Taylor, head of research and programs for the American Folk Life Center. Uh I'm gonna uh uh stop there for a second and offer some opportunity for commentary. If historians ask how did Americans react And what they have to go on are some sermons for churches willing to allow their sermon messages to be used in this way That's not going to be a really true reflection of how Americans reacted. And it also ra begs the question, I thought that Jonathan, you're a pastor, right? You haven't like turned in your pastor card or anything, right? You're still a pastor? Yeah, not not recently, yes. Damn same thing? Right, right. Car carrying pa do you carry cards, by the way? Yes. Car carrying pastors. Yeah, no, we're gonna get to that next week. I thought the rule for carrying that card was you couldn't go to the pulpit and talk about politics. Isn't that like the rule? No, come on. No, no, no, no. The rule is that you are not allowed to uh to electioneer to try to promote somebody for an office. But you're allowed actually even to say the names of people and even to speak negatively or positively about them as long as you don't try to get that get your people to vote a certain way. on uh from the pulpit. And so so uh are you allowed to speak about these kinds of things? Absolutely. Okay, so you can talk about it, you just can't say And because it's so historic in four years you better vote for him again. Yeah, yeah. But the question that I have w is whether or not they would accept a spe a a a you know, a preaching a sermon from a pastor that might be of the opinion that this represents the rise of the Antichrist or something, you know. I mean that would be quite the uh the twist You know, 'cause the point is there's some people, probably on the right side, that would go so far as to feel like this represents, you know, a move towards the beast rising and those kinds of things. And so whether or not it's an accurate reflection depends on which uh messages they're willing to capture. Well here's an example that might give us a lean uh uh an indication of the lean of the kind of messages they're looking to capture. Oh so they tell you what they want you to preach? It says it says Michael Taft, the head archivist at the Folk Life Center, said that it was decided to collect inauguration themed sermons because Because that speech form is poetic, dramatic, and at some churches an important art form What churches does that sound like to you? Definitely mine. Come on. You've heard me preach, without a doubt. It's pretty dramatic. Doesn't sound so it doesn't sound like a church from the Jonathan Edwards school of preaching, for example. See now, that's where I would disagree with you because when you read the sermons of the guys that were the preachers around the founding of our nation, those guys were fiery. And they were well learned famous or perhaps infamous for being artists. I mean they saw themselves as like the orators that were bringing in the you know the great uh rebellion of the United States, which is kind of an interesting that's a topic even in in and of itself. In fact some of the founding fathers even said if you want to know where they're getting their ideas from Go to the preachers. Yeah. And that's where they were getting their ideas. of the United States of America. It's a phenomenal book. And it went to the Library of Congress and pulled out all of this original source material from these pastors and from uh presidents, you know, uh Lincoln uh not Lincoln Franklin. um uh Jefferson, Washington, Adams, all these guys from the beginning that that so profoundly wove through all of their thinking and all of their speeches and all their mindsets a Christian worldview through and through and uh and that in fact those were the the ideas the the preach the preachers were the ones that were had the ideas that were uh the impetus, the motivation, the inspiration behind, you know, th that God created this all to be free and that that we should, you know, uh rebel from tyranny. So that no one uh misunderstands I use Jonathan Edwards as I thought a a really You know, for those who know anything about Jonathan Edwards, it might have been a helpful hook. For those who don't know, you might have wondered where I was going with that. There's no denying that Jonathan L. Edwards was a brilliant man. And if you read any of his sermons, they're very powerful. I wasn't around back then, but from what I understand, he used to read his sermons something like this. Inauguration Week sermons would be videotaped to highlight Barack Obama's rise to power in an unprecedented quest. That's not dramatic or poetic uh or in important art form. Could it be poetic and not be dramatic? In fact it's got its own kind of drama. Sounds like you're arguing to get included here. I'm just in that argumentative meeting. I'm not sure that I'm ready to preach on it actually. I think with Jonathan Edwards, he did that with one sermon. uh just to uh affect that sermon and the way that it's conveyed to the audience. I don't think he preached that way generally speaking. Interesting. Um I hadn't heard that before it was just with the uh sinners in the hands of an angry god with one sermon he did that. Uh so that no emotion or drama or anything like that would be added to it, that it could just be straightforward. I hadn't heard that before. That was interesting. Preached on the steps of the uh the courthouse in Philadelphia and Ben Franklin said you could hear him for four blocks away. You know, and after he preached all the taverns in Philadelphia closed down because people were so convicted by his message. So it was definitely a fiery sermon that Whitfield was preaching. So so it begs the question, what if I was gonna preach a message about Obama personally What would it look like in Sound Like? Yeah. Yeah. What would it look like? What would it sound like? Yeah. Well you're gonna preach the message. It's gonna sound like something. Yes, you're right. I hadn't thought about that. So the so I don't know what it would sound like or look like for that. Because I 'cause I don't I mean definitely there's there's something to be celebrated across the board about those that were slaves uh you know in the past here in the United States being uh in every sense of the word, you know, full members of society and you know part of the power structure. uh that's ruling the nation now. I mean that's a pretty incredible thing. You know, there's all kinds of of appropriate uh uh metaphors, you know, all throughout scripture about that kind of thing. But, you know, there's other lessons to be drawn as well in terms of what Obama represents. I think we're going to get into talking about uh you know different preaching styles and and and what the preferred mode of preaching might be and stuff. But before we get off on to that. I don't want to leave the the inauguration issue yet. Uh but it's still tied to the faith community and that sort of thing. Rick Warren. Okay. Yeah. Um very famous. He's the author of the uh best-selling hardcover book in the history of the printed page, uh purpose-driven life. Also very well known for purpose-driven church, uh the purpose of Christmas, uh lots of purpose-oriented cookies too, I think. And he's he's had his detractors over the years. He's part of the the mega church seeker sensitive uh movement at some level. And in case you're still not sure who Rick Warren is, if you follow the political uh election cycle this past year uh at all, you might remember that there was a pastor, uh a a forty or so pound overweight pastor that uh conducted a hour long interview with Barack Obama asking him a set of prearranged questions that I don't think they knew what they were going to be, but that was a pre set List of questions and then spent the next hour asking that exact same list of questions of John McCain. It was quote unquote a debate, but not really All right, if that rings any bells. And it was watched by a lot of people and Rick Warren came under a lot of criticism for allowing Barack Obama to have that sort of a forum. It they felt like it gave him legitimacy among the evangelical voters Uh and now Rick Warren has been asked by either Barack Obama himself or at least Barack Obama's people to give the invocation at the inauguration. And again, all the Rick Warren uh um chastisers are coming out in full chorus again, saying, Here he goes again legitimizing this guy? Doesn't he realize where Barack Obama stands on the abortion issue? Doesn't he understand where he s where he stands on the the stem cell issue? Doesn't he understand where he stands on uh you know, the whatever issue that, you know, conservatives don't like? What do you think about that? Do you think that Rick Warren made the right call in a in agreeing to do the invocation that he made the right call and having the the the uh quote unquote debate last summer? Well the big question is uh whether or not he'll pray in the name of Jesus or whether or not he'll just pray, you know, in the name of some you know, unnamed higher power. And uh he's given the impression that he that uh he's gonna pray just how he normally prays. Franklin Graham uh the last inauguration of George Bush came under uh criticism for praying in the name of Jesus Christ. And uh a lot of people went up in arms, you know, hey, you know, that that's bringing a specific sect, you know, into uh the political sphere in is government supporting a particular sect and and establishing that religion as it were? And uh and so actually what Obama has done is he has now decided to bring in uh the guy Gene, the pastor from uh from the Episcopal Church, who is Gene Robinson. And he's going to be uh also uh praying or speaking uh at the uh why is he anticipating that wouldn't pray in the leave need leave of Jesus Christ? No, because There were so many homosexual people that were up in arms because Rick Warren supported uh Proposition Eight out in California because he supported it. They were all up in arms that that, you know, here's this guy that by putting them up there Obama was saying that it's okay to be against homosexuals. And so Obama in order to placate uh that part of the United States has chosen to uh bring Gene Robinson in as well to speak. And so so the question whether or not it's right for him to to go and to pray I mean I think you have to go to Timothy, where Paul tells Timothy that all kinds of prayers are to be made for those that are in authority over us, that we're to pray for them and bless them so that we could live peaceful lives you know, here on the earth, here in the uh in the United States. You know, back then it was the Roman Empire. And so should he do it or shouldn't he do it? I have to weigh in and say yes. Especially in lieu of the fact that, you know, it really doesn't represent something one way or the other for Obama, it represents an opportunity for him to genuinely appeal to God in a very public way, you know, for mercy. If you were asked, would you do it? Dan? Yeah, I would do it. I mean I'm a I'm a pastor. I I represent Jesus Christ and I think uh it gives you a great uh platform to to pray for a leader at a very uh difficult time in the world in our nation, uh whether you support Obama or or not He needs our prayer right now. Our our nation needs prayer right now because of the circumstances that we're in. I think as a pastor to be given that kind of platform in front of hundreds of millions of people. Uh certainly I would jump at that opportunity. And hopefully Rick Warren will use that as a way of shining light uh and and being a light for Jesus Christ. See I think Rick Warren doing that is no different uh than any other point in our history. I mean Obama is firmly in the Jefferson tradition of politics in the United States. Jefferson cut out half of his Bible, you know, and yet claimed to be a Christian or a deist or whatever it was that he claimed to be. And yet uh there were there were m plenty of pastors that felt like what Jefferson represented was godly and righteous at the time of the revolution. And so what Obama represents, he represents the same thing. He's happy to cut out large portions of his Bible uh uh and and yet still call himself a Christian and to uh you know his politics fit in a very Jeffersonian tradition and so I mean would you have prayed for Jefferson You know, at Jefferson's, would you have prayed at Lincoln? Lincoln certainly wouldn't have gone to uh many churches that call themselves conservatives, certainly wouldn't have gone to a Calvary Chapel congregation. He likely, if he would have gone to any congregation, would have tended to go to something Unitarian, a lot like what Obama tends in the direction of. Uh, I think to try to draw a distinction that a Christian shouldn't pray there as opposed to other places um is a little bit out of step with what America has tended to represent from the beginning and Christians and America what Christians have tended to represent as well. I uh you know, I would say too, Rick Warren is uh no doubt the the most popular pastor in the world right now. I mean everybody knows who he is. Uh because of his the success of his books. Uh I I think too conservative Christians, conservative evangelical Christians would see him as as liberal uh or or more towards the liberal side, but at the same time, so's Obama. You know, I mean they they they're a close match. I think in the same way going back to the the Franklin Graham thing where where uh George Bush was coming across as a conservative Bible be believing Christian, Franklin Graham was a good fit for that. Yeah, and of course George Bush has come out now saying that he doesn't think there's any difference between the God of Islam and the God of uh Christianity. And so Um uh which kind of puts George Bush into uh uh honestly somewhat more similar. He just happens to be born again. but a more similar theological tradition to, you know, Jefferson like Obama as well. And so, uh, again uh politics and religion, I mean it gets very murky when you're trying to figure out who's what. Unfortunately we're w you know, uh from a Christian's perspective, we're not saved by having right theology. Right. Right. Thank goodness, right Or we we'd probably all uh be damned to hell because not any of us has our theology exactly a hundred percent right. Right. You know, that If we knew what our gone to school for if our if our if our thoughts were uh uh were clear on those areas that were fuzzy, we'd change our thoughts on those areas. You know, so we have blind spots, so we all have them Um anyway, I don't know it's fair to say uh I don't want to make this all about Rick Warren, but I don't think it's fair to say that he's a liberal. Uh by any stretch I wouldn't call record. But I would say that there are those that um that are more f that that would be f farther right wing. Oh sure. Solid and the Christian, you know, that that would consider him, you know, center right Maybe. And that's right, and more liberal. Your point is just more liberal, not liberal, just all a matter of perspective Yeah, if you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. The last voice you heard was Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Crosshoods Valley Chapel. And the other voice you're hearing this week is that of Dan Sexton, the senior pastor at Calvary Chapel in Ellicott City. Uh staying with the theme of uh politics and Obama and the inauguration coming up in a couple of days, here's a story that you may or may not have heard a whole lot about. And so I'm just gonna read this as it was sent to me. This was emailed to me. Alright? This is a tail and it's from uh so that you know, full disclosure, this is gonna come with a slant, it's from the uh GOP Okay. All right. That's who emailed it to me. This is the tale of two American churches. One is in a major city, the other is in a small town. One preaches hatred of America and its institutions, the other preaches love and patriotism. Was one is infected with a toxic dogma known as Black Liberation Theology. The other espouses the gospel of Jesus Christ. One was just firebombed. Guess which one? Barack Obama spent twenty years sitting in the pews of the Trinity United Church of Christ in Chicago listening to some of the foulest teaching ever to come from the mouth of a quote unquote preacher That preacher was a poison-tongued demagogue named Jeremiah Wright, who has spewed racist lies and hateful conspiracies from his pulpit during his entire career. Meanwhile, in Wasilla, is it Wassilla? I can't remember how to pronounce it. Wasilla, Alaska, an evangelical church attended by Governor Sarah Palin and her family, teaches the true meaning of Christ's message to his church and to a fallen world. On December 12th, the Wasilla Bible Church was firebombed. Authorities said the fire started at a main entrance of the church and that they are investigating the blaze's arson. Damage estimated at about a million dollars, no one was injured. Although a small group which included children was inside at the time of the bombing Um so far, I want to stop there for a second. Had you heard about this until I just read this? Yes, I had. I haven't. Yeah, I heard about it, you know, and it's kind of funny because this um, you know, we're running into a couple cold snaps here in The weather up there has been like negative 35, negative 45 degrees, and so you couldn't really do a firebombing right now, even if you wanted to. That's kind of a uh you know a side. Nevertheless, uh I had heard about this that uh that they got bombed up there in I'm you know, I'm kinda not surprised. The churches that seem to get bombed anymore are conservative churches. Nobody's bombing churches that lean in the liberal direction. In fact out in California after Proposition eight got passed The churches that got attacked were not churches that support homosexuality, but the churches that got attacked, and there were numerous churches that got attacked, were ones that tended in a conservative direction Now interestingly enough, some of those were Mormon as well. You know, but you know, it was the conservatives that got bombed, not the liberals. Now I was emailed this four days after it happened and I hadn't heard about it in the four days before you know during that four day period of time. Maybe I got distract maybe it was on the news and I wasn't paying attention. Maybe it was in the paper but it was right in the midst of Christmas season. You know, who knows? Yeah, yeah. But I you know, it's not surprising that Dan said he hadn't heard it. In fact I'm surprised Oh yeah. Everybody would know about it It would be like the world would be mourning. So what does that say? What is that? But what does that say about contemporary society and maybe the major news organizations or whatever? You know, I I think there's a definite anti conservative Christian slant in the world. I think it's I think it's just a sign of the times that we live in Um, I I think that uh uh you'll see it more and more as time progresses on. There's a you know, I mean it's not just here. There's there's worldwide persecution of the church that you just don't hear about at all Uh and I think it's just it's just the way that it is right now. Now here's the here's the the rest or uh or at least another section of the story. I don't think I'll read the whole thing, but Uh the Wasilla congregation gathered for their services at a local middle school the Sunday following the fire. Statements of the members and their pastors, as reported by the Associated Press, are telling. Patsy Inks says that the news initially shocked and frustrated her, but by Sunday she was feeling blessed, she said at the school, where worshippers lingered over a potluck dinner for a family leaving Alaska. This tragedy has brought us all together, her eyes tearing up The congregation realizes the church is more than a building, said John Doak, associate pastor at the church. The definition of the church is the body of Christ made up of God's people. The church is still there. We are the church. Governor Palin, who was not at the church at the time of the fire, stopped by uh afterwards and she told uh the assistant pastor that she was sorry if the fire was connected to the undeserved negative attention at the church received since she became a vice presidential candidate last August. According to the AP, worshippers acknowledge the possible palin connection with the fire But more in a G, maybe, sort of way, said Rob Tracy, a member of the church, but people are speculating about other motives. It's just as likely to be some troubled person who has a beef with God or some local punks Anyway, it goes on and on. But isn't that uh refreshing that that is the response? I hope to think that that would be kind of the normal Christian response. Well as you as you look in the Bible in the book of Acts, as persecution took place, the church grew. It had a a negative uh impact on the church. Uh you know, when the when uh China was taken over by the communists, they thought that would be the end of the church there in China. But what we've discovered is that the church flourished under communism and under persecution and that the the you know, the Chinese church is huge. now in China. And it just always flourishes under persecution. And so I th I that's the body of Christ right there So the church shouldn't be trying to figure out how to avoid persecution and change our laws to avoid persecution and make us a more Christian-friendly nation. We shouldn't Not worry about that. No, I don't think that's a good thing. No, no, we need to pray. We need to pray in if we have the ear of those that are that are uh at the highest levels of power, I think it's very appropriate for us to seek to influence them in a way that that they make it uh okay for us to preach the gospel so that we could leave live peaceable and quiet lives uh here on the earth. I think there's nothing wrong with that. The point is that when we don't have that opportunity that we uh we not freak out and become insecure, but that we be even more confident that you know that this is precisely what Christ said would happen, so everything would be okay. I also want to say this though, that that I gotta tell you, oftentimes when when the whole political debate goes on, you get that left-right thing going on, I feel like it's the Sadducees and the Pharisees all over again. When you study out the Sadducees and the Pharisees They would sit around and argue back and forth and argue back and forth and the Sadducees were all about righteousness and the temple being holy, which sounds a lot like conservative Christians. And and they were tied to politics, the Sadducees were. And it bothers me because the Sadducees were as likely to crucify Christ is the Pharisees, because the Pharisees, the word for perish, the Pharisees were the ones that that tended to be for the people. and a lot more progressive, you know, you could interpret scripture however you wanted to, you know, people are holy, you know, it's not about the holiness of God, but people can be holy too. And it sounds to me a lot like what we see when we run into uh you know like um Jeremiah Wright and some of these liberation theologians, some of these liberal theologians. And my concern is that any of us in the name of you know uh p politics and and our our view of the scripture end up being Sadducees and Pharisees and that we would miss Christ is a unique balance in that somehow we would miss Christ in the in the middle of all that. I know we've talked about this often on this show, but there's got to be very aw uh uh careful about getting involved. They're often compared to being the liberals of the day and the Sadducees, the conservatives of the day, and uh Jesus, they attempt both sides tried to pin him down and they couldn't. So there's a lesson in that for us. I think for us, I know for me, I can only speak for myself, uh, you know I try to focus on Jesus Christ. And for my congregation, I'm trying to help them and equip them in their relationship with Jesus Christ. I don't really get into politics, I don't really preach on politics or anything like that because Obviously there's a lot of people out there preaching on politics in the media and everywhere. I I want to get them focused on the relationship with the Lord. Well On that note, we're going to wrap up the show. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD with Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Dan Sexton, Senior Pastor of Calvary Chapel, Ellicott City. I'm Froy Skinner, our sponsors putman Fleming and Heating, how can we make you smile? Thanks for listening, Douglas