Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host today. Moderator Troy Skinner. Thanking our wonderful longtime sponsors, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? When you call, make sure you say hello to Patrick and Marlena for me. I don't get to see them nearly often enough anymore. Uh Frederick Faith Debate is an open honest forum for uh religious leaders or those who have a significant uh uh thing to say about religious matters can come on the show and and talk about the their worldview perspectives and Where we agree, we agree passionately, and when we disagree, we disagree sometimes passionately, uh all in the idea of driving towards what we believe to be uh the fundamental idea of what is true in this world uh that we call home. On the panel this week we have Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Michael Dowd, the author of Uh I don't know if it qu if it quite made it onto the bestseller list, but by golly it should have. Uh it it sold uh a lot. Maybe it was close to making if it didn't make it. Thank God for evolution with the subtitle How the Marriage of Science and Religion Will Transform Your Life. and our world. If you're listening last week, uh you got a little bit of a taste of of uh what some of the issues are, but um We j normally what happens on this show when we have somebody on for the very first time on the show is most of the first half hour of the show ends up being kind of a foundation laying where we We kind of get to know each other, we find out where people are coming from, and then we just kind of slide into uh various issues that occur to us as the conversation's unfolding. Uh but because this is such an interesting and uh some would argue lightning rod topic, uh we launched right in last week, which I think is is great. Maybe other people don't think it's great, but whatever. Uh one thing we want to make sure we give uh opportunity uh uh on this week's show is to have uh Michael Dowd maybe answer this question as as uh you can answer other questions too in the in as you're responding to this question, but Thank God for evolution. Why? Yeah, why do I thank God for evolution? Great question. Um I'd say there's three ways, uh three reasons that I thank God for evolution. And I need to say at the start, I didn't always thank God for evolution. In fact I used to actually show up at science gatherings with tracks and used to pass out tracks and would argue that anybody thought the world was more than six thousand years old. So I was very anti-evolution. Sure. Um, but uh I went to Evangel College, it's affiliated with the Assemblies of God in Springfield, Missouri, now called Evangel University, and that's where I ended up embracing evolution. A lot of evangelicals don't know that that most evangelical colleges and universities teach evolution. They just teach it in a God-honored, God-centered way. And so at any rate, so so I ended up embracing evolution at Evangel College, uh uh ended up going to Eastern Baptist Theological Seminary And then uh pastored three churches over the course of a decade. And during that time I I I kept coming into a deeper and deeper appreciation of evolution, not just as science, but as theology. That is, my interpretation of it was that it was possible. I mean one of the things that troubled me was that the vast majority of scientists held to an evolutionary worldview and yet they nobody that I could find was really drawing the theological connections. How could this inspire my faith? How could this deepen my faith? How could this draw me into a closer personal relationship to God and a more Christ-centered path Hm. And so w so it nineteen eighty eight was the first time I was introduced to this evolution theology perspective. And um I've been passionate about ever since. I mean basically it I felt like it was my calling from that point moment on. And so um I Uh ended up pastoring three churches and uh um and then did environmental sustainability and community organizing work uh for five years. But coming back to the question of why do I think God's revolution, I'd say For me, evolution, and what I mean by evolution is the science-based history of the universe. That's what I'm talking about. Understood in a in a sacred, meaningful way. What 97-98% of the scientists of the world agree with, but understood in a theologically rich way, strengthens my faith It helps me to understand my own tradition and the differences of other religious traditions in a different way than I did before when I simply believed my tradition was right and everybody else is wrong. Um and I came to see that wow Um, this gives us a sense of God's will and God's God's grace and God's activity in a modern world in ways that I didn't have when I believed that God c stopped communicating all the really important vital stuff in biblical time. So now I see facts as God's native tongue. I see evidence. I see that in the past God spoke primarily uh through uh intuition and dreams and that sort of thing. God speaks today through evidence. And I realize you may be coming from a different perspective, but this is what I'm holding now, is that God speaks through evidence and that every scientific discovery is a is a revelation of God. It's God revealing truth. And so that I've been able to bring a lot of um uh uh non-religious people into a faith relationship because there's many people, most most of the listeners that they're listening to this program probably have brothers and Christians, I mean brothers and sisters and aunts and uncles and mothers and fathers that don't hold you know, that don't have a personal relationship with gr with Christ. They they aren't a devout, committed Christian. And yet many of them, ma many of their neighbors and friends or whatever, don't re you know, reject the Bible. So it's not like they're going to be led into a faith relationship on biblical grounds And so what I'm trying to do is show how science is revelatory, and that's why I call my program one of my programs, the gospel according to science. And so I'm what I'm showing people is that you've got the gospel according to Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Well, God is also revealing a way of understanding the God's great news today through science. And that's what I found compelling. So that's why why why I'm evangelistic about evolution. And I really appreciate you allowing me to take the time to get into that. Definitely What's your your your your take on what Michael just had to say? Because there's probably different areas in there where I think you're going to agree and there's probably some subtleties or maybe not so subtle, I don't know, that you're going to disagree. So what what things do you agree with Um, you know, it's uh the the um at at the end of the day the the struggle that I have to to understand um or to to line up with I think where uh where Mike's perspective is is is grappling with whether or not uh God has always just shown himself through dreams and visions or whether or not God has always shown himself through you know an evidentiary uh approach, uh a um scientific, you know, that that we could look at uh the world and see God in the midst of it. And um and so uh, you know, coming back to then to the question of evolution, I think it's um it's very interesting to me that you have so um passionately uh and uh aggressively pursued um the the uh potential for science and for the natural world to to cause that sense of awe, that sense of of wonder to uh uh to to be birthed inside of us. Um Uh though I I I get a little bit confused, I think, at some of the language that we use. Like we talked last week, you know, about your definition of God and whether or not God's a personal God or not. And uh and I find myself I find myself caught up and even inspired by the by the language that you use, but then at the end of the day, um I I find myself confused because Because, you know, I I'm realizing that there's a whole bunch of words that that you'll use that are very biblical, very spiritual, you know, very uh Judeo Christian in orientation. And then I find myself saying, Oh well Okay, I was very inspired uh by what Mike was saying and and it and it caught me up with the awe and the wonder of science and and various things and and and uh you know the stats, ninety-eight percent of scientists in agreement, you know, and and um uh the the idea of bringing non-religious people into a faith, you know, the uh in in something bigger. Um and so I find myself you know, having a lot of questions about, you know, like how do you define faith? Um, how do you define what is true? 'Cause at the end of the day, um grappling with uh with thanking God for evolution would have to do with, you know, grappling with what is true and how do we determine what is true, what is not true. Uh and and so in the context of Uh you know, I find myself with with a significant number of questions along those lines. Yeah. Got it. I think that um w we want to try to It w it always I'm stumbling to find the words because I want to I want to try to be precise in this. Um we oftentimes on this show find ourselves spending a lot of time on what might strike the casual observer or listener as mere semantics. Yes. But our the definition of the terms that we use becomes so critical otherwise we're not sure we're even saying the same thing to each other. Um so Let's let's go back to let's let's revisit something we we touched on last week and and let's clarify that maybe. Jonathan, your idea uh well Whoever wants to take it first. I mean I'm looking at Jonathan, so I said Jonathan. Sure. Michael, you can answer this first if you want to. Your your understanding, your definition of God is I'd rather go to faith because I don't think God God anything we try to say about God will be limited. Everything that we try to say about the nature of God and God's totality You know, you know, we can know the imminent and omnipresent God, and we can know what our scriptures tell us about God and our tradition. But um what God is in God's totality is going to be beyond anything we can say, think, or imagine. So there's no way that I can define God and attempt to. So is it fair for me to say that you would uh your position would be that God is unknowable? No, God is both knowable and unknowable would be my would be but coming back to the issue of faith, because I I I i i it In other words, what my book is an attempt to do isn't try to define God. Okay. Faith in faith in what? It's trust in what? It's hold on, let me let me finish. Okay. Okay. Faith, as I'm defining it in my book, Thank God for Evolution, is trust in reality, ultimate reality, the reality that we don't control. that is Lord, the reality that basically gives us our life and takes it away. The reality that allows all good things to come to our lives and ultimately takes all things from us. This reality is beyond belief or disbelief. This is reality is undeniable. And I have faith, for me, I interpret that as I trust ultimacy. I trust reality. For example, uh Philip K. Dick uh has got this uh quote. He he says, reality Capital R. Reality is that which when you stop believing in it, doesn't go away. That's what I'm pointing to when I use the word God is a proper name or sacred name for reality. And that's one of the reasons why I think my book has been endorsed by five Nobel Prize winning scientists and lots of other leading scientists, as well as theologians and ministers and whatever, is that it's trying to build a bridge linguistically So that people of faith, deep faith, devout faith, and people of that have rejected their their their the religion of their upbringing, or perhaps of no faith, or agnostics or atheists, can find enough common ground that some of those people can find their way back into a deep faith, trust, love so that they are inspired to be of service to the world in a Christ-centered way. whether they find the Bible uh literally true or whether they find the Bible figuratively true because there's of course people on all those spectrums. So that's what that's what I'm my book is an attempt to reach. I'm not trying to reach people who believe that um the earth was created in six days. My book's not for them. I I'm not trying to convert young earth creationists to an evolutionary. Well why not? Because that's not what I'm called to do. But you said you want people to have a trust in reality. And if your view of reality is a 14 billion year old universe, wouldn't you want everybody else to come to that same trust in that reality? is going to be irrelevant how many ye billions or millions or or thousands of years in the past things have happened. People are going to either trust reality or they're not. Meaning that when something bad happens, they're either going to judge it or condemn it or or or or or r you know regret it or they're gonna be able to trust that God was at work there. That there's something that they can grow like for example, when somebody cuts me off, I don't get frustrated anymore. In the moment I may feel something, but I immediately ask myself, okay, how's this a gift and a blessing in disguise? What's God trying to teach me in this situation? And I found myself on a more forgiving, more loving, more humble, more compassionate person as a result of trusting God, trusting reality. That's what I mean by faith, a faith relationship. How do you know it's real? How do I know what's real? That's going in a more philosophical direction than my book even attempts to do. So I'm I I'm not gonna I I w w w what's real would be uh for me what is undeniably the case. Okay, but what if I deny that case? I'm not trying to be difficult. It's not a d it's not an it's not a uh it's not an intellectual thing. I'm talking about What is measurably so? What's physically naturally real? Okay. Well, I don't mean to cut you off, but do you f want to say something else? Well, uh it's just uh um No, go ahead. Okay. Is that am I hearing the other thing? I'm saying that God is absolutely revealed in the universe. See what we we use the word universe. Okay. Ten thousand years ago, people look out and about and around them. They say mother. Ten thousand years ago, or if you maybe you don't agree that there was a ten thousand yeah, but anyway, at some point in the distant past, it seems like most of the evidence points to the fact that there were feminine images for ultimacy. This is what most archaeologists would say is that there there were good the goddess, the earth mother were images. And then we see about five thousand years ago with writing and math I mean with writing and the plow, plows take male strength. We start seeing writing develops a a a different level of thinking and we start seeing father, lord, king, warrior, dominant male images for reality, for ultimacy, for God. And then about five hundred years ago we start seeing clock metaphors, because clocks had been recently invented. So we see now the reality is clock like and God is the maker of the clock. And so God becomes trivialized in a mechanistic worldview. If you think nature's like a complex clock God is no longer imminent and omnipresent. God is simply transcendent. God is the clockmaker outside the universe that made a clockwork universe. So all of a sudden we see the trivializing of God. So what my book is an attempt to do is to say that yes, God is more than anything we can know, think, or imagine. God is transcendent, but God is also imminent and omnipresent. So yes, God is revealed in the universe, but God is infinitely more than the universe. I must not be following very well then. It reality is the thing that we're to trust and have faith in, right? And reality uh loosely def defined um was Everything that's everything that's measurable and non-measurable. Okay. So everything that's measurable. Measurable and non-measurable. That is that is real, yes. 'Cause there's so much in the in the universe or uh see this is the thing. There's no such thing as the universe. Okay. The universe isn't a thing. We use this phrase the universe. Did you know that only a few hundred years ago people didn't use the universe? They talk about the heavens and the world. I mean even the universe, these scientists like the most physicists would say that ninety-six percent of the universe is dark matter and dark energy, and we are clueless about what that is. So we use the phrase universe, we think we know what we're talking about. We don't. Interesting. So I'm just trying to say that there is a way of humbly coming at it and saying that God is at work in and through matter, and whatever we mean by God is also going to transcend everything we can know. Or think or imagine for that matter. I do want to give Jonathan a chance to answer the the question I posed about, you know, your understanding of of God. You know, what is who is God? By the way, you're listening to the Friday Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, about the answer, he's senior pastor of Crosses Valley Chapel. And also on the panel this week. The author of Thank God for Evolution, Michael Dowd. Okay, your answer. The classic biblical understanding of God is that God is the creator. who designed mankind to be in love relationship with him. And that uh uh the biblical illustration is that is that as a husband in a wife come together and are married that that in the same way God is the husband, that that that the world is to be the bride and to be wholly devoted to him and to be in a in a very personal and uh sharing, committed, communicating relationship with one another. You said the world meaning right? I didn't understand that. The world meaning humanity. Okay, so humanity is meant to be the bride of God, okay. Uh and that when humanity chooses to not be the bride of Christ that what ends up happening is she ends up prostituting herself to all these other things. In fact what it says in Romans uh one eighteen is it says that uh that When man forgets being grateful to God, that the first step away is that they begin to worship and serve created things instead of the Creator, and that they look to created things to be their uh their source of um of inspiration as it were. And um and so the uh the the question about you know, reality being undeniable. I was I was trying to think that through, you know, how do we know what is real and not real? That's a philosophical question that you're not really dealing with, but you're grappling with what whether or not evolution is is real in uh whether or not the science is real. And again part of my p part of where where I struggle is that every time science tells me something Within uh either fifty years or ten years, we're told, Oh, we had it wrong. You know, like uh it has to do with cholesterol in the body or global warming right now is a classic example. Now we've got over three thousand scientists, credible scientists, that are in direct opposition to to the idea of global warming and arguing that uh that there's no way that somebody can scientifically prove that uh that global warming is is the case. Nevertheless we've got uh uh our government, the UN and uh a President Obama who is inclined to make policy that will affect the livelihood of humanity uh based on scientific conclusions that are now outdated, uh but because the the the institutional world has embraced them, they're slow to to keep up with the cutting edge of science, as it were. And now that now that there are many that are rejecting the science. And I feel like, you know, Copernicus is a classic example, Galileo, where where the science moved ahead of the institution. Uh, you know, uh and again uh pictures come to my mind like uh Germany that was a very scientific nation was of the opinion that science could take them supermen into the future uh and uh the churches lost the glimpse of God in his his scriptures as they're written being believable as they're written and in in doing so they lost the sense that um that they could use the Bible to look Hitler or the government in the eye and say, You can't do that. You can't be that way. I don't care what science tells you. You can't do that. And and so they lost their their moral backbone, their spiritual backbone because s the science had had you know made these claims. Now I'm not opposed to science. I'm You know, I'm a I'm a uh I live with the benefits of science on every side. I I think it's a wonderful thing. I I just I I I wonder I I I find myself grappling and struggling with the idea that that um that science would uh would end up being a tool that that keeps us separated from what scripture says and believing scripture uh in a more literal sense. Yeah. Please, yeah. Yeah. Well I appreciate what you're saying. What what my book is an attempt to do, what my book, Thank God for evolution, is an attempt to do, is to show people how there is a way of understanding what our best science is giving us in a way that deepens our faith. For example, I have a different relationship to the concept of original sin or the fall of Adam and Eve that I did before an evolutionary worldview. And um it has now be i I used to struggle with my sinful nature w before I had an evolutionary perspective. It's not difficult to stay in Christ. That is, for me, uh I interpret staying in Christ in deepest integrity. So that I could I literally I don't have to merely die to experience heaven. I'm also experiencing heaven on this side of death because I'm living with no resentments, no regrets, and no unfinished business. All the people in my life who I love know it. All the people I've harmed or betrayed or in some way negatively impacted I could find or track down, I've gone to them I've apologized, I've made a man's or whatever. But and I do that because it's now to the place of what you were saying before in terms of God and and the bride of Christ, I agree with all of that. I just interpret some of that language in a way that science is giving me a deeper, richer appreciation for, for example, the wisdom of Scripture. So that now When I uh f for me to be w whenever humans are out of integrity, that is out of right relationship with God, out of Christ. They will they will, as you say, prostitute themselves, but they will they will find other idols, they will find other other uh things to be addicted to, to be fascinated with by, that are not pursuing the kingdom of God, that are not pursuing what is ultimately going to be healthy for for the whole, for the community as a whole. And so what m what I'm trying to do in my book and what I'm trying to do in my preaching, and Connie and I, that's all we've done for seven years, that's all we've done is travel North America. teaching and preaching. We've spoken to over a thousand different groups, very liberal groups to very conservative groups. And what we're trying to do is show people how what our best science gives us can be understood in a strength faith uh faith enhancing strengthening way. And it's not for everybody, but it is for those people, I think, who at least for uh those who would l who are interested in in knowing how evolution can be understood in a God-glorifying, Christ-edifying, scripture-honoring way. There's a lot of us, there's millions in the middle that are trying to do this sort of integrating. That's what my what I'm attempting to do in my book. I'm really hesitant to ask another question because I don't think we'll have time for either one of you to answer it. Yeah. So go ahead. Yeah. The Bible says faith is the evidence of things hoped for, the essence of things uh not seen. And you were saying that that Faith is trust in reality that we don't control that is Lord over us. But I would agree with your in other words, your definition of mind is we we're we're coming at it, there's a whole Three chapters in my book deal with day and night language. We were talking about day and night language differences. And those I would agree with the biblical definition that you gave out of Hebrews. I'm just all I'm saying that when we w anybody who thinks that they have faith that doesn't trust life but doesn't trust time, doesn't have the fullness of faith that they could have. Yeah, the um again the uh the the definitions of terms and the interpretation that you put on the terms uh leaves me uh feeling like like we're talking but we're saying things that are that are very different uh without really being in the same place. And so um You know, like like when you say that you completely agree with my definition, I think I'm right to that. Yeah, with that biblical definition. I think I'm right in in saying that that like you define the kingdom of God very differently from how I do. You define uh being in Christ very differently from how I define it. You define God differently from how I define it. And you would define reality somewhat differently than I think I would define it. And so so I could actually agree with your statement, and I think you agree with mine, but in agreeing with one another I think we still find ourselves in places that are like very, very different places, almost as if we hadn't even really communicated. We used the same words, but But un until we go and define all those words, uh we're really not quite communicating. Yeah. Would you agree with that? I would. And language like the kingdom of God. um is language that's inherently metaphorical. So we're never going to have e ev even two people who think they have the identical understanding are usually not because the kingdom of God, Jesus himself used about three dozen different parables and different analogies to try to say the kingdom's like this, the kingdom's like this The kingdom's like this. The kingdom is beyond any of our ability to nail it down in mathematical language. So of course we're going to have different metaphors for understanding what that means translated into today's language. So maybe we could even come back and talk some about that, you know, uh next week. If that uh might be a possible opportunity. All right. Uh this has been the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMG. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Michael Dowd. Author of Thank God for Evolution and what's the website again? Thank Godfore. com and people can download the first fifty pages if they want for free. Just a teaser because you're gonna want to know what's on page fifty one. Clever market employee. I'm gonna tell him. I'm gonna read next time it's on page fifty one. We're gonna do that with this show. We're gonna put the first like fifty seconds of the show on the air and then Anyway, thanks to our sponsor, Futman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thank you for listening. God bless.