Welcome to the Frederick Baith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. He's on the panel this week. And Pastor Luke Robinson is minister at Quinn Chapel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Frederick. He's on the panel this week as well. I ended last week's show apparently saying American Methodist Episcopal. I certainly meant to say African, so my apologies. Uh didn't mean to conclude. My brain said one thing, my mouth said another. Yes. Uh which is All too common. Thank goodness, because usually my brain says something completely wrong. My mouth makes up for it with accidentally saying the right thing. I know, no, I've talked to your wife about that. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway. Uh huh. Thanks for listening to Frederick Faith Debate. I'm encouraged you to listen to us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. And if you go to the audio vault section there, we were thinking about this. You could probably listen to, I don't know, somewhere around seventy or eighty hours worth uh faith debate shows over at the end of the year. We were thinking if you're stuck homesick, you know, and you got nothing to do, listening to Frederick Faith Debate might just be the motivation to get off your Tush and get back to work. I can't think anymore. I got I gotta get better fast. So and the teaser if if you're listening last week, and I know that you have been listening for the last one hundred sixty seven and a half hours, waiting for this moment. Yes. But I ended the show with a teaser for this week's show, uh that we're gonna talk about the sanctity of life, right of life issues. And it's kind of ironic because last week you were talking an awful lot about confusing religion and politics and should the church be diving into all that sort of stuff. So I do want to say as a as uh as a point of uh a kind of a reference point for us in this show, we're gonna have to, I think, to make the point about how dramatic an issue this really is that faces us. We're gonna have to make some cultural uh comments and some political observations and those sorts of things. But at the end I would like us all the three of us here to to make a commitment within ourselves that We're going to end the show in a direction that's talking about what does God inform us about the issue and what should leaders such as yourselves be teaching your congregations and what should those who call themselves Christian believe about this issue and why. Okay, but first let's talk about some of the statistics. And it's It's wonderful that we uh have an African American pastor on the panel to talk about this particular issue this week because uh I was sharing uh before the show. uh that I ha was having dinner with a pastor in town not uh just a number of weeks ago uh about this very question. And that pastor is a is is an Anglo Saxon pastor. He's not an African American pastor. We were talking about this issue. And I said, You know, I can't quite understand uh, you know, the liberal mindset in general, but then so many of the black churches that are not liberal you know, that are conservative on so many other areas, they will support, work for the election of uh somebody that is quote unquote pro-choice When particularly for the African American community, to me it's just a mind-boggling situation. More than half of the abortion clinics in the country I think it's what is it, like seventy percent or something like that. The abortion clinics in the country are in the neighborhoods where minorities live. But so a majority of the clinics are where the minority of the of the of the uh people are. And then uh you are sharing Uh Pastor Robinson, the the uh the percentages of of abortions and why why don't you give some of the numbers? Yeah. Well, they they um about four weeks ago we were in at the March for Wash the March for Life in Washington D C and I've been tending this march for several years and um Um, God laid on my heart that that it uh that abortion isn't it's fully it's not a black issue, uh it's not a Hispanic issue, not a white issue, it's it's an American issue It's a world issue now. Um every day in America four thousand babies die uh by abortion. Every day And um and that's about as procedure called abortion. To the sum of uh last year there were about uh uh one point two million uh people killed last year by abortion And um and so we have a lot of children dying by abortion. Uh I just did the math. I think that's about two and a half per minute of dying. Wow, I don't know about the math but i uh that's a lot that's about one it's one point two million a year, which is a lot of people. It's about uh in in and um in in the African American community it is uh It's as an uh uh astounding number b uh uh because of the fact that we only make up about twelve percent of the population and thirty-four percent of all the abortions I in the African American community. So that's a lot of depth. Yeah, and I want to slow it down so people can really digest that number because I think that's an important number. Twelve percent of the American population is African American. Yeah. Three times that percentage of the abortions. One third of all abortions are African American babies. Yes. When only uh yeah twelve percent of the popul that's staggering. It is yeah, we always hear statistics about how many African Americans are in prison and how that shows that there's an inequity in our prison system But nobody ever gives us the statistics about how there's an inequity and how many African American babies are being killed uh compared to the percentage of the population. We never hear those statistics. We always hear the other ones, but we never hear those. The and if that's the case we're killing off the next you know, such a significant part of the next generation issue is a major issue because it has many um uh implications that are negative. First of all, uh abortion hurt women and um the the a woman that has an abortion uh has an increased rate of of of breast cancer. There are many studies that show that. Um sometimes because the uh pro choice movement is always trying to undermine those studies that's science wrong yeah yeah and then not only do they ha uh uh have more uh many of the uh clinics or uh places that women would have these abortions are not regulated. Uh in fact I spoke in in Annapolis to uh a committee that was trying to do something to regulate more the abortion centers and there is more protection uh for uh pets and dogs uh going to a clinic than for a woman having an abortion. If a woman has been um been ha involved in statutory rape, it is unlikely that the abortion clinics will mi will care about that whatsoever. They just pass it on through, they won't they won't report it to anybody. They just let it happen and they they encourage it to stay as um uh anonymous as possible instead of bringing to justice, you know, all these people out there that are involved with the statutory rape. Yeah. And sometimes the the questions asked, you know, wh how come uh there is so much uh the the then the why such a large number of abortions uh in the African American community. Uh organizations such as Planned Parent and other organizations. Planned Parenthood got three received about three hundred and thirty million dollars of taxpayers' money uh for the the slaughter of children. And Nancy Pelosi was trying to get more out of did you hear what she said the other day? That that if we give money to Planned Parenthood it will help to boost the economy Yeah. Basically she was arguing that fewer kids meant that the economy would be better off in the future. That that arrogance And insensitivity and inhumanity of that statement is mind boggling. I can't believe that's the problem. When you go back to that three hundred and thirty million dollars of taxpayers' money, much of those Planned Parenthood uh and other type of abortion facilities are in the African American communities. Um I was in Atlanta and um they have about ten um uh abortion facilities in that in in in the Atlanta area and uh eight of them are in the African American communities. They uh the African American communities are are uh um encouraged to um uh use abortion as another form of um uh birth control and um um but every day in this country you're talking about four thousand babies African American, white Hispanics, others m uh groups in this country, ethnic groups, is four thousand a day. Um one third of of um of a b over the last couple of years there's been almost about f uh one point four or five million babies dying a day. Um recently there's been a d a decline somewhat. And of that of that fifteen hundred that were b that's about five hundred thousand of them were African Americans per year. The population of Washington, DC, the nation capital is about and two thousand census was about I think it was five thousand uh some people. Five hundred thousand. Five hundred, yes. Five hundred thousand, I'm sorry. And five hundred thousand people. And uh if all the the babies that had been aborted in in in in America that were just black by themselves, they it would have wiped out all of D C. It would have w the population of Baltimore is seven hundred and twenty thousand the two thousand census There would be only a hundred and uh two hundred and some I'll see five hundred it would only be about um two hundred and some thousand people left in Baltimore and it's wipe out like that Uh the abortion has an effect on on on women. Uh women are suffering from a thing called PAUS, post-abortive syndrome. It's where a woman after she's had an abortion and she has been encouraged, black, white, does it doesn't matter, that uh you know, having abortion is no problem at all, you just have it, it's uh it's a non-hurtful procedure But um because of the way God made us, uh uh abortion uh when a woman has an ab abortion, her body still tells her there's a baby. You had a baby, where is this baby? So sometimes what we do Um to help those women. Um we we have ceremonies where we name those babies and we go back and have a funeral service for those babies that are being aborted. Because many times women who have had a child that aborted, they know they don't have the child, but there is no ceremony. There is no releasing of this child. And many of them are having what they call pause, as I said before If you think about it, if you do the math, uh about every five months we abort Washington, D. C. Oh my God. Every five months we abort it. And then every five months we abort it again, over and over and over again in this country we ab we abort Washington DC every five months It it'd be like filling Washington DC up, repopulating it and detonating a nuclear bomb, and then filling it back up, populating it five months later, detonating a nuclear bomb. And it doesn't seem to phase us. And then if I'm if I have my facts right, and I uh I apologize if I've got this a little bit off, but I believe back in the eighties, Ronald Reagan, uh when he was president, uh placed a ban on uh funding abortions uh arose. Yeah, Mexican city policy is called and and um And then President Clinton reversed that ban and then President Bush W. Bush He he put it back in place President Obama has um has in reinstituted it. Which means that um Uh right now the government uh with its bad economic situation will be paying for Mex uh people in Mexico to with taxpayers' money, not only uh are we paying three hundred and thirty million uh dollars for uh an organization such as Planned Parent, which most people in the African American community and most other people too think is an organization that help uh families and encourage them with their children. But their plan for children is that you have no family. And so not only will our government be be supporting three hundred and thirty million plus dollars for that kind of thing. They are now um under the new uh policies that will be upsta uh established under the uh uh um enacted again by this president, they will be in fact um supporting and paying for abortions in Mexico, they will be paying for abortions around the world. And many times these abortions are for people who are minorities and poor people and who people discern that they uh they will have no value. The founder of Plant Pernate, by the way, is a woman named uh Margaret Sanger and she, my God, she was uh her policy uh uh was that um uh you you those who uh were unfit for society should be uh done away with I think actually the way she put it was those that are unfit are having the most babies and those that she deemed fit were having the least amount of babies. She said that's not right So all these poor people that are uneducated are having all these babies and she's like, Man, they're gonna overrun the world. You know, and at the time evolution, you know, and Darwinism was was very much in vogue And so there's this this fear, oh no, we're gonna evolve into being poor and uneducated, you know, and so we have to find a way to start controlling the population. She was very uh very much involved with Hitler and so a lot of the people in Hitler's regime uh it w that had this emphasis that somehow uh somehow it was appropriate to get rid of the undesirables in society. And she founded Planned Parenthood and I can't understand why Planned Parenthood doesn't uh de uh you know, d uh the the denouncer. They they still have that same spirit because nothing has changed. And and and when we think about uh all of this stuff it's like uh over the last since since Roe vs Raid of nineteen seventy three to two thousand and three the number one killer of African Americans has not been heart attack strokes this or that When you add all of those leukemia, has it been diabetes? No, when you add all of those major killers of African Americans up, uh well when you add those killers up, it's about four point eight million in that thirty-year period At the same time, there were thirteen million African American babies killed by uh uh abortion And the current number I think is seventeen million. Yeah, seventeen million and the current million of overall people that have been wiped out in this country is about s it's fifty million people. And what has happened is In in two thousand and five it came to my attention that Mr uh Mr. Bush was uh giving his two thousand five uh State of the Union address. And and at that time he was trying to at uh uh uh um address the issue of the failure of social security. And it dawned on me why social security was and and he's right, it's it was failing and and they use it as a political point. But it was failing because what Mr Bush said and it is true. that at at one point in time for every one person retiring there was twenty-three to twenty si twenty-three to twenty-four persons working um to um uh pay into social security for that person's retirement was a lot left over. But currently it's about two or three people. Now, what does that mean? It means that when this baby Bloomer uh generation, which is from I think it's about nineteen forty-one to about nineteen sixty-four. That group of people are retiring in in mass numbers. But there is a gap that has been wiped out of all these people that have been avoided And for that reason, man, it's it's it's it's gonna be social security gonna is gonna take it's gonna fall. So if you think about it, all of those people that advocated aborting the babies have created an economic environment where when they hit retirement they will not have enough of their own children to support them. That's right. Because the pyramid scheme will collapse at that point. The pyramid scheme will collapse at that point. And it's it's whereas if they would have kept having children, it probably would've would have kept on being okay. But because they chose to not have children, now they want the few of us that were not aborted to carry the weight of all of the all of these older people. They they ran into the same exact thing in Germany. They ran into the same exact thing in several uh European nations and it has totally bankrupted Uh their social their their uh welfare program. Russia is having a major problem right now because their birth rate in order for people to continue The birth rate has to be uh two point five per two point uh something like that. Uh two point uh two two point Two one. Something like that. And uh babies per couple in order to replace the same amount of people. And so they actually uh didn't Putin come up with a day where where he wanted everybody to go home and uh make love and have a baby. He was trying to conceive a baby. It was baby conception day and he was gonna try to get as many people in the entire nation to conceive a baby as possible. God's law. God says to those children, I knew you before you were formed. God's plan is that He's the God of life. He tells us to choose life and not death. Now in Russia, what has happened uh they can't even pay the women to have children now because they are dying. The Russian people are dying and because they are their birth rate does not uh um give them the uh ability to the to reproduce to the point of continuance. Now the same thing is in is the problem in the African American community With that rate being two point two one, I believe it is. Um the African American birth rate is one point nine Which means it's under. It is a dying it is dying. The people in the African American community is dying. uh continue as a as a race. And apparently there's a whole slew of atheist philosophers out there that are of the opinion that that's the better way to go because we have In their opinion, glob global overpopulation, the better thing to do is for every nation of the world to stop producing so many babies so that, you know, we'd have more resources. And the point is is that that is a that is the humanist approach to solving the problem of not having enough food, not having enough energy, not having enough it's just uh J let's let let's stop people from having babies and if we can stop people from having babies then the people of the future will have more resources to use and that sort of thing. And unfortunately it doesn't work. Every nation that has that that has had less babies has ended up being poorer. Uh their their uh so then their health care gets worse, so then everything falls apart, you know, from the top down. Let me jump in here. It's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, also on the panel, Pastor Luke Robinson, Minister at Quinn Chapel AME Church in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Frederick Faith. debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. In the time that we have left on the show, uh I want to transition a little. We've talked about you know the big political issue, the cultural issues, the sociological issues, all that sort of stuff. Now let's just If if you're not a professing Christian, you're still allowed to listen at this point. But this is for those professing Christians. Hmm. Got two pa two pastors. And of course we welcome p uh somebody to come on the show and argue against what we're about to share. You know, if if you're interested, if you're a pastor and you are pro abortion, We'd invite you to come on the show and to present your side of the argument, but you're gonna get a conservative Christian view. But you've got, you know, peop you've got Christians, professing Christians who have had abortions perhaps or don't see a real problem with or that maybe see a problem but they see it as a lesser of two evils because you know poverty is a real issue and single parenthood is is is is a difficulty and so maybe there's all these reasons why it's okay perhaps to have an abortion. What does God tell his people In in the Old, New, Both Testaments, where where would you point somebody and say, before you go and have that abortion, consider this? Where do you point somebody who maybe honestly comes to you and says, I'm thinking about having an abortion? You're gonna say, no, don't have one. Well why? Because God says it's wrong. Well, where does he say that What what kind of advice, what kind of information do you give that person? Well, um in Jeremiah chapter one and in the fourth, fifth, and sixth verses God talks about knowing uh um Jeremiah before he was even inside his mother's womb. God talks about ordaining him and and calling him to um uh uh uh ministry Same thing about Jacob and Esau. Yeah. We're told that. And then Psalm 139 says uh that you knew all my days before one of them came to be to get me together in my mother's womb I'm fearfully and wonderfully made. And I think God is saying to us in in essence is that, uh, I have a plan for your life. And what I'm finding out is a lot of people have experienced abortions and it is obvious b with fifty million babies dead in this country. Um many of them going through. I would say to those people who are listening and if you've been a part of an abortion Abortion is not the unforgivable sin. God loves you. And that's why Jesus came into the world. He came to die that you could get over this stuff. And and and and and and and and the way to go about doing this is to confess to God that you need you need him. You've made a bad uh uh the wrong decision. Because God says, I lay before you life and death, and he begs us to choose life And um and God is saying that uh even when Cain had killed his brother Abel, God says the blood of Cain cries to me from the ground. And if the blood of one man Abel cried to God and God was moved to do judgment. I think w in America where we have killed over fifty million children and there are women who are going around and church Churches fail to even speak to the issue to encourage them that they can come out of this because it's a it's an issue you can't really talk about. So from that perspective, I think that God loves you And he wants you to be forgiven of your sins. He he he will bring you back to wholeness if you come to him. Amen. I don't know that I could say that any better. I I have anything to add? Yeah, yeah. The the only thing that I would add is that it seems that most often the reason for an abortion is a reason that that is uh it brings into account uh your circumstances, your financial circumstances, your your relational, your are you single? Uh these kinds of issues and all of which are extremely difficult to work through, but none of which are too big for God to overcome. And if if we are willing to ask God for His help in in difficult situations as a young lady uh in our congregation that got pregnant outside of marriage and uh and you know what we all surrounded her she repented. It was obvious that she wanted to do right uh by the Lord and I realized as I was looking her at her that I was looking at a woman who was pregnant outside of marriage that God considered righteous Because she was forgiven, even though she was carrying around something that, you know, some people might view as uh as not being so righteous. And the point is is that is that when God forgives Man, it is complete and total and and he heals and he loves and he doesn't just do that but he helps us out in the midst of tough situations. Financially, uh food, uh, you know, whatever the situation is. Uh y you know, so d don't let your decision just be made on this pragmatic perspective. You know, consider uh the resources that God will make available. Well the Bible says that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believed in him should not perish but have everlasting life God included you, he included me. Everyone has not sinned with the sin of abortion. There are other sins. The same God forgives them of their sins, will forgive you of yours. He's looking for you to come to him. He's looking for you And um you just call out to him. And there has never been a sinner that ever came to Christ, according to these scriptures, that he didn't forgive them. In fact, let's personalize it. Troy Pastor Robinson and myself, we are sinners, and we need the forgiveness of God. And our sin is just as worthy of condemnation as any sin uh of abortion or anything else and it's only by the grace of God that we stand. But he has given his grace to us and uh and it's only 'cause we're willing to ask for it and the same thing is available. I wonder if we had a few moments, a quick moment we could have a prayer. Uh well you know what? Uh I hate to do this because who wants to say no to a prayer but uh in all seriousness we are running out of time. I do feel like uh at this point in the I sh I should direct people to where the elders are standing on the sides if you have any questions. Yeah. Right. We kind of did an altar call here at the end of the show. And go see Karenet or go see your pastor. Uh they they'll help you out with these kinds of things. There's places where you can reach out. Uh there are those that try to make biblical arguments. uh that would support a woman's right to choose to have an abortion. Uh those arguments might be interesting to those with the untrained ear. If you fall prey to that and you're like, okay that sounds pretty interesting. Seek out somebody like Yeah, uh Pastor Schweitzer or Pastor Robinson or whatever and say, Okay, here's what they said, because that's not the truth of what the scripture teaches and if Because of lack of time, you're gonna have to take me at my word on that one. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor Crossworth Valley Chapel, thank you. And uh Pastor Luke Robinson, uh Minister at Quinn Chapel AME Church in Frederick, thank you. And thank you to our sponsor, Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. It brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating, Help We Make You Smile. Thank you for listening, Dogla