Welcome to the Frederick Space Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman. Swimming and heating, how could we make you smile? On the panel this week we have Jonathan Sweitzer, he's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Bupash Meta, he is secretary of the Jane Society of Greater Washington, DC, based in Silver Spring. And If you're not sure what the Jane Society is all about, well you gotta go to the website WFMD. com, keyword faith, or go to the audio belt section and listen to the podcast of the previous three weeks worth of shows where we outlined all of that. For today's purposes, uh the most important thing for you probably to know is hold on a second What did I do wrong? James Society of Metropolitan Washington? Have I been saying it wrong this whole time? I've been saying it wrong for weeks and he finally decides to let me know. We'll go back into post editing and clean it all up, don't worry about that. Troy, I've been trying to keep up with what you say and try to correct you for so long. Some things just are not Possible, you know. But one day we'll be perfect in in but for now. Anyway, for the purposes of today's show, there are lots of distinctives, lots of differences between Christianity and Jainism. And we're not going to go through all those different things, but Uh suffice it to say for now that one of these significant differences has to do with um One of the things that's most important to to James is uh being nonviolent. And they hold that uh nonviolence uh they shouldn't be physically violent, they shouldn't be verbally violent, and they shouldn't be mentally violent, they shouldn't have uh uh b bad mental thoughts about things, which Christians would agree with those things. The difference is in really defining what equates with violence and what doesn't. Um Jane, if they were to step on an ant and kill it, that would be a violent thing, would bring bad karma. Uh a Christian would be like, Oh, I killed an ant, well that's kinda too bad, but oh well, go on with my life you know And primarily it's because the a Christian believes that uh there is a specialness to humanity that doesn't apply to the rest of what a Christian would call creation While a Jane believes that uh human beings and animals and plant life and uh And perhaps other things. I'm not sure if you believe that all matter has a soul. We didn't really get into that or not. No, not all matter, just all living matter. All uh living matter in the universe, which to our knowledge is confined to the planet Earth, um uh is kind of morally equivalent. So it's just as wrong to go kill a cow as it is to go kill your next door neighbor. The only difference between the soul of an ant and uh me or you is basically the karmas. It has the same potential as you do. So we have no right to hurt uh any soul in this universe that's what we believe in. Now this goes to some pretty big extremes from a Western cultural context. Uh Jains don't eat carrots, right? Because that's the root, that's the the life source for the for the plant. We won't eat the roots of of plants, for example. eat uh things that are under the ground, uh like potatoes, carrots, onions and stuff like that. Um first thing is uh So would you would you include in that anything that's fermented? Right. Even fermentation has things living inside of it because you would stay away from eating something like that. Even fermentation is is uh um yogurt Pickles, all those kinds of things. Yeah, there are certain things like even um like uh uh peanuts, uh they are okay because they are um uh they are like what do you call um we have uh distinctions between vanaspathikaya. Vanespatika is the body of uh vegetable. There are two types of vanaspatika vegetables. Uh one is Sadharan vanaspati and the second one is uh pratiyak vanaspati. When I say pratiak, it means that one vegetable has one soul. When I say sadhharan vanaspati each body has infinite number of souls and potato actually falls into that category. Let me ask you a question about that. So so potato potato has a bunch of souls in a Uh uh give me an example of a vegetable that doesn't have any s that only has one soul. Like if you take banana, apple see even even when you eat leaves, you're not basically killing the whole tree. It is written in our sculptures that if you take a needle and put potato on the tip of the needle, it has got infinite living organisms on that. Now why why is it that you believe that, you know, uh these vegetables have souls, for example? Because the this was um Lord Mahavira in his See he's an enlightened enlightened soul. He he can see uh each every living being. In fact how can we know that's what bothers me about the Tip Ton Cross right? How could we know that he's right? Well, um let's take example of water. You believe water has organisms, right? True. In our s um agams, Lahatma said this 2500 years, 2600 years ago, that there is life in water. We believe it now. Yeah, yeah. But it was said long before. The same thing, there are research done on plant life that whether they have feelings or not, I was watching this Discovery Channel where they were trying to uh put um transistors and and try to see if if the if life reacts on uh on thoughts And there's a lot of research going on and and it's very popular right now to be of the opinion that uh that the earth has a soul and has feelings, you know, that Mother Earth Gaia, you know, or that trees have souls, you know, and this kind of thing. That's a very popular thing. Actually I'll tell you which maybe, you know, will be fascinating you guys that There are six kayas. Uh the body, Pratvikay. Gaya is the mother earth. So this is the first thing. Pratvika is basically the mother earth or earth Upkai is the body of water, Vayukai is the body of uh air, teukai is uh uh So these are the souls of the earth. Different sex diff souls in different forms. So one has fire. Traskai, thraskai and vanaspatikai we talk thraskai is basically human beings and vanaspatikai is the vegetables. So it's been really Th that's totally untrue. Right. Sure. It's uh so basically w when you take out anything which is under the ground, first thing, let's let's start scientifically. When something is under the ground, there is a lot of moisture Yeah. Th there's lack of sunlight. Yeah. The living things are more inside the ground. They they tend when you ever When when you remove the potatoes out, you tend to kill. And when you r take something out of the root, you're basically killing the whole plant instead of taking the leaves. Is it ever appropriate or right or acceptable to kill anything ever? No. Nothing. You are not supposed to kill anyone hurt. I told you, for us nonviolence is even hurting if I cannot even be harsh on you. That's why let's let's let's let's take that out a little bit. Uh wheat Right. Uh that you eat you eat the same thing that you sow into the ground to produce new life. Right. So then is that All right. Uh let me let me talk about Yes the wheat seed has a soul. It does. And so but it's okay to eat it? Right. And I'll explain you why. Um let's start with potatoes and then we'll get onto the beets. Um, there are uh specific foods. Like we our body is basically whatever you eat, your body, your your thinking is basically on what you eat, basically it gives you chemicals and stuff like that. Which is scientific. You want what you eat. And you think what you eat. And and there are sayings in um in uh uh in basically Indian thing is basically Um, my thoughts though might be that from a Christian point of view, uh I'm not gonna disagree with uh by the way, if you're a first-time listener to the show, uh I come from a you know a Protestant Christian uh uh point of view on this, so I share an awful lot in common with Jonathan. Uh so from uh from that point of view, uh I'm not gonna disagree with the biology of that that you know, we need to eat a healthy diet and if we eat good things that we will have good healthy bodies, that sort of thing. But that's different than the uh the morality question or the soul question. Which uh but your Blending those two somehow, I guess, or but he's saying that there's a soul in the wheat, there's a soul in the carrot, there's a soul in everything that's alive, and so therefore uh we need to treat those things with the same respect of respect as you treat yourself. Let's let's get back to The potatoes thing. Okay. Uh potatoes basically are under the ground and because of the moisture there's a lot of and when you kill basically you kill the root. So that's one thing. The second thing is um in each um body, like as we talked about Pratyak Vanaswatikai and Sadharan Vanaspatikai, in each uh even the tip uh like I said if you keep a potato on a needle top and then if you look there are infinite organisms. Um the third thing is there are three types of food that has been mentioned in Jainism, uh satvik, uh Ratsik and Tamsik. Satvik is a simple food, uh like wheat, uh and uh you know, rice rice and uh lettuce and things like that. And we have Ratsi food which is uh cheese, cream, sugar, more you know, tastier food. And then we have uh tamsi food which is uh meat and uh um the roots And the difference is when you eat uh the satvik food your thoughts, your life, your your view towards uh the universe is simple. You're not that ma attached When you eat Rajsi food which is more tasty, more buttery, more cheesy, uh those kind of foods create passion, like you g you get Moniakaram. Of course the red meat guy it really produces. That's violent. Meat is basically giving you violent thoughts. Why violent stars. So basically that's meat because see when you kill an animal, animal has more organism in itself. Now I gotta ask with these sorts of subjects, it's it's a kind of the classic ph uh philosophical question to ask is the the livability question. You know, how can you live with the worldview? For example, a spider is a reincarnated creature in in in the view of of of a Jane, correct? Right. And spiders trap other insects and then eat them every day. Right. How would they ever escape the reincarnation cycle of being a spider? Or if we didn't have a other animals killing other animals in the wild, we'd have unbelievable overpopulation in the animal kingdoms and they would all end up dying from starvation because the ecosystem couldn't sustain itself. Or you you mentioned on driving over to do the show today how he had to make a decision like do I drive up two seventy because I'm sure to hit at least one bug on the highway. Probably hit at least a couple hundred. Yeah, and have it go splat kind of thing. I mean how how could we possibly how could society as a whole, how could you as an individual, and how could all of nature continue to exist if if the the beliefs of Jainism were perfectly applied. Right. Okay, first thing first. Um let's let's talk about uh like uh talking about how do you live a life uh without doing any harm to anyone. Uh Mahavira, who's our twenty four third Tankara, Lord Mahavira and his disciple Gautam Swami Uh they had a conversation and Gautam Swami asked Mahavira that, uh you know, the moment I say I walk, uh I kill. Uh so how do I live without killing? And the answer to that is um living is killing. When you live, when you breathe, you kill. But least killing is the best living. When you kill least when you try to minimize so then would you argue along those same lines that that therefore the best thing to do would be to achieve enlightenment and not live anymore? Well Right? Because then you're not feeling anything. I mean I mean to to be enlightened and and to to to sit, you know, to to sit in the lotus position you know, and to stay and and to to let yourself be released moksha into moksha, you know, and in I mean that would be the highest. That would be the highest. Basically they're saying uh whatever you do Do it with your consciousness. Be alert. When you brush your teeth, don't leave the water on because that's killing. When you cook, don't leave something on and let it cook. Do whatever is minimized. difficult for me because if I'm going to live then I'm gonna kill something. Minimize. Things are gonna die. Minimize killing. And and so I live with a guilt over my head that I'm killing, killing, killing, killing, killing. Right? Hundreds of thousands of things. That should be motivation that I'm killing. What am I doing for a living? What am I doing for for my soul to move forward. That's a motivation. But I'm not gonna be released from that guilt for at least a couple hundred reincarnations. That's not true. That's not you had said earlier no that's right. You had said earlier that if I ask forgiveness then I'll be released from a certain amount of that karma right away. Exactly. Okay. Exactly. Even though I'm not going to be released from the rest of the guilt or the rest of the karma for at least a couple hundred reincarnations yet. You don't know. At best. I mean at best. At worst it's going to be a couple of million reincarnations yet. Well that now millions, right? Uh I mean that's a lot of time. It's a lot of time, but it's a lot of time for being because our well if you're a fruit fly. I mean every day. I mean they only live twenty-four hours. But for example, I'm of the opinion that God is going to judge the earth. uh because of sin that has come upon the earth. And that God uses the sword, he put the sword uh the first place in the entire Bible that we see the sword shows up is when Adam and Eve are kicked out of the garden God puts an angel there with a sword protecting the way to the tree of life. And so everywhere that you find the sword in Scripture everywhere, it's because God is protecting life. Whether He's protecting the life of His holy people Israel, whether He's protecting the life of of believers, you know, that that there's certain cancerous things. Like the cancer, if a cancer grows in my body, it's killing me And so the sword is there to to like like a surgeon's scalpel to cut out what's killing the rest of the body so that the body can live. So you and I are in agreement that life is a beautiful thing. In fact you and I are even in agreement that the lion should lay down with the lamb. You know, that's a very biblical concept that the lion's gonna lay down with the lamb. However, the path to get there is that everything according to the Bible, everything that that is uh a source of killing is gonna have to be killed and that Jesus Christ himself is gonna come and he is going to, you know, according to scriptures, he's gonna uh lay waste to two thirds of the population of the planet. My first question is a righteous thing to do that. Why did God create all these things? What was the purpose of Him creating you? Because every single one of those people has the option to choose to love God and to not be self-centered. So he created people so that they love him. Yes. Just like you love your wife. And so the thing is, is there something wrong with you loving your wife? So basically it's a love relationship. But how can he play with us? Like how can he play with us? It's very real. He's very serious. But but the when you get hurt Yeah. When you lose your close one, you get you feel sad. Why is he doing that? Why did he create you to give that pain Why didn't he not kill with himself and give him bliss always? It's amazing to me how far apart. Janes are of the opinion that passion and love, things that attach us to one another, are evil. Right. And I'm of the opinion that those are the highest of righteousness and goodness, that that we would love one another, that I would love you so much that if you died I would hurt in my very soul so deeply that I would I would yearn for you to not have died and that I want to be with you, that I would yearn for the time, that I would be able to be reconciled with you in heaven. and be reconciled with my Father, uh that my heavenly father in heaven. And and Jainism is of the opinion that we should not be attached to anything. Right. and that we need to be released. In fact, your your teachers, your your Tirtankaras are are totally uninterested in helping you in any way whatsoever except to give you a teaching to teach you how to be more self-centered. Be more focused on yourself. And that models very deeply. No, we realize that we have the same potential as he is. But he's not handing on a finger to help you. Why do you need hell when you have do you have everything? Why do you need more I have millions of reincarnations worth of karma On my shoulders. Right. So help me already. Your Jesus came to help me. Your soul has all the power in itself You just need to realize what you are. Once you know that this karma will shift by itself. I'll tell you one more thing Um Rajasranik, yeah he is in hell. Yeah. He and he will be he's a king. Rajasranik is a king and uh he did some good deeds. Yeah. He will be the next Tirthankaras. At this point Rajar Hanik will? Raja Shranik. Shranik. He is the first Tirthankara in the next life cycle. Oh wow. So you already know this. We already know that. Absolutely. And he's Coming from hell? He is in the hell as a That's not encouraging from a Christian's point of view. All right. No, I'll I'll tell you I'll that that's why I mentioned it. By the way, this is the Frederick Faith event at Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD. You're listening to uh Ontroy Skinner. You're listening to uh the Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel Uh Jonathan Schweitzer and let's see if I can get this right this time. Secretary of the Jane Society of Greater Washington. Metropolitan. Metropolitan Washington. That's what I've been doing wrong the whole time. Based in Silver Spring, uh Bupesh Meta. Okay, so you were saying Right. Um even remember I'm sorry. Uh somehow coming from hell, the next trip. Right, the next thing so basically even in hell He has been experiencing such bad pain. Yeah. But once you realize, once you get your self-realization that you are the soul, And y it's the body, the pain is just because of the fact that you did something wrong and it's the karmas and you be neutral to it the soul that is in hell will become the first Tidankaras in the next era which is amazing. So wait a minute though, so you're saying that because of this pain he's coming to this realization. No, not because of the pain. He did something in the past Lord Mahware will not come to rescue him. If you have done something wrong, if you have killed, you have to bear the fruits of it. That's bothers me that nobody will be the next Tirthankara Because he realized that I'm the state right, but nobody's helping me. I I'm not gonna be the next Tirtankara. I mean, even if he's the next Tirt Thankra, uh he's it's still not gonna be for a couple thousand years yet. Right. Right. So he's got all that time to spend in hell and nobody cares enough to go help the guy. Well when you say nobody Nobody. There is nobody. There's no God. Nobody, right. That's what I'm saying. Why you need some help? It's your soul. You know the truth. This huge weight of karma that's hanging on my shoulder. Right. Once you self-realize Those thousands of years are nothing. Once you realize what you are, what your soul is There's no pain. You can tell me that intellectually, but it makes no sense whatsoever in terms of real everyday life If I if I go hang out, you know, there's people I go I go over to the prison all the time hanging out with guys that are that are uh criminals in prison. And those guys are suffering. They're in a tough spot, you know. I I hang out with people that that are uh you know, I wouldn't say prostitutes, but practically prostitutes. You know, and they're they're the low and the level of suffering that they do I mean you've got a loving marriage, you've probably got a couple kids You've got friends, you've got a great society. You know you you and I don't experience suffering anywhere near what these guys go through. And I'm going to go to them and say, look. If you just worked a little bit harder, a couple thousand reincarnations from now, you might finally be free of your suffering. That is the the cruelest thing that I could ever tell them. Let me tell you one thing. Where's the kindness? You say it kindly and you say it with gentleness and with a smile on your face Right. Well if I did, I'm sorry for that, but what I meant to say you're saying what you believe. Right. I believe It's a cruel thing Uh th the the fact is by following Jainism you don't become a Jain. If you follow non violence you're basically um moving towards your Liberation, you're basically falling so it's not yeah, because the way I see you, like when you say love towards, you know You need to love each soul. And you can't love you can't love somebody without being attached to them. No, it's not true. Love is attachment. See, there is a difference between s we we call uh persons who who live in the world like a lotus. Right? It's in the pound but it's it's detached. It's not It's in the dirt, it's in the sun in the universe. But those souls they know their Rajas Ranik. He's in the hell but he knows who he is. He's And according to the Bible, God is a jealous God and that the highest How can God be highest expression of His love is that he is offering to you a covenant attachment, the strongest imaginable attachment. And and and the the gloriousness of his love is that for those that reject that kind of that kind of uh love, that he is going to be so jealous that he will be full of wrath. That he has been rejected. He has offered to you and to everybody else on the planet a covenant attachment where you give yourself It's a blood covenant that you would give your life for him, that he would give his life for you. Abraham was was invited to give his son on the on the altar. Now that I know that you would do that. Why does God have s desires like he is a perfect, right? When you say God he is a perfect why is there a desire? Why does he want Because he loves you. And why does uh he created you and then he has expectations that you follow him, you love him. Why did he and Why do you have expectations that your wife would love you? In fact, if you f really follow Jainism My wife might have been my uh son, my my father in my past lives. So these are because of the karmas that we are together. And in next life, who knows what she will be? Who knows what I'm saying? We're gonna have to forgive me. It's like a logical kind of a question, so and we don't have time for a full answer, but you do, I would imagine, that those who f uh are Jains desire to achieve enlightenment. Mm-hmm. Isn't that correct? So is that an attachment? So how you know, it does and in fact when you get to enlightenment you have Eternal bliss. I'll give you thirty seconds. Basically, even the good deals that you do is basically helps you to move towards enlightenment. Now enlightenment is not attachment. When you have like I said you you go to heaven but you have good deeds, you have to shed those good deeds to get into moksha. If you have if you have that wanting, that craving you're not going to succeed. You have to lose in that so you're going to the only way to become enlightened is to not really want to become enlightened. No, you you you are enlightened inside. You are enlightened inside. It's just that the karma which is blocking you. So once you to take up the karmas, you don't have to force yourself to get That's what you need. Yes. Alright, well we're gonna end on that note. So much more that we could talk about. And uh Bhupashmeta, the secretary of the Jane Society of Metropolitan Washington, based in Silver Springs. Thanks to our sponsor. Uh Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, and I want to encourage you to visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith. And if you like or didn't like what you heard today, or if you have another topic you'd like us to explore, or some other guests you'd like us to have on, or if you yourself are a local area religious uh leader or have an inside track to one and you'd like to suggest yourself or that person uh as a guest. Email me at Simple Enough Troy C R O Y at WFMD. com. Thanks again for listening. God bless