Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMB. I'm your host and moderator Troy. Roy Skinner, the show is brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Eating. How can we make you smile? On the panel last couple of weeks, and again this week. Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Sweitzer, and Pastor Luke Robinson, Minister at Quinn Chapel AME Church. uh in Frederick. Last week well I ended the show with a question of of a historical nature, but before that the show was kind of talking about Uh what's you know, what's going wrong with America? And uh and you know, we've we've lost the key to knowledge, we've kicked God out of schools and uh and and we've lost our way and we and we don't have uh a commitment to knowledge anymore and and so God has forgotten his children and you know all of all of those. All of those sorts of things. And um Taking God out of schools is you know the schools for the most part are public schools. They're they're an extension of the of the federal Government because they fund it, a an extension of the state government because they're involved at the uh in overseeing it. It's an extension of the local county uh governments, what have you, because they've got the elected officials running it. So it's it's really a government entity. And we've talked was it last week or two weeks ago about uh you know black churches, white churches and stuff, and and there's a little bit of a of a different cultural reference point uh in those different contexts. One of the very common um stereotypical uh touch points that uh difference between a black church and a white church would be the politics. You know, most uh The perception is, I don't know because I what do I know, the perception is that most African American churches would have would have a a strong contingent of Democratic voters. And an awful lot of parti like pr Presbyterian churches full full of uh with white conservative people are gonna have a lot of Republican voters. uh kind of a thing. And then we get involved with things like we want to make changes with the school board or we want to change public policy. Um and God has turned his back on America. Are we Are we as the church confusing our country uh with our church? Are we confusing? Well I'd like to I'd like to challenge your uh your stereotype on that. Um My sense is that is that churches that tend more liberal theologically uh in in terms of the white churches Those churches, and there's quite a few of them out there, I'd say almost fifty percent of the churches out there that tend in the direction of voting democratic Um and and certainly there's a lot of Catholics that even though you would think that they were they would be more conservative because the Vatican's more conservative, they definitely like here in Maryland we're a Catholic state, they definitely tend to vote more uh democratic across the board. And so and uh and now I'm not speaking for African American churches, but I'm speaking for um for white Anglo Saxon more you know, classical denominations that if they tend liberal theologically they tend to go also liberal politically And so I don't know that that you could just say white churches go, you know, Republican and and black churches tend Democratic. Now what's your sense in terms of where the where the uh b black church tends to be politically. Well as uh Pastor Robinson as the uh uh pastor of an African American church and also uh denominationally we have church about three three million people or so. Um do have some sense that the um the African American church in this country for the most part have uh uh is the democratic church. I don't think that's a secret to anybody. Um I think um much of that has to do with uh Um at in times of segregation, in times of hard times, they have found confidence strength in some of the stuff that uh the civil rights yeah yeah um but I think integration well even with that I think again, it's a question of truth sometimes. The Republican Party was uh the party of Abraham Lincoln and it was a strong party for um uh the repo uh for A African Americans in this country and when I was a kid many of the African Americans people were Republicans. In fact the great Southern Democrats of the early nineteen hundreds had a reputation for being very racist. Yeah. And uh in some of the the most entrenched racist uh you know the Rep Republicans were not, and yet there seemed to have been a shift in uh orientation, you know, right around the time of Martin Luther King. Well I th uh uh uh well uh things have uh changed f back and forth. I think now with uh with President Obama being elected I think he got over s about sixty million votes. And and and uh many of those votes came from Of course, uh because of uh I think the African American community supported him as a whole. They they had to vote for him and as a whole to for him to win, but there were he could not have won unless he had gotten received strong support of of white Americans and he did he did do that. I think I know there are people in my church that voted for Obama. Yeah, and there's people in my church that voted for Obama. And then there's some that voted for Mr. McCain. Um, I'm sure. But and and and and and um but I I think that what happened was uh uh people were looking for hope. And uh Mr. Obama's uh message was that of hope and and people could attach on to that because he just didn't take the African American community, he took a whole lot of communities. He he won in the Hispanic communities, he One in the um uh white communities, he won in the um oh subtly in the African American communities. So people were looking for hope. He talked about a message of change, he talked about things changing and um And um right now I think people are desperately hurting and they want that's good talk. And the question is now is uh can he perform and and uh how long will the honeymoon l last if he doesn't perform? And those are the kind of things that that the politics and the church things that are. Um uh more for the change than they did for what Obama represents politically. Because I think a lot of what he represents politically, as soon as he comes out and starts to uh enact all the change according to his orientation politically, uh, that that he's that has been very clear from the beginning that there are gonna be a lot of people like, uh well I kinda didn't want him to do that. You know, and I also think that there's no doubt that there was something very historic going on that Obama represented uh uh in terms of his optimism and the way that he presented himself, he he he represented somebody that that was like the best of all of us, you know, Harvard trained athletic, uh has got a great family, um, and he's African American in that there was a there was a large portion of the nation that that remembered back to when Martin Luther King you know said, you know, in forty years we're gonna have a black president. You know, and and and our desire as a nation kind of to to to move forward in terms of of being a nation that is not uh segregated and that is not divided racially. And even though Obama uh Obama's election won't erase all of that. There's still going to be, you know, issues that out out there. You know, my sense is that Obama represents something bigger even than than what he is. There are probably two factors. There f from the African American uh in this country and other minorities, there's a sense of uh He understands he a understand 'em and and and it's a sense of a dream coming true. and uh they saw the opportunity and they they supported it wholeheartedly. After you have gone through as much as uh many African Americans have gone through in this country. I it's sort of like uh I I I I remember after the um The election was over and we was having a Bible study on um Wednesday night and uh these little two little young twin girls came in and uh they were so excited and they was running up and the all the kids uh these are African American kids and they were all excited because Obama had been elected uh president and and and and and and I think they expressed uh the um uh th the sense that um um in um in the African American uh uh um community that we have been left behind for so long and they was excited and I think they was just speaking from the hearts of their parents and and the hope that they have. I think on the other hand the second aspect is there are a lot of uh uh white folks in this country who realize that Yes, uh it hasn't been easy for the African American and some of them were a part of it not being easy for them. And I think it's sorta like we we're glad to vote for him, to kinda get this thing off our back Yeah. So Mr. Obama's winning uh is a time that came forth And uh uh uh so much bigger than just Obama. He happened to represent uh a guy that that you could respect at so many different levels. You know, and that being the case, it's like, you know what Here's a guy that sees the moment in history and show that, you know, we don't want we want to move past racism. I think he also was a tremendous he's a tremendous orator, and I without a doubt. He had that over Mr. McCain, I think he had that over Hillary, uh Clinton, I and I think uh I mean he had a lot of things going for him. He also had uh uh a f uh uh a market uh that uh the the stock market crashing or whatever it was doing. Right. He had a whole lot of stuff g working in his favor. If he couldn't got an elector And the media negativity on Bush's whole year, you know, you know, all those eight years and and the war in Iraq and those kinds of things all kind of piled up together. So now we've become a very political show here for just a second. On the panel, uh Pastor Luke Robinson, Minister at Quinn Chapel AME Church in Frederick, and Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel on I'm Troy Skinner and actually yeah that the last five ten minutes illustrates exactly the point I was trying to get to with my opening question. We're happy to help you that way. This is a Frederick Faith debate. And you know we spent ten minutes talking about politics and the election of our leader. Yeah. And last week's show we are talking about the world is looking for a political leader to be their savior, to solve their wounds from the past, to heal their hurts, to move us into a brave new future The church, when it does allow itself to get involved in trying to prop up a particular candidate or a particular party You know, sometimes political candidates will are welcome to come and speak uh at a church during the s worship service, for example. When that happens, is the church Uh obviously not meaning to, but is the church accidentally putting itself in a position to build up and introduce the beast that we preach against and look out for? uh distracts us from the the the true savior of the world, Jesus Christ. When we have these kind of conversations, when what the conversation should be is about Christ and things central to the gospel and we get distracted by things political and things tied into Americana, uh are i is that some sort of a grievous err uh error that uh we should rethink. I think it's inevitable and I think Christ knew it. Uh the greatest lie is the one that looks the most like the truth. And if the kingdom of God is doing what it's supposed to do, then the world is being changed by our presence in the world. The world is uh being uh improved and uh and society itself is is is getting the benefit. The yeast affects the whole loaf You know, it spreads throughout the whole loaf, but the but the yeast isn't the loaf. The loaf is something different. And the ki that's the way the kingdom of God acts in the world. And I believe that the beast will be so big and so powerful because the church is so effective because the the beast will learn from the church so much over two thousand, three thousand years about how to be more righteous and how to be more gracious and truthful and full of justice and mercy and all those kinds of issues that that ultimately when the time comes the beast will have learned her lessons from the church, uh but will still ha be missing the key of knowledge. And so they'll have the external down pat And they'll have learned all those things from the from the church and that Christ knew that that was going to be the case. Jesus didn't come to change the government structures of his day. He came to change hearts and lives. So have we lost our way by trying to get so involved with changing the political culture and the political. I but but I think it applies, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, I mean, basically I think when you change the hearts of men and women, you change the government. And people come to the knowledge of Jesus Christ. It makes all the gap all the difference in the world. The world is is is is caught up in this thing on truth. It doesn't like truth. The world doesn't. And the church should be placed. Or uh Dr. House, you know, who who seek seeks the truth, you know, but at the end of the day there's a lot of things. I think you said that as maybe just a kind of a throw out line, but uh I think it used to be true What used to be true. Sure we'd like to have it if there was such a thing, but there really isn't even the truth to be attained. Don't you think that's more the direction we're going? No, I I kind of feel like uh I feel like I I feel like the world goes round and round. If Christ is the plum plumb line, the world's going around the outside of what what the truth is never quite gets there. I I don't think we're l moving in a in a singular line direction away from the truth, but w but we keep going around it. And I think I think the last ten, fifteen years the emphasis has been on diversity. But look at all the shows that people watch. CSI, House, you know, all the all the what seem to be the most popular some of the top most popular shows They're all oriented towards truth and and they're tied together with what has been this orientation about diversity and tolerance and there is no truth. But my sense is that what we're what we're actually finding is people are hungering for something that that is true and that's even the reason why why they would so rally behind one guy. If you're rallying behind one guy because you think his vision is going to change everything, then at the core you believe that there's something that is better than something else. That's a truth-oriented if i it approaches uh reasons why those shows that are more fact-oriented about uncovering the facts of the situation rather than some sort of inherent truth. If you can kind of parse those words with me a little bit. or gravitating as a culture towards those kinds of shows because the absence of truth, the acknowledgement of what's true for you might not be true for me, and what's true for me might not be true for you, isn't a philosophy that you can live with Exactly. And so then these shows that are about pursuing the facts and what really happened in a particular situation or what's really wrong with this patient, we're drawn towards that because we can't live in this world So our virtual reality world uh gives us something that our real life isn't uh isn't affording us because we've got this idea that, well, there really isn't any truth. So I I'm not sure if I agree with you the people. I think the replacement is I think fifty years from now, when our kids are um senators and and the leaders of all the major companies and institutions uh of the United States that there will be a rebellion against them because they are too stuck in their truth and that that they're too harsh in their truth. Who, your kids? My kids, your kids. So those that are what that because they were raised right now because they were raised by parents that across the board don't believe in truth that they're actually going to swing the other way and they're going to end up being over truth oriented and that you will find churches uh that once again are too much of that and people are reacting and rebelling against it. But that over the next forty to fifty years that we're gonna find people are attracted to truth and more and more want to advocate for some absolute truth that they believe whether it's Obama, whether it's the environment, whether it's taking care of the poor, whatever it is that they're gonna advocate for things that they that they are claiming to be absolutely true and that we're that we're actually going to see a um a gut level um backlash against all this orientation that there is no absolute truth. That's my my gut uh sense. I could be wrong. Could you back it up with anything? I could, but that would take it would take at least another f four You know, it it it it'd probably take the rest of the show and at least another couple other shows to kind of dig through all. They believe the lie and it looked like they want to believe the lie because they go out of their way to just prove truth. Um even l when you deal with a little bit of faith now bring this back to a faith thing, if you deal with the principles of creation, creationism versus evolution. If you look at the truth and the facts, the facts are more in line for a person to believe uh what the bible says about how things came to pass. Um science itself is not contrary to what's taught in the Bible uh s science points to the fact that this stuff didn't come from a big bang. Um that somehow um Uh there is a masterful m plan that brought this stuff to pass. They got the Hubble satellite out there now and it's pulling out stuff, man. I've been looking on my um on my uh with my um computer pulling up stuff off and I'm seeing these pictures and how wonderful and and magnificent things are and they are Light trillions of light years or something. Now they're building a bigger telescope. My brother's working on it at NASA. Yeah. That is gonna be able to look even farther. And the and the whole point of the matter is science is pointing to the fact that there is there is a design to all of this stuff, there is a creator, and they are people telling us that we're evolved. And you you and I are in total agreement about that. However, all of the major atheist uh tomies that that have come out in the last uh five to ten years uh have have proclaimed that there is absolutely no God The fact that they would make that claim so absolute tells me that our generation is crying out for absolute truth. Because they they they They ripped up those books, they they devoured those books, our generation did they they topped the bestseller list for a long time, the purpose-driven life. I think that that our generation The the fact that the the the ideology of the day that is pushed in in the uh universities uh is so anti-absolute truth, I think that we're seeing a backlash against that. in the in in people that maybe it was thought about the fact the evolution teaches us that um uh man evolved and and and one of the uh the latter stages of his evolution pro evolutionary process was he came from an ape to a man. Yeah. What has stopped that? Why aren't apes still turning into people? Well, there are the many of them are of the opinion that uh we're gonna become robots. and that that that's how it will be better in the future is that you'll have a robotic arm that's more powerful than your actual arm and you'll still have your brain but you'll have a robotic heart and you'll actually maybe even be able to live like so are you going to evolve f is the ape gonna die out and the man is gonna turn into a robot? Well what they claim is that we've reached the level of evolution that we are now taking responsibility for our evolution with with our own minds and so technology is is is proof that we're evolving. Because you see the new phone that cell phone that you have You know, see how much better than you know, and in a generation ago we never could have done this. See, we're evolving, you know, and we try to use that as proof when we deal with his evolution and people lying like lies. Why is it that animals Have don't wear clothes and people do. They've all got fur. Do you ever see them making any clothing before? No. No. And well why did man why did you why would Uh we have evolved from uh a condition where we didn't need clothes to why we would go to a place where we need clothes. What's what what was the purpose behind it? It's deception and lies No, see I'm in total agreement with you. Nevertheless, they have very sophisticated arguments for all of that. And that's what amazes me is how sophisticated their arguments uh arguments us against it doesn't make any sense. I think that the point for that uh in a faith church context we should be engaging in conversations with those people that held a different view. We should try to understand their point of view and we should try to help them to understand our point of view. And maybe we'll win converts to Christ and the result. But one of the real advantages to having that kind of dialogue with somebody who's not a believer and shares a different view is it sharpens your own argument and understanding so you're better equipped to train and teach others who share your belief why it's not intellectual suicide to become a Christian, that you can be intellectually honest uh and not deny f in fact I believe it's more in more intellectually honest to believe in creation than to believe in evolution. And I've challenged on this show before, and I'll do it now since the topic came up. That wasn't a planned topic, but if you're listening to this show and you are a huge proponent of evolution, I invite you to come on this show But just know the first question's gonna be, you give me one fact that demonstrates the truth of evolution. And the show will end without you having succeeded, because there aren't any facts that support The theory of the city. I encourage you to contact us. Troy at WFMD. com. I'd love to have you on the show. The one caveat will be you're going to have to demonstrate to me that you are qualified to have the discussion. I do not want to be criticized. So some sort of credentials, you have a scientific background, you're a you're a a professor of some sort, you've written a book, something that was the thing. Yeah, even though Troy doesn't know what he's talking about, other people that come on the show need to know what he's talking about. That's the right thing about being the host. I don't have to know anything about anything. But the panelists they gotta have some sort of credentials behind them so that people won't think that we're just bringing any bozo on the show. Present company with Jonathan. And unless we're going to bring on just a man on the street for the purpose of just having a man on the street discussion. And that's a whole different that's a horse of a different color. uh a serious political issue. So we can't escape it because politics and religion they're worldview questions and we're wrestling with worldview kinds of things. But Yeah, the sanctity of life issue is something that I think is near and dear to every Christian's heart and it's certainly a divisive issue politically. And it maybe it's even a divisive issue uh religiously. I'm I'm not entirely sure about that one, but we're gonna talk about that next week. Uh thank you, John Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads, Uh Pastor Luke Robinson. Thank you, Troy. Minister at Quinnchapel American Methodist Episcopal Church in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And again, check us out online, WFMD. com Keywordface. I do a regular blog there. And you can link to uh Jonathan's blog from that page. And if you like this show, or maybe you only heard part of this show, or you want to hear a previous show, go to the audio. audio bolt section of the website and uh a majority of our shows are not sure why they decided but majority of our shows are there forever. So you can listen to just hundreds of faith debate shows if you want. You know? If you're like a sadist or masochist or whatever the right word is there. Anyway, you wanna say something? No, I'm just uh thinking about, you know, people getting together, they could have like a popcorn party and listen to faith debate shows. Yeah, that's a good idea. Anyway, thanks for listening, Gabba