Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And Jim Devereaux, a columnist with the Frederick News Post, but representing himself as a lay Roman Catholic uh on the show. Speaking from the pew. Speaking from the pew. Well not good. Not literally at this moment in the pew, but figuratively. Yes. Right. But not figuratively in the sense of, you know, pew. What? Meaning like smelly? Oh like T. Yeah, not not P H E Well, yeah, yeah. No way. Yeah, no it's a little joke among pastors, sorry. Uh anyway, I encourage you to visit us online where you have access to uh this and other shows via podcast. So there's a daily weekday blog at the uh Faith Debate page on the on the website, go to wfmd. com keyword faith and find all sorts of goodies there. If you're curious about what different world religions believe, Uh I've done some homework and tried to find what I think are good representative uh websites that explain what different uh views are. For example, what do Hindus believe? There's a link to a Hindu website that seems to really do a good job of explaining what the Hindus belief system is all about. You know I use Google. And that sort of thing. Yeah. Well the problem is when you just Google you don't know what you're gonna get and then you get a zillion of 'em. So I kinda basically did that. I Googled and I went through it. a fair representation. They've done a pretty good job as far as I can tell of of being even handed and really being a true representation of what the faith is all about. Now if you um are a Hindu, for example, and you disagree with the link I've selected, let me know and I'll I'll uh take it up for consideration and change it. Now if you were listening last week And if you're a a good Christian, you were. Um, oh, laying it on. Sick, you're feeling good today. Yeah. It's that tie you got on. We were talking about But uh the ELCA, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, uh in a vote they recently uh passed to uh allow gays and lesbians in committed relationships to serve as clergy. And so we we read part of this associated press article that appeared in the in the Frederick News Post. So could we say that it's likely then they've been letting gays and lesbians do just about everything up to that point? I mean what you're serving clergy like you're getting into the leadership but but un up until now the ELCA has allowed them to be members of the congregation, to be open about it, you know, promoting uh gay friendly things, that sort of thing. It would appear to be the case. Yeah. Okay. I mean uh uh it's a certainly a logical assumption. Okay. So at this point maybe it's an assumption but it'd be a pretty huge leap to go from Nothing to okay you can be in clergy. I mean so you're probably right, but I'm not a member of the case. So I don't know. We probably should have an we should try to get an ELCA uh pastor on the show to see what their thoughts are 'cause I'm sure that some will embrace it and some will disagree, like what we saw with the Episcopal Church. Yeah. And there's a huge split. It's still the reverberation of that was still splitting. Um so anyway, we talk we we read a part of of the article uh last week that belied some bias and I think we might see some additional bias as we continue to read. Okay. So here's a quote now from a David Steinmetz, a Duke Divinity School professor of Christian history. He says, we're going to be living in tension and ambiguity for a longer time, partly because the culture has shifted. The question is whether the mainline church will shift alongside, or if it will decide that the more welcoming attitude toward homosexuality is wrong. So they they really again lay their slant that that anybody that is on the conservative side of this argument is uh mean spirited and uh harsh and nitpicky. So let me ask you, Jim, John, are you welcoming or are you wrong? Which one? Uh uh Well I feel like I'm talking to my father right now. The Catholic Church welcomes everybody. We believe in forgiveness of sin. We believe in uh growth in spiritual directions Toward towards Christ. Um any any sinner is welcome in the Catholic Church because we all recognize ourselves as sinners. Absolutely. So in fact you made a an important distinction last week. that you can be a priest and be a homosexual as long as you're not practicing. That's right. Pretty accepting. That it's you know, there's a recognition of of the call of priesthood is a dedication and commitment to Christ. Just as in marriage is a dedication to a m uh a husband and wife in their conjugal love to one another. That's a commitment. And, you know, so that th we we all enter in those relationships with problems. Yeah. Okay? Yeah. And the church s sees us as being able to grow out of those problems through grace and our commitments. So I I think that's the way the church and some canon lawyer might come up and say, Hey, I'm all wrong, but that in any way that's the way I perceive it. I don't have a problem with the sexuality of some priest uh who's who's trying to live a holy life. Are you guys familiar with the Semayana who is the runner from uh in Africa whose gender is in question because she's so muscular and so fast and she's beating all of her and and it's apparently it takes weeks to determine the gender of a person. You can't just like tell 'em to cough and look the other way while you you know, while you have a quick, you know, check. Um and so uh so apparently the the process of checking the home the chromosomes and checking the you know the estrogen levels and those kinds of things takes a long time. And uh and I think it's important to note wherever we fall on this issue that it is true that some people are born in what seems to be an in between zone where there doesn't seem to be as clear a line in terms of where they stand and uh and as a result they're left with certain things that they face you know, in everyday life that the rest of us don't have to face. I think the problem is most of us don't recognize what we do face. We just think we're all right Sure. And we don't go anywhere with that. Yeah. Okay. So let me ask you though this question about the priesthood. Um uh is it I forgot where I was going to go with that. It'll come to you. Okay, go ahead. I want to kind of flesh out so you get the fullness of the story in case you aren't familiar with what's going on. The ELCA, which we mentioned last week, is the nation's seventh largest Christian church. reached its conclusion after eight years of study and deliberation that culminated when the Church's National Assembly in Minneapolis struck down a policy that required any gay and lesbian clergy to remain celibate. The Assembly also signed off on finding ways for willing congregations to, quote, recognize, support, and hold publicly accountable lifelong monogamous same-gender relationships. The church fell short of calling that gay marriage, but conservatives see that as the next step. While congregations will not be forced to hire gay clergy, conservative ELCA members decry the decisions astraying from clear scriptural direction. and warned that defections are likely. So this is a little bit different than, oh, you're a you're a homosexual and you're s you're s you're that's how you define yourself or you feel like you're struggling with that or whatever Yeah, you can come and be my friend and we'll whatever, then saying, you know, yeah, you can leave my church. That's a little bit of a you know, a different thing. Catholics recognize only one kind of marriage and that's the marriage between a man and a woman. Anything else is some kind of a relationship. It could be good, it could be bad. But uh marriage uh within the Catholic Church is is definitely something very, very special and upheld. Uh as a matter of fact, the nineteen eighty one Uh Pope John Paul II wrote a uh an exhortation to the church on the role of the Christian family in the modern world. Uh it's worth a read, uh not just if you're a Catholic because it really elevates the whole idea of what marriage is and should be all about. And that gets into all kinds of issues such as educating children, which we were talking offline here a little bit ago. Sure. But uh it it it really th the the Catholic Church's view of marriage is is um I don't I wouldn't call it unique, but I would certainly call it worthwhile looking at. Nineteen eighty-one would have been very early this paper. See, that was the year he was shot Well I I think it was around that time, yeah. Anyway. So it talks about in this article it talks about the cul you know, there's been a cultural shift and is the church gonna you know move in dire in to stay in step with that shift? Or is it going to be divisive uh and and uh battle against that shift? Excuse me. Um Lots of things shift, they come and go or whatever. I mean I don't know that the church should be trying to mirror what's going on around it, right? It should be st s setting out a standard. For example, there's been a shift o uh uh over the last couple of generations I mean I'm not uh i uh and I'm not saying this disrespectfully, I'm not uh I haven't been around as many years as Jim. But I'm gonna guess that Jim, when you were growing up, um Teenage pregnancy was probably either rare or certainly hidden, and divorce, you stayed miserably married. No matter what hopefully not miserably, but you stayed married. Right. But now, you know, the divorce rate is really high and the the cultural norms have shifted. So should now should the church embrace divorce? Eh, you know, divorce is good Well, teenage pregnancy is good. Should we shift? on what it upholds as sacred or holy or special or sacramental, uh is is pretty darn firm on on its uh what it has to offer in these on these questions. And uh matter of fact, uh part of the problem that uh arose over the last say since Vatican Two, uh you probably Guys want to win for Vatican II, I would not around for it with a big big change. Yeah, sixty five was the end of it Um but but a lot of people would say Vatican two caused a lot of problems in the church 'cause it got weak. But the fact of the matter is, if people understood Vatican Two They were on target. What happened was is the people didn't understand what the church was saying and did not implement what the church said. Sure And it's not a good thing. Exactly right. Which is why you have to be firm with something like that and stick to it. If it morphs with the with the world, then you end up with these changing norms that are so Benedict the Sixteenth just put out Caritas and Veritate, uh Charity and Truth, in which he reaffirms everything, but tries to put it in the context of the modern world as we see it today. And a lot of people misunderstand what he's saying because he's talking about principles not answers to particular problems. But he he's trying to present a whole set of Catholic principles in the context of the world today. And it reaffirms a lot of what had been written. uh humana vitae which is a big thing years ago about uh use of contraception and uh and I gotta tell you, uh Jim, I get I get envious often about the way that the Catholic Church is able to maintain its stance and has been so faithful you know, to do so for so long. Obviously we Protestants protested against many different things. And some of those were very legitimate protests, I might say. with uh the role of Mary and the saints and different things, you know, uh that that that I probably would still protest against. But but at the end of the day, the Protestant church seems to have very little ability to maintain a strong sense of what exactly does scripture say. And it's and it's ended up having this splintering effect where you know, where you do have many in the Protestant church that are strong and and everybody knows that where they where they are, where they stand. It used to be the eight the evangelical, the term uh meant those people that that stood strong. Before that it was the fundamentalists were those that stood strong. We're kinda waiting to see where the evangelicals uh, you know, kind of fell out. But the evangelicals seemed to fall out, you know, in terms of being being pretty orthodox, being pretty conservative. you know, and and and firm about where they stand. But the Catholic Church certainly I mean at the end of the does stand firm so haven't changed. Sometimes it's accused of moving very slowly, but I think sometimes it doesn't move at all. Right, right. is pretty darn firm on on its beliefs. And I I think part of that comes from the way it views itself and and even its creed. One holy Catholic apostolic. Uh we do recognize an authority in the church that seeks to interpret scripture in the context of of the world that we live in on a regular basis. So I think having that consistency is maybe what you're observing. Now, you know, you can argue that may be good, maybe bad, I don't care, but that is the church. It's is very consistent. Yeah, it was definitely the case in the early church that doctrine that that the final stance on on what what doctrine was was decided by the apostles. The apostles were the ones that people had a question about what was right or what was wrong. The apostles were the ones that said, well well look We hear the argument, we hear what our all you guys are saying. This is what we know to be true. We were with Jesus. We talked with Jesus. You know, we we know what he said. We we've heard uh you know, what what your arguments or interpretations are, you know, about you know, the Acts fifteen council where you should go. And at the end of the day this this is where it stands. And it seems that that that kind of a Council orientation was maintained for a long time. It has been. And I guess I I guess I uh But not without errors at times in which they try to correct themselves and I think have over over time. Sure. But it yeah, it is a very important thing. And even the Eastern Orthodox Church has been very effective through the years of maintaining that. Now now they're they're in terms of of the way that they maintain that, the their difference from you is that they don't have a Pope at that that is the final arbiter of those things, but but they actually have a council to this day that that ends up being the the final arbiter of that And and you know, I I probably would personally lean more in the direction of the East Eastern Orthodox approach, but it does seem to me that the Protestant Church uh uh doesn't have much effectiveness at maintaining that and so we have these major splinters, people that that the newspaper is claiming is a major denomination of the Christian church when it's clear that they're that they're walking in uh and they're they're teaching uh doctrines that um that are way outside of what what the original doctrine was. But it I don't know that we could um put all of the Protestant churches into one group and call it the Protestant Church, right? I mean the ELCA th is first of all Let's look at that name. E stands for evangelical. The way you just define evangelical doesn't seem to fit. Yeah, Lutheran. In fact, that's probably why they put it in there. There are Lutherans who belong to the Missouri Synod Lutheran denomination, for example, who would reject that what the ELCA stands for as even being Lutheran. And by that I mean standing for what Martin Luther stood for. What does the C stand for? Uh Evangelical Lutheran Church of America. So Yeah. They're a church and they're in America, so I guess that would both count. Yeah. No, see the fact that they chose the evangelical to me is a little bit um you know, kind of a uh a one two. They're they're they're trying to play the people that are coming to their church. They're saying they're evangelical when clearly they step step significantly away from what has been historical evangelical doctrine. And I I feel like it's um it's again they're they're trying to pull the wool over people's eyes. By the way, I I think it might be important for me to clarify w I uh Jonathan means it this way and John and uh Jim hasn't said anything yet probably that would get your uh your hairs all standing on end. But when when I'm referring to, you know, the the evangelical Lutheran this, I'm talking about the leadership and those that are kind of leading the way and running things for the denomination. I'm not talking about necessarily the people that are showing up on Sunday uh in church. They you know they might be outraged by some of the decisions like I'm outraged by them and they might you know or they might not be but Um I'm really talking about the leadership of these different things. uh it it they're very flexible in terms of what church they might go to. Yeah. A Methodist this week, maybe a Luther next week. They got the church that's what was important. Uh but as you you know, the leadership would be another question. I think there's It used to be that the brand names would mean something, and it's harder now. By the way, you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator. Jim Devereaux is on the panel this week. You might know him as a columnist for the uh Frederick News Post, but he's also a very serious minded uh lay Roman Catholic who's uh speaking from the pew. uh this morning. And Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel who will speak just about anywhere anyone will listen. So uh We're talking about well, a whole bunch of things. Now we're kind of unraveled into a bunch of things, but we started with the ELCA, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America's uh recent decision to allow uh clergy to have uh members of their clergy be uh homosexuals as long as they're in a committed and monogamous kind of relationship sort of a thing. Um And that just strikes me as wronghanded wrong wrong headed in so many ways from a biblical Christian point of view. And that and then getting to the point I was just gonna make about it's the name brands used to mean something. You'd go to a Baptist church and you kinda knew what you were gonna get there. You go to a Lutheran church, you kind of knew what you're going to get there. You go to a Presbyterian church, you knew what you're going to get there. Now you go to uh a Presbyterian church and you've got to find out, okay, well is it a Is it a PCA a yeah, an Orthodox Presbyterian Church? Is it a Presbyterian church in America? Is the is it the uh Presbyterian Church of the United States of America? And you might think, oh well they're all Yeah, yeah, is it P C E S A, P S uh P C C A, O P C A R P there's all these Presbyterian names and they all mean something a little bit different. And if you walk into one thinking you're gonna get to the other, y you're The ELCA has a lot more in common with the PCUSA, for example. Even though one's supposedly Lutheran and one's Presbyterian, they have an awful lot more in common. Um so it's it's getting a lot harder for people to find a church, which is probably part of why there's been this huge explosion in Protestant circles with the non-denominational, you know, more independent model type of of churches because people find anything that fits, so I'm just gonna go. It seems like all of the denominations have faced a significant a um uh shift along these lines. Even the Baptists I'm I'm aware of back in the uh nineties had a significant legal battle for the leadership of the of the Southern Baptist Convention that was a question of whether or not they would go more conservative, whether or not they would go more liberal And uh that was uh th it's being waged by everybody. It's not just being waged by conservatives. Liberals are you know, are just as active and just as uh intent on winning those battles. Well I think all the division I think all of the division is really somewhat of a scandal uh to Christianity. Uh you can argue all you want about this church, that church. But the fact that we're so divided represents a significant scandal that I think somehow any serious Christian, whatever the denomination, you know, has some obligation to try to mend in somehow, some way. I think talking here tonight is an example of trying to do that. Uh it's not that we're all going to agree on everything 'cause we're not. Right. We're going to have some serious disagreements on some theological issues. But there are a whole set of moral issues that we can agree on and that we should all struggle for to make happen to the best of our ability in the environments in which we live You know, and one of the big serious problems I think that we're all aware of is the problem with marriage today. Yeah. And that's a big concern Uh, I know I'm really concerned. I have you know, thirty-three grandchildren and they're beginning to get married and some of 'em beginning to have children. And their marriages are just as important to me as the marriages of my children. And what what they are all about is important to me. Marriage is a big topic for me. You talk about a scandal, that's a scandal in the Christian church. I mean the the divorce rates are no better among Christians than the non Christians. Yeah, well what's what does that say? Does it say that uh Christianity doesn't work or does it say people aren't working with Christianity? I think it's it's a failure of people to implement their faith or even uh understand it to begin with. Once you begin to understand your faith and then you begin to implement it with the grace that I believe comes in committed relationship like marriage, I think then good things begin to happen. Uh and that's I think a problem is a lack of of understanding, in-depth understanding of what the church says, what Christianity says, what Christ said about marriage and family. It's so funny. I'd seen some of your articles and I'd seen uh you know some of your interactions with different um uh religious leaders in town, but uh it was around the idea of, you know, I'm on the board at Marriage Sabres and and uh we were considering how we could work together to facilitate Catholics and Protestants uh winning this battle to help people to to get married and stay married. Right. And uh to be properly prepared and properly trained. It's a mutual concern that we can agree is a concern and that we can work together on in spite of whatever other differences we may have. You know, and the reality is that the uh the article that that you're referring to dealing with uh the the gay marriage issue, uh this issue ends up creating an environment where people no longer think to themselves, oh, you know what? Marriage means this. But now people have developed this orientation that marriage and family you could have a single parent family. You could have a uh you know a a blended family, you know, like a like a Brady Bunch flam. You could have uh all these different kinds of families and all these different kinds of sexuality, so we have all these different kinds of relationships And at the end of the day, what ends up happening is because we have all these different styles and types, nobody knows how to do any of them well. There's no real training. There's no real standard because at the end of the day a society can't keep up with training so many different kinds of kinds of relationships. You have to have some some sort of of uh unified uh uh understanding that this is this is what works and this is what's effective but because That's not the case. The truth becomes relative and that's what we're living in today then nothing's effective and we fall into despair. Yeah. And uh you know, despair is The worst of sins. And yet despair is so pervasive when it comes to rel I was reading an article just the other day uh by a lady who who's uh who had spent her whole life in in in a uh spent her adult life in a marriage that she was very committed to, kids raising 'em And at the end of the day, her husband was all the time going to the internet for pornography. He was losing interest in her in her in terms of the marriage bed. Uh and and she just was like, Why am I fighting for this? He's not even fighting for it and she gave up on the idea of marriage. She writes this article and she says, you know, at the end of the day I realize that in modern society, marriage just doesn't work. We have to come up with a new way to handle things. And and you know what? She gave in to despair. Right, she gave up yeah. She she threw she she to she threw the good thing out because hers wasn't working and the reason why it wasn't working because it wasn't a truly Christian marriage. And at the end of the day, pornography is destroying marriages across the nation. You know? What woman is gonna appreciate her man going there to get, you know, whatever satisfaction is necessary and yet we have this society that is incapable of drawing the line line online and saying we cannot allow this kind of uh uh pervasive uh uh crassness in society and yet nobody can say no to it and it's it's undermining society. Are you comfortable uh coming back on next week and talking about what the church can be, should be doing uh on the marriage issue. Very comfortable. Sure. Talk about that specific some s in the some specifics. I'm Froy Skinner. Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Prosperos Valley Chapel, Jim Devereaux from the uh Frederick News Post, a little plug for the newspaper, but uh representing uh uh himself and his faith as a lay Roman Catholic I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Again, I encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. where you'll find uh links to all sorts of good stuff including Jonathan's oh I said good stuff right well and it also includes links to Jonathan's uh blog but don't worry there's no pictures of Troy on there. Although Jonathan does think I'm pretty Anyway, thanks for listening. God bless