Welcome to Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMG brought to us by Putman Plenty of the F. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week again by Michael Payne with Take a Stand Ministries and Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And this is uh week two in what we hope to be a short series of uh of of programs with the same panel. And last week was a lot of fun. It started with an innocent enough question. It was just Hey Michael, you have kind of an interesting testimony that uh you could share with us. Why don't you share part of that? And he got about, I don't know, maybe a third of the way into his testimony and and it prompted a question from Jonathan and boom, off we went Yeah, yeah, you could even say the devil made us do it. Wasn't that Flip Wilson? Wasn't he the back seventies? fellow or the devil made him do. Anyway, so if you missed last week's show, uh I'm gonna give you a ten second version of uh of the part of Michael Payne's story that uh of what we heard last week. Michael did not grow up in a church going family. They celebrated Christmas such as it was worth to them, kind of like most Americans. They celebrate it, but pretty twinkling lights than it is about any sort of religious significance. Uh and he got to be a teenager and got involved in all of the bad stuff that parents wish their kids would never get involved in. Yeah. And that kind of defined his life for thirty plus years, thirty-four years. And at the age of uh forty nine, uh he's contemplating taking his own life with a nine millimeter pistol and uh has a conversion uh experience that in hindsight he f he he he realizes that the Holy Spirit was doing a work on uh in his uh in his heart and on his mind Um, bring him to a place where he could accept Jesus as a savior and from that point, that's about ten years ago um there's been no looking back. So that's kinda what we heard so far. So now you have this conversion. What happened? And you become this Devoted Christian. I guess I don't know. Do you plug into a church right away? Uh you you know, you start feeling some calls on your life. I know you get involved in a in a ministry, and I don't like what we do here on the on on the Faith Today show Talk about the the aftermath of the conversion a little bit and s what the next few years held for you. Well the scripture that immediately came to mind when you said that was um There were seventy-two disciples that turned and walked away from Jesus never to follow him again, and uh he turns and looks at Peter and the other eleven and says, uh Or I no it wasn't it was he says, uh, so are y'all leaving too? And uh Peter looks in him and says, There's no place to go, Lord, you are the you are the one. And that's the way I feel about him. He is the one and there's no place else to go. There's no looking back and there's no reason to turn back. Yeah, so where'd you go? You didn't look back, you what I uh was uh I just really dug into the Word of God and I have to say that um I was as I spoke last week I was trying to read that King James and uh I have no problem with people that love the King James but it's not my Bible. The uh I now read the new King James, but The uh my mother, I walked into her house one day and she said, I got something for you and I said, What? And she says it's right over there and it was an NIV life application study bible. And my life in the word just really took off like a shot. Okay. And um I would recommend that Bible by the way. I have some experience in it and it's it's it's I loved it. And so, you know, I've since moved into the New King James, but again as You were saying Troy is uh it it really did a lot in my life and I praise God for that day. The um I fell into Christian music shortly after um my conversion. It was uh December seventeenth, so on Christmas Eve I'm all by myself and I said I'm going down to I'm going down to that Christian shop and get myself a real Christmas C D. So I went down and I got two CDs. Do you remember who the artists were? Okay. And uh what a wonder um I can't think of I I play it Parshal? No, Pascal. I think it's a Pascal. Okay. But uh just a beautiful voice and um Um um I can't think of the name of the songs on there. I can hear the tune, but I can't think of the name. That's that important. But anyway, the other C D and I'm this was of the Lord because I don't even didn't even like Irish music, Celtic music with Rob and Mark and uh Revival. And uh the I used to play that that that C D was just such a strong part of uh of the warfare in my life of giving me faith and and drive to come forward. I would just play that song that C D hour after hour after. You know, I've heard people say that Celtic Christianity was very different from uh even in the Roman Catholic world was very different from uh from Christianity and other uh other places like St. Patrick, uh that there was a that there was specifically a power behind it and a life behind it that was more dynamic. than many of his contemporaries and so that that that even to this day that that the there's something in the in the Celtic part of uh of Christian history that uh like you're saying spiritual warfare and you know even Saint Patrick was known for uh having power encounters with the Druid priests where, you know, there'd be a you know miracles that would happen in you know that are at uh uh tested to him I would say the power comes the well there is no saying about it, the Bible says. And and I can attest to it in what I've seen in my life. The power comes from loving the Lord. Yeah. The power comes from worshiping Jesus. I mean people talk about go and worship the Lord. Well, one day the Lord spoke to me in this manner and he said, You want to worship me, then you worship me every day and every moment of your life in your walk. That's worshiping me. I mean we can go and put our hands in the air and do all the Charismatic stuff you want. But if if the rest of the week you're uh running in the world, you didn't worship the Lord. You just played a game there on Sunday. And the you the worship comes from walking in the word of God and he says in the um in first John Uh it is said that uh he who says that he walks in the light uh but continues to sin is a liar and walks in darkness. So the y you know, we can call ourselves a Christian But here's what I say to also say, I can go into a Chinese restaurant every Friday night and read the whole menu, but that doesn't make me Chinese. You know, you have to uh read the word and you have to follow the Lord. If you intend to survive in this world that we're seeing now with all the Traps that are being set, and when I say traps that are being set financial, uh the lewdness that's going on in the world, the families that are ripped apart by pornography and sexual sin. Um In all of the all of the other elements of the Bible, if you go to Galatians 5, 19 and you look at that list, envy, jealousy, strife, contentions, drunkenness. Pharmacia, uh, to list a few, witchcraft, which is sorcery, which is disobedience. Now Michael, you're not saying that Christians don't continue to struggle with sin. No, I'm not saying that. We all struggle. I mean, but here's the here's what we have to do. It's like Paul. Paul struggled, and who are we going to say? We're better than Paul But Paul said, uh, what I don't want to do I end up doing, and what I want to do I don't get done. Okay? And and I struggle with this, but what I am saying to you, I am not a sinner. I am a saint through Jesus who sins now and then. And when I sin, I need to repent. And speaking of repentance, I want to say this. You're not saved unless you had a genuine, humble repentance in your life of the sin that you went through and humbly come to the Lord and say, Lord, save me. I mean mouthing some words is not it. You have you know, I realize more and more and more all my life. And it's not a matter of guilt. It's a matter that the Lord will bring things into my mind that I did in my past. I repent of these things And this this helps fortify me against ever doing them again, number one. So you're saying that in order to be ab to to be saved in the in the Christian sense a person must go through this repentance experience. The Bible says that. Like for example, uh uh Michael Moore in his uh movie that that just came out about capitalism, you know, his love affair with capitalism. Apparently he identifies himself as a Christian. And uh you know Michael Moore does? Yeah. Which is fascinating to me on several different levels And uh I'm betting. And I could be wrong. Yes, I could be wrong. You'll know him by his fruit. But but but I well I'll put I'll put it this way. Uh, I think that there's probably a lot of people out there that call themselves Christian that would disagree with you about that. Well. I mean, who are you to to give the definition of what Christianity is out of the way. I don't give you the definition. The definition is in the Bible. The definition is in Matthew. It's in Mark. It's in Luke Yeah, but isn't repentance like like a backward I mean that's that's what they used to believe. on national TV and said, I'm sorry that I did that. He wasn't repenting of anything. He was sorry he got caught. Okay. Repentance is, I'm sorry I did this, Lord. I'm sorry I did this to you and I am sorry that I did it to that person that I hated so much at that time. I'm sorry that I did this. It is a it is a coming to grips with the with the wickedness that you involved yourself in or that you perpetrated a phone. Why make such a big deal about it? Why make such a big deal? Yeah, I mean aren't you aren't you? No you know strong about all this? No I'm not. No No I'm not. Well, I mean uh come on, uh I do nice things, you know, I wake up every day, you know, and and uh I'm Oh so you're saying that that that being good will get you into heaven. Um, I don't see any reason why God would, you know, if you know, just because I don't go to church or just because I don't repent in the way that your Bible says or you think your Bible says, you know, there's other people that that interpret the Bible differently. You know, who are you to to say that your way is the right way? Beloved, he said he he looked at the crowd and said, Repent, for the kingdom of God is near. So you think that's in the Bible evangelists today should tell people to repent? Absolutely. There is no salvation without or redemption without repentance. Yeah, but there's some really cool televangelists that make the gospel sound really, really attractive, and they never s use the word repent. I mean Come on, is repentance real I mean that isn't that isn't that no, no, I'm not gonna name 'em. Isn't that just a little bit I can think of a few though. Isn't that just a little bit negative Like why do you have to be so negative? I mean come on, you're you you had thirty four years of negativity. Why don't you just quit being negative? You know, you're in Christ now. I am in Christ now. Wha why was why was John the Baptist so negative? Why was Matthew so negative? Why was it? Because it is a culture, it's a Middle Eastern cultural thing. I mean the United States were positive, you know, the American dream You know, why why worry about negativity? Everything I everything I pray that leads me these days, I hope I don't do anything in my life. even coming over here to be on this radio program. I hope everything that I do in my life is led of the Lord to the betterment of those who hear what we speak. Wait, wait, wait, wait. You're telling me that God speaks to you His spirit leads me, yes. Like every day? Uh yes. I'm having a lot of fun with this, can you tell? For those for those that are listening. Uh I'm clearly playing a devil's advocate, so excuse me while I do it. Yeah. Jonathan Schweitzer, uh good he's w gonna win the radio version of an Emmy for his his acting skills here on the Faith of Eight Show. Jonathan and Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm at Troy Skinner, you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. And the one being challenged by the devil's advocate is Michael Payne with Take a Stand Ministries. And uh I know you you're about to cite a uh a scripture reference, I think, and so I don't want to distract you from that. So hang on to that reference if you still want to end up sharing it. But I think this this play acting and this this thing that's been going on is loosely uh based in some reality. I mean this is the thing. These are the kinds of things that we hear about, the kinds of debates that Jonathan and I certainly and probably Michael too engage not just on the air in the show but off the air with people all of the time. And You're so narrow minded, so closed minded. I mean what about you were creat we were all created in God's image and we're all God's children. Right. Now it's my uh understanding of the Bible that we're not all God's children, only those who are saved can call him father and therefore, you know, only the Christian are the children. You're telling me that all the Muslims, the second largest religion on the world in the in the world, that they're all going to hell? You're telling me that Hindus You know, all the th in India, which is the the most populous nation in the world, and China, which is the largest nation in the world. You're telling me all those people are going to hell because they don't know your God I'm telling you that uh any of your relatives and my relatives and Troy's relatives who do not turn to Jesus are going to hell. That's what I'm telling you, because that's what they're doing. Just my relatives? I mean why do you make that distinction? No, uh but you know we we we said uh Muslims, we said b Buddhist, and yes, anyone who does not turn to Jesus And confess Jesus, accept him, will be going to hell. That is what the Bible says. And here's why it becomes important. The whole repentance question, uh, and the needing to have a contrite heart And now I I do remind me to to talk about the moment uh versus an ongoing uh view of repentance if I forget to swing back around and you want to talk about that. If you don't recognize that you have a need for a savior and you're trying to do everything in your own strength, then y you're never going to acknowledge your need for a savior. You're never going to acknowledge that okay, I need something outside of myself to save me. And all the other world religions are about what you know we as individuals, as human beings, can do. You've got the the fourfold path or the eight steps or the, you know, fifty one percent good versus forty nine percent bad if as long as the scales tip in your favor you're in or all these things. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But why is that so bad too? Yeah, I mean if people are trying to get to God Isn't God going to give them credit for that? I mean they're trying. Why is that so bad for a religion to do that? The way that I've phrased uh my response to that sort of a question, and see if you agree with this or not, it's like saying God is holy, perfectly holy and righteous. So imagine that that holiness and that righteousness is is represented as heat. So you've got you know the sun that our solar system s is is swirling over. Okay, this is a cute little metaphor. Okay. Should I close my eyes while I'm imagining this? Okay. So you've got this big ball of intense heat that we call the sun. Okay And you try to go stand the cause of global warming. Sorry, I didn't mean to get distracted. Keep going. And you try to go stand on that sun. You can't. Okay. You can't withstand the heat. Okay. So something that's impure can't withstand the purity that is God. So God needs a r it's like uh the space shuttle coming back into the atmosphere, changing the uh the outer space the metaphor here a little bit. Okay, a mixed metaphor, okay. But they need they need those tiles, those heat tiles, to absorb that heat or else it burns up and we saw what A horrifying accident happened a few years ago because the heat tiles failed. Right. So we can't survive in and of our our own self because we're impure. We're not holy. Even the slightest little bit of impurity is death to us That's such a small view of God that God is so easily offended by, you know, our little unholiness. I mean God's way bigger than that. How could you think that that God is so small that he, you know, uh would uh allow us to be burned up by his holiness. I mean what what what kind of a tiny God do you serve? It doesn't seem so narrow minded. Not to be a seem argumentative John, but um People who would say things like you're saying are making God small because they're limiting God to whatever their imagination can conjure. And God are you doing anything different? Because you read a different book than I read? Because as Michael has said, you know, we're resting our faith in something that is outside of ourselves and our imagination. It's found in the written word of God that we call the Bible. And that becomes our standard, not our own imaginations, not our own experiences, not our own ideas and conceptions of things. It's for putting our faith, even in the difficult things, like we talked about last week with the tsunami and How could God be in control and be responsible in any way, shape, or form for a horrifying disaster that killed just thousands and thousands and thousands of people? We don't know the answer to those questions, and yet we trust, in spite of our own instincts, to say, well that can't be good, that can't be right, and yet God is sovereign. God's in control because the Bible says so. I'm not going to trust in my own instincts. I'm going to trust in something outside of myself So somebody who's going to trust in their own instincts and something inside of themselves, they're the ones that are making God smaller. They're limiting God to the size of their own imagination. And God let's let's go to Sodom and Gomorrah. God destroyed that city because of their sin. Everyone. Even children. There had to be some children there. Women and children. That maybe weren't even participating in the but they were all in a certain sense involved in it and condoned it. He d he uh opened up the earth and he Yeah, but isn't that why religion is so divisible. Isn't that why religion is so divisive because your God is such a vengeful God? It is divisive. But you know, uh life has life has consequences. Okay, and God God has given us the rule book. And if we To the end, and I do say to the end, to the moment of last breath, if we are disobedient and rebellious against him, the Bible says this will be the consequence. You will spend eternity separated from God. And and it will be a place of torment and its name will be hell. So you're telling me that God enjoys that? No, he doesn't enjoy it one bit. So he doesn't enjoy it. So why does why why would he do that to me? I don't enjoy spanking my child. I don't enjoy it. You spank? Yes I do. You see you spank 'em when they're young, you don't have to knock it out. I just read an article the other day that says that spanking your child lowers their IQ Just came out by the American psych psychologic psychiatric association. I don't know. I saw the same data and I came to the conclusion that people with a lower IQ get spanked more. Yeah, because they're too dumb to be good. I need clarification. My my father didn't beat me, but I tell you what I didn't want him spanking me because it was crisp and it was efficient and it was and it was I have to say He showed me grace until a point and So you're saying a father spanking a child is a good example uh uh or or illustration of God interacting with us? Yes, I think that's a good illustration. The Bible says, spare the rod and spoil the child. Spare the rod and spoil the child. God He He his heart yearns for us to come to Him. Right. And so this is kinda funny to me to say it, but I mean, doesn't God know what the American Psychiatric Association knows, that you don't need spanking to discipline your children? I mean why does God have to uh have to go to abuse. Who's the father of psychology? Psychiat Psychiatry. Said that uh uh um God was for weak willed men. And actually I don't think it actually says anywhere in scripture, spare the rod, spoil the child. What does it say? That's not a verse that's in the Bible. Uh there are verses that talk about the right program of using a rod. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, there is a ver I mean that's might be a paraphrase, but there is a verse that talks about the rod. Yeah, it it says things like um uh he who spares the rod hates his son, but he who loves him is careful careful to discipline him Um, it says uh folly's bound up in the heart of the child but the rod of discipline will drive it far from him. Now rod though, in my understanding, doesn't always need to mean like we think in terms of like this big li club that a police officer might use and you whack him over the head with it. But in the context of the Old Testament, you know, the this lots of uh it's an agricultural economy, lots of shepherd metaphors and analogies going on there and the And the shepherds would steer the direction of their of their flock with their big staff and their rods. So it's not always that you're beating your child. I don't think that that's what the Bible says. I don't think the Bible advocates that you beat your children. No. What the Bible is advocating is you provide direction and correction for those that are that are under you that you're responsible for. And sometimes that might mean a little, you know you know, SWAT on the on the tush. I'm not saying that uh I'm opposed to that, but I I think that you can put those verses to to bad use. You know, there's lots of verses you can do. And I and I don't mean to uh for anyone out there to think that I am saying that I condone some of the beatings that some of the people that hear this took under even under the um excuse of God wants me to do this. Because when when good justice is handed out by God and and it's supposed to be this way by us as parents to our children, it's supposed to be just and it's not supposed to be in anger or in a rage It is supposed to be um properly delved out. But so I'm not condoning beatings. I don't beat my children and my I wasn't beaten by my father. I was disciplined and I didn't want any more of it because Two things happened. It didn't feel good, but I disappointed my father. Okay, I disappointed him. But the the the situation of the things uh in this society, in this country, in this world, um, God cannot be happy with these things. He has he has sympathy and he loves us, but he loves that little child that is aborted, that innocent little child that is um ripped to pieces and aborted. He loves that child even more. And when and because that child did absolutely nothing, had absolutely no control over what was coming. Uh as that's that might be a That might be uh opinion am I how often people uh people that reject Christianity will say, Well where your God is so so hateful and angry. Um, but then they'll turn around and they say, How come he uh good God allows evil? So on the one hand they say he's an angry God, but on the other hand they say that you know, that he's allowed all this evil, so he can't be a good God. When the balance is that God disciplines us and disciplines the world You know, and so, yes, sometimes he's angry, but for the most part his anger is geared in the direction of helping to train us so that we can, you know, live in a way that's not evil toward one another. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. You can uh listen to this show again. online via podcast. Go to wfmd. com, find the audio vault section, or you can type in the keyword faith. It takes you to the Faith Debate page and from there you can find a link to the podcast section that features the Faith Debate shows Most of the previous shows that we've done can be found there. Um we've had some technical reasons why updating of the Faith Debate page hasn't uh happened as regularly as it as it has in the past, but that's going to uh uh resolve itself hopefully uh pretty soon. So the regular uh uh blog updates on the Faith Debate page. Uh Michael Payne with Take a Stand Ministries, if the name rings a bell and the voice maybe rings a b Next week we will uh maybe explain to you why you think you I kind of remember that name and voice a little bit. We'll talk about that next week. Jonathan Sweitzer, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and If his voice rings a bell, it's just because you're hearing voices in your head. You know. That's right. That was the uh devil's advocate uh voice today. Demons. Yes. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. Happy to make you smile. Thank you for listening. Have a great week ahead. We'll talk to you again in one minute and seven and a half hours. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing, that's with a pea, as in your preferred plumber. Putin plumbing, how can we make you smile?