Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Brought to us again, as always, by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. I invite you to visit us online. Easy to find at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Takes you to the Faith Debate blog. From there you can link to Jonathan Schweitzer's blog. There's all sorts of links, uh I think interesting links if you're interested in what different worldviews on uh religious issues have to say about things. I've done some homework to try to figure out what good representative websites would be. Then it may be not definitive, but I think good representative websites So if you're interested in what the heck do Hindus believe anyway, you can find a link. Uh what the heck do conservative Christians believe anyway, you can find a link. Uh and so forth. So anyway, visit us online again, WFMB dot com keyword faith. You can email me any question you want. WF uh Troy at WFMD. com. This week on the show, we have Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, back on the panel. Good to see you. Good to see you. And John Fraburos. Did I get that even close? Prabudas. That's right. Okay. I I was working on it and I almost messed it up anyway, so uh forgive me if I I'll work on it even more. Uh John is the we have two Johns. So John Prabhudas is the co-founder of the Federation of Indian American Christian Organizations of North America. Now, uh FIACONA is an anachronym for that. So if you hear us say uh Anacronym? Ana. Oh, yeah. Yeah. No, I thought you were saying an anacronym. And an anachronism is is uh something very different. But an acronym acronym. Yes. Is that what I was looking for? Acronym? Yeah, I think you said it right All right. Well anyway, co-founder of the Federation of Indian American Christian Organizations of North America, Fiacona. Fiacona. So I think without um everybody's been waiting. We've been doing this show for it's coming up on five years. Yeah. And the question I hear more than any other is, uh, what's the icona? So uh John Uh why don't you explain what FIACONA is, why it exists? Well FIACON is um stands for the Federation of Indian American Christian Organizations. of North America. So I think that should have it's almost self explanatory. Yeah, it it explains itself. But your purpose will be a good thing. It was formed um at the height of uh the violence against uh Christians in India by radical fundamentalist Hindu organizations that wanted to establish a Hindu nation, a Hindu nation state Um say the height of that. When was that? Uh the height of it was about uh ninety nine two thousand. Oh. Um just ten years ago. Yeah, turn of the millennium. Yeah. But we we had Uh these problems um for a long time but not at this scale. Um And we can talk about, you know, how that came about and all the thing later, uh, in the course of um uh this broadcast. But um the People of Indian origin in the US uh are Christians, Indian Christians in the US, are about 300,000 plus. um all across the country in all fifty states and uh there are quite a few in Canada as well That's a significant number. To to put that in in terms that you can relate to, that's about six thousand per state. Or that's a little bit more than the total number of people that live in Frederick County Right? Isn't it or right around? Isn't about three hundred thousand people in front of the room? Uh-huh. But anyway, everybody in Ferder County were from India. Not only from India, but from India and are Christian. Yeah, that are Christians. Right. Apparently there's about three million in the United States that are from the U. to three million, uh especially in the past ten years or so. There have been forty, fifty thousand families have been immigrating every year because of this the boom in the technology industry. Mm. Now it's interesting because the percentage if if if those numbers are pretty close to accurate, the percentage is ten percent, which is way higher than what it is in India. Um yes, exactly. Uh in India it's about two point three, two point five percent officially. So is it because they come here uh people from India come here and get converted or they're persecuted over there and they flee to America? More of an exposure issue. Uh the the Indian Christians are probably are more exposed to um American institutions, uh come to visit or get invited or come to study in universities. Um and and and they have been Fascinating. Uh they have had institutional tie-ups with the Britain uh during the British rule in India, um the Indian churches So uh people who are in the leadership positions had opportunities to travel and you know so that's the way you can you can come kind of look at it as um as um um uh thing that induces migration policies. You know, if you are an anthropologist, uh you might look at it that way. So why so why does Fiatona exist? Well the Fear Connor like I said in in two thousand um at the height of the persecution of violence against Christians, um India became uh the one of the uh political parties in India Like um uh it's a Hindu radical party. It's called the Bharatiya Janata Party. That means the Indian People's Party literally means okay. And uh the short form the acronym Yeah. is uh BJP. BJP came to power in the in Delhi uh through uh a coalition of twenty plus different political parties. And uh their agenda is to create a Hindu nation. A Hindu Hindu ethnic nation state. So they want to have a blending uh with with no distinction between the religion and the state. They would it would be one entity. No, it's not one entity uh more like um Well, it may not be a very good example to uh give, but uh State of Israel is a Jewish ethnic state. There is no question about it. You know, there are Christian monuments and there are m uh booth uh um uh Muslim monuments in the state of Israel, but it is as state for the Jewish diaspora the Jewish people. It's interesting. That's part of uh part of the reason why you and us got connected was this question of whether or not Israel uh should be considered racist to to want to create a state that's only made up of Jewish people or whether or not uh whether or not it's appropriate for any religious group to try to create a state of just the people from that religion, whether it's racism, whether it's religious Intolerance, it it it's a little bit of a strange animal politically to go that direction. Before you jump into that, because that sounds like it could be a really interesting thing to dive into. I'm gonna end up s still feeling like I don't know why the Federation exists So this persecution taking place and and Christians who are from India in America gather together and say, we've got to do something. And so this Federation of Indian American Christian Organizations in North America was formed. Disformed. An advocacy group Yeah. And before we get into this subject, I should also uh kind of for the record say that I wouldn't consider Israel as a as a racist state. Um uh but but if you want to really see the elements of what do you call the xenophobia uh which exist in different parts of the world in different countries Um, also exist and Israel is not uh immune to that. Sure. And partly because of their own xenophobia, I want you to define that. Oh xenophobia is uh is um a fear of the other Civilization. Somebody that's not like you. Yeah, like you. That's why you have a hard time getting over me. Right. I'm afraid of you. Right. Um Yeah, by the way, I wanted to say that it's a good thing that ninety percent of the people from India haven't met Jonathan yet because the ten that the ten the uh the ten or ten percent haven't. Yes. Right. The ninety percent that have haven't become Christian yet, but the ten percent that haven't met Jonathan felt comfortable becoming Christian. Yes, yes. I was dead, you know. I feel the love right again. I mean you know, we can talk about um you know The kind of things that that Israel is very much tied into what is happening in India today and we can talk about that in detail Um you know, uh that is that is a political issue. Uh that I'm not sure. Okay, but it but but for right now you're defining you're an advocacy for Christians that are being persecuted in India by radical Hindu groups like the BGP group. BJP. And BJP is a political wing of an ideological organization that was formed in nineteen twenties called the Rastria Swayam this is this is a Sanskrit in Sanskrit language in the word. I will translate that what it means uh in after this. That's called the Rashtrias Vayam Sevak Sangha. Even that is foreign to me because and I don't speak Sanskrit. Um I I had a hard time learning what it actually means. It means the National Voluntary Corps Simply. National Voluntary Corps. Yeah, it's like a voluntary organization. Like the the the the brown shirts of Mussolini's uh uh organization in Italy. Uh their uh aim is as a matter of fact the organization was modeled after Mussolini's branches Yes, in in in many ways. Yes. Um what they did was and Muslim he went around and and he he he created this um these uh chapters in every w villages and towns and that became the paramilitary. In in Germany you had the SS And here you had the b you know, they are the same um thing. And and their uh slogan was one people, one c one nation one culture, one nation. Okay. Now The founders of the Rastriya Swayamsevaxang, I'm gonna say the the acronym, the acronym for the Rostriya Swayamseva Sangh is RSS. I don't think we've ever had so many acronyms in one show ever. All right, now what is the acronym for this? This is RSS RSS. Like the autism's feed in the audience. That's one of the dangers with uh acronyms is they can mean something completely different to different audiences. So with this RSS leaders, um they went to they were lawyers and intellectuals. had exposure to European nations at the time in the nineteen twenties, they no if you look at it, let me Gandhi, you know, you know Gandhi, right? Gandhi who who who became Yeah, who became the father of the nature. It's it's a good movie. I know people that fell asleep until he got shot, then they woke up and they're like, What what happened? Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's part of a movie. But it's it's a very uh interesting movie if you if you're a history buff you know. But um Gandhi studied in London. He he you know when he came back to India Uh the Indian National Congress party leaders in the movie actually you can you know if you watch the movie you would remember, they went to receive him in Bombay and asked him Uh Gandhi would you we we would like you to be uh be involved in the Indian National Congress in India. But then he says, but I don't know India. enough to say that I will work with you. Okay. Because he was fully educated in in the UK. He practiced in South Africa. uh um his uh lap law practice. Yeah. And then, you know, uh he ends up in town in India Um the the same way there were the the there were families in India that was um influential families and people who were intellectuals and at that time they were traveling in Europe and and learning uh not only in the universities but also they they became so engaged in in European uh philosophy in lifestyle then Who were India? So they were no longer living the culture of India. They were they were starting to live the culture of Europe and other nations. But here these uh the the founders of RSS had a different axe to grind. They they were they were finding themselves um uh in um in a victim as as a victim. They they were they they they saw themselves as a victim of of history. They saw specifically probably British colonialism. It it goes even before that. Beyond that. um century the sixteenth seventeenth centuries you had the British uh rulers coming into India, uh British gaining strength in India. But you if you go back to the twelfth, uh thirteenth century, the Mughals, the Iranians At that time they were called the Persians. The Persian kings who happened to be Muslims um were following what the Alexander the Great you know, his route and and they came to the Indus Valley and established their dynasty. And because of that with them they had they brought a lot of Muslims with them uh the the the the soldiers who came with them from Persia. They were all Muslims. And many people in India because they lived they they were ruling the large chunks of India for almost three hundred years before the British. Wow. So for that three hundred years they were able to um kind of root themselves in the Indianness. They became pretty much Indian. Except for the Muslim peoples became Indian culturally. Culturally. Not religious but culturally. And so after that three hundred years there was kind of a sense that the Muslim were almost Indian. Well they were almost Indian in their own mind. But you know the but but it it depends on who is looking at it. If an if a Hindu is looking at it they would say no they did not fully become sure uh Indian they still um carried uh the practices of Islam with them. Right. Uh or the uh the culture of Islam. The culture the the the Persian culture with them Let me jump in for a second. You're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. You're hearing the other voices on the show, Jonathan Sweitzer. Senior pastor of Crosswitz Valley Chapel, and John Prabudos, the co-founder of FIACONA, which stands for the Federation of Indian American Christian Organizations of North America. And if I'm understanding all of this the background properly, the the reason we're sharing all this background is to to show that there were things happening in India that were uh those who consider themselves died in the world strong, uh s uh with a firm lineage, Indian lineage feeling like their culture was being being taken or slipping away somehow because of these encroaching forces, whether they be British or Muslim or Persian forces or whatever, and in reaction against that there was almost like a a militant reaction uh about ten years ago that put a bunch of people at the crosshairs including Christians uh in India. Exactly. And uh and so now the and uh I don't know if there's a quick answer to this. Is this state sponsored persecution of the Christian? It is not state. The simple answer is it is not state sponsored considered. Which body is it or not? Some political parties are definitely sponsoring it, but it hasn't been made law. So not officially sponsored, but there's enough people in power with authority to make things difficult for some or whatever. Uh no no no if you if I if I can just quickly summarize uh the previous point, um Now because of this feeling that some of the intellectual Hindus had, they were kind of lost. They said, look, you know, for three hundred years the m the the Muslims, the Persians ruled us. And the for three hundred years the British come and rule us and and we don't know when they are going to be leaving. Right. So now we have become uh a stateless people within a st in our own state They have an a major identity crisis. Major identity crisis. And this is this is coming from the the elite, the high caste Brahmin Hindus. And so they go to uh Europe, they're wandering around reading different people, they they come across Heimler's uh uh writings. Yes You know who I'm talking about, right? In in uh Germany. In Germany, yeah. Who who proposes this Arian supremacy ideology? Purity, yeah. Racial purity for the state, and they think, oh geez You know, we should have a racial pure pure pure state in India. Huh. How do you do that? Throw out the Muslims and the Christians Mm. And that at that time the Christians were not a threat to them. It was the Muslims uh almost had about fifteen, twenty percent of the population. In the north they had uh higher percentage. So They wanted to create this one nation, one culture, one people, replicate this ideology in India. So they came with this catchy phrase called the Hindu Hindi Hindustan. Hindu Hindi Hindu stun. I did it. This uh sort of militant o uh some would argue overreaction is the kind of thing that people in America today uh argue about because there are those that are worried about the culture of America slipping away and a lot of illegal immigrants coming in and and not assimilating, not taking on the the cultural characteristics, not learning the language. Exactly. Not becoming Americanized. And people are very concerned about that. And there's a big push that we should have a common culture, a common language protect our borders, that sort of thing. I think those instincts are s certainly appropriate and perhaps are valuable. The danger though is if you go too far into the extreme which it sounds like what's happened Well, what what happened uh was that uh when Gandhi going back to Gandhi in nineteen forty eight, forty seven, India becomes an independent country Gandhi was able to dictate pretty much. I mean it's a word bad word, but he was able to his opinion was the final say, you know. Among the r among the people who who assumed power after the British. And and with them he said India must remain a secular pluralist democratic state. Okay as opposed to a Hindu state because the Muslims remember wanted wanted a a an Islamic state and so they got Pakistan. So the India got divided. East Pakistan, West Pakistan was divided from India and India became because they thought the Hindus would And that war is still being fought, isn't it? Yeah, that's that that that sentiment is still very alive. And I was in Pakistan and Kashmir a couple of years ago to took a a delegation of expat Indians and Pakistanis from US, UK and Canada. on a on a peace mission and I was able to feel the pulse mm of the uh uh of the society there. I mean it's it it's very much alive and what happened in nineteen forty seven the the country got divided And so these guys were thinking, well, if they got an Islamic country we should have a Hindu Hindustan. Like Pakistan we should have a Hindustan. Even today they call India as either Bharat which is the older name for Indian civilization, or they call it Hindustan. They rarely use the word India. Um but officially it is India. Now anyway, you know So these are all political, sociological issues where all these people were uh basically saying we want our own identity. And they got tied up with Heimler's uh writings and and they said we wanna we want something pure here in India. Yeah. And they found these uh the brown shirts of Mussolini's organization, they replicated that in India and that became the RSS. Now I think I have a pretty good idea of some of the foundational things are going on. I'm sure there are incredibly more details and if there are some really important ones, uh feel free to make sure that we cover some of those. Fascinating, isn't it, Jonathan? The the last few weeks, the the history lesson. uh that we've ha whether it be with Israel and you know what happened in the in nineteen forty eight. Yeah, right. Interesting the same period of time. What's happen what happened at that same period of time in India and how it's the world was shaking sixty years later and we're still dealing with the fallout of those decisions that were made back in the forties. It's yeah. It's fascinating. So uh now that we have this really difficult dynamic in place, in America So what happens now, yeah. Yeah. Well in in America this f uh uh Fiacona is formed. And you're hoping to accomplish what exactly? Well well for the past forty, fifty years there was no problem in India. Um because India was is considered um a secular democracy with all people. Okay, so everything's good. Everything is good. Religious tolerance for the most part. But this party uh the Hindu Radical Party was saying, Well, you know what? We haven't really used our potential yet. PJP. PJP. So they said The only way to convince majority of the Hindus in India to go along with them is to Okay. So you once once you um uh divide the society Right. Right. And you uh you got the attention of the majority of the So this is their strategy, make the Muslims out to be the bad guys, the Christians out to be the bad guys. Everybody that's not Hindu, Hindi, Hindustan Exactly. But the he the Christians got in the g in the in the middle of this fight between the Hindus and the Muslims. The Christian church was I mean we are two point four percent, two point three percent of the population. That that's not a threat to anybody. But then there are some states where the Christian missions are very active. And you know, you know the Hindu the hierarchical caste system where, you know, if you're a low caste, you know, you cannot enter the temple in in and all these things and you And there are about three hundred million of them in India, the low cost, are the people who do not belong to the cost system. So when they culturally they are Indians, they're culturally the word if you want to use the word Hindu in a broader sense, they are culturally Hindu But not religiously. But they uh culturally have no business being in certain sections of Exactly. They are they are outside the cost system. So here comes the Christian missionaries and the local native missionaries and foreign missionaries. They come in the in the past, the foreign British missionaries and and uh and Belgian and German missionar missionaries Swedish missionaries. They all came and told them, Look, you are equal in the eye in the in the sight of God. Yeah, powerful. Powerful idea It it is a it is a mind blowing idea for they never thought that they could be equal to anybody. That's a regular t tsunami of uh an idea. It's gonna shake everything. That became a threat to the radical Hindu groups. They said, Look, the Christian missionaries are coming in destroying our social order. Mm. The social order is that for three thousand years we were able to keep them under our feet. Now they are coming and telling them that they are equal, so they are leaving us and they're joining forces with Christians. The Christianity did not come to India in during the British time. The Christianity came to India in fifty-two AD. By Apostle Thomas. Thomas. Right. Because the doubting Thomas brought the gospel. I mean he is now I I trace to his um That's the traditional view anyway, right? We don't know For a fact, but it's traditionally accepted. It is traditionally accepted. It is traditionally accepted. I tr I traced um uh his uh his journey from From Damascus he goes to Babylonia, from Babylonia to Baghdad, Baghdad to Basra. From Basra he gets on a boat and comes to the western Malabar coast of India. Because he didn't come to preach the gospel to the Indians. He came to tell the good news of Christ to the lost house of Israel, the Jewish Diaspora. And they lived in that in India. Even before Solomon's time there was a a merchant Jewish community in India. More history. Yes. But we'll have to pick up uh where we're leaving off now in next week's show, if you're all willing to come back. The two Johns, uh Prabudas and Sweitzer, thank you for being on the show. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating, how we can make you smile. I'm Troy Skinner Face for listening, God bless