Welcome to the live stream here from the Household of Faith in Christ. I encourage you to visit our website, Household of Faith in Christ. We are in Revelation. So if you want to get your Bibles ready, we're working through the latter parts of Revelation. We're in chapter 22. Today we'll be Looking at things a little more broadly and holistically, but we'll be specifically focusing a lot of our attention on verses 6 through 10. Be reading again from the amplified Bible translation today. It's a message that I have titled Imminent Return of Messiah Christ Jesus Flow down, thou stream of life divine, thy quickening streams deliver. Oh, flow throughout the soul of mine, forever and forever. Flow down, and cause this heart to glow with love to God the Giver, that love in which all virtues grow for ever and forever. Flow down as flow the ray and rain in vital work together, refreshing roots. and quickening grain for ever and forever, flow down, as flows the living sun upon the sparkling river, which, chanting to the boundless, run forever and forever, flow down, revive this famished soul, and bear away all error. And I'll praise thee, God of all, forever and forever. It felt right and good for me to open us today with an old hymn from 1883. This 19th century song, when you think about it, was a contemporary hymn not so long ago, 140 years ago. And it sets the tone just as well today as it did back then as we continue our march through the pages of the Revelation. As I mentioned, we're in Revelation chapter 22 today, but we'll be looking at other passages as well, uh both Old and New Testament, reading some of them, alluding to others. And I just want to remind you, whenever we're in God's Word, it is God's Word, is God breathed. We call that the inspiration process. It's therefore inerrant, infallible. It is the sufficient source, the standard by which we gauge what we should believe, how we should live, and I encourage you always to receive it as such. In today's passage of the Revelation that we're going to be looking at, we find a continuation of some key thematic elements that have been running throughout the book. One being the intimacy that God's people have with their Lord. Unholy people can't see God's face and live. But then in glory, as described in this final book of the Bible, God's people have completed their process of sanctification, so now they are made holy. as full-time residents of heaven, where they're both rulers and servants. If you follow Jesus, Then you will walk among the trees of life. Now I know that typically we think in terms and talk in terms of there being a one tree. But as we alluded to last week at the start of chapter 22, Johnny's done something that points us to a magnificent abundance of life. In verse 2, we see the word tree in almost every single English translation you're going to run across, and that's a good translation. But the word there in the Greek, it most literally, or most woodenly, as it were, means wood. There's a more common Greek word for tree. But Johnny doesn't use that more common word in this instance. So John maybe, I wonder, is it possible that he on purpose It's possibly asking us to read this phrase, the wood of life, as a collective term that suggests the concept of many trees. Now, if you're wondering where John would even get this idea, he got it from the Septuagint, the ancient Greek translation of the Bible that was the Bible of the disciples and of Jesus in the first century, the Septuagint. It says in chapter two of Genesis, talking about the Garden of Eden, it says, every tree that is desirable and pleasing. It talks about the tree of life. It talks about the tree of good and evil. And all three times that the word tree appears in Genesis. In chapter 2, it's the word for wood. There's another Old Testament reference that's found in Ezekiel in chapter 47, verse 12 specifically. Where there's a description of a vision that includes all kinds of trees. We actually read that today as a congregation. Most exactly it would be all kinds of wood, actually. Whose leaves will not wither and their fruit will not fail. This somewhat unusual word for tree, it's also used in five other places in the New Testament. Galatians 3, 1 Peter 2, and 3 times in the book of Acts, in chapters 5, 10, and 13. And in each of these passages in the New Testament, it's used in reference to the cross of Christ. Now adding all this background, it is not to say that there's not just one tree in Revelation chapter 22. That is not my point at all. The point here is to say that even if there is just one tree, and there very well very well might be just one tree, it's an infinitely abundant tree. Of everlasting life. Even if it's one tree, it says though there are many trees. As it says at the start, the very start of the Psalter, actually, the very start of the Psalter. Blessed is the man who delights in the law of the Lord. He will be like a tree firmly planted and fed by streams of water. Which yields its fruit in its season, its leaf does not wither, and in whatever he does, he prospers and comes to maturity. This teaching is reiterated in Jeremiah 17. Blessed with spiritual security is the man who believes and trusts in and relies on the Lord, and whose hope and confident expectation is the Lord. For he will be nourished like a tree planted by the waters, that spreads out its roots by the river, and will not fear the heat when it comes, but its leaves will be green and moist, and it will not be anxious and concerned in a year of drought, nor stop bearing fruit. Now my hope in bringing all this up in this moment is that we will all begin to capture more fully something that is deeply profound here. Something that is shared with us in our holy scriptures There's imagery, there's wordplay that's being used with these poetic and apocalyptic descriptions that I've read to you, and what we read last week too, as a matter of fact. There's an effort here in God's word to blow your mind. Is your mind blown? I mean when we hear someone proclaim God's promise to restore Eden, does that mean anything to us in the way that it should? I wonder. Until I mentioned it briefly last week, I doubt that most of us know that the Hebrew word for Eden, what it means, is luxury. In other words, it connotes pampering. Do we recognize that Moses in the Pentateuch, the Torah, the first five books of the Bible, was telling us a story about paradise, lost? Having a garden of Eden, it was having a garden of luxury, a garden of delight, a garden of pleasure. This was a lustrous green garden rich in organic, non-GMO, regenerative Holistic food. It was a garden that was quite literally paradise. For the Septuagint, that ancient Greek translation of the Hebrew text, the word for garden, it's translated into Greek as perdissos. Paradise. The same words used elsewhere in the ancient text, like in Nehemiah, Ecclesiastes, Song of Songs. In those passages, the word is used to describe a large expanse of land that's richly filled with trees. It's also used to describe a king's forest. It's used to describe a beautiful orchard. These are the images our mind should conjure when we hear this. The word it derives from an old Persian word that means wooden park. Or it can also mean a garden. It's in an enclosure. You know, basically Jesus has this word on his lips in Luke chapter 23, right? He's on the cross. He's talking to the thief who's also on a cross. He says, You'll be with me in paradise. So this word it points us back to the original paradise of Eden, which then points us forward to the eternal paradise of heaven on earth. The first Eden, that's where the curse entered paradise. The last Eden, that's where the curse is forever banished from paradise In the first Eden, the slithering serpent deceived the people. In the last Eden, the Lamb of God is seated with the Father upon the throne of God, leading the people in truth, no deception. In the first Eden, God walked with the people. That's pretty cool. But even better, in the final Eden, he walks with his people, not only as God, but as the incarnate Son. He dwells with them as one of the people himself. And in doing this, he reigns over his people as the people reign with him. Even now, Christians can be said to be reigning, at least in some regard, with Jesus, in some sense. But after the church completes her mission, the up and down sense that we have of reigning, this will change, it will be perfected. And the church she will reign forever. Now I just use the pronouns her and she in talking about the saints as the church. Now I did this because this is what John does within the Revelation. Recurringly, he does it when identifying the new city. The city is personified as the bride. And she has been won by her champion, the bridegroom. And so we know this is a love story which ends happily ever after. And we can know this for sure. I find it interesting. God's Word, it doesn't provide us with every last little tiny detail about the geophysical dimensions of the renewed creation. nor every little aspect of the complete character of this renewed creation, but we are given a very, very, very clear picture of what it means for us. And it means all of our needs, even possibly those like what we feel now, they will be perfectly met forever and ever. We wrapped up our most recent sermon. We concluded then with verses that reiterate chapter 21's assertion that in the New Jerusalem There is no night. Why? Because God Himself is the light. And this reference to God as the light includes the Lamb, because Jesus, he is also on the Lord's throne. He is the light of the world Son of God is also our source of living water, but we want to be careful here, distinguish something that's rather interesting. During his first advent, Jesus, he calls himself the light of the world. And he calls himself the bread of life and the door and the true vine, and he calls himself the resurrection and the life. He calls himself the way, the truth and the life. But he doesn't ever call himself the water of life. The bread of life, yes, but never the water of life. That's I don't know a little interesting to me. Instead, in John's Gospel account, Jesus he he refers to the Holy Spirit as the living water. John chapter 7, Jesus says, If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. He who believes in me, who adheres to, trust in, and relies on me, as the scripture has said From his innermost being will flow continually rivers of living water. And then John adds in verse 39 of chapter 7. But he, meaning Jesus, was speaking of the Holy Spirit, whom those who believed in him as Savior were to receive afterward. And I bring this up because in Revelation chapter 22 it's a passage that clearly points us to the Father and the Son. I mean it's not ambiguous at all. It's right there. Well, in this passage we are additionally, a little more subtly, but additionally pointed to the Spirit. Because the Apostle John, he is always highly Trinitarian. And it's only John, by the way, among all the New Testament authors. He's the only one who references the phrases water of life and living water. And I mentioned that as yet just another reason for us to have confidence that the apostle who Jesus loved, he is the human author of the Revelation. There are all these little clues throughout the book that help to reinforce that. I'm convinced anyway that that is the case. Before we move on, I want to pause at least enough here to uh to ponder the meaning of the water of life. Living water is alive, moves, it flows. It's pure, it's fresh, it's clear. Its wholesomeness represents the opposite of stale, stagnant, brinish, brackish water. Instead, it's sparkling and refreshing. It restores life. It supports life. Whoever drinks of it will never thirst again. Because it is the wellspring of everlasting life. Have you tasted it? Have you drunk it in deep? Are you active with it, washing your life clean with it? Oh, I hope so. And with these happy thoughts in our mind, we'll now turn to Revelation chapter 22, verse 6. Then he said to me, These words are faithful and true. And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel as a representative to show his bondservants the things that must soon Now that very opening phrase there, these words are faithful and true, that is a direct repeat of the phrase that we saw in chapter 21. Verse 5. And then the final phrase I just read to show his bondservants the things that must soon take place. That is a direct repeat of the phrase that is found in the very first verse of the Revelation. And so from beginning, quite literally, the very beginning, all the way to the end, the ending chapters of this book of Revelation, we see that it is all tied together as one epistle. We need to take it all as one organic whole. Chapter 1, verse 11, John was told to write on a scroll what you see. And now in chapter 22, verse 7, John's told that those who pay heed to the message that he wrote down in this epistle will be blessed. Here's all of what is said in verse 7, and behold, I am coming quickly, blessed, happy, prosperous, to be admired. is the one who heeds and takes to heart and remembers the words of the prophecy, that is, the predictions, consolations, and warnings contained in this book or scroll. Now you want blessing, I'm sure. Who doesn't want to experience blessing? Well then take to heart what the Lord's telling you here through his angel, through his apostle. Remember the words of this prophecy. In other words, do something with what you hear This is so crucial. Ready yourself Because Christ, He says, I am coming quickly. Now other translations, again I'm reading from the Amplified today, other translations, they opt for I come quickly. That seems to be a translation that would emphasize the shocking suddenness with which our king will return. When he comes, he comes in a flash. The blink of an eye in an instant he comes quickly. So there's an exhortation in the confirmation of this promise. Ready yourself So this idea that I'm emphasizing here is clearly one way, I think, that we should think about these words and how to apply them But you know, there's also a timeline, I think, that's in view here as well. When we stand back and we survey the 2,000-year history of the church, And then we read words here about coming quickly. Well, in those moments, you know, we can be tempted to allow a little bit of doubt to creep into the recesses of our mind. Those shadowy parts of our thinking. I mean 2,000 years of history, that doesn't sound like coming quickly, does it? But time frames are often relative, you know. And the promise by Christ, it is also, therefore, to be understood in relation to the message that was given earlier, like what was given to the prophet Daniel. In the Old Testament, Daniel, he was told to seal what he saw. Why? Because the fulfillment was far off from where he stood. But in the New Testament John, he is told to reveal what he saw. And so the fulfillment of history is unsealed. See, Johnny prophesies about things that are coming soon. In fact, they even now come in many ways Here's what's written in verses 8 through 10. I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel who showed me these things, but he said to me, Do not do that. I have a fellow servant with you and your brothers, the prophets, and with those who heed and remember. The truths contained in the words of this book. Worship God. Verse 10. And he said to me, Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time of the fulfillment is near. Such a contrast with the book of Daniel. Book of Revelation underlines the nearness What was once distant for the Old Testament Saints, it's very much proximate for the New Testament saints. So be watchful. Remain awake You don't want to be like the people of old Jerusalem who so many hundreds of years ago got caught in Athen. We read about that in the Bible. The Hebrew scriptures, Yahweh had promised to send to them a delivering Messiah, and so they waited. And waited. And waited. And hundreds of years went by, and seemed the Lord had grown silent, and the people lost sight of the Father's faithfulness. And the chosen people became increasingly disobedient. They ignored God's law Or they added their own traditions to this law. Or they did both. Ignored it and added to it. And when the prophesied suffering servant entered their midst in his first advent, they weren't ready. They didn't even recognize him. Do you recognize him? Are you ready for his second advent? As I say these things to you about God revealing his plan to us so that we should be ready. This doesn't mean that God tells us everything. But he tells us what we can handle, and he tells us what we need to know. For now, though, of course, we understand that we see only through the bottom of the glass somewhat dimly. And we know that God's ways are higher than our ways are not our ways. Some things they belong to God alone to know. We only know that which He chooses to reveal to us So as we discussed back in Revelation chapter ten, if you remember that, we are not informed of every little thing. John was instructed back in chapter ten, remember? To leave a couple of things out of this book. Do not write it down. Or whatever these things might be, it's for our own good that we are left out of the loop on that. And it's for our own good that we are brought into the loop on these other things. For instance, the revealing angel affirms the truthfulness and the faithfulness of God. There is blessing in believing this. As the benediction of verse 7 tells us. That's the sixth of the seven benedictions in the Revelation, by the way, so there's one more to come. And we're also reminded that it is God alone who is worthy of worship. God alone. So, no matter how wonderful a man's message, or even a spiritual being's message, might seem to you, might strike our ears, we cannot worship him. God alone, no one else. I don't care if it's George Washington or Barack Obama or Donald Trump or you know what? Even Taylor Swift. I don't care how supernatural or dreamy they might seem to you in appearance. We cannot worship them. Doesn't matter if it's Confucius or Buddha or Aristotle or Moses. And we're all too prone to worshiping people who do or say great things. It's such a tendency that we have. Don't do it. Follow the example of Jesus that we read about in Matthew chapter 4. Satan, he invited our incarnate Lord to fall down and worship me, Satan said. Jesus told Satan, go away. And he defeated that liar with the truth of scripture, the scripture that the liar had tried to twist. And Satan fraudulently promised Christ all the kingdoms of the world as though they weren't already his Oh, the kingdoms of the world will be yours if you'll just do what I say. It sounds kind of like the message we hear all the time from Madison Avenue. Wall Street even. Hollywood. And you know, unfortunately, from so many pulpits belonging to men like Jim Baker. Jimmy Swaggard, Kenneth Copeland, Jill Olstein, T. D. Jakes, Greflo Dollar, so, so, so, so many more. Resist the temptation. Refuse to bow to the message that they bring. Hang in there and worship the triune God of the Bible Only him, the triune God, which includes the truly man, truly God, Jesus Christ. And behold, he's coming on the clouds. Cling to his words. For dear life, cling to them. Satan, he tries to break your hold on the Savior. He does. He's trying hard. He smashes you up against the rocks of life with repeated wave after wave of chaotic sea swells. bashing you against those sharp, jagged rocks, sometimes day after day after day. And that enemy's thunder is loud It's distracting. It's even scary. But don't allow it to be effective Listen instead to the thunder of God, and to the still small voice of God, and to the one who created the lightning. Be dazzled by him. And prepare for rain. There's one who made you, washes you clean, and makes you new There is a secular band that, well past their heyday, had released an album in the 1990s that Almost nobody bought as far as I can tell. Wasn't a very successful release, I don't think. It's really too bad because it has some excellent songs on it. It's really a very, very good album. And the lyrics to one of the songs that's on this album, the group, by the way, is known as Foreigner, and the words that go something like this: I hear this the sound of thunder coming through in the night. I lie awake and I wonder where my life is going. Am I on a road leading nowhere? Now I'm standing on a mountain looking into the sky. I see the clouds come rolling in, water fills my eyes. Do you ever know someone who had lost their way, built their own little kingdom, and just blew it all away? I'm not ashamed to admit it, that someone was me. I'm going to look to the future now. Because I've now been set free. And I'm ready for the rain to fall Because I've heard the thunder. And I'm ready for the rain to fall. I'm ready. Ready for the rain. Get ready for the rain to fall while you've still got time. You're in our own strength. None of us can build an everlasting kingdom. Not one of us, and our efforts will frustrate us to no end. But here's the good news, we're not called to do that. We're called to enter into the kingdom that God has built. The place where there are many mansions, and if you follow the way, the truth, and the life, well then there is a room that is prepared there for you And you can trust this to be true because God tells you so. And so just as to put a cherry on top, I think, God's word closes in chapter 22 of the Revelation with a guarantee that comes from three witnesses. And we know the importance of having two or three witnesses in the Bible. The first witness, it is God, the divine author. He's mentioned in verse 6 of today's passage. The second witness is Jesus, the divine revealer. He's going to be mentioned in verse 16 when we get there in this chapter. And the third witness is the Apostle John, the faithful recorder of the message. He is mentioned by name in verse 8 of today's passage. It's well attested to this truth. Believe it. Now there's going to be a lot more actually to say about verses six and ten that we have time for today. So when we get together for our next sermon, I think I'm going to probably start us off with some of these tidbits that I had to leave out this time, but it'll provide for us some some contextual reminders, a refresher course, if you will, before we then move on to verse 11. But for now, I'm going to begin to wrap up for today with a pastoral note. Throughout our trip across the landscape of the visions of the Revelation, we have pulled over to the side of the road a number of times to take in what it says in all those little historical markers. Mentioned that by way of analogy. You know, we you are on vacation, you see those little markers sometimes in different places, and they're often ignored. Except by those rare families like Bernie Beale, a good friend of the church who's spoken here in the past, right? He talks about how his family always stops to read all the historical markers because they they find them to be you know rather interesting and and helpful and and fun And you know, if you've strolling through our own hometown here, you you know what I'm talking about. Even if you haven't been on a vacation, you know what I'm talking about. If you've walked throughout Frederick, there's lots of historic stuff that's happened here, you know, Civil War stuff, Revolutionary War history. And this history is recorded for us so that we can learn, if we didn't already know, or we can be reminded to remember if we already knew it, uh what happened. You see this on community plaques that are stationed all throughout the town. And Knowing things about this sort of stuff, you know, knowing um you know how things happen, why things happen, when things happen, I think it's very helpful oftentimes. It can even be fun, trust me, sometimes anyway. Well, for the revelation, we've got these sort of markers that are laid for us throughout the book. And having all this context. They could go so far as to say it's nearly crucial to proper understanding. Nearly. But having said that Will you die and go to hell if you don't examine the water that's mentioned at the start of chapter 22 so that you can decide if it's uh flowing in the middle of the main street or alongside the main street Will you die to hell if you don't figure that out? Of course not. If the water flows through and between, around the tree of life, or even if it should be translated as trees of life. It really matters not one lick. Except it does matter. Sometimes it does. And can you make it to heaven without knowing that in the Revelation we find the fulfillment of Zechariah chapter fourteen where it's written about the holy city that it will be inhabited, for there will no longer be a curse For Jerusalem will dwell in security. Can you make it to heaven without knowing about that connection from Revelation chapter 22 to Zechariah 14? Absolutely, you can make it to heaven without knowing that. You're not consigned to hell for not knowing that. You can be a rock solid Christian without ever thinking about the feminine versus masculine pronouns or the syntax of the prepositional phrases Or the linguist uh linguistic modifiers or the the use of the definite article or the semantic domain ranges of the words or the often overly technical terms that are used by theologians You can get through life just fine without all that stuff. But why would you want to? But seriously, it's because of things like this that we can better defend the reason for our hope. When the foundations of the faith come under attack. And it's because of things like these is someone like me can stand here before you. And without any sort of qualms or quibbles at all, I can share with you that there is a day of Yahweh that's headed this way. It's coming. A day when the Lord will judge the nations. A day when the old Jerusalem and the old temple are no longer there. Why? Because God and the Lamb are the temple In the New Jerusalem. And the Spirit of Christ resides within the hearts of men and women, serving as subjects of the eternal King and High Priest. And so. They are the body of Christ, and as his body, they too are the temple in Holy Jerusalem. And this is true because of the living water that flows from the throne of the Father and the Lamb. The flowing water of life. It's a river that runs through paradise. Come to this river. Whether you know all the details and all their minutiae or not, know this. Christ is king And he's coming back. Any day now. It's imminent And those rejecting his spirit, the river feeding the tree of life, they will be forever lost. So come to the river In a highly symbolic book like the Revelation, the details are not always what's most important. What's most important Is that Eden's coming back with a fullness of blessing that you can't even fully comprehend until it happens? This paradise is coming For those who come to the river. So again, I invite you. Come to the river. Father, we praise you and thank you that you have brought your people to the river. The river of the water of life, living water. Given to us by our Lord and Savior, your Son Jesus Christ. Nothing we could do to accomplish this fact ourselves. So we throw ourselves at your feet, seeking your mercy and grace, knowing that trusting in our returning king and his perfectly complete finished work that we are washed clean. So we can spend eternity with you in a restored Eden, in a perfect paradise. Allow the truth of this to wash over us as we marinate in it, draw strength from it Have the courage to face the challenges, the trials, and tribulations that we face, the side of glory, until that day arrives when our Christ Our Messiah. Our Savior, our High Priest, returns. Help us be watchful and ready in the meantime. It's in his name. In the name of Jesus that we pray. Amen. I want to shut down the stream now. Again, I encourage you to visit us online if you're of a mind to do so. Household of faith in Christ dot com is the name of the website, Household of Faith in Christ. com. God bless.