What is this strange music I hear? Doesn't sound like the faith debate music to me. But it's still the Frederick Faith Debate. We're not in Kansas City. Oh is that what happened? Oh oh. So we're listening some really heavy metal rock. Hey, get out of bed. Well it kinda matches your it kinda matches your tie and your shirt. I mean, 'cause there's a little bit of a pretty heavy duty class we got going on there today. I think it looks good. No, I mean it's uh well, rock music sounds good. Most people like rock music, right, right. Right. It just you know, it makes a you know, a c a clash. It's good for the faith debate. And that's what you're listening to right now, the Prodigy Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. That's Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Sweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner, your host. Our show is brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating, how can we make you smile? And we have a special guest on the panel, yes, uh, this week and for the next couple of weeks. And the timing couldn't be better. on having uh Pastor Paul Monday from uh Frederick Church of the Brethren on the show. And uh well, you know, i if you listen to this station with any regularity around this time, you know that He gives us the lead in and then we chase away whatever audience we inherited by about this time using That's right. You should call your other show Monday on Sunday. You know have you thought about that? It's called a time of challenge now, but you you could be on to something. There you go. Monday and I like that Monday on the week. Yes, that will do it. It's the little things, you know. But you know, our show's a disaster and apparently Paul's show needs more edge. However, we're doing something right. Because the latest Arbitron ratings are in. Uh oh. Really? Arbitron. And I am very excited and you know, baffled, but excited to announce that the most listened to hour On Sunday. On Sunday is the eight A. M. hour. You're kidding. On WFMD. On WFMD. W F M D of all the people It is the most listened to hour of the day. Yes, exactly. And it's good to have you. Yes. And the other thing that's uh that I mean people maybe management wouldn't want me sharing this, but the eight A. M. hour on Sunday morning. No, you mean the eight thirty. We're on at eight thirty. No, well the whole hour. The whole hour. See, I'm the whole hour. I'm here this week, so eight AM to nine AM for the lead in. That hour beats Any hour of Glenn Beck or Michael Savage. Are you serious? Oh you're kidding. We're big time, baby! That truth matters, baby. I'm gonna ask them for a raise. I'm gonna say triple what you're paying me. So maybe they should bring us in the middle. They'll offer me fifty f fifty five million times what they're paying for that. Tuesday, Wednesday, they should bring us zero zero. Absolutely I think we're on to something. So so maybe this is not just a Sunday. Maybe this is Monday. Monday on Monday, Monday on Tuesday. Some kind of toast is in order. And now we and we have this raisin toast. And the the timing of this, you know, news is also interesting timing. I don't know if you've been keeping track. But by my calculations, you know what today is I have not been keeping track. Today is our three hundredth face debate program. Three hundred debates. Three Hundred. Wow. Another reason for me to be here. I feel like you and I should like go away, you know, for for for like a uh you know, anniversary engagement party or something, you know. I thought you were gonna say go away for some counseling. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I'm starting to get the seven year ish here with you. Oh oh yeah well did that make you the woman that you're like no no that's a good thing. program but hasn't been Pastor Monday the whole time but it's like thirty some odd thirty s over thirty years. Unbelievable. That's a lot of shows. That's more that's more than three hundred. More than three hundred. More than three hundred, absolutely. Huh? You could tell he's seminary trains. Absolutely. Absolutely. Harble in a thousand shows are on board. fifteen hundred maybe. Right. Because it's fifty per week times fifty years. Yeah. Fifty-two weeks a month. So what's up? Is that fifteen hundred? It's somewhere between fifteen hundred and two thousand shows. If you had a dollar for every show. Absolutely. And they're all available on podcast, I'm sure Sunday. So far we're not on the website or anything, so we'll have to work in that. Alright. So anyway, you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate, enough about us. Let's talk about uh our our issue. Yes. Hard hitting, heavy pressing issue, something that weighs on us. We can't sleep at night when we consider this sort of an issue. That's right. This is very important. Right. Does Fido have a place in heaven? And I you know, on the one hand you gotta say yes. Because it says somewhere in scripture, all dogs go to heaven. Isn't that a Bible verse? No, no, no, no. Oh, yeah. Did I say that? Am I allowed to say hell on the radio? Family radio. I'll say this starting out, I don't think animals go to hell. Just to get myself on record, I don't think there's any animals in hell. Okay, do you think maybe bats do when they suck your blood. Maybe they do. Or how about mosquitoes? Mosquitoes. Yeah, no, you're right. Okay. So I'm gonna have to I'm gonna have to hedge my bet. Maybe some animals are in hell. Now uh definitely some are d demonic. Now we're s we're we're kinda being silly here. We talk about some really heady, heavy kind of stuff on the show from time to time. But you know, depending on your perspective, this is a pretty heady, heavy kind of a thing. Because You have children? I do. You have a pet dog. I did. What did? Did your dog die? No no we we gave her back because uh our boys were all uh diagnosed with uh with allergies allergies and such. So Oh yeah, so we gave her back. Okay. Well, before you had to give her back. Yes. If your dog had had, you know, got hit by a car and died or something, your boys would have been very upset. Sure. And one of them might have said, because you're a pastor, they would expect you might know the answer to this question. What was your dog's name? Uh Princess. Princess. No, sorry, princess is it was our dog when I was a kid. Winchill was the name of the dog. Winchill. Princess is not the name of the head. Winchill, because my my boys named the dog after a rescue hero dog Saint Bernard that would rescue people you know out of the snow. So, you know, Flinchill. It's very important. So if Linchill had died And they asked you that question, is Winschill in heaven? What do you say? I would not have hesitated. I'd have said, Look, I don't think he's probably in heaven, but it's okay for us to cry a little bit and just, you know, because we really love him a lot. You're a rough dad. That's rough. You wouldn't even hesitate. Listen, kids, that's it. Dog's dead. No, no, no, no. She she's giving me those old prickles I would give no throw for the thing. I wouldn't hesitate. That's it, dog's dead third. Throne is everything. I would say I I'd I'd put my arm around him, I'd hold him real close, and I'd say, You really loved him a lot, didn't you? I did too I'd tell him the story about the time when my dog died and we went off and buried him together. So you show some compassion. You took some have a nice tone and I'd say, look, I think they're probably not gonna, you know, gonna be in heaven They might be, but um but it's okay 'cause we've got to be a little bit more. See Troy, you're onto something because I w we do this hot topics for a hot summer every every uh uh year at Frederick Church of the Brethren and we picked this topic uh they are very hot absolutely and they are and this is one of the hottest actually and We but pe pick me some time in advance, so the topics are advertised months in advance or whatever. And I have more people come up to me on this topic than probably any other topic. It's either kids or elderly persons and it's not just a sort of elective kind of thing. In other words, it's it it's the kind of thing that you're kind of alluding to, and that is it is It is a very emotional, emotional thing. And people basically said to me, you know, if you say the wrong thing, you know, in other words, in essence, uh animals are not in heaven we're gonna be wiped out. My son, my husband or whatever is not in heaven. So this is really has some pretty heavy freight to it. So it it's yeah, so I think we're on to something in terms of kind of where do you go with this in terms of basically what scripture says. I almost feel like we gotta start there. Yeah. Is it appropriate? For for us to have so close a relationship with an animal that when they die, we feel like right I remember my mom, uh, you know, we we had a dog back when I was in teenage years. Princess. Princess. It was princess. And sure enough, Winschill. Princess was a was a black Labrador retriever and I took her on all my paper outs, you know, uh she had puppies for us one time, eight puppies, it was a lot of fun. We kind of grew up with her and then we all one by one headed off to college. And mom was left with walking the dog day in and day out feeding the dog. And mom's empty nest was Still full of princess. Right, right. Right. And she walked like every night praying when with uh princess there. Well, see right. And so so so we showed up at Christmas one year And I'm looking around, I said, Mom, where is the dog? She got kinda quiet. I said, Mom, where is Princess? And she told us the story that they felt like they had to put her to sleep. She had a little bit of cancer, you know, and they were doing some more traveling, so it just wasn't working out. And I said, Mom, why didn't you tell us? And she just, you know, she you know, she was kinda quiet. She I don't know if she had any tears, but it could tell that it had affected her deeply. So I wrote her a poem about it. Right for Christmas, I framed it and I gave it to her and sure enough she cried. Like it was really a big deal to her that she was she was close to I don't know that it would be equal to her father passing or one of us pass passing. Right, right. But she was very close. Yeah, this is this is a really big deal. that says as persons are aging um that pets actually extend their life because it goes beyond just simply uh some cute companionship. It kind of gets on this emotional level Uh and and and and and and and so you kinda wonder, well what this does all kinds of things. In other words, it's part of the aging process that we just normally kind of just move away from people who are getting older and so maybe all they have left are animals. Well what does that mean? You know and then like what Jonathan is saying, okay, well if if if if that's all they're left with, uh is it appropriate to have that kind of of uh Of dependency, I guess, uh i i if for people of faith, what about dependency on the Lord? And are we saying that that's not enough? That you've got to have uh something like a pet, uh simply because human beings have given up on you or will give up on you. Well I feel like I feel like if that's the case then then it's a reflection of our society. No longer doing what it should do, that people have to rely on pets for some kind of p companionship, especially the old that somehow we we have thrown them away. We no longer appreciate the value of our you know, our our mothers and our fathers, our grandparents that have gone on before that that is a reflection of a society that is going the wrong direction, that no longer appears. saying. Uh it's amazing my wife is uh in healthcare administration and and is an administrator at a leading retirement community here in this all the time. Yeah but but it's one of the few retirement communities that my in-laws my in-laws live at this retirement community. It's one of the few retirement communities that even allow pets to be a part of the retirement community. And it was the dis deciding factor uh for them uh to to basically have this uh uh to choose this retirement community and and a large of a lot of it's because of this emotional bonding or whatever rightly or wrongly. And even now uh you know, with my in-laws and many others that live in this retirement community have pets. Uh it is a major deal, uh I wouldn't say maybe totally equivalent, but almost equivalent then to l to the losing uh a son, a daughter, or some other significant family member. So th this is not some sort of elec uh elective a topic here. Uh and I know even in preaching on this topic, any number of people came to me with tears in their eyes You know, saying essentially you better say the right thing. You better say that pets go to heaven. Or I or we're leaving the church or we were we're we're wiped out emotionally. Well let me say it uh and we'll get back on track here in a second, but let me say, you know, to Jonathan's point. I I couldn't agree more. It's g it you know, oh, grandma's lonely? Let's buy her a poodle. And that shouldn't be the answer. If grandma's lonely, let's go visit her. Let's bring her into our home. Let's spend quality time for human quality time with grandma instead of you know, we have our televisions raise our kids. Or Facebook. Now you have puppies raising our or taking care of our elderly. Aren't you and Dina actually bringing somebody into the house that is uh that is a uh Relative older. Yeah, yes, we are, and it's uh it it's a project and a process. It's a major life change. But but this is precisely what we're saying. If we feel like There's problems in society. One of the main problems is that is that things are more important than people. Right. Right? And so going back to bringing somebody into our home that will be a bother to have around, but that we're doing it because We have a responsibility to love them and care for them. That's precisely the thing that would cause us to be deeper people. Right. To no longer be the shallow Americans that that we've turned into. In fact, I I feel like at some level I'm bothered by by the whole retirement community thing. You know? That that all of these people that have grown old are just going to spend time with each other and that's it. Mm-hmm And they're gonna watch one another die off in this secluded place somewhere out there all alone instead of being surrounded by children. Right. You know, that can come up and sit on grandma's lap and she can read 'em a book. You know, grandma could tell 'em stories about back in the day when she walked uphill both ways in the snow or You know, cooked in in you know, some kind of a stew pot. Right. You know, all those things that that would make life so rich. No, the reality is that that the trend now and this is the program in and of itself. We'll get back to tests here in just a moment. I hope so. But but but but that but the trend now P there? No, well not really. I'm glad you are because because that's what Jonathan's saying the way it should be, in terms of original intent of God. But the reality is that that especially um you know younger generations today I think have le uh the least patience of probably any generational uh mix that we have for the younger generation learn a little bit of respect in life. But there's I think Can I say there's little there's there's there's less respect and honoring of of elderly people than ever did before. So now back to pets. That's why pets kick in here in terms of a major, major type of thing because because it many of many of our elderly feel that's about all I have left. That's the voice of Pastor Paul Monday from the uh Frederick Church of the Brethren, the person that wants to put Paul Monday's wife out of a job is senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Schweitzer. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. She's an administrator of the retirement committee. That will go unnamed. I'm Troy Skidder. This is the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Okay, so animals in heaven or not. You Yes, recently I did. So what I do believe. that if you go back to the Hebrew we don't get too technical, the the term living creatures can be translated either uh living spirits or living souls. Uh much to my surprise, many very very prominent uh evangelical conservative commentators will go as far as translating that living souls. uh animals have living creatures have living souls. I don't go there. I kinda stop with the whole idea. Well it's it's the genesis of the creation account where it talks about God creating all living creatures and God said it you know they they have dominion or they have they they scatter across the face of the earth and God said it's good. That's kind of the basic passage. Uh it's the Genesis passage. And they're saying that from that that animals are considered living eternal creatures. Living creatures and with eternal soul. Uh you can go go in the Hebrew either uh living creatures or you could or living spirits or uh living souls. And uh yeah, I'll go as far as living spirits, but not in terms of Nefesh is the word. Exactly. That's it. Yeah. And nephesh means properly a breathing creature, vitality used very widely in a literal, accommodated, or figurative sense. Uh I'll let you interpret that. What does that mean? Probably for the most part, I think you could get some consensus on this. The Bible is primarily silent on the question. Yeah, there's no direct scripture that So you have to try to read between the lines or how you're going to interpret a particular word or phrase or whatever. I think the honest answer when a child asks you, well, is Fido or Princess or Windshield or whoever In heaven, I think the honest answer is I don't know. But I think that maybe this is the case. With a kind tone, Troy Huh? I would use a kind tone. Apparently you would just have compassion. Smack your kids up inside the head and how you've turned me into the downside. The other Bible verse a lot of people go to and I I was asked Asking some people uh when I preached on this, what what tipped it for you in terms of believing that animals are in heaven? And and what the other the other passage is I think it's Isaiah eleven, it's in the prophetic literature where it has a picture of the so-called messianic age or or uh you know picture of the new heaven, the new earth and all that. It's the classic text and the lion will lie down with the with the uh lamb and the wolf with the leopard and the lion. Right. A little child will lead them. And I was really surprised that that particular uh scripture uh really helped to tip it for for a number of our people that were were somewhat dubious. Okay, now now can I can I just ask uh About this research that you've done. You're saying that the majority of evangelical pastors are of the opinion that all animals go to heaven when they die and that they'll all be up there. Yes, but the thing that they really add, for example you got people like And that's gonna be a big new heavens and earth. Right. that they're all going to be there because we're worried about overpopulation. That's an overpopulation problem. Oh that that they simply well actually this is this uh this is a reality we don't oftentimes name, that there are you know, most people are pet lovers, they love animals. But there are simply people who just hate pets, who don't don't like pets around. And I in all honesty I had one or two people in our congregation who just absolutely detest pets And they c and they came up to me and they basically made what the point that Jonathan's making. Well then if pets are gonna be in heaven and there are gonna be that many animals Now I'm not going I'm not sure whether I want to I'm not going to heaven then. So whatever. I they think God's gonna make a choice, either me or the pets. It it didn't quite go that far. But but but this is where this but here this lead this is a great segue to my next point. And I said but the whole idea of the new heaven and the new earth, it's the the new Eden, the new Garden of Eden, all that kind of stuff, is it's redeemed R everything is redeemed. So so there are animals and the animals if you're not a pet lover who normally uh annoyed you and bothered you and were a pain because they're gonna be redeemed in heaven that they're not going to be a pain and they're not going to, you know, bother you. So so kind of the part of one of the uh the punchlines or whatever was, yeah, there will be mosquitoes in in heaven. But they won't fight. They won't you know they won't bother you. Yeah, who knows? I mean that's nothing is impossible. Maybe uh maybe I'm we're heading down the home stretch and I do want to kinda get maybe uh a a tied together short uh answer from you guys on this if we can. Uh Paul, after doing the the research and having all these conservative evangelicals kind of leaning in that direction, are you persuaded now that that's probably a correct. Yeah, I do but in the context of of the new heaven and the new earth, which means everything is redeemed and made made new And so it's not identical in any way, shape, or form to our experience with animals and pets here on earth, but it's part of God's entire new creation and and and and new thing in terms of of eternity. And the whole idea of whatever he includes there is to add to the joy and the delight uh of heaven and and to bring great uh uh it's Randy Alcorn has written the definitive work on heaven says that one of the dominant uh uh um uh aspects of heaven is just pure laughter, just pure joy So in whatever way that whatever God includes in heaven is primarily there to add to our joy, to our delight, and really just simply to our laughter. So Do I have time to ask him a quick question? Sure. Why not? Does not really, but go ahead. So these guys these these evangelicals, Randy Alcorn, these guys are claiming that not just that there will be animals in heaven But that that all of the animals that have been will be there. Well that yeah, i i that's that that's a great question. I I think Basically they would see all living creatures, all animals covered by the common grace of God and that and that as a result of that they will be heaven, but they will be redeemed. And uh they're there primarily not just simply to populate heaven, but to add to our delight and our joy. So the primary focus is on human human souls in heaven. But the purpose of the animals and whatever else is to add to the delight and joy. Are you persuaded that that's likely to be the No, no, no, no. I w I would say that that bothers me that that the definitive work on heaven goes that far beyond scripture. Scripture is clear that God produced living creatures. It's clear that there will be animals in heaven, but it says nothing about animals you know, going to heaven in the sense of, you know, like like we go to heaven and uh and so I'm I would say that I'm very uncomfortable telling anybody that their pet is going to be there in heaven when they get there. No. I will tell them that that you probably will have pets when you get there, but I think it's Uh it would be unwise for me to tell you to expect well then whose pets will be there if there's not their pets. That's my point. There'll be new ones Oh no animals. Oh I see. Okay. Right, right. I think your pets will be there. Yeah, I see what you're saying. But we'll expect animals to be there, and the animals will be in your team. I either either intentionally or unintentionally did label the message will animals be in heaven? So actually the message was not will your pet be in heaven? Right. But That's probably a pretty smart approach. But in so many words sure if somebody would ask me directly yes, your pet would be in happy I would uh say I didn't have any chance to offer my opinion, so I'm gonna offer my opinion that it'll probably take us up to the final bell almost probably. But I would say obviously God likes animals. He created them and said that it was good. And there is going to be a recreation of the heavens and earth at the end. And so there is this idea that things will be set right. Yeah. Uh and the way that they were at the beginning and better. And at the beginning there you know, he created animals. So I think that there will be animals and God certainly cares for animals. He rescued all of the animals during the flood, had him go under the Ark with Noah. He didn't just save the humans, he saved the animals. In fact, apparently we didn't eat him before the flood. And we're told, you know, not to muzzle the ox while he's treading out the grain. So there are you know, we're supposed to take care of our animals and care for a creation, all that sort of stuff. But I can't get my head to go past the idea that there is something unique and special about the human condition. You know, mankind is made in the image of God. And part of that image is the idea of having this everlasting soul. And that's not said about uh the animals. God didn't breathe life into the animals in a special way, the way that he's a very difficult time. Of course C. S Lewis Chronicles gives the impression that animals will be. So I think this is just a and C S C. of believing that animals will be in heaven as well as such. And so I would say that for me, for what it's worth, I think there will I think clearly there will be animals in heaven. I don't think you can argue very persuasively there won't be But as to whether or not the animals that we enjoy in this life will those same animals be in heaven I would I'm I would lean towards probably not. But I don't know that I could substantiate it very strongly from the pages of Scripture, you know. That's my problem that we would try to make scripture say more than it says, 'cause that is precisely the way that the church has gotten in trouble. all through the ages. I just would rather we not go there. So anyway, that will be the the wrap up on the show. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you for being on the show again, my friend. Thank you. Uh be nice of you Kids, would you? Sure. Doctor, do a little and uh Pastor Paul Monday from Frederick Church of the Brethren and also host of the you call yourself host? What do you call yourself? The host time of children challenge longest running religious radio program in Frederick in the Tri-State. Monday on Sunday. Monday on Sunday. Absolutely. That provides the ratings bump for this program because we're all we're we're we're the lead in to this program. Absolutely that's right. Absolutely. It's good to be on a Team with you like that after. Anyway, I'm Troy Skinner, you've been listening to the Freddie's Faith Event on Freddie's News Radio nine thirty WFMV, brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating How can we make you smile? I encourage you to visit us online, WFMD. com. Easiest way to get to the Faith Debate page is to go to the keyword section, type in the word faith, and then search, and bang, there you are. You'll find a a daily blog and a relatively new element to that now. It's updated. There are seven blog postings a week, not just five. You used to just do it Monday through Friday, but now there are seven blog postings. More fodder for your discussion with your friends. At church. You're not taking a day off on Sunday? Huh? Well I post those in advance. Uh-huh. Anyway, thanks for listening. God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putmint Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Pum and plumbing, how can we make you smile