Although hypocrite And other unregenerate men may vainly deceive themselves with false hopes and carnal presumptions of being in the favor of God and a state of salvation which hopefully theirs shall perish Yet such as true believe in the Lord Jesus and love him in sincerity, endeavoring to walk in all good conscience before him, may in this life be certainly assured that they are in the state of grace, and may rejoice in the hope of the glory of God Which hope shall never make them ashamed. This certainty is not a bare conjectural or and probable persuasion grounded upon a fallible hope But an infallible assurance of faith founded upon the divine truth of the promises of salvation, the inward evidence of those graces unto which these promises are made, the testimony of the spirit of adoption, witnessing with our spirits. That we are the children of God, which Spirit is the earnest of our inheritance, whereby we are sealed to the day of redemption. And then we have parts one and two of chapter eighteen of the Westminster Confession of Faith of Assurance of Grace and Salvation, the title of that chapter. And here to discuss this Rather contentious debate on the Westlands of Confession of Faith. Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and Jace Broadhurst The senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church and no disrespect, I'm sorry, Dr. James Broadhurst, he worked hard for that uh COVID. That's right. So First couple of uh sections, there are four and all, so I read basically the first half. I think we should open up the show and say that we're both mild mannered men in our other lives. No, I like I like you being contentious and me being a humble uh mild mannered person. You guys are both pastors. I can't believe you want me to lie like that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So anyway, so basically they're saying that many non Christians might falsely convince themselves that they are in God's good graces. But for the Christian they can have certain assurance that they are on God's good side, not merely because they feel assured But because of confidence in God's promises, the evidence of a changed life, and the presence of the Holy Spirit within. So I have a feeling that this week we're going to get into some issues we talked about last week. too deeply into last week's issues, which I'm sure like I say we'll slide into. Um do you believe um j Jace, do you believe that the Christian can have full assurance? Do you agree with what the Westminster Confession is saying here? I do believe there can be full assurance. I don't believe that it's necessary that all Christians have full assurance. So I I would argue that we can be assured. I I feel that I I'm assured of my salvation based on uh certain scriptural text. I think the the One thing I want to stress before we get into all the which we might probably agree on, and I like to stress some of the things we might agree on, if I can never find them. They're they're in here somewhere. But Um unregenerate men may vainly deceive themselves with false hopes and carnal presumptions of being in the favor of God and their in the estate of salvation. It seems to me that there are a lot of people in the church that have somehow, for some reason, assumed that they're Christians, or even outside of the church, have assumed that they're Christians. And and they assure themselves of it all the time. And they're just so far no they're not. And I I wonder what you would say to the church's responsibility of letting people know that they're not. That th this is something I feel I mean, I think we have similar structured churches that is elders, and and some of this assurance I think comes with affirmation from the church. The church lets you know to some degree that we see no reason to believe that you're not a Christian. Or, by the way, we do see a reason to believe you're not a Christian. Look at these things that you're doing. Therefore I I I'm not gonna state securely I mean I'm not condemning you to hell, but I'm saying I see no reason for you to call yourself a Christian and you're being hypocritical and you might just be unregenerate. It's my responsibility to tell you that. Are we on the same Page on that one? Do you think it's the church's responsibility to tell people that they might not be Christians? Yeah. Even though they think they are? I think so. Um you're you're giving some definitions to it that um are causing me to think. Like for example before you before you got to uh to to uh uh you know defining some of those things Um I was thinking to myself how important it is that people know that being baptized as a baby does not mean that they're saved. Right, right. You know, and how important it is that going to church on Sunday does not mean that they're saved. Or having walked an aisle and Yeah. Cry to cry. All of which leads me back to Romans, you know, two, three, four, where where Paul is laying down very clearly that circumcision does not guarantee that you are in the faith of Abraham. Right. It does not guarantee that you are you are uh of Christ, that uh that that you are of God. And I I feel like the same issue today that that we have these various circumcision issues that we say, oh well because I do this, I'm saved. You know, because I was circumcised is what they used to say, I'm a Jew, therefore I'm a part of the the people of God. But that it became clear that they were not the people of God precisely because they were not living by faith, but they were living by their own works. They were living by, you know, some kind of a sense that some kind of external thing was making it Happen for them. Which is why the next chapter is the law of God, interestingly. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Very logical. Yeah, so yeah Romans is incredible in that sense. Well I think the thing that Jay said was very important for people who would call themselves Christians and really are Christians to hear. is that th there's no requirement to have assurance all the time in order to be saved. You know, 'cause some people wrestle with doubts. Am I really saved? I don't know, I ha committed this horrible thing, what does that mean? And and oh that means I'm going to hell and the fact that I have doubts now I'm really going to hell 'cause I should I should really have doubts, right? So I think it's helpful and healthy for you know, you know, for a Christian pastor to remind us that you can have your doubts. Yes. I don't know that it is. I think it's my responsibility to tell them, look, this is how you know that you're saved. You know, if those that are in Christ, that his words are in them and his words remain in them, they will bear much fruit. So we can know that we're in Christ if you're bearing much fruit. Now let me define fruit for you. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, faithfulness, self-control. Is there a sense that your life is changing? Is there not a sense? then then what you need to do is you need to go back and you need you need to pursue God. You need to choose to press into the to the Lord because He has made His grace available to you. And uh and if those things are not the case, then you can know that you're not in Christ. And so so I I think I'm loath to say, you know what, from what I see in your life You were not saved. There are some people that I might say that too, but there are many people that that I'd be more inclined to say, look, this is how you know that you're saved. You judge yourself. But that's what James does. In the New Testament? Yeah, he does what? He saved. If you are living this life of continual sin, you're not saved. You have a faith that is dead. That's what I'm saying I would say. Right. Right. Well, isn't that what Jason is asking? Yeah, I've not heard the same same thing. So I'm not sure. I don't know that I would go to them and say that you are not saved. I would go to them and I would say if you are not blah blah blah blah blah, then you're not saved. I would not I would not come out and say you are not saved because that puts me in the knowing their heart. I don't know their heart. Which I which I actually said. I said I wouldn't say those things. Okay, so I wasn't sure. But I would say we're in agreement there. I if they answer your question this way, then basically they have to assume you just agree that That people would be dismissed from the membership for certain things? Absolutely, yes. In fact we have done so. Okay, and when you dismiss from the membership, that doesn't mean automatically they're going to hell. But it does say we have we are not giving you any assurance of your own salvation. You can just need to start looking at this. In fact the person that we did it to, if we follow uh uh First Corinthians and uh the these other passages, when you when you disfellowship them You're not saying that they're not saved. You're saying that they're not walking in the purposes of God. Right. And that that that by doing so Grab 'em. Yeah. Right. And that their soul will be saved on on the day of salvation even though they're doing something wrong. And so so I'm not saying that disfellowshipping somebody is me saying that they're not saved. It's it's me saying that they're not walking in Right. It's it's you saying that you're not giving them any insurance, you actually don't see any reason to believe that they're saved at least at this point. They're not acting like it, let's say. That's not that's not the language I use, because that's not the language of Scripture. The language of Scripture says you tell them that that they are not acting in accordance with the gospel, and so you c you're not willing to They're not acting like that's what I said. To let them be A believer. Yeah, okay. All right. I think we use the same exact language word for word, but that's okay. But you can disagree with me if you want. Sure. All right, so back to the assurance question, I guess. introduction to this. Now so now the question is, do people have assurance, which is what you were asking. Should they have assurance? And the answer is yeah, I think they should. Yes, I think they can. Does everybody have assurance? Of course not. Do people go through periods of doubt? Yes, I think they can certainly do. And uh as a pastor I deal with it all the time. They come in and I need to give them assurance. I need to say I you know, I know you've been living in sin this last week. I know that this has been a real struggle for you. I know you're having doubts. And Jesus said, I ha I've adopted you as my own. You're my son. I I I love you. You're my daughter. And I need to assure them of their salvation. Other times I don't want to assure them of their salvation because they're they shouldn't be assured of their salvation. You know, they you know, I've been a member of your church for forty years, but I've never come to the church, and I don't want to do anything that's right. Um, you know Then I shouldn't be assuring them. So I think they should have assurance and I think there's uh verses. Faith is being sure of what we hope for. I write these things that you may believe in the Son of God. taking a guy through it in um i in my office once a week because he was trying to figure out is this where I am? I I don't know if I'm saved and he just became a Christian just like two months ago going through first John, which is written so that you might know And that seems to me like assurance that you might know. So how I guess where where are we with that? Should they know or not know? Um Uh I I think there's every reason for them to be assured of of of uh their salvation uh through the clear teaching of Scripture. But I'm unclear as to whether or not this um chapter in the Westminster is talking about a um a personal sense that I feel assured or whether or not it's talking about the concrete reality that they are assured. Like which one is this talking about? Because you're talking about some people don't feel assured, nevertheless, they uh they are already assured. And I and what I'm trying to get the sense of is is is this passage talking about whether or not people should feel assured or are they talking about whether or not they are assured? that they have assurance of the gosp uh uh of their salvation uh because of uh what scripture teaches. Well I think it's grounded in the the test that it is the case. But then what comes from that about that. Am I right that there's nothing in this particular chapter about feeling it Um he only read the two pieces. But it's a testimony to us. So that's my phone. In fact, isn't that in isn't that in section two the the testimony of the spirit of doctrine witnessing with our spirits that we are the children of God? So so I guess I gotta ask this question. Are you of the opinion that somebody could have the spirit inside of them, witnessing with their spirits that they're the children of God, and yet not feel the assurance? Yes, I would say that is the case. That they could uh they could for some time not have full assurance. They don't have the testimony. I mean, isn't that what the testimony is? Is that the testimony? Rather yeah, it's it's they're not listening to it or yeah, it's not it's not penetrating them well enough so that they would have assurance at that time. They'd be going through doubts, they're depressed, they're discouraged, they've been sinning and So they don't listen to the power of the Holy Spirit sometimes. I think we all go through that. We don't always live uh the way the Holy Spirit is showing us to do. We aren't always convicted as we should be. So the Spirit is not always uh We're supposed to cooperate in our sanctification. It's synergistic. Right. So it's what you're describing to me sounds a little bit like Martin Luther, you know, crawling up the steps on his knees, you know, kissing every step, whatever he did, and trying to earn his salvation And and he doesn't claim that salvation came to him until after that and the assurance came. You know, and there uh Wesley talks about, you know, my heart was strangely warm. You know, there's that moment of of of knowing it. And uh and so Um it's interesting that I think you're describing something that that goes beyond what the Westminster Confession is saying is that and I think I'm a little bit more comfortable with the Westminster in this in this sense that the testimony of the Spirit is important and that if that testimony is not there That um I'm concerned on their behalf. I would be concerned as well. I mean I'm concerned for their salvation. So you would say you have never had Let me get straight. So you believe in assurance that if someone is saved, that they should be assured of that. Yeah. So you've never had doubts in your salvation? There's never been moments in your life that you've actually struggled with a s I I wonder. I wonder if I'm that that the Holy Spirit wasn't loud enough, that the world was was screaming louder than the Holy Spirit, it seemed. Alright now you're asking me about my testimony, so let me kick over into my personal experiential, you know, existential. Uh I I I think that my experience has been That from a very young age that that I have lived with a sense of assurance that has been very persistent. Uh even in times when I knew that I that I had done things that were wrong and that there was a deep sense in my heart that that I was uh you know, that that that the Lord was rebuking me for it and you know that I needed to uh respond to his grace and that uh that the consistent experience for me has been that that I know that I'm saved. That there are times of of um there are times when people have brought arguments Or when for whatever reason I was feeling insecure as an individual, that when I stopped and I pressed into the Lord and I said, God, where are you? You know, maybe where the heavens felt like there were brass, but that that as I pressed through, there was there was a breaking through that Yeah, yeah. It's good to see again, Lord. I I think that's a sign of of great maturity and I I'm thrilled about that and I wish all Christians could always have that kind of a testimony. I'm just curious as t a and and sometimes when you're saying how long was that period where the heavens were brass? I mean, was it just a minute or two? W what about those people who are struggling for a week or two? I mean would you say that they're not going to be able to do that? uh was feeling most insecure. The problem for me was not my relationship with the Lord. The problem for me was that was that I was uh I I was living under a certain fear of man. You know, and so so I wasn't I wasn't thinking to myself, man, am I saved or not? I was thinking to myself, man, does Jace like me? You know, d does Troy think I'm you know, I'm I'm a smart guy? And and in in living under the fear of man for that period of time, uh I would get distracted from from the most important thing and that when I came back to to wait a second Who cares what Troy Skinner thinks of me? What matters is what the Lord thinks of me before God and that when I pressed in on that level, then the Lord would be like, All right, well John, I'm glad glad to see you back. You need to stop Lying, cheating, stealing, whatever you know, whatever doing. You need to stop being rude and and this is what I require of you. And and in that place of of conviction of spirit c conviction of of sin, I would confess my sin, sense his forgiveness, and then I would I would say, Alright, Lord, you gotta help me with this. I I think what you're what you're giving is exactly what I hope all Christians Have and and there's been a time where I've been like I don't know if God you know if my relationship with God is okay. I mean wh whenever I've gotten to the place of saying, okay, what about my relationship with the Lord? Uh I feel like it's clear to me, you know, the issues of my relationship with the Lord for whatever reason, you know, maybe upbringing, training, I don't know. But that I don't know that that I've ever been in an extended period of time where I just felt like, you know what Uh uh uh I must not be saved, you know, I just feel like God's not there for me. From having people in my in my office experientially who are struggling, uh and all I could say is that That Satan is whispering to them or demons or whatever is whispering to them that they have no confidence and they're insecure, exactly what you were saying. and that I need as a pastor to assure them. I need to give them those things. Yeah, no, I I I I've been in similar situations and it occurs to me now what what I what I tell them. I tell them what my dad always told me He said, because we believe, I believe, that you can lose your salvation, that losing your salvation has to do with with uh the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit, the sin against the Holy Spirit. uh for which man will not be forgiven. And uh my dad always said to me, he said, if you're worried about blaspheming the Holy Spirit, don't worry, you have not done it Your heart's if your heart is sensitive enough that you're worried about it, then I assure you that you have not blasphemed the Holy Spirit. And that assurance has been has been a uh i i if you will like like the low water mark. I feel like everything else there I'm like I'm like oh man and then and then my dad's reminder would come into in into my my head and my heart you know what if you haven't i if you're worried about whether or not God loves you, then you have not committed the unforgivable sin, then then uh then the Lord is there for you. So reach out to him and sure enough I would and and there'd be a sense of of a returning of the experience of assurance along with the concrete assurance of the case. So it sounds like you are advising people to I'm I'm probably saying the same thing that you're saying. Jonathan Slicer, Senior Pastor Boston, so much in agreement with you this weekend and Dr. Jason. He's a senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. being enabled by the Spirit to know the things which are freely given him of God, he may without extraordinary revelation in the right use of ordinary means attain thereunto. And therefore it is the duty of everyone to give all diligence to make his calling and election sure, that thereby his heart may be enlarged in peace and joy in the Holy Ghost in love and thankfulness to God, and in strength and cheerfulness in the duties of obedience. The proper fruits of this assurance, so far as it is from inclining men to looseness. True believers may have the assurance of their salvations of salvation, divers ways shaken diminished and intermitted, as by negligence in preserving it, by falling into some special sin which wounds the conscience and grieves the spirit, by some sudden or vehement temptation, by God's withdrawing the light of his countenance and suffering even such as fear him to walk in darkness and to have no light. Yet they are never so utterly destitute of that seed of God and life of faith, that love of Christ and the brethren, that sincerity of heart and conscience of duty, out of which by the operation of the Spirit this assurance may in due time be revived, and by which, in the meantime, they are supported from utter despair. I guess we should have read that like you tried to interrupt us several times. Yeah, because I think we were kind of saying we were kinda going there, you're kinda saying that. After he's become converted, left the city of destruction, on his way to the celestial city, he goes through this I can't remember what it is, but I think it's a forest of something. Everything's an allegory there. But it's so dark and the demons are whispering to him and he's on this little tiny ledge and he's just trying to balance himself as if he's going to fall off into nothingness. And I've had people in my a just constantly tell me, this is exactly what they feel sometimes. And what they need to do is be reminded of the assurance that there actually is. That is here is your salvation. Because right now I know you're struggling with all of these things, whatever they're whate uh whatever they all are on here. This good long list uh Negligence of some special sin that woundeth the conscience, some vehement temptation, God withdrawing the light of his countenance. All of these things and and I I just want to tell them yeah Remember what you knew. I know I know you're not believing it right this second for for a moment, but remember what you knew, what your stand on. It's not based on you anyway, which gets back to the whole perseverance. You know, y you haven't lost your salvation. If you have, you've never had it to begin with, I would say, from first John. You're you're assured of it because God gave it to you. He he gave you Okay, I I I have a uh an example uh of a of a person who came to me and and they were struggling with their salvation, just feeling like, you know, they're just in this really bad place and and I f I felt like the best response to them was to tell them, well, you know, you're right. You are a horrible sinner. Welcome to the club. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know? I do that often. And in the context of of, you know, not trying to assure them well, I guess I g I get around to assuring them of salvation. 'Cause it seems to me like like the devil's goal is is to get us to react with pride. And so if if he sees you doing something that you shouldn't do, he's going to come in and say, Ah, look at you, you're good for nothing. You know, you're not even saved. Oh yes I am. You know, see, I'm doing this And pride and try to prove that you're saved, and as soon as he's done that, he's won the battle He's tempted you and you've fallen into the temptation. Now in pride you're trying to prove why you should be saved. Excellent. Whereas the answer to to when the devil comes and tells us that we're good for nothing is to agree with him. And say, you know what? You are absolutely right I am miserable and I do not deserve the grace of God. And you know what? I've done some really horrible things just this week, for which, if truth be told, I deserve hell for eternity. And uh I have nothing to say to you, Satan, except thank thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. You know, Romans seven, I do what I do not want to do, and I hate it when I do it. It's no longer I who do it You know, but it's Christ living in me. And that you know, and so anyways, uh again I I guess I'm saying the same thing that you're saying there that that is the case. Though Um, I'm not sure in this passage, I am of the opinion that people can choose to walk away from the grace of God. And uh I'm not sure that this particular chapter leaves room for that. Well the way you just stated it, I think Jace would agree, right? Has the assurance of their salvation. I would say that people can walk away from the grace of God. I would ask for definitions as to what that means. They've already uh had to be a good idea. Oh yeah, okay. Well but the way you said that because the grace of God doesn't necessarily equal salvation. Right. Grace is consistently put on us, and some grace on non-Christians as well, some common grace. So certainly we walk away from the grace of God sometimes. I mean when his a as it says right here, as the light of his countenance is withdrawn. I'm just trying to find the areas of agreement, you know? Yeah, that sounds like what you're doing. Anyway, yeah, you just uh like in uh so in Hebrews where it says it's impossible for those once they've been enlightened if they fall away to be brought back again to repentance, you're not of the opinion that that passage is dealing something with something that can actually happen. Yeah, this is a this is a place that I've struggled a lot. I I know what I don't believe is that is what McKnight has has argued so heavily that that they're genuinely saved and they lose their salvation. I don't think it's what Zayn Hodges has always said that they lose some kind of reward. But Calvin didn't he Calvin said that they were never really regenerate. And I'm I seem to I I seem to tend in this case towards it's it this language seems to be that they're genuinely saved But that the condition is a hypothetical one, that it's it's more a warning, not something that can actually happen, but a um uh a trying an inducing men to cooperate uh to to do what they're supposed to do So I I go back and forth between the people. So then then that leads me again. If I may to uh back to screw them Romans who you know where it says there at the end of the passage that um Do not boast of these branches. If you do consider this, you do not support the root, the root supports you. Branches were broken off so that I could be grafted in, but those those were broken off because of unbelief. You stand by faith Do not be arrogant, but be afraid. If he did not spare the natural branches, he will not spare you either. Do you do you have the sense that Paul is really referring to the fact that God could choose to not spare a branch that has been grafted in, a Christian branch? Or is Paul dealing with a hypothetical I have to jump because I think we have like no time left and we'll jump in there. We'll have to talk about the tree. Sure. uh in Romans uh maybe next week. Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and uh Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, thank you for being on the show. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plenty and Heating, how can we make you smile? And uh I for the record, I agree pretty much with the the assurance thing. Uh I do believe, um kind of a final thought, Christ's followers might fall prey to waivers and doubts, but they must work to not stay in such a condition. It might take a while, but the Christian can eventually arrive at a place of assurance that will protect them from absolute despair. I think that is one of the wonderful gifts from God to the believer. Anyway, thanks for listening. God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmin Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Pull in plumbings, how can we make you smile