Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plum and plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to the Frederick's Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week By Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel, Alima Harrison with Angel Wings Transportation, and Vera Bagley with We Are One Body Ministries. The Faith Dave is a show where The truth matters, baby. Three weeks in a row. Am I gonna have to keep track of how many weeks you use that word baby? Truth matters, baby. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm waiting for you to come in like with one of those big Elvis Presley King those seventies collar. you know. Lord have mercy. You looking for trouble. You ain't nothing but a hound dog. Yeah, we've had some fun these last three weeks, so we decided to do it one more time. Yes. I clearly won the last round and they wanted to have one more shot at me. So uh So so here we go. Every time you open the show, you open the show so you always get the win. You you want a piece of income. So we were talking about uh uh w we ended last week's show talking about technology and the positive or negative influence it has had. on the church, I guess more specifically, but we we're talking a little more broadly and more generally about the influence it's had on culture and society and and how much the church buys into that and how much is lost or gained via that. And I think Um I I have a feeling we might pick up on this thread of it. I think that we are agreeing That something can be and is gained by technological advances and taking advantage of them. Okay. But there's also the risk of things being lost if you're not careful in how you manage those things. Can I give another example The Industrial Revolution is a major example of that. Right? Yeah. The Industrial Revolution, all of a sudden we had the the uh ability to make things You know, by what's it called? The assembly line. Right. We could make all these things. But what did it do? It dehumanized us, so every person all I do all day long is stick a screw in that watch. I'm just a cog in the wheel. A cog in the wheel. We lost something While at the same time we gain the technology that now we are the most powerful nation, the most blessed nation in you know in the world. That is it exactly. Man, I wish I thought of that example because that really captures it for me. That that's what ca that's what captures for me though. Because you're right, something great came from that. If you manage it properly or whatever, it it could have been merely a good thing. It didn't have to be a double edged sword. But humanity got lost in that That's my concern with all the texting and the Facebooking and all that sort of stuff. Is yeah, it's it's wonderful, but there's an element of our humanity, our inner personality that wrote Scrooge and and all those Dickens? Dickens Dickens captured all of the glory and all of the the ugliness of that era. You know, the the dark Uh fast. Exactly. And and the reality is that that the technological revolution that that has been the last ten, fifteen years with the rise of the internet has changed everything. It's all over again. It's like the printing press all over, right? It's like the printing press, yeah. Wow did that change everything? Martin Luther could not have nailed his ninety-five thesis and and started the Protestant Reformation if he didn't have the printing press that would, you know, plaster that stuff all across uh all of Europe. You know, but can we go back? He can't go back You'd like to go back to the genie back in the bottle, so use some sort of pagan mystical whatever thing. I'm convinced that you can. And I'm not gonna give up. I'm gonna keep going until I get back. Yeah, just get a bad disease or something. Yeah, great. What are you recommending My point is it's not healthy for you to be the same way you were when you were fourteen, okay? Yeah, yeah, but uh but seventeen, I mean that would that would have been just right. That'd be nice. I'm working hard. Anyway, uh we have talked, believe it or not, we have talked a little bit about uh Angel Wings uh transportation and we are one body ministries. And Jonathan had an interesting question. Why? Why yeah. Why did you call it We Are One Body Ministries? Well, it's definitely based off the word that we are one body, many members. But it's also because we've seen such a separation. uh of different denominations, you know, they put titles on things, Baptist and Catholic and Protestant. And I'm just like, get rid of the names. We are all one body. And that's that's really our purpose. I mean I know there's different non denominational churches, but just reach out to everybody. We are one body. And it seems like this is a gut level thing. you know, that that sophisticated uh sociologists will study twenty years from now. But there is a gut level thing that's going on, I feel like, uh around You know, maybe it's around the world right now that has to do with with our generation saying, Man, what is with all the division? Why can't we just connect with one another. And now we can because we've got the internet and we don't have to worry about all these structures of leadership and authority. We can just poo just connect. Rodney King is this generation's great prophet. Why can't I come to Troy's church, John's church, and we all get fed the word and be happy with one another, but we are so divided. Yeah, we are. And the reality I blame John. Yeah. He is the pastors. That's good. Crucify me. Rise from the dead. Now when we were talking a couple of weeks ago about uh We Are One Body Ministries, um Vera said something uh during the show that Halima actually also said uh once when we weren't in the context of the show, so you obviously are coming at it from the same point of view. You're talking about, you know, being sensitive to the Holy Spirit and you got this revelation from God that, you know, this is what we need to do. Yeah, I'd like to explore that a little bit. All right. Did God send you a text message? Yeah, d yeah. Did he Facebook you? Did he friend you? He he suggested me as a friend. Yeah, he really can. No, but uh Like what do you mean by that? Oh well received just being okay, so we receive the word of the Lord by reading the word. You know, and and and with the more you spend time in your Bible, the more you're able to hear what God says to you. You know, and more you meditate. Says meditate on me day and night. You know, okay, now we're not saying stay up to twelve o'clock But we're saying that in your constant everyday activities, you know, instead of listening to uh the station that may be talking about things that are not of God, you know, maybe throw in a gospel C D or your church C D, you know. And when you meditate on the Lord you are able to hear more from him in your personal uh activities, meaning it's beyond just what the word of God says, but it says, halima. Must dar start a Bible study. Really? Like is that like a is that like an audible voice? Is that my audible voice? It's a that's what is uh what what exactly does that voice sound like? Personal and little niche inside of them or the voice that they may hear. Uh, we're we're kinda joking a little bit, but I mean in in your mind, is it kind of like you hear a voice or she just gets this strong sense? You know, God can come to you in so many different ways. He can come through a word, through someone He can come uh, you know, to you in your in a thought that may come into your mind. You know, he may come with uh Okay, but the problem is that the devil can do that too. And I have all kinds of strong urges that it's clear to me are not of God. You know, and so so how is it then at the end of the day that you know which one's of God and which one's not? If it lines up with the word If it is something that God would say, like God's not going to tell you, go commit adultery. That that might be a demon voice you're hearing. That's not in the word. It's not they claim that it is. They have to show me. Uh but Abraham had many wives, David had many wives, Solomon had many wives. They didn't righteous men. But was God happy that they had many wives? Uh w yeah, you tell me. He was not. He was not? He was not Did he rebuke Abraham ever for having so many wives He rebuked uh Solomon for having many wives. But it wasn't his plan for for us to have. He created Adam and Eve in the beginning. That was his original design and order. So but but the p The point that I'm driving at is that there are plenty of people, Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormons, you know, uh for that matter, Catholic doctrines about whether or not you pray to the saints, you know, and and these kinds of things that that have very um persuasively with sophisticated arguments, you know, and very very thorough arguments, persuaded, you know, large groups of people towards, you know, certain uh ideas that you and I are just like, well that's clearly not of God. And so, you know, how do we know what's of God and what's of not? Well, you know, in those situations, like I was I was brought up Episcopalian Okay. And so you're set more so in a traditional uh sense. We didn't really read the w the Bible in in uh in church. We more so went off the prayer book in which we we uh just recite it certain prayers. So Yeah, like Episcopalians, some parts of Episcopalian church right now are trying to argue that God says homosexuality is okay. Right, exactly. And if if the the thing about it is if you get caught up in a doctrine or a book that is not the Holy Bible. Yeah. Uh and start, you know, going by that, then you can add whatever you want to add to make it the same thing. Some of those guys argue Using the Bible. I mean we've had them on the show arguing persuasively from the Bible that those things you know are okay. And I'm I'm not Of that opinion, right? Just for the record. We had to check real quick. And I don't know I don't know about the word persuasively. They they argue with a with a cogent There are many people that are persuaded. Maybe that's a good way to put it. Many people follow, and so so it seems to be persuasive to many people. It's not persuasive to me. Right. Nevertheless, you know, so I uh so I guess I'm just kinda kinda driving, okay, here's you guys, you're doing this Bible study, you know, you're encouraging uh you're hearing the voice of God, you know, so I'm trying to drive to the issue, okay, how do we know the voice of God and how don't we? And you're you're saying that that the clear study of scripture seems to drive us in that direction. I mean hearing the word of hearing from God is your personal relationship with Him. How much are you talking to Him? How much are you praying to Him You know, when you are when you pray, you know, and you listen then you are quiet because most people say, Okay, our father who art in heaven, you know, and then they get up and they move on. But if you actually Say a personal relation, a personal prayer to God. And then you are quiet. Meaning zip your mouth, listen to what he said, and then listen to what he said. Like I said, it may come through a thought It may come from a phone call you get. It may come from it could come from any type of thing. It's not a structural, you know This is how you hear, these are the instructions. It's so God is so bigger than that. There are some things that the Bible is not going to help you on For example, uh Vera and her husband own a a business that has nothing to do directly with Christian ministry, for example, right? So they decide we're gonna get into the generator business. What does the Bible say about that? I'm not sure, but I'm pretty sure if I did a word search, I wouldn't find the word generator anywhere in the Bible. So Well I can tell you I'll do it right now while she's talking about it. I can tell you he we did not start the business um until my husband actually heard from God that we should start this business. So how did you know th th that's my point actually in the question. So how did you guys know and validate that that is from God that we should start this business. Well since we've started the business and it's been recently that we started this business, um he has been guiding our every step. We've we've been putting places and you know the grace and favor of God just just Not even ha you know, people wanna say happen stance, it's not happenstance. We've been blessed to have business opportunities that are God directed And that's how we know I'm not arguing that that's not true because I believe in that, by the way, for the record, just to clarify like Jonathan did where I'm coming from. But how do you know You say it was directed by God. How do you know it was directed by God? Faith. I mean definitely as it's been our faith that we believe we trust in God. And those other people you were talking about, how they've come here and they've been given, you know, giving you guys really persuasive type of arguments for their faith. And I don't know if maybe they should do that because I'm gonna do that for my faith and what I believe. They ca those arguments by the way, I Jonathan doesn't find them persuasive, neither do I because they can be unwilling. Yeah. They can be they can be persuasive More persuasively un unwound. very persuasive. They sound very sophisticated, but you know, if you if you're patient, you take the time, you look at 'em, you you y uh in the context of the word of God, it's pretty clear that they're not persuasive from a biblical perspective. Nevertheless, you know, they work pretty hard to try to make them persuasive. No, but the word generation and generations shows up 164 times. So you know, speaking on behalf of my uh Avira over here too, I mean we had discussions where she was talking about she you know, she claimed out her mouth she wants something to leave to her generation, to her children you know, hence the name Bagley Generations, you know, c uh consulting services. So, you know, basically, you know, we can hear you can just apply it, you can hear it. You you know it just you spent Th the word of God is like a building block. You know. It all it is, it gives it says, Okay, here's my word, read my word. Okay, it doesn't end there. You know, and that's the way we're trying to get people to understand. It's is a bigger thing. Once you get the building block, the foundation where the house is built upon. You know, then you can increase in your your personal relationship with God. You can say, Well, Troy can say, Well, you know, my father, he's speaks to me in this way. Or Vera can say he he comes and shows me this way. But it has to do with the foundation. It's the key. Without the Bible, you won't be able to hear from God. She's Helema Harrison with Angel Wings Transportation and We Are One Body Ministries. Vera Bagley also on the show, also with uh We Are One Body Ministries. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. And it occurs to me We're all Christians sitting here. Somebody's listening right now, maybe not a Christian, and they're gonna say, easy for you to say. I mean You've got this successful business going on. Jonathan's got this emerging successful church going on. God's blessing you. And it's easy for you to say, well, yeah, God told me. But what if your husband says, I heard from God that I should start this business with my wife, and we're going to call it uh Bagley Generations And here we are, you know, a year later, ten years later, whatever, and it turned out to be a fiscal disaster, tore at the inner fabric of your marriage, made it really hard for you, and you weren't so blessed then do you still feel like it was God or do you start to have second guesses and say, ooh, maybe that wasn't God. I was pretty sure it was but I mean I'm a I'm a person that believes sometimes our mistakes, our failures actually build us But I believe that God also kinda waits on us to take that first step. So if you don't ever try anything, how will you know it works? I mean you could be hearing the voice of God and not obeying the voice of God He could be telling you, Troy, start this business tomorrow and you just continue to ignore it. So you you're failing not only yourself, your family, you're failing everything. Do you believe if God calls you to start a business and you respond to that call and you start the business and you do it with a faith conviction that God is telling me to do this Um that he could be asking you to do that in his sovereign providence and his will so that the business would fail and teach you a lesson? I mean is that or do you feel like if God's telling you to do something, it's going to succeed? Like where do we I believe that if he tells you to start something, and this is what I firmly believe, God never does anything for the person. He's always doing it for somebody else. So if I started this business and I failed at this business, there must have been a hundred of people or maybe even one, 'cause he'll do it for one, that I have saved along the way. So you can't be that one He never does it for the person. That I believe that. Huh. I th I think it does tend to be true that God God's always multitasking. Way beyond our our ability to to know Facebook Facebooking and texting at the same time. And I mean Twitter. And what's the definition of the failure anyway? Right. You know, uh it maybe it was time for that business to come in. So this is a very important I wanna know what do you think is Is a definition of failure. A ministry failed. A ministry failed. Or something that God told you to do in it in it in it failed. What what would be your definition of failure? Not being this is Helena. Not being able to touch someone during my journey. Not being able to bring the word or transform a life for Jesus Christ during the journey. That is the definition of a failure for whatever God tells me to do. Mm-hmm. Hm. I don't know if I'm speaking for you, Vera. Yeah. Vera, what do you say? Well a failure for me would be hearing the word of God and not acting on it. It's interesting because both of those I think would fit under the category of fruit. And I think that's the de the Bible's definition of uh the failure or or lack. Sometimes we can't know if there's fruit ourselves, right? Like there's stories of missionaries that go overseas and before they have a chance to witness anybody being converted by their presence, they're killed or they die of a horrible disease. But somehow the way they yeah dealt with their being killed or whatever inspires somebody and they never see the fruit. Right. But there's times when maybe we we you think I think it's probably true, but I don't want to put words in anybody's mouth. Do you think it's possible that sometimes we choose to see fruit that maybe really isn't fruit? Just because we want to convince ourselves so badly that we're following the will of God. And I believe we talked about this earlier. You know, when you are taking um the the will of God, when you are now trying to force something, you totally remove God out of it You know, God will give us give you the sign. So if you at one point God says start start a business. But if things aren't lining up, you're not spending time praying to God. You're not reading the word and you have now said, Okay, God, you told me to start this business, I don't need you anymore You know. At that point you have taken over and you have w dismissed God out of the uh out of the the whole operation. So if it fails then that was by your hands. Because he God said he will never leave us nor forsake us. He said if you seek me diligently, you will have good success. So in that, you know, anything that God tells you to do, you're not gonna fail. Now it may not be the success you may had in mind But it will be a form of success. Like you open a business and God tells you to let's say he really does, it's God's will you open the business and you don't have financial success with the business Well it doesn't give you monetary fruit that you can then use to expand the kingdom or whatever, but you're saying your your vision for it was eh I'm gonna make a lot of money, gonna Pass this business on to the generations to follow, that's my vision, but God has this completely different vision. Maybe the only reason This is a little self important sounding, I don't need it to be, but the only reason it even happened was so that you could come and share the power of your faith and your testimony on a show like this. And that's okay too. Right. So it's so just because Um God's gonna bless me. I'm gonna have I'm gonna drive fancy cars and wear expensive clothing and stuff That's not just because we think that's what's going to happen because we're obeying God, that's not necessarily what we're saying to the other thing. I feel like you're driving at at specifically the question, how do I know when I thought I heard God, but it turned out I probably didn't That's part of it, yeah. Is that part of what you're driving? And and my my experience is there have been times when I thought for sure I was in God's will and I was doing what God would have me do and then You got down the road period of time goes by and you're like Ooh, I think I missed that one. Okay, so what what made you be God kind of things. Okay, you know, I I thought that was God, but n now I'm thinking probably just wasn't. You know, 'cause in humility we always need to be prepared to to admit, you know, 'cause we're fallible, we're human, so we always gotta be prepared to admit. So so Well part of what I'm I guess I'm asking is in those moments, is it really that God Didn't have that will for my life, or am I just having a uh a a moment of weak faith and having doubts My decision truly was God's either one of those. Is there any way for us to discern that, do you think? Uh the best way is to take the first step. I mean because you will never know if you don't take that first step to see what God wants you to do. And you could miss a great opportunity. If we didn't start Bagley Generation, I would not be on the face debate talking about it with Troy and Pastor Somebody needs to tell her it's not that big a deal down the face today. Are you gonna tell her or should I tell her? Now Facebook might be a big deal. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So so it seems to me that you know, 'cause now I'm grappling with it. Okay, how do I know when when I miss the will of God? Like recently uh I sat down and talked with my parents about a decision that I made. It must have been like uh fifteen years ago. uh to to go out to uh Chicago area to to be an associate pastor at a congregation. And and when I when I was thinking back about it, I realized uh and it was something that the Lord was really m working in my heart. Like I I I was convicted all of a sudden. I and I and I realized, you know, part of the decision making process there that there was some selfishness there and there was some impatience there that that was not God honoring. And uh in looking back, I was like, okay, what does that mean that the whole decision was wrong? I don't know that the whole decision was wrong, but but I did realize that that I was doing it for some good reasons, and I was really sincerely trying to seek the will of God, but there was also a lot of me that was caught up in it. And it seems to me at the end of the day that that we always got to be prepared to say, okay I heard God, this is what he was telling me to do, but when I'm looking back, I'm realizing that, you know, if if I was as mature then as I am now, you know, which is not going to be as mature hopefully as I am tomorrow that then you know, I p there's very good chances I would have made a different decision back then. But I'm not. And the point is is that somehow God's even able to take those situations where I heard my selfishness, not God's voice And in hearing those things I I God still worked it out for the good of those that love him and serve according to his purpose. I think a key might be because I'm processing through this. I mean this is not like a scripted can you tell This isn't a scripted show? I mean I know it runs like clockwork and so it's probably hard to tell that it's not scripted. Uh what's the is it Max Lakato that wrote the book, It's not about me? Is that his There's a book called It's Not About Me. I think it might be a Max Location book, but I'm not positive. But anyway, the point of the book is if he wrote it he would have said it's not about me. Right? So I think what I'm hearing Vera say is Our role in all of this, our job, if you will, or whatever, is just be obedient. Step out in faith or stand back in faith, whatever obedience is. Because God's in control and if the business thrives it's because that was God's plan. If the business doesn't thrive, it's because it was God's plan. If I go out to the mission field and I personally baptize ten thousand people, it's because it was God's plan. If I go on the visions field and the first thing that happens to me is I take a bullet through the brain, it's because it was God's plan. Right? I mean we just need to step out or step back Whatever it is that's God's will for our lives and let God be be God, right? Is that kind of where we all fall on this That's how I feel, absolutely. You have to take the first step to know or you just be waiting on the sidelines. And and the thing about it too is that if if we as people if Christian people if we stop trying to take control over something our lives will be so much easier. All we would have to do is listen. It's like file having someone constantly tell us what to do. We wouldn't have to make any decisions anymore. It would just be okay Well, what is God saying to them on this? You know, you'll you you will no longer be the driver. You wouldn't have to worry about making the hard decisions, the the decisions whether or not But interestingly that's not God's will either, right? Because we're told to work out our faith. Yeah. And I don't think you're trying to say that. No. You know, but but we do submit and in doing so it makes the process easier, but it's also easier because he's disciplining us and so he makes it harder in the ways that it needs to be harder so that we can grow, so that we can grow up in him and be more mature. And somehow Somehow God understands where I am and what I need in the midst of the bad decisions that I'm making and is able to work that out And that's the grace. That's what I mean. That we're in a hard decision or hard a area in our life and making a decision. He brings us the grace And he provides the measure of grace as we need it, right? One day at a time. Right? That sort of thing. We can't try to get ahead of all of that. You guys sound like a bunch of Christians. Amen. Hallelujah I think this is a challenging uh balance for us to try to work out, but because you don't want to fall into the trap of of saying we because we're Christians we can speak anything into existence kind of thing because What if what we're trying to speak into existence is not God's will and plan for us kind of thing? But at the same time we do want to be speaking boldly, with a strong faith and a trust that that God's gonna figure all that out. Anyway, Jonathan Sweisser, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, uh Halima Harrison with Angel Wings Transportation, and uh Vera Bagley with um Uh we are one body ministries and Halima's also part of that ministry. I'm Froy Skinner. This has been the Faith Debate. It's been a pleasure, really. Hopefully you guys have enjoyed it. Hopefully you listening have enjoyed it as well. Uh appreciate you uh tuning in for this past uh half hour or so. We'll be back next week with an Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Hiding top of the line quality work. Call Putm Plumbing, that's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plum and plumbing, how can we make you smile?