Good morning, I'm Troy Skinner and the Frederick Faith Debate is up next on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Footman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing, Fats with a P, as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing How can we make you smile? This is a face to base. Hello. Man, these headphones are horrible. I can hardly hear myself. Hello, is anybody listening out there? Hello, hello. They they look a little bit different too from the outside. Alright, this is this You don't look yourself, you don't sound yourself. Oh, seems horrible. Anyway, I'm gonna have to get different headphones uh next time we do a show. But anyway. I'm Troy Skinner. You're not He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. You are also not. Uh Steve Paul Smith, former Alderman, is also on the panel today and you are not. This is the Baith of Eight In a little bit of a negative mood with the with the water something about the ear f earphones. It's making me negative. It's just annoying. Well I'm just trying to enjoy the spirit of the age. Yes. Negative. Everybody's negative. I'm trying to fit in. I'm tired of being the one on the outside, being positive all the time, that's he positive all the time. Mr. Positive. I figure I'm gonna join the join the fray of Negativity. If you can't beat 'em, join them. That's right. Yeah. Is that a positive? Vizery loves company more told. Yeah. So I'm coming on over for dinner. No, but that's way too positive a statement. That's way too positive a statement if you're gonna actually go negative. Misery loves company, I mean that's like a uh feel good kind of a thing. Oh. If you're gonna go negative, you gotta, you know it's just it's not working for you. Anyway, if a couple of weeks ago we had uh former alderman to see Paul Smith uh on the show and had such a good time. It was one of my favorite shows in a while. So I figured we'd have him on again. And this wasn't the reason we were gonna have him on, but I feel like if we're gonna stay relevant and contemporary and give people some reason to want to tune into the show, you know, every one hundred and sixty eight hours. We gotta give 'em, you know, some reason to do so. We've got to comment on what's going on in the world. And one of the things that's going on in the world that we haven't commented yet on this show is, you know, the whole Tiger Wood controversy. You know what's happened with him, right? He had a traffic incident that somehow turned into, I don't know, world's headlines. Yeah, he's he's had some infidelity I guess in the past and he's uh I think the r thing that really hurt somebody like Tiger Woods is his whole image was not that. Yeah. You know. Somebody else does this, it's it's news for a day or two and it's over with. Um anyway. Anyway, in the aftermath of that, I don't know if you caught this or not, uh Paul or or John from Britt Hume on Fox News Sunday. Yes. They were they have a round table show and Chris Wallace uh leads that round table discussion. It's kinda like this show Only our show's better. But uh they do and they don't talk about faith issues generally on this show and they they were commenting on what's going on in the world and one of the things going on in the world was the Tiger Woods story. So the show was just a commentary show, is that right? Exactly. Just a general news commentary show. And Chris Wallace whips it around the room. There's four other guests on the panel. And he says, all right, what's your opinion about Barack Obama's policy on this? Yeah. What do you think about the Republicans are trying to do over here? And so they're supposed to tell what they think. Exactly. What their personal opinion is. Exactamundo. Okay, okay. Catch on quick. Yeah, well. So He doesn't have cable I don't think, so he doesn't know about these shows, you know. Yeah, yeah. So anyway I pick him up on the internet, but I never it's never the same. So one of the people on the panel is Britt Hume, long time uh newscaster, news commentator. I remember when I was a little kid watching him, I think he was the White House news correspondent for ABC once upon a time. That's nostalgic. Yeah, and uh he's become a pretty well known f fixture on F Fox News Channel. He's kinda going into retirement now. He's like in semi retirement mode already as we speak. Oh. And it was his turn to comment. And Chris w and the topic was Tiger Woods. And so Chris Wallace asks Britt Hume what his Opinion is, and I think the gist of it was, you know, what do you think the fallout's going to be and what would your advice to Tiger Woods be? And I have to put my stupid headphones here on for a second. So that I can make sure that this uh this ends up sounding okay on the air. So that's you're gonna play it for us. Yeah, we're gonna play it. This is what Britt Hume uh had to say in response to the Tiger Woods question. Peter Woods will recover as a golfer. Whether he can recover as a person, I think is a very open question and w and it's a tragic situation with him. I think he's lost his family. It's not clear to me that whether he'll be able to have a relationship with his children. But the but the tiger woods that emerges once the news value dies out of this scandal, uh the extent to which he can recover, it seems to me depends on his faith He's said to be a Buddhist. I don't think that faith offers the kind of forgiveness and redemption that is offered by the Christian faith. So my message to Tiger would be, Tiger, turn your faith turn to the Christian faith and you can make a total recovery and be a great example to the world. Well Britt's concerned about Tiger's Soul, which is agriculture. Okay. Wow Your your first bluff reaction to that is what? Well, I've heard it before and I've had a little bit of a chance to think it through and uh uh I guess, you know, my my response is that um Brit Hume obviously was thinking that. You know, he said what was really on his mind. And uh Thomas Jefferson's the one that said the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom. And for the longest time, uh it is totally considered inappropriate for any man of faith to ever come out and be that honest, you know, with what they really think. If you if you happen to be a Christian or maybe you happen to be a Buddhist or maybe you happen to be a Muslim you know, to come out and just say publicly, well what I think is uh, you know, he needs Muhammad. What I think is that he needs to go, you know, and and uh in and seek enlightenment. And if he seeks enlightenment he actually You do hear that kind of thing all the time in Hollywood, and it's okay for people to say that. So Brit Hume comes out, a public figure and he says it and Um I think that there's a massive double standard and that uh that the the reason why there's such a major uh outcry about it was because uh somebody came right out with the boldness to say exactly what he thought as a Christian. And that has been so taboo for so long, and I don't think it should be so taboo. I mean, if that's what he thinks, let him say it. And uh, you know, let it be what it is. If you know, Buddhist Hollywood people or whoever are gonna say their things all the time, then some you know, let it be the case for uh Christians as well. What do you think, Paul? Well I I actually uh in part agree with um with Brit with Brett Britt Hume, but you know t To me, uh the big thing about this is I bet Tiger Woods now realizes what he has lost or what he may lose and realizes how great it is to have a beautiful, wonderful wife and family And um and that's what immorality does. And I think that's the big lesson. I do I mean, I do agree that Jesus Christ is the way to the greatest happiness. So I agree with him there. But it is strange that he br should have said it though on that show. I don't say it's wrong. I'm I'm glad that he could say the way he felt. I think it's very refreshing that someone can do that and and you're right, that's the big point that people don't dare say what they think anymore. Well I'm gonna go so fur a little further than what Jonathan said. I mean one yeah he should be allowed to say what he wants to say. Yeah. I'm gonna go so far as to say he should say what needs to be said. If Rid Hume was a Christian and by what he just said He has to be. Yeah. And if he believes that to be the truth and somebody asks him asks your opinion, what do you think this guy needs? To say anything other than the truth is uh uh intolerable. And yet how many times have Christians bitten their tongue? How many times have the Brit Humans of the world, put in that exact same situation, decided to say something a little more politically correct? Well If I were gonna give advice to Tiger, I'd tell him that uh, you know, he needs to try to have a good relationship with his wife and not make these same mistakes anymore. Okay, okay. What he needs to hear. No, but what what if There's redemption in Christ. What if Brett had showed just a little bit more uh discretion and said something like this? Look, what Tiger needs is redemption. I don't know if Buddhism has a strong teaching of redemption. Uh I I seem to have the impression that it's not. You know that foodism doesn't offer redemption. That's not what their their faith structure is all about, right? It's about twelve to eightfold paths to say at any given. You know it's not about redemption, so you would you would kind of tie today doesn't mean that you have to be so hard to do that. I would I don't know for sure that there is no uh issue of redemption in Buddhism. I haven't found it, so I'm happy saying that I'm not an expert on Buddhism, but from what I can tell that it's not there. I'm happy saying that. I'm not afraid to say that. I'm I'm comfortable with that. But then I would add this I feel like what he needs is redemption and I know that there are solid uh world religions that have a strong um uh strong background of redemption that would be a big help to be a very good thing. Tiger Woods will recover as a golfer. Whether he can recover as a person. I think it's a very open question and we're and it's a tragic situation with him. I think he's lost his family. It's not clear to me that whether he'll be able to have a relationship with his children. But the but the tiger woods that emerges once the news value dies out of this scandal, uh the extent to which he can recover it seems to me depends on his faith. He's said to be a Buddhist. I don't think that faith offers the kind of forgiveness and redemption that it's that I don't think I don't think that religion offers. He didn't come out. I think that he could he agrees with you. I think he could have said it yeah, he totally agrees with me, but I think that he could have said it It in with just as much clarity but with with more grace that that wouldn't have come out as just an attack on Buddhism. And I don't know that an attack on that something like that should be an opportunity for an attack on Buddhism, but I think it was a good opportunity for a guy like Britt Hume who has a strong sense of redemption because of his Judeo Christian background uh and because of his Christian background, I think I I think it would have been right for him to to say, look, what he needs is redemption. Uh there are uh solid spiritual uh religion uh r religions out there that deal with redemption and uh one of those is Christianity. I th you know there might be others But I think he needs to find something that's really gonna help him find redemption. I think it's different for a radio and t and television commentator to say that than for a government official in a position in government. Right. Um exactly. And I I'm glad that our commentators can do that. But I uh you know, from what apparently he can't. Oh, has he been censored for it? Well he did say it. He was not fired. I mean but he has got he's come under some heat, he's done some criticism and quite a bit of heat. Just going back to my experience on the Board of Alderman for four years, although I did say this prayer and and if you're gonna say a prayer, I I felt I needed to say exactly the way I felt, but But when but when you're dealing in an official way with things, I I think that it's best to keep comments like that out as a government official Um I mean it was a personal comment and I think it was exactly I think it was true but Is there a place for a for a government official somebody that's an alderman to be free to speak as a private citizen what he really thinks uh about religious matters. Oh sure. Or or even about something like that, you know, to speak not as president, but to say, look, I'm not going to speak as president right now. I'm going to speak as as a private citizen in my sense, you know, from my own understanding of my of of uh religion and and spiritual truth You know, uh this is what I think to be true. I think that there should be a place for that here in the United States. Well I would think for example uh if if I'm on the dais at a at a public meeting I d I don't know that the conversation really should focus on on um Tiger Woods. That's kind of irrelevant and I think we need to try to be on on point and and avoid that. uh you know, I was off the dias in my office or wherever, I would say I hope he will believe in Christ and there is great power through the atonement of Christ that he will and and he can, you know, be restored to something great. Oh if Paul Harvey were still alive today, right now he'd say page two and read a commercial and then get into the next thing. Okay. And really it's totally different. Let me do it for you. Page two. It's uh wow. That's pretty good. Paul Harvey has been resurrected. You were being channeled anyway. Jonathan Schweitzer All right, but anyway, completely different story, uh very similar issue. I think you've heard this. This is Pat Robertson talking about the earthquake in Haiti. Christie, something happened a long time ago in Haiti, and the people might not want to talk about it. They were under the heel of the French. uh you know, Napoleon the Third and whatever. And they got together and score of packed to the devil. They said, We will serve you if you'll get us free from the French. True story. Okay, so uh you know he says it's a true story. I don't know if it's a true story or not. I have no idea because I wasn't there and the first I had heard of it. But okay, he thinks it's a true story. Perhaps if you ask him for a citation, maybe he could give you one. Pat Robertson, uh Well did he go on to say that therefore this was retribution the I I didn't hear that. The implications. Okay, what did he go on to say? Well I mean I don't know if it's there. That island of Ispanola is one island. It's cut down the middle. On the one side is Haiti, on the other side is the Dominican Republic. Dominican Republic is is prosperous, healthy, full of resorts, et cetera. Make a distinction between them and the Dominican Republic. Yeah, this c as a result. Yeah, this clip that I'm um using has some music uh interference in the background there, but the gist of it yeah he goes on to say look you got You got Dominican Republic right next door to it. They're fine. So obviously this is some sort of godly retribution against the Hayes for this pact with the devil kind of a thing. So Richard Dawkins wrote The God Delusion. He uh he wrote a um an uh uh commentary about this in the Washington Post. Uh it was there today or yesterday. And basically he says this. He says that Pat Robertson is the only Christian out there that is willing publicly to admit what their religion actually teaches about these things. Well he's the only one. you know, kit you know, the shebang about d you know, well, you know, we just need to be compassionate. And what Dawkins is saying is look, you Christians really believe that stuff So, you know, admit it or quit or quit hiding from the truth of what you actually believe. I I think it's pretty clear the Bible teaches that the wicked will be destroyed in the last day, and there's going to be widespread wickedness, wide Spread destruction and wicked or destroyed before the last day? Well, you know, yeah, a lot will be. But but the point is the scriptures do talk of divine retribution in a sense. In a sense, The problem is it is when it happens, you know, blaming people is that that's kind of the politically correct thing not to do. Part of the problem is that is that I don't know that Pat Robertson well no, I'll say it clear. Pat Robinson comes nowhere close to being Isaiah. Or Jonah. No. Yeah, no, really. No, really. And so that being the case, you know, he's nowhere close to that. In in that being the case, for anybody to come out and say, well, absolutely though, but but this is the thing I've been in mission circles, you know, for a long time in my life. And every time I've ever spoken with a missionary about Haiti, one thing comes up. Man, there's so much witchcraft there. There's so much voodoo. There's so much all this stuff. And I mean, if that's the case, I mean I'm I'm definitely of the opinion that those kinds of commitments affect everything you do. So whether or not it actually happened, you know, back in the eighteen hundreds, you know, with Napoleon the Third uh that they swore a pact to the devil, I would say that clearly they've given themselves to to a to a religious system that is corrupt and g in is all about lying and and and um casting spells and doing all these kinds of things. I mean, does anybody think that that's good for a nation? Well then it sounds like this letter to the editor could be addressed to you as well. Oh great. This is from the Frederick News Post from a number of days ago, right? Beat me with it. No shook. No relation, I don't think too. I know some shooks and good guys. This Carl guy we can't vouch for, but the one John Twitcher knows, good guys. All right, exactly as expected, less than forty-eight hours after the after the devastating earthquake in Haiti that has left tens of thousands dead, some religious fundamentalist leaders in America are declaring this to be divine punishment for one sin or another. According to Pat Robertson of the Seven Hundred Club, Haitians signed a pact with the devil to escape French rule and are now paying the cost. Yes, in two thousand ten, in the Western world there are influential people who believe in and invoke the devil. For most of us, the devil is a childhood fantasy that, like the Easter bunny, was abandoned on reaching some minimal level of maturity. Apparently, Robertson has some developmental issues. As it works out, we now know that earthquakes are caused by geological forces that behave according to natural physical laws, and there is nothing supernatural required. Perhaps a basic science course would be of some benefit to this man. But we have heard this nonsense before. Two days after the attacks on nine eleven, Robertson and Jerry Falwell Uh it says and appeared on TV. I think it says I think the word and shouldn't be there. Appeared on TV to tell us that they agreed that Osama bin Laden was in fact doing the work of God. by punishing America for sins committed by abortion clinics, gay rights groups, and the ACLU. I'm sure Al Qaeda was grateful for the vindication. These two goons, with the addition of R. C. Sproull, made the same insensitive comments on national television when the Indian Ocean tsunami of 2004 killed thousands of people, presumably for not being Christian. not even one Christian among them? Then, while people were still trapped in fallen buildings, still dying, still suffering horribly, this man had the audacity to sanctimoniously condemn an entire population for not being as righteous and as good as himself. While we have been mercifully relieved of the burden of Jerry Fralwell, we must still suffer the embarrassment of Pat Robertson on the national stage, uttering cruel and callous absurdities. I can only hope that his followers start to demand better. Wow. Huh? Well the the problem with that guy is that he is he is uh uh uh uh like eighty percent of the nation of the nation disagrees with him. disagrees with the idea that God is not uh in charge of the earth and earthquakes and uh storms that come. That that God is uh is somehow wrong uh or or or that Satan is somehow no longer an issue. I mean at least eighty percent of the nation is of the opinion uh that this guy And his b his basic conclusions are wrong. Well, eighty percent of the nation would claim to believe in God, but those that believe in God are split on this issue. Remember we did a show on the What as to whether or not there's a Satan? No, no, well no, they're s the Satan part, but I'm talking about whether God is controlling f these bad things that are happening in the w in the world. Remember when the tsunami hit in 2004? I remember We did a series of shows on that. We had Christian pastors and and others come on the show and discuss, you know, what was God's hand in that, if any at all. And there were Christian pastors who were arguing on this show that No, no, no. God is loving and merciful and he did not have anything to do with that tsunami. Okay, but I'm I'm I'm forgetting exactly who it was. Were th were those also Christian pastors who would tend to tend to deny the miracles of the Old Testament? No. They were not? I'm not sure the I don't remember for sure. Okay. Okay. I'm not sure of the value of trying to come to a conclusion on this. I mean we know theoretically that it's going to happen, but but to what end are you doing this? And Why do you go back to the early eighteen hundreds to say that well about this this curse then, now six, seven generations later? Because if you care about people that are destroying their own future Then you're gonna go and you're gonna help them to stop doing the things that are destroying their future. Like for example, they had no building codes whatsoever You know, Jesus is the one that said, if you hear my words and do what they say, it'll be like you build your house on the rock. The storms are still gonna come. But if you don't do the right thing, then when the storm comes, you're wiped out. If the nation would have just had less corruption, had a little bit more uh of a work ethic and willingness to work together and not lie and cheat and steal and and do voodoo dolls when someone somebody does bad business with them but instead deal with things according to law and order, their whole country would have been better equipped to deal with the this horrendous tragedy. It's very similar to what happened with Hurricane Katrina. We we saw a level of cr of corruption down there that did not have to do with whether or not uh George Bush was sending people in, but had to do with whether or not the mayor in the city uh had enough uh wherewithal to help to make a difference. And and he didn't. And he and then he blamed it all on uh on the president when he should have taken personal responsibility to help out with things. And it seems to me at the end of the day that that that the tragedy down in Haiti is that much worse Even if even if it's just a normal storm that that could have hit anybody, anywhere, even if God didn't do it directly, it's clear to me that the Haitian people m have made choices for the last hundred and fifty years that has first of all this caused their culture to be in decay and now uh has has caused them to be unprepared for this horrendous tragedy. Now I didn't hear all of what Pat Robertson said said but Uh but uh the part we did listen to was talking about the pact they made, you know, decades ago. And and the point you're making is is the current conduct of forsaking God and Yeah, but don't covenants of the past affect our uh our ac our conduct today? They can. I mean we hope the Constitution does that for us. They can. However the people living today apparently are not the ones that made the pact and I would hope that apparently they're still significantly involved with voodoo in witchcraft. Well I'm just going by what he said. That's he in the comment we heard it was not based on current conduct. So I hope they're bringing in relief. And uh it I don't know what Pat Robertson is doing to help relieve the problems there. Uh I would be interested to know. If he is doing that, I think that would say a lot for him. Yeah, and I and I and we could we're gonna have to, I think, take a second here in a in a minute I will to address some of the m the mischaracterizations of the Carl Schuch uh letter to the editor. You almost have to say something just so you don't give implicit consent. If you're agreeing with everything he says. Absolutely. But it sounds like Jonathan's kind of sort of agreeing with Pat Robertson, at least to some extent. So you would defend Pat Robertson's right to say that You don't think he should offer a retraction or apologize for sharing his views on the seven hundred club? My question is this, if we had a prophet today like Jonah or with or like Isaiah and he had a a platform that was a public platform, would he come out and say what he knows to be the truth? And the Apostle Paul is the one that said, look, we have conducted ourselves before you with complete transparency. We do nothing in secret. I don't think we need to hide the truth about uh about how wickedness destroys a nation. Whether it's whether it's uh Sh Hugo Chavez down in Venezuela, whether it's um Kim Jong il up in uh North Korea Whether it's Saddam Hussein, whoever it is, if you're if you're destroying your nation, somebody needs to stand up and say, Look, stop already. And I think a lot of people have and they've ignored it. The leadership in in Haiti has ignored those those appeals. uh for them to do things different for generations on end, right up to the current generation. I think it's very refreshing that he feels he can say the way he feels. Uh because I uh even though I might not have said it, I'm sure I wouldn't have said it, and I if I did I would have said it differently, but But again, uh I mean I like people to say the way they feel. There's so much pretense and hypocrisy that let it out there. And and I don't think he had any ill will towards any of these people. I think the people that that have taken this and are upset, I think, uh in the wrong wrong way. But he wasn't walking the streets A Port au Prince saying, Hey he's on the Seven Hundred Club on his show, speaking to his people and the only reason we've got it is because other people made a big deal about it. His tone was very, very compassionate. He was not uh railing on the show. I'm railing a lot more than he d he was. So we've already addressed the uh the Jonathan particularly talked about the believing in the devil. Uh most people uh believe in God, and I would say the majority of those who believe uh in America anyway, and the majority of those who believe in God probably believe in the devil, uh I would think so. So I think that This letter to the editor mischaracterizes that. Earthquakes certainly are caused by geological forces, but the Christian worldview would ha would hold that God can supernaturally impose his will upon those natural forces because he created those natural forces. Um lump lumping uh RC Sproul in this makes me feel like, man, I I'm gonna have to s I have to side with Robertson now, whether I wanted to or not. You're gonna put R. C. Sproul, who was one of the great men of God in my opinion? Now I ha whether I want it to or not, I have to side with Pat Robertson. Uh kind of and for and for him to be so keen spirited about Falwell's death, I mean, come on. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That was a little bit unsensitive. Let's go back for a second to the to this question about earthquakes and God being in control, right? You know what I didn't realize you were going to want to carry through. We'll pick up a then we're going to get into some constitutional issues next week. Excellent. I'm Troy Skinner. He's Jonathan Sweitzer. C. Paul Smith, also on the show. This is the Faith Debate. Thanks for listening. God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Povin plumbings, how can we make you smile