Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumbing plumbing, how can we make you smile? Lord will when the creeks don't rise, we got a face-to-face show going on, baby. There we go. Matters, baby. Oh man. You know, you don't really care. But some people I was talking to somebody recently and they said that one of the things they love about radios when sometimes they learn kind of inside scoop of what's going on. Oh yeah, okay. So we're gonna give you if you live for that sort of thing, you give you a little bit of inside scoop. Last week, as as if you listened to the show before, you know that this show is not live. These guys are pastors, baby. They're working on the weekends, you know what I'm saying? So then I I mean after a long hard day of uh of of of uh Uh everybody else is relaxing and chilling on Saturday. Yeah. But Robert Quintana is busting his behind because he's a pastor at a Seventh day Adventist church. He's working hard on Saturday. So he sleeps in late on Sunday. Amen. And then even though he you get up early to listen to your show? I do, I have been. Okay, so he gets up to listen to his show, the new the new show Anchor Points, which airs on the WFMD Sunday morning seven thirty to eight. And it's weird to listen to myself on the radio. We're in this together. Jonathan Sweitzer, you know, he's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and you know about every third week he preaches, so he's got things to to work on and get ready for on a Sunday morning. We record the show in advance. In fact, I think the record is we once recorded a show eight months in advance. No, that's not true. Oh, oh. But sometimes they get recorded a little bit in advance. Well anyway, we were recording. Yeah. Um feels like twelve years ago. Yes. In a different studio than we're in right now. Yes. And the mics weren't working. I couldn't figure out the levels and the I don't know, the first ten minutes I'm submitting that for a Marconi Award. That's an award winning radio, that first ten minutes of last week's show. If you missed it, check it out online. Listen to the podcast, WFMD. com, keyword faith, or go to the audio vault. You don't want to miss classic bad radio. That was a Red Bull. Uh oh, uh oh. That was bad news. Field of the spirit. Yes I yeah yeah. Yes, I'm predictum. So then we get everything figured out and Frank Frank in the basement comes to our rescue and and and gets us set up. And he wasn't even supposed to be here. No, you know what Frank walked in. Uh if you're listening right now, just between you and me, they should start charging you rent. That's right. Here all the time. Yeah, yeah. You know? Yeah, we'll put one in for Frank. Frank, you gotta start picking up some of the property taxes. If you're listening, just call in what's the WFMD number? Call in and say we want to raise for Frank. I think that's the the on air number anyway. Okay. This is all meaningless. I feel like this is, you know, that that uh comedy show, you know, the the sitcom. So anyway Now we're in the big boy studio. This is where Bob Miller and Blaine Young broadcast. No way, from right here is huge. Huge. I'm not gonna wash this shirt. Well, why start now? Yeah, right, you know. So this has been this is this has been an odyssey. So now you don't really care, but I'm not gonna get it off my mind until I just Give voice to an event. This is now our third show doing the second show. Yeah, this is our third second. This is the third time we're doing this show. And I gotta tell you the first two shows weren't that good and this one won't be either, so you won't miss anything But we're doing the the fur we've done the first four minutes of this show three times. Three times. Three times. Hence the reason why it seems so polished when we're doing it this particular time. You're just amazed at how smooth we are with our transitions. So anyway, yes. Yes. So you are listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD, and because of all the historianics from last week, I neglected to mention something that I wanted to mention. Oh, oh. Uh last week as the show aired Oh well it's my wedding anniversary, so Oh congratulations happy anniversary honey. What year is that? Uh what is it, seventeen years, eighteen years? Eighteen years. getting into precious metals or something, doesn't it mean that? Yeah, you know. Titanium. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Congratulations. I think it's uh I think it's uh Dirty plutonium or something. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So what you what you should do do is take your for your anniversary to see Iron Man. Right? That would be appropriate since it's a titanium No, you know my wife. So last week if you're listening to the show, we were talking about the Sabbath because uh Robert's with the Frederick Seventh day Adventist Church and They they recognize the Sabbath as being Friday night to Saturday night. Uh Jonathan's with uh a non denominational Protestant church and the majority of Protestant churches, most the majority of uh modern day Christian churches would would celebrate or recognize the ninety nine percent Sabbath, I guess. Point nine as being Sunday. How many adventists Um last last I saw, um, which I think was about a year ago, we're looking at about 15 million worldwide. It's not just the Adventists though, right? I mean you've got the Messianic Jewish people and you've got uh uh Worldwide Church of God Seventh Day Baptists. Uh yeah, so there's some other groups. But yeah, but they're in a they're definitely a minority. Like one percent probably. Yeah, definitely. Okay. So good. Do you feel outnumbered? I do. But that's that sense of intimidation before we even get started. So last week we had our word of the day was Adventist. Yeah. This week the word of the day is or word of the week, I guess. Word of the week is justification. So which one of you wants to explain what justification means? Have at it, Robert. Alright. Well, justification the way that I see it is uh the beautiful uh message of the gospel, uh the good news, uh Jesus Christ. Um As uh being God, uh became man, Emmanuel God with us, lived on earth uh for the purpose of dying on the cross for our sins. And uh the good news, as told in the New Testament by Paul, by so many, that if you accept Jesus Christ into your life, you're justified of your sins. In other words, those sins will not be held accountable. um will not be held um to your account to your account exactly but that you've been justified of those sins you're covered by the blood by the grace of God uh through Jesus Christ and you're justified And so if you can't tell Robert is clearly a Muslim. No, he's he's clearly a uh uh very orthodox in his description of what justification means in a Christian uh environment. And and if you're used to some of the you know Christian uh Christian ease or Christian jargon or or biblical language you could even say that. You know, you'll hear people talk about justification, sanctification, glorification. All right, so now we've talked about what justification is, and towards the end of last week's show, Jonathan was trying to make a point of clarification about sanctification. About sanctification and what role, if any, uh proper worship of Sat of Sabbath plays in run into sanctification. So and Robert wasn't a hundred percent You I'm not sure if you were unhappy with how Jonathan Mitty was a very important thing to do. And so he had 30 seconds to answer, so I totally ambushed him last week. So here's his chance to come out. Definitely. All right. Well I think I did mention this uh uh last week when I was talking about I kinda mentioned justification and sanctification, um, in that that once we we enter into this covenant relationship with Christ and we accept them into our lives, that He calls us to a standard to live by and He calls us to And and really it's not, you know, for anything else, but for us to live our best life. Um, for us to to live the best that we can, to live out his purpose in our lives. And so having said that, that's where I believe, you know, the the Ten Commandments come in. Uh some of the principles of of some of the laws that we find in in the Old Testament. I say principles of because from a Seventh-day Adventist perspective, um, we break down the laws of the Bible basically in four categories. So if if I may, just real quickly. natural laws like gravity, um we see uh Jesus Christ raising you know Lazarus from the dead, you know, things like that. Um the second would be civil laws which were given to the people of Israel Um and um you know, through those civil laws were given for people to live in community and and work well with one another and operate good with one another. Sure. Um the the third category would be the ceremonial laws that were given to the people of Israel to point forward to uh Christ uh dying on the cross, everything was, you know, for to point forward um to that. Now real quickly real quick in just a second, but for me those three first categories um do change, can change. Um, in other words, the natural law can change through divine intervention or a miracle. You know, someone may be diagnosed with cancer. And through a miracle God can change the natural law of You're not one of those crazy wackos that believes in the supernatural I I I do believe in in divine intervention and and in miracles, certainly. Oh crazy. Oh. And then and then the the second, you know, the civil laws. Obviously the civil laws were given for people to to, you know, work well and they're given by Abraham Lincoln, right? Yeah, exactly, exactly. Civil laws? Yeah, the Civil War, I think. Yeah. And and just like the civil laws in our day too. Today can change. You know, we may decide to to move the speed limit from thirty-five to twenty-five. You know, those civil laws I think there's room for. I think that there's principles in the Old Testament from those civil laws that we can learn from. So in your mind, just to clarify, civil laws are different from civil rights. Yes. Civil laws have to do with civilization and how we get along in civilization. Exactly. Like for instance you need to go certain, you know Stop weights. Exactly. And in the old testament, you know, make sure and go a certain distance away from camp to to relieve yourself Yeah, yeah. And then the third being the ceremonial laws were obviously done away with at the cross as Christ fulfilled those ceremonial laws. So all those three from an adventist perspective change or can be changed. Now the fourth set of laws, which is I think where Which ones of those would include dietary laws? That would be the the health the the natural law. Okay. Exactly. And so then the fourth category of laws would be the Ten Commandments or the moral law of God. And Adventists see those as unchanging, as eternal. um you know, that were there from the very beginning and will be there all throughout. Do you break out the the laws in the Old Testament along a similar I have tended to break the laws in the Old Testament into uh You could have just stopped right there as you just tend to break the laws of the Old Testament. Right there. Full stop. Yeah, yeah. Troy is uh you you are in uh in full mojo tonight. He is uh and uh it is uh exciting here in the uh the big boy studio. That's that's what he says on the air. Exciting. Wait till the mics are off. The politician in me So uh so I'd say ceremonial uh laws and uh moral laws and um I would probably include uh the uh celebration, the uh what's a better term for it? Uh the term's not coming to me, but laws having to do with like feast days and laws that wouldn't be part of the would you include feast laws with the ceremonial laws? Yes. Mm-hmm. Hmm. Hmm. I don't know if I would uh I would make a distinction there or not. And then um I guess I would recognize that there are civil laws. Give me an example of a natural law in the Old Testament. A natural law in the Old Testament like natural law is not delineated necessarily in the Bible because you're talking about like gravity. So it's not like it's the the Natural law is not revelatory. Yeah, it's not like spelled out in in I I don't think in either the old or new, but you know In the Old Testament, like in the book of Job when when God's talking to Job about, you know, the the universe and, you know, can can you bind you know, Pleiades or can you hold you know, he's talking about the these universal, um, natural laws that that are out there. And then of course in the New Testament, you know, we see him walking on water. Well, I mean you know, obviously something miraculous had to happen for him to walk on water, um, changing um the natural law which says if you walk you you know, you You'll go greater destiny than that which you walk upon. Exactly, exactly. So Yeah. So but but yeah, not anything necessarily spelled out. um particularly but that's kind of how it's just a bit for clarification, in the uh Adventist um orientation, uh are you guys at all oriented towards the uh a s seven year sabbatical? And uh and uh fifty year Jubilee? No. No, we don't we don't practice that. Um Hm. No. Interesting. So you would include committee of the civil correct. No ceremony. You're s you're calling those ceremonial, aren't you? Um well those have to do with with feasts and laws having to do with feasts and holy days and that kind of thing. It's a combination because also it's about debt relief and that sort of thing too, which would be civil, right? So I think it could be a combination of both. So you're not sure where those exact leaves would fall? Okay. Well so now Jonathan was trying to make the point last week. Or I don't think he's trying to make the point. He was asking the question at least about whether or not fulfilling that moral law, because you're saying that the other three have have either somehow But the natural law just is. Mm-hmm. The ceremonial law has been fulfilled in Christ. Correct. The civil law no longer applies because uh it was set up for old testament Israel. For that context, that culture, that society. So now what we're left with is the moral law. Correct. And Jonathan, if I compare try to paraphrase, is basically asking, so are you saying that by fulfilling that moral law which would include the way you've dis defined it with the the Ten Commandments, the the Sabbath, that uh that that is um Uh what's the right word I'm looking for? Is that that's what causes our sanctification to move forward, causes us to grow into sanctification? Yeah, no, I don't think um I I I th Let me answer and and then you're not going to be able to do that. The more sanctified you are, the more likely you are to be following the moral law. That the result of sanctification is that you're coming into alignment with God's eternal personality. Yeah. No, I mean I I do believe that um that along with all the other commandments. Like Thou Shalt Not Kill, Honor Your Father and Mother. I mean you can you know through the the whole list. Those are good ones. They're in my top ten. Okay. Oh. Is is uh remembering the Sabbath day. What's that? Is is uh the Sabbath in your top ten? Is that a s uh a as a moral law? Yeah. Well that's what we're talking about. Yeah, yeah. Oh, all right. Uh I'll I'll give you my my point of view for what it's worth a little bit. But I do want to hear I want to finally hear uh Robert's response by the way Robert Quintana senior pastor of Frederick Seventh day Adventist Church and Jonathan Sweitzer Senior Pastor of Crossers Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner, this is a Faith Debate on WFMD. I probably want to hear Robert have a chance to kind of explain Uh e either how, yes, Jonathan, you're characterizing that correctly and here's why, or no, I think you're not quite characterizing it exactly the way I as an adventist would. And here's why. So what's your sponsor? No, definitely. And and this is where I think it's a very delicate um issue and where I think it gets um misconstrued in many circles. Um, because when when we're talking about the sanctification of of an individual, I think it's a very personal thing between God, the Creator, and and the creation who He's trying to recreate. So it's hard for me as as a Seventh day Adventist Christian to stand in judgment of anyone else and say, Well, because you're not keeping the Sabbath or because you chose to kill somebody or because you chose to you know, um, dishonor your parents or because you chose to commit adultery or whatever, um, you're less sanctified than I am. Because a in my opinion, sanctification is a process of a lifetime. And on this journey that we're on with Christ He is he is constantly leading us to that higher standard. A standard by the way by the way, I don't believe we will reach while here on earth. And that is the reason why Christ had to come and live out that standard, that you know, perfect harmony with the law of God, and then have the opportunity then to die on our behalf. So you're not Wesleyan. For those who are theologians listening, you know, uh Wesley did believe that reaching that perfect sanctification, reaching perfection This side of heaven was was something that was attainable. He never claimed that he did it himself, sure. But he felt like it was a goal that should be pursued. uh you know this this would be one of them and uh you know other people maybe have some other ones down pretty good you know Adventist focus on this one as being a pretty important one and so you're not saying Adventists are more sanctified than other people, just that this should be one of the issues of sanctification and uh we're all growing in one of those areas. Because I will say that even though you may be a seventh day Adventist and you quote keep the Sabbath, you may not be um you may not be keeping the Sabbath the way that God intended it to be kept. So even within Adventism and within the doctrine of the Sabbath, there there's this this spectrum of of growth that takes place. Well let me let me ask this I think this might be getting at getting at what Jonathan's trying to ask. I think I'm finally I think I finally latched on to where Jonathan might be Let's leave everything else aside at first. I think it probably is. So it might be the first time you've had a thought that I could possibly latch on to me. You gotta have a thought for it to be latched. Nice shirt that you have to do. Anyway, so let's put everything else aside because right now the the the frame of the of the context of the conversation we're having is about the Sabbath. So let's take everything else and set that aside for now. Yeah, it's not r always very smart to compartmentalize your theology this way, but for the sake of this discussion, let's focus just on the Sabbath. Do you believe that as somebody c grows in their walk becomes increasingly sanctified, that if they were to live a life that was infinitely long that they would eventually, as they increase in sanctification, arrive at a place where they would worship and celebrate the Sabbath. Yes. On Saturday. Yeah. And that is a great question. And the the short answer to that is yes. And and the reason why I I believe that is because anyone who has entered into that covenant relationship with Christ hopefully is a student of the word and and and and someone who is studying the word vigorously, right And I think that uh from here is probably where the debate will go from is now what does the Bible say? Because because if the Bible, being the word of God, says to worship the seventh day, Sabbath, then as followers of Christ, and he says himself, you know, um, those that keep my commandments love me, you know, goes on. I mean there there's a lot of references that that I can make. But Uh um if if if our goal as followers of Christ is to is to say, okay, now what does the Bible say, the Word of God, how is he asking me to live my life? then I think eventually the conclusion will be I need to worship on Sabbath. No, I'm I'm gonna find Which is very interesting 'cause I feel like uh I I feel like that breeds into even the the name uh Adventism. You know, the point is that if we're looking out way, way down If we all lived a thousand years we could be perfectly sanctified, you know. We you know, and and so everything's returned to to uh an ideal uh in i the new heavens and the new earth. I would say it's likely in the new heavens and the new earth that the Sabbath day will be on the uh seventh day of the week And uh I would say that um that it's very likely that that the return of Christ will uh will bring uh a realigning of those things in a way that is appropriate. But that's precisely the reason why I feel like it's not that big an issue uh in this era, you know, pre-the return of Christ, because um Well, there's a whole bunch of things that are gonna be returned. In fact we get we probably get into discussions with Adventists about these particular issues, you know, having to do with vegetarianism. You know. Certainly uh uh before the flood, it's clear To me at least from scripture that everybody was vegetarian. After the flood, God gave permission to eat animals as well. Certain animals. Certain animals as well. And that being the case Um a and in fact even beyond that, then in Acts fifteen, we seem to be given permission to to to eat further animals, you know, like they don't give us any uh uh uh uh recommendations or instructions about pork or anything like that. They just say file don't be sexually immoral and and you know the other laws that they address. Uh again, so so my point is is that it's clear to me that the world has fallen into a state of disrepair. And in falling into a state of disrepair, there's certain things that we're supposed to be focused on right now. Sure. And to my mind, the Sabbath is simply not one of those things. Yeah, and and to that I would agree to be able to do that. You know, the moral law honoring your parents, absolutely. You know, stealing, lying, cheating, coveting. uh you know, not worshiping other gods. All these other ones, absolutely one hundred percent. But but trying to bring some kind of alignment on the issue of the Sabbath, um, I feel like is something that And quote Obama is above my pay grade. Christ will do it when he returns. And I would agree with that to a certain extent. Sure. Um because I think that as Adventist um Seventh day Adventist, um it because of the uniqueness of the Sabbath, it has become an issue. Um, and and and I don't know that it's so much an issue to an Adventist as it is to other Christians. So and and I say that because in making it an issue we haven't been given the opportunity or the voice to really express uh are are beliefs that are in common with other Christian faiths, uh like being Christ and being saved by grace And if if Christ be lifted up, I I will draw all men unto me. And and the beauty and the the you know his teachings on how we relate with one another and how we treat one another and how we forgive one another. You know, now you know, I I don't know. It is true that your history has left you in a place, you know, from the millerite, you know prophecies, you know, uh up through Ellen G. White, all the way up through, you know, probably in the early, late eighteen hundreds, nineteen hundreds, moving in a direction that seemed to to be m more comfortable to those that would be considered orthodox. Uh i it does seem to be the case that that you guys have had some I don't know shw and here we are at the end again uh of the show, but some repair work to do in terms of of making those connections. But my sense is that you guys have uh are just like you've expressed today, profoundly orthodox in uh all the all the major significant areas. Jonathan Sweitzer senior pastor at Crossworth Valley Chapel, Robert Guenchana senior pastor at Frederick Seventh day Adventist. I'm Troy Skinners of the Faith Debate on WFMD. Thanks for listening. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing Providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing, that's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plitman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?