Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P, as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. The show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile and encourage you to visit us visit us online? WFMD. com keyword faith. Go to the audio boat, listen to the faith debate on uh audio podcast. There's I don't know, just dozens and dozens and dozens and Dozens and dozens of shows there. Not every show we've ever done, but pretty darn close to it. Jonathan Slacer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor at Foolsville Baptist Church on the panel again this week and we are working our way through the the doctrines of the church uh through the lens of the Westminster Confession of Faith. It gives us kind of a systematic model to try to work through. It's it's bringing with it some challenges. And so I want to address those really quick without getting bogged down because I do want to tackle chapter three, which is what we're up to next now. But One, it was written three hundred and seventy years, sixty-five years ago or whatever, a long time ago. And so the the our understanding of words and the use of the language has changed Enough that uh we've been running into some uh some semantics issues. You know, Jonathan's saying, I don't like that word because you know people could understand it this way when maybe three hundred and sixty. But it is causing some issue, and we want to make sure that we're clear And if there's one thing I learned in doing this show, being clear in your language is hugely important. If you've learned nothing from this show ever before, learn this. When you're talking to somebody about something of importance, make sure you understand what they're saying. Say it back to them in different words the way you understand it and make sure they agree. If you get that kind of relationship, get them to say it back to you in different words, making sure you understand what youths are saying. Because we've got people on this show that will say Jesus is Lord and Savior and what they mean by Jesus, what they mean by Lord, what they mean by savior, are completely different than what maybe mainstream America would think. So we're running into some of that uh we're and we don't want to get bogged down on that, but they are important points to be made. So it's it it's been a challenge. I uh I I I'm almost tempted to have grabbed a more modern version of this, but they would have used some of the same language that is difficult. Some of the words, some of the technical terms. They're they're technical theological terms that are going to be used. Yeah, there's an exactitude about that language. So Yeah, and that's precisely the the thing we were we were just kind of discussing before this show that they're uh that a word carries a shade of meaning that ultimately can affect the shades of your theological perspective. Uh and so one person might be totally comfortable with a certain word and another guy's not, and it's precisely because they're their uh theological perspectives are at play, you know, are are uh being uh affected in or um you know changed and so uh You know, I guess that's what we do on the show is we split hairs and speaking of words and vocabulary and stuff. We had three or four, I think, words of the week last week. This week uh Relatively basic and simple perhaps, but maybe not. I won't take anything for granted. Chapter three, that the subject matter, the title here is Of God's Eternal Decree. Word of the week is decree. What do we mean by decree? Uh the emperor sent out the decree that all men should be uh Uh a census should be taken of all the men and they had to go back to their hometown, right? A decree is when you send out a uh an announcement for all to hear that they must follow a decree. I like that. Sure. Must be followed. Something that must be followed. Yeah, some sort of rule to be followed, like you write his it's an authoritative Thing. Yes. Authoritative proclamation. Yes. Okay, there we go. All right, word of the week. So part one here Uh and in and a couple of places I'm gonna blend a few of these parts uh into one 'cause I think they kinda dovetail into each other as far as for the context context of this show anyway. Part one. God from all eternity did, by the most wise and holy counsel of his own will, freely and unchangeably ordain whatsoever comes to pass. Yet so, as thereby neither is God the author of sin, nor is violence offered to the will of the creatures, nor is the liberty or contingency of second causes taken away. but rather established. So basically the gist of that is nothing happens apart from God's will. Ha! But this doesn't mean that God is responsible for evil. That's kind of what that's saying there. So What do you say to somebody who might not agree with you, Christian pastors, uh hogwash? You can't have it both ways. How can God be responsible and not responsible at the same time? How can God be in control and not in control at the same time? Um what we say is that he's not culpable. He's not to blame for those things. Uh for instance, someone who makes a shotgun Um is responsible for the person who uses that shotgun and kills someone with it. He's ultimately responsible. Without him that shotgun would not have been made, but he's not culpable for such a thing. He didn't have anything to do with it. It's uh So that's just a place to start, perhaps. The problem is, yeah, the problem is God didn't just make the shotgun. He made the one who pulled the trigger. Like he he made everything involved, right? So how how does God escape culpability? Uh the word ordain I feel like needs to be defined. Could we define ordain? Okay. Second word of the week. I need like a little bell or something. Bing bing bing. Because he's saying from all eternity did by the most wise and holy counsel of his own free will freely and unchangeably ordain whatsoever comes to pass. I guess I'm uh I would disagree with that word unchangeably. And uh like a definition of ordain to determine uh Well I understand ordained to be like permissioned, right? Kind of he he he is that uh is that a fair Layman's way to define ordained? Does it mean that he authorized what came to pass or he decided what came to pass? I think we'll find from the context of this statement that he decided. He did more than simply allowed. He determined. Yeah, so I'm in disagreement with that. Right. Yeah. I know we're gonna have real fun with this one. I'm in complete agreement with that, which is why I guess both of us are. And I think it refers to Ephesians. At least. Ephesians two. Yeah. Ephesians one, yeah. That's the that's the main one that uh the version that I pulled up uh uh end note goes to Ephesians about the word predestined and verse eleven. My understanding of of that passage where it's talking about where predestined has to do with Christ and that the emphasis is not on the individual, but on being in Christ. Where at the end of that passage it says that that you also were included in him when you believe uh uh w uh having believed you were marked in him with the Holy Spirit and that that that's the point at which you were included in him and that that the predestination that that Paul is referring to there um is necessary because up until this point in in history the Jews understood that they were the chosen people of God. And that nobody else was the chosen people of God. And Paul is trying to clarify that that more than just the Jews are able to be uh included in that and more than that that God from bef before the creation of the world intended for more than just the Jews to be a part of his chosen people And so he from before the creation of the world uh uh decided he that uh that we would be holy and blameless in Christ. The key would be that all those that were far from God could be brought close to God in Christ. Not that he decided that you, Troy, would be one of those that's in Christ, but that he decided that trul if Troy decides to to accept the message of Jesus Christ, then he will be included in Christ and what God had foreordained from before the creation of the world. And to separate out that word in Christ. And to just make the the predestination about the individual I think does d d does uh damage to the passage, violence to the passage. I agree that it's not simply about the individual. I would consider it to be corporate. I think I think we would be better served Because what you've done is really gone to section two, three, four, and five here with the conversation about predestination and salvation. Yeah, I'm just dealing with the unchangeably ordained right, but I almost feel like we need to. Yeah, no, I'm happy to do the whole section. Let me just r let me just read through all because they're relatively short. I'll read through them all and then we can have a larger context. Oh maybe I'll read through part five. So here's parts two, three, four, and five. Although God knows whatsoever may or can come to pass upon all supposed conditions, yet has he not decreed yet has he not decreed anything because he foresaw it That's like awkward language these days. Uh yet has not he not decreed anything because he foresaw it as future or as that which would come to pass upon such conditions. Section 3. By the decree of God, for the manifestation of his glory, some men and angels are predestinated unto everlasting life, and others foreordained to everlasting death Then number uh part four. Uh these angels and men thus predestinated and foreordained are particularly and unchangeably uh designed. and their number so certain and definite that it cannot be either increased or diminished. And then five, those of mankind that are predestinated unto life, God before the foundation of the world was laid. According to his eternal and immutable purpose. There's that word immutable from last week. And the secret counsel and good pleasure of his will has chosen in Christ unto everlasting glory, out of his mere free grace and love, without any foresight of faith or good works or perseverance in either of them, or any other thing in the creature, as conditions or causes moving him thereunto And all the praise of his glorious grace. So paraphrase. The radio is turned off. Yeah, paraphrase. God knows everything that will happen, but he doesn't dec doesn't decide what will happen based upon looking ahead into the future at what will come to pass. God before time began predetermined that some people specifically will go to heaven, others specifically sent to hell. God is in control. Nothing can change this plan of God's. It's not dependent on anything the creature, the person that God has created, does. Right? That's a that's kind of a paraphrase of all that. Jonathan viscerally disagrees with pretty much that whole idea and and Jace uh embraces it and and lovingly so and finds great comfort and confidence. Scripture is sovereign, and I'm not sure that he is in your estimation. Is that right? Because I've been I've heard of uh you know, you talk about the sovereignty of God, people. As if you're not part of that group. The God that I is has eternal decrees. He's sovereign. Okay. Oh good. Good. Yes. God is certainly sovereign. Uh in his uh accomplishment of his will on the earth. However, to me uh the the great example is uh Pharaoh in the Exodus from Egypt. That's that's what scripture uses uh in this context. When they left Egypt, uh the Egyptians uh led by Pharaoh seemed to be rejected by God and cursed. Except for the fact that there was a whole bunch of Egyptians that chose, on the basis of watching what God was doing, to leave Egypt with the Israelites. And God was sovereign in in crafting Pharaoh in Egypt to be destroyed as an example of wickedness for his own glory, but in doing so there was the freedom of the individuals in the situation the people of Egypt, the Egyptians, to leave with the Israelites if they were to so desire. And and I believe that that's true with Christ. Why I'm agree Christ is leaving Egypt, you know, we're leaving Egypt and we're choosing to be in Christ, and I'm saying that God did not sovereignly choose who was gonna leave. but that those people had the freedom to make that decision. Well see I I guess I don't see those as being two contradictory things or that they can't work together. I believe that those people had the freedom to choose. When I make a call, the gospel, I say, choose Christ. And I'm more than willing to say that over and over again, even being a sovereignty of God person. Sure. Choose Christ. And I'm asking them to choose, and they must choose But that doesn't do any damage whatsoever to my sovereignty of God, that God has chosen them before they choose. That they can only choose Him because of His grace on their life. that he has preordained them or determined or whatever cool words here that you might not like by his unchangeable decree that they will choose him. He has determined that to happen. Now the secondary cause is that they will do that. I mean he he's the primary cause of these things, but they still make those choices. that where is it down here that um that their faith their choice to place their faith in God is what was the deciding factor for them being in God in that it was uh uh that it was not something that God decided from before the creation of the world. And that that that that reads more into the passages of Scripture than is there and is unnecessary to our understanding of the sovereignty of God. Jonathan knows that I have wrestled with this exact question for oh as long as he's known me and and before that. This is actually these this kind of conversation about this particular kind of issue is what eventually spawned the Faith Debate Show. Jonathan and I would spend hours restful trying to grapple with this. And I don't know that I have an answer, but I'm I'm beginning to to think in terms of there's an awful lot of both and's in the Bible. God is both, you know, one and three. You know, uh Jesus is both, you know, God and man. Uh the way I understand I I'm more of a biblical theologian uh theologian, uh, you know, that's my hermeneutical tool as well m most often. Nice big words. I know, nice big words. And that's kind of where I come at it too. So from that framework, we live in a both and situation now where You know, we're already saved and yet we're not saved. You know, we we already have Christ. Well you don't really have Christ yet 'cause he's gonna come again. And there's There's this tension of where these two things that seem to be diametrically opposed somehow are both true at the same time. Is this one of those cases where God is absolutely, completely sovereign, in control? He is the authority, the big Mac Daddy, nothing happens without God say so. He knew it was going to happen beforehand because he said it was going to happen beforehand. And yet man is responsible, man is personally culpable for his own, you know, sins, uh, has free will uh it seems like those two ideas would be completely diametrically opposed and yet it seems like the Bible supports them both. So is the bo is it a both and or just both true and we can't we don't have the mind of God so we can't understand how they're both true, is that Well definitely this the uh God is sovereign and definitely um man is uh free to uh uh make the choices that he makes. And um I think it's the the hairs that are split in between there that uh as to whether or not God decided specifically who from before the creation of the world or whether or not God, you know, chose a group of people and that that people can choose which group they're gonna be a part of, you know, and and that that God recognized that there would be a certain number that would choose one, certain number that would choose the other, and that He He is sovereignly moving history in the direction of His purpose is that the the beasts are gonna be destroyed, thrown into the event. Well you talked you know it's important to distinguish uh uh what you mean by evolution when you're talking to somebody. Are they talking about macro evolution or micro evolution? Macro meaning uh yeah uh Something very different than micro. Is that what you're talking about here? God has a macro sovereignty, but not a micro sovereignty. He he's sovereign over the big picture. He's sovereign over history. He's sovereign over groups. But he's not sovereign over the individual specific lives of of of people. I'm saying that I believe that God predestined us to be in Christ from before the creation of the world and that he predestined that all mankind would have the option to be in Christ. And that when we chose Christ to believe Christ that we too were included uh in that and that that he gave us the seal of the Holy Spirit. I'm uh I I'm precisely uncomfortable trying to put it in my own words. Yeah, the the catechism says, and again this is Westminster, so could be wrong, uh as you would say. Um That Adam was the representative for the whole human race in his fall, which we're going to get to in the Depravity of Man section, but that Christ was the representative for his elect people. for those that he chose specifically. Would you agree with that? Absolutely. The question is what is the basis of election? What is the basis? Okay, so that's a great question. So uh you agree with election, you agree with prostination, it's just the basis of such things. What does he base his election on? And you would say it's on the choice of a person. I'm saying he bases his election uh on on the other. So he looks through the channels of time, sees that you will make that decision in faith, and therefore has foreordained. That's how you would say forordained, right? Um where where does the Bible use the word for ordained? Um well it depends on how you translate it. Again, we're in a semantic problem, but certainly the chain of grace in Romans Um for those he did predestined, uh how would you it depends on how you would pass there in Romans? Uh Romans eight Twenty. And those he predestined, he also called, those he called, he also justified, those he justified, he also glorified. And what shall we say then in response to this? This passage, just like uh the Ephesians passage to me. Is uh uh arrives uh in a tone that is triumphant to encourage the the individual that might be Uh in Romans hopelessly uh feeling like he can never win because of uh because of his sin. But who in Romans and Ephesians Yeah. They're all dead. That's I mean that's Romans three, Romans six, right? That's my point. Dead in their trespasses. Okay, good. That's my point too. So keep going then. So so he has i uh in both Ephesians and Romans, he is Assuring the people that he's speaking to that God is not just making this up as he goes along, right? But that he is able to bring us from the place of not being in faith to the to to glory. And and he is accomplishing that in each step. And so so he for knew, predestined, called, justified, right. And I'm saying that that he did that for everybody and for those then that choose to to accept Christ, that set their mind on the things of the Spirit, that that uh thanks be to God who always leads us in triumphal procession, that those people that have chosen that then are included in Christ. And that they make it through to the glory. Where's that in that chain? I don't see anywhere where it says Well I guess at this point I'm being biblical as opposed to being Oh, okay. It says he foreknew, then he predestined, then he called, then he justified. Yes. I mean so if he foreknew then he justified them. But we would both agree that he doesn't justify everyone. I'm saying that he's saying that all are justified if they would if they would accept it. I'm saying all are justified if they would accept it. But they do not do so. They do not respond to the blood of Jesus Christ. How would someone it is available to all? How would someone respond? I i if Romans is our biblical if our context right now and they're dead. Yeah. I mean I mean put yourself on the ground and think about this as I try to get you to respond. to uh you know as I yell wake up, wake up and I pray to God and you're laying dead on the ground, what exactly are you going to respond to? How do you make that response? Well w what it says is that in the gospel is the power of God and salvation. And so when I come to you and I preach the gospel and you were dead, in the gospel is the power of God and salvation. The grace is in the gospel. When you hear the message of the gospel, whether it's preached verbally or by creation itself. But you can't hear it. What do you mean? You're dead. I'm I I How do you the gospel right unless he sends somebody to preach Well even if he preaches to a dead person there's no hearing. Yeah, yeah, it's interesting because you are um reading into your your definition of dead. I believe that passage is in Ephesians. We were dead in our transgressions. Certainly there. Yeah. Well where's the passage in Romans that that is because Romans is where we're dealing with with the death. Okay. Uh I mean with with this particular passage. The problem and not I I think where people go in Romans is they go back to the passage where it says all have sinned and false words towards God. passage in Romans three shows up to uh where where Paul has clarified that that that that all have uh have fallen and he's he's speaking to the Gentiles in Rome, but then he turns and he says, And you Jews also, you are no better. And he goes back to the to the uh Hebrew scriptures to clarify times in history where where uh In hyperbole, the writers, whether it's Isaiah or David, are saying, God, everybody is wicked. Nobody does what's right. And it's fine, but the point is that the hyperbole was dealing with the truth, and Paul's saying, look, you Jews are no better than the rest of us. And sometimes you are as bad as Sodom and Gomorrah. And so you need to admit that you too need the grace that is in Jesus Christ. He's not saying specifically that every human being is totally depraved. That's not what he's saying there. He's saying you Jews are just as likely to be full of sin as you Gentiles ever were. And that being the case, we need the faith of Abraham. And he goes into that in chapter 4 and 5. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Dr. Jace Broadhurst from Poolsville Baptist Church, also on the show. I'm Troy Skinner, uh listening to 930 WFMD. We've already kind of covered the ground, but for the record, I want to read into the uh into the record. uh the last part of uh chapter three here, uh chap uh sections six, seven, and eight. Uh as God has appointed the elect unto glory, so has he, by the eternal and most free purpose of his will, foreordained all the means thereunto. Wherefore they who are elected, being fallen in Adam, are redeemed by Christ, are effectually called unto faith in Christ, by his Spirit working in due season, are justified, adopted, sanctified, and kept by his power through faith unto salvation. Neither are any other uh redeemed by Christ effectually called, justified, adopted, sanctified, and saved, but the elect only. Lazarus is uh Lazarus is lying there dead in his tomb and Jesus speaks to him and he's alive. So y uh is there a spiritual correlation there that somebody's lying there dead in their sin? And the word speaks to them and they're quickened. They're alive. Uh and and and first bless I would say that that it's a little bit of a stretch to use that Anyway. I mean, it's a good thing. Well see I would think that's supporting my argument, so I don't know. Really. Ooh, okay now. That's my my whole point. He before before he can respond to the grace, he's He's revising the head. Right? So the question is what the question is not whether or not he's dead in his transgression. Yeah, but Lazarus is true. Lazarus didn't hear it and say, Oh okay, I guess I'll get up now. He died with many. Get alive, right? And then he responded. Yeah. And so so The question is whether or not you can hear. The question is, what is the basis upon which God hardens people's hearts? Uh and we're get we're told that. Uh at uh there there's uh in Proverbs it says the heart of the wise inclines to the right, the heart of the fool inclines to the left You know, it it it teaches us the basis upon which we're hardened. If if if we hear the word of God and we refuse to follow it, God hardens our heart. If we hear the word of God and we respond to it, it softens our heart. This is the Faith Debate. Jace Jonathan, thanks. I'm Troy. This is FMB in the Faith Debate. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Footman Plumbing, that's with a pea, as in your preferred plumber. Pub and plumbing, how can we make you smile?