Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumbing. Plum and plumbing, how can we make you smile? Our first parents being Seduced by the sub seduced by the subtlety and temptations of Satan sinned in eating the forbidden fruit. This their sin, God was pleased, according to his wise and holy counsel, to permit having purpose to order it to his own glory. Now you gotta be careful by the way in how you where you stop because you can't just say this their sin God was pleased, period. You gotta keep talking after that Uh this is the Faith Debate. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. Show is brought to us by Equipment Plumbing and Healing. On the panel this week, Dr. Jace Broadhurst, the Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, and Jonathan Sweitzer who is the co founder of the Faith Base Show and senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and you're the president of some organization. Right, you're skinners, right? Yeah. So you skin something. Yeah, generally Sweitzers, actually. Oh you skin switzers. Because Schweitzer's uh apparently is a term for one who sweats a lot, so I'm sure it was a very hard task for you. I'm glad that we made it difficult on your behalf. Anyway, what I read there at the very beginning uh was the beginning of uh w the very first section of chapter six of the Westminster Confession of Faith, uh titled Of the fall of man of sin and the punishment thereof. The the rest of the start, let's say the first half, going through sections two, three, and four, would continue to say By this sin, Adam and Eve, they fell away from their original righteousness and communion with God, and so became dead in sin and wholly defiled in all the parts and faculties of soul and body. They being the root of all mankind, the guilt of the sin was imputed, that'll be the word of the week, and the same death in sin and corrupted nature conveyed to all their posterity descending from them by ordinary generation From this original corruption, whereby we are utterly indisposed, disabled, and made opposite to all good and wholly inclined to all evil, do proceed all actual transgression transgressions, and we're gonna have a fifth fight Today on the Faith of Hate Show. That's right, I can see that our uh fall in the flesh is going to be So here's the gist here's the gist of uh these first four uh parts of the of chapter six, as as I see it God allowed the first man and woman, Adam and Eve, to sin, bringing death and condemnation to all humans who have ever sinned, uh who have ever since been deprav uh depraved in all of their parts, mind, body, soul This is why we all sin even today. I mean that's kind of the gist of it. So Jonathan's gonna take some issue with this, I know, but before we give Jonathan a chance to take some swings at this, Jace, any any Concern at all? You're like, yeah, you go, divines who wrote this. Yeah, that that's pretty much my response there. Um total depravity of man. That uh God was pleased according to his counsel To allow this to happen and they fell and became dead in sin. I know he doesn't like that terminology right. They're just kind of really sick. No, that's biblical language. Okay, yeah, you do like that. I knew I knew you would have have to say that one was biblical. Yes. wholly defiled in all parts and faculties of soul and body. That's probably where you would take issue, I'm guessing. Oh yeah, it just doesn't happen to show up in scripture. Yes. Well, I would say that's what comes with the dead, but yeah. Um That's what depravity means. So yeah, they would have they would have agreed that um someone who is depraved can has no desire for God. cannot will not and cannot come to him. So that's what this would have this would have done. This is basically saying, because sin is passed down through generations, that we are we are born sinners. You guys both agree with that? Yeah. Because that will raise some eyebrows, even in Christian circles, people who may be aren't Calvinist or Reformed might be more prone to raising eyebrows, but uh I've had conversations with no innocent babies. Certainly must uh The babies haven't sinned. They're not born in sin. They're innocent babies You hear it all the time, right? Abortion, the killing of innocent babies. Those innocent babies are sin. Filled with sin, riddled with sin. Right, that's what this is saying. Yes, the most controversial uh tabletalk magazine ever, as far as I understand, was a picture of a nice cuddly baby on the front with a stamp on it that said depraved. Wow. The problem is the word depravity is a biblical word and it's used in one place in scripture. In Romans chapter one, at the end of a long list of sins, uh the ugliest of sins, where it says that that uh that God gave them over to to to a certain level of sin, then he gave them over to certain level of sin as they continued, gave them over to certain level sin. And it says in and their there by the he gave them over to to to to complete depravity, to to be defiled with with all sorts of wickedness. And um in a corporate way I'm in total agreement with that. But I know you, Troy, and I know that you have never engaged never in A good portion lots of good portions of those depraved sins. Uh Jace I uh perceive you since somebody uh saw you the other day and and uh identified you as a Christian just by how you look. Oh I perceive that that it's likely true with you as well that you have not given yourself over to all of those depravities And so I would add and and and change this to say that that clearly we are dead in our transgressions, but that we still carry, though marred, the image of God. And that in carrying the image of God that um that God has has made a way for us either by the preaching of of creation itself or by the actual preaching of Old Testament scripture or New Testament scripture brought into our uh our uh lives, his grace, whereby at any level at any uh of those levels of having given over, we said we said, God, I want you. And we responded and we we we responded to his rebuke, and in responding to his rebuke, uh we are not wholly defiled in all uh the parts and f faculties of the soul, but we are partially defiled in all parts and faculties of the soul and the body. And that there are those who are wholly defiled in all parts of faculties of the soul, but that nowhere in Scripture are we given the impression that all humanity is wholly defiled in all parts and faculties of the soul, but rather we're given the impression that all humanity have sinned and fallen short and that all cultures have definitely uh been um uh been uh found to have members of their culture that are wholly defiled in all parts and faculties of the soul, both the Jews and the Gentiles. And so I'm very uncomfortable with the uh w with the general sense of this this again I'm in agreement. And I'm glad that they're dealing with the fall of sin and and and the fact that it's passed down from from one to another, that we're born into sin. Uh I'm comfortable with that. Uh I'm comfortable with the fact that that the sin is what inclines us that we become slaves to sin, uh and that uh that there's a need for us to be broken out of that. But I I disagree with the with how far it takes it into a d a uh a total depravity. I think you're the one that that applied that term as a uh summary and and I feel like both the c the confession and you when you go that far I feel like go beyond the the teaching of Scripture. I don't mean to say that we are totally depraved in the sense that we are all as depraved as we could be. So if that's if that was the argument that you're making. Well you made at least that plus more. Sure. That that is not what I mean to say. Certainly I believe that Hitler is a worse person than I am. Okay, if I'm gonna stack myself up against him, he is a worse person. You deserve hell like he deserves hell, but he's worse than you. Correct. Yeah, I'm with you. So I would important distinction. I would probably change the the T in the tulip if we're going to go in that the total depravity to uh to what most reformers have polyton it's like uh are like a radical depravity that we are depraved in the sense that we cannot come to Christ, that we are sinful, that we are dead and are trespassing sin. So I would just be repeating what they just said again Uh Rulup. Yeah. Well I've got some other changes to make in that one too. Yeah, we're we were talking ahead of time about whether or not I could call myself a reformer And so I looked it up in the thesaurus and uh and I've got a couple of options. Now to reform in his theology because his campus stolen the word and I'm I'm uh hereby Well just because they're depraved. Uh I'm uh hereby uh uh Hey we've had it for four hundred years. So you know there's none of the registering my complaints. So my options according to the the source are transformed changed, renewed, new or improved. Now I think I'm gonna go with new and improved. I'd so there you have it. Reformed. I'm the new and improved Christian. I think that'll probably bug most reformed people anyways, so I kinda like that. Yeah, yeah, you like it just for that reason. Infinitely I I think we need to uh just really quickly the reference to tulip, what was that? Um Calvin John Calvin lived about uh about five hundred years ago. In fact, he was born five hundred years ago, I think this year or last year. Someone That's right, yeah, last year I believe. So but anyway, um a and he is the considered the founder of what is known as Reformed Theology or Calvinist theology and there are five parts of his theological outlook that have been held out as distinctive compared to other Protestant theologies. They've been the five points of Calvinism. And uh the first one of those points is total depravity. And if you work through the those five points, the first letter in each of the five points spells the word tulip, and that's what Chase was referring to. So They'd want you to be like what what a flowers have to do with any of them. So Jason, I wanted to ask you, wholly defiled in all the parts, faculties of the soul. So you're you're actually qualifying that and you wouldn't say wholly defiled, you would say radically defiled in all the parts and faculties of the soul and body. I would say that every part of us is defiled, but it is not as defiled as it could possibly be. Yeah, I would agree. So you would say, like, for example, uh On a scale of one to ten. Hitler was a ten. Right. And that you're like a let's not let's not go there. But less than a ten. Right, right. Right, right, right. Let's put let's put Let's put Jesus at a zero, Hitler at a ten, and uh Mother Teresa at like a an eight. Okay, or something like that, right? Hitler was at a ten and she's at an eight? Yes. So she's almost as bad as Hitler, but not quite. She's closer to Hitler than she is to Jesus. Uh but uh so but again that that's a significant coming away from because you're agreeing then then that there is that that that there's there's a a measure of not having been corrupted. If you've been radically corrupted in all parts but but not totally corrupted and so there's some par some some measure of corruption that has not happened. And you're you're drinking out of your Twilight cup there, which I'm not sure how depraved that is. You didn't even bring me a cup. I thought that was Started out not as water though as Dr. Pepper, and that's very depraved. But if Jace were to lean over and spit into your drink, that drink would be wholly defiled. But it wouldn't be as defiled as it could be. But some more. I'm with you. So that's but the drink is spoiled. That's like if you throw a tomato at a white wall in my house, it's gonna I'm gonna be like, Man, that wall is a mess Or if my kids have drawn all over the entire thing with crayons, which would be more of a mess than just tomato on it, then I'd be like, man, that wall is a mess. Right? And but there but the point is is that they're different degrees. Certainly. Right? And and that being the case, um, I would say that there is a degree to which a man gets i. e. Pharaoh in Egypt, in in Old Testament, i. e. Hitler, i. e. um Charles Manson, various people, that they get to a level of depravity where God says At this point, from here on out, even if you repented, it's no good. You are past the line. You're you're you're a ten and a half You know, you're you're past the point where you you know, all the way up to ten, uh uh i if uh uh you still have the chance to repent but but there's a point that you get to that I the Lord decree that you no longer have an opportunity to repent and from here on out I'm going to use you for my purposes to f to to whatever you do, I'm going to form it up so that it looked like you're even beating me. in in the in the people of God, and then I'm going to destroy you, and all people will know that I am the Lord. I like the way you finish better than the in the middle because you said even if you were to be able to do that. 'Cause I think the the at one point you said, you know, even if you repented you've gone too far and I I and you but you finished differently by saying that you could no longer repent. And that's I think you finished I agree with where you finished. Well I'm saying that that that the Lord even says that. It says that in scripture scripture that from here on out, even if you cry out to me for mercy, I will not give you mercy. Mm-hmm. That there's a point to which a man, even if he says, Oh Lord have mercy on me, that the Lord says, Yeah. But I know you simply don't mean that. You are too far gone. No idea repentance. I guess is my point. Sure. Sure, I'm I'm I'm willing to say that, but to the observer, it might appear that that individual is calling out for for true mercy and repentance and as if got uh and that God is somehow uh um not listening to his cry and that would be a a mis uh understanding of what was happening there Fascinating. I can think there's foundation behind that that we don't agree on, but I think we've dealt with that in the past. Sure. So it's not. But they love it when we point that. Because we're not we're ignoring the the foundation of it, I think, right now. He's uh Dr. Jace Broadhurst, the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crosses Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on WFMD. And chapter six continues with two more sections, sections five and six, to say, This corruption of nature during this life does remain in those that are regenerated. And although it be through Christ pardoned and mortified, yet both itself and all the motions thereof are truly and properly sin, even sin, both original and actual, being a transgression of the righteous law of God, and contrary thereunto, does in its own nature bring guilt upon the sinner, whereby he is bound over to the wrath of God and the curse of the law, and so made subject to death With all miseries spiritual, temporal, and eternal. So basically there it's saying that even Christian sin and every sin is a violation bringing judgment and death. That doesn't sound so good. Have any issues with uh with that those two sections of chapter six? Other than the ancient English that is hard for the modern ear to understand? Yeah, they're probably gonna get to sanctification later on. Mm-hmm. Um and so uh it's gonna be dealt with uh there's qualifications I think I would make to five to six. Um uh where he where where it says, so made subject to death with all misery, spiritual, temporal, and eternal. Uh again in in the attempt to summarize their they're saying that you know s that I personally am experiencing all temporal miseries and my sinfulness and that's not true. There's all kinds of miseries that that I was kept on kept from by the grace of God, even though uh that that I could have experience all those things and so I'm uh uh again I it uh you gotta get very precise in terms of of watching the the path of the language and all the commas, you know, to figure out where the actual verb and noun is there in that particular sentence, all of these sentences, but Um I would just make that qualification. Yeah, my English teacher in high school would have had red all over this. Run on sentence, run on sentence. Yeah. But the Apostle Paul would have loved it, of course. Can we back up to uh number three? Because you said one of the words that we would want to deal with is imputed. Yes. And I thought at least for most they might not understand that word in the central to gos to the gospel. Word of the week. Imputed means. Um if I were to define imputed, oh you could do a thesaurus, but I would use it as the word like reckoned. or um help me out with how you would I assume we're on the same place this was uh Um imputed reckoned. I like the word reckoned because that just has to do with like I reckon that you've got it and I reckon that he's got it. Okay. That's not a good word either, really. Umputation is the transferring of of one thing to another. Um in common terms we talk about a great exchange that takes place. So imputation, contrary to infusion. Impute? Uh I'll try to impute. Input maybe like a tribute, ascribe, assign, a credit, charge, a credit. A credit is a good one. A credit, yeah. Um that's credit in fact that that's how a lot of s I think even some of the versions that we have, it was credited to him as righteousness or reckoned to him as righteousness. Even though in the in what they're talking about here is not the work side of things that that that I'm quoting, but um reckoned to them Christ's righteousness, his goodness, his perfection is reckoned to us. Our sin is reckoned to him or accredited to him. It's put on him. He takes the sin, we take the righteousness. Not exactly a fair exchange, but one I'm pretty happy about. Uh it's kind of a d declaratory kind of a thing almost, right? Well yes. Um that's not here, but yes, we're talking about a declaration of of justice. Like OJ Simpson was declared innocent. Or not guilty at least. But we know better. I feel like maybe the word impute is meaning something maybe different from what I've understood. I've always had the sense that that there was sin in me, that I was born in sin because Adam sinned, he passed it on to Seth, passed it on to Enosh, you know, all the way down through that that the sin uh that that that because my dad sinned I too struggle to sin. You know, that that it's it's not just that, well, you're you're your father's son, so so therefore um I when I look at you I I figure you're gonna be as bad as he is, but it's more that that you're your father's son, you're genuinely a chip off the old block. You tend to sin. There's a the an inclination in us to sin from the beginning that is not just me declaring you a son of Adam, so therefore you're you're sinful. It's not a declaration, but it's a thing that that I actually have the tendency already in me to sin when I'm born. Because I'm a son of Adam. Right. I agree with that. So the imputation shows up after that when Jesus removes that from you. Right. When he well, less than removes, but covers you with his righteousness. So that's where imputation is. Not we're not talking about original sin now, we're talking about how he imputes it, right? The guilt and was imputed in the same death and sin and corrupted nature. Okay, I'm with you. I'm comfortable with that. Okay. Well great. Because they already said the other thing. The corrupted nature was conveyed to all posterity. And that's what I was getting at. Right, right. So I was yeah. So we're all born sinners. We're all born sinners and as a result The Lord has recognized that we were born in sin. And we sin because we're sinners. We're not sinners because we sin. Right? Maybe. Correct. Correct. Correct. The idea that we're born a blank slate is a humanist idea that finds no Uh no backing into the body. If you don't believe that a baby is born a sinner, just give them some time. They'll prove That they are. First day was all my just take a look at Troy's kids, but you know that's the problem is they're all born to us. Right? Again, that nature, nurture, artists. One of the things I think is helpful in this chapter, and I don't want us to uh to not talk about it. We've got about five minutes left. I think it's important for Christians. to understand what the last part of this is saying. You know, it says that even the Christians still have this um uh this sin nature within them. They still have a the the flesh is still about them. There's still just because you're a Christian doesn't mean you're better than everybody else. You're still deserving of hell. But praise God, Jesus is covering that But it's not because you you're somehow better than than you were. It's that God is choosing to see you as better than you really are. Right? And there is a sanctify sanctifying process. Like for example, if If I'm at n at a nine point five when I come to Christ, there is a sense that the sanctification is moving to me moving me to a nine point four. Nine point four, nine point three, and possibly could move me to the place of being like Mother Teresa like an eight. But the point is is that is that there's still a lot of sin that's being dealt with in us even when we've moved to a place where the rest of the world considers us to be saintly. But if you can take a guy like Gandhi, who might be an eight like Mother Teresa And you're a Christian who is a nine point five sorry theologically that raises all kinds of issues. than a Christian. And the Christian is being sanctified. Their life is being improved. They're moving from the nine point five to the nine. But they're still not living a life as nowhere close. As as good and wholesome Yeah. As as uh Mahatmas Gandhi's uh life was, right? So it's it it's all we gotta be careful as Christians not to get self righteous Well even in our Christ yeah, even in our Christ righteousness we might get the impression that what he's what he's done is he's turned us and he's made us totally Christ like and he hasn't quite done that You know, the point is that's a process and that's what we get to in later um parts of the yeah. That is a good thing. That's in sanctification. We are becoming more moral. But yeah, I I think what you have Hit on is very important. We are not necessarily more moral than anyone else is. We are simply saved by grace. That is That's huge. So when when Christians come across and as holier than thou, they're really doing us a disservice. Because we scr screw up all the time and are messed up. In fact, this is where I feel like Noah's righteousness has a ton of meaning. Right? If Christ's righteousness has been imputed to us, what was so significant about Noah? That he was a light on a hill. that in his generation he was the guy and nobody else was anywhere close to being as righteous, and for us to be then imputed with Christ to to have Christ's righteousness imputed to us, want to use that verb correctly, uh means that that that all of a sudden we are put into a place where we too stand out in the generation uh in our generation that's not because of what we've done, but because of what Christ has done. Absolutely. And and again that's where we have to be careful because we might think that somehow We've done something that deserves that, and it's not the case. Christ has done it. And Christianity is not about the Christian. Christianity is about the Christ. That's right. You know, we have a tendency to forget that. And I'm concerned we have like a minute left, so I'm gonna wrap this up here in a second. It was something I wanted to get to though. Uh we're not gonna have time to get to can you hold the thought and we'll start next week's show with with whatever that thought was? Absolutely. This chapter does kinda set up to ends with, you know, even the Christians deserve death. But it's kind of setting up the the bigger th all the more brilliant uh Jesus Christ is. Great story. Uh the the thought I So one thing I I want to say really quick is I'm concerned we're having a hard time with this old English and wrestling over terms and stuff. You know that today's generation uses about a third the number of words that uh that the uh generation before us used. Like our parents? Yeah. used three times as many words in their regular vocabulary than our children use. How are they going to have these discussions? Well the scripture says in the beginning was the word and the word was with God. I think that's precisely the point. that God has used words so that He can help us to to to grasp uh important things that we could understand better. Parents get your kids reading more and and have them challenge themselves. Give them something hard to read. Make them look If they read a whole book and didn't have to look up one word, you pick the wrong book for 'em to read. Maybe that's a a new policy we should have. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and uh Dr. Jace Broadhurst, senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist I am Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Next week we tackle Chapter 7 of the Westminster Confession of Faith, titled Of God's Covenant with Man. Sounds really exciting, doesn't it? Trust me, it'll be good. Thanks for listening. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's where the P has in your performance. Fur plumber. Popin plumbing, how can we make you smile