Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumbing plumbing, how can we make you smile? Good morning, welcome to Frederick's Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD and I'm recalling, you know that movie The Matrix with Keanu Reeves? Oh yeah. And he's he's walking up the stairwell in the uh in the in the Matrix land. There's a glitch. And there's this little he walk he notices a cat walk by twice and he's like, Hey, what was that? And then he turns, What? What happened? I think I saw the cat go by twice. Uh oh, something bad's happening in the matrix. The bad guys are on to us. We've been found out I don't know what's bringing that to mind right now, but I'm just I'm thinking about it. That's all. I'm just sharing. Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. The show is brought to us by Putman Plummin Heating. How can we make you smile? Jace Broughton Doctor, Jace Broadhurst, senior pastor at Foolsville Baptist Church. What's up, Doc? I did, yeah, sorry And Jonathan Schweizer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel, co founder of the Faith Debate Show, which is coming up on its six year anniversary. We gotta think about that. Wow. And we need to demark that because after the first six years Then we'll do another couple of six year increments and we'll have a six six fix thing going on and then everybody will know what we've really been about. I don't know. Maybe we need to do a sabbatical year. How would that be? Yeah, what would that look like? We're not going to talk about anything. Just everybody's going to turn on the radios and we're all going to rest together. Could you imagine? Radio sabbatical. I like that. Yeah, we'll give some thoughts. Maybe we'll just run old shows. Anybody sends in an email about that, you better say no. I think we got three or four shows that we could pretend our best of. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We could pretend. Anyway, we've had uh Dr. Jace Broadhurst Broadhurst on the show before, but he wasn't a doctor back then. So congratulations. Brown up a lot. It's it's exciting. Or at least your kids have. Yes, they have. It's intimidating. You know, and I gotta tell this I gotta tell this story. So before the show starts, you know, Jace gets here and uh he he rings the bell and And uh security's tight here at the WFMPST. Oh yes, that's right. And so somebody comes back and says, Hey, I think there's somebody here for you. And I say, What, like a tax collector or something? What's going on? A bill collector? And he said, No, it looks like a church guy That's right. He looks like a church guy. So I said, wait, it's kinda like kind of seedy or something? So anyway, he comes by later on. And I thought he knew that Jace was here to record the show, which would make some sense. Well he didn't know. So he comes by a little bit later on, right before we're ready to do the show, and he says Oh, I see he's got a Bible. I didn't see his Bible when I said it before, so there's something about you that exudes. Yeah, just exudes radiance from me. I think it's a glow I I think it's a certain shine on the teeth. I don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing that you're a little concerned about, but I'm not sure. But anyway. So what we're here to talk about are confessions. Yeah. So Jonathan, when you were four years old, did you no Yes I did, as a matter of fact, many times Uh now give you some some uh lay the groundwork of why we're gonna do this and what what lies ahead of you. Today is just one show. Yes. But there's gonna be a series of shows working through in a very systematic way um some very serious theological issues. Some of them we've talked about before, some of them we haven't, and c that's kind of what sparked this actually. I was thinking about And we've covered so much ground, but there's so much we haven't. It sure would be nice if we would just kind of systematize a little bit and just make sure that over a period of time we covered all of the big issues. How do we do that? Now for those of you that are about to turn your radio off after healing about Troy systematizing theology. Don't worry. It's still going to be Troy and I, so I guarantee you it will be exciting. And Jace is able to uh you know spice things up, you know. So what we're going to do is we're going to find you know through the course of all this, we're going to find out what we think about, you know, the problem of evil. You know, is God responsible for the bad things that happen? Is he the author of sin? You know, where did how did you know those kinds of questions will get tackled as we As we move on. That's pretty cool, right? Yeah, totally. How is it that God could be both three and one? Isn't there a contradiction there? Yeah, we're going to talk about those sorts of things. So where in the Bible does it say that he's three I mean you want to talk now or you want to talk later? We'll get there. So I gave some thought to what I thought you know I wanted to think through what's the best way to try to go through this and what are the meediest confessions as the Westminster confession. Meaty. Meedy. It's it's a meaty conference. Where's the beef? There's there's there's lots of meat on that there bone. Where's the beef? There's lots of stuff to chew upon. You know? That was one of the best commercials ever Yeah, back in the eighties where's it be? Everybody loved that. And that old lady. Even the president got into it back then. So So we're doing the Westminster Confession of Faith. But before we get into all of that, we're going to just talk a little bit about confessions in general. Yeah. Because Jonathan is at an independent, non-denominational Protestant church that would not consider itself or classify itself as a confessional church. They don't have an official confession, although they have something, we'll talk about that. And uh Jasis Church would would consider itself a confessional church. Sonny says, What do you believe? He said, Well he pull out our confession of faith here and show ya. London Confession of sixteen eighty nine, yes. So, London Sixteen eighty nine. I know we declared our independence from those guys. What are you doing? Hey, that's Westminster too. Sixteen forty. Now you have a statement of faith on your website, for example. Yeah we do, yeah. All right. But that's not a confession exactly. Yeah, y you know, uh the thing yeah, no, my take on confessions at the end of the day is that a confession is a great tool for rallying those people that are of the same mind about uh what they believe about scripture to walk together to present a united front to to create a flow as it were that can grow and develop. And uh that that the confessions similar to the councils back in the day help to clarify that who are we in distinction to those that are not. we that that are that are others. And um the Manhattan Declaration came out just a few years later. I was talking with Jace ahead of time and and we agreed that the Manhattan Declaration is not a confession. It's kind of a cousin. of a uh confession. It's not uh but it's similar. It's a rallying cry. The the the declaration Manhattan Declaration was a rallying cry uh for those that are committed to the idea of life And uh you know, abortion uh being being evil and uh euthanasia euthanasia being evil and all those issues that had to do with the breakdown of the family that there needed to be a rallying cry for those churches, you know, that are cross denominations and a and and from all kinds of backgrounds to come together. I feel like the Westminster Confession did that. I feel like the the Creeds did that back in the the early church years. And the the Manhattan Declaration, that's a modern day It came out like a year ago R C Sproul I think was involved with that, right? He said no to the Colson. Okay, so if you follow theological things, though these names mean something to you. If not, trust me, they're famous guys, they've written books. You know. You realize there's a bunch of people right now that are Googling that just to verify that you're not just blowing smoke at him. You know, if you're into that sort of thing and I am, so I like I like this show. So anyway, all right, so you've talked about y you're not a confessional church per se, but you've you've just talked about the value of them. Now you, Jace, you guys are a confessional church. Why don't you talk about the dangers? Oh, okay. Uh the dangers of a confession are that it would become so loved that it would overpower the Bible, I think. Um in in my background, West uh I graduated from Westminster Theological Seminary with my PhD, so Westminster, Westminster you find a connection. Yes. Um there is a real connection there. We have this tendency, this battle between biblical theologians and systematic theologians as to how relevant, how important, how significant this confession is. Does it have the last word in things or does scripture? Now, I don't know anybody who would argue that the Westminster Confession has the last word But sometimes we act as if it does. That's the thing. And that's my concern. Like you start quoting the Westminster Confession and the battle is somehow won or And we say, well, let's look at the confession and see how well they did. After three hundred and fifty years, you know, is it possible that we've learned a little more? We can say things better? Is it possible that they were even wrong on something? It is possible, certainly. Now I forgot that we didn't do a word of the week. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to pick up on the the two little phrases or or names. I haven't been in here for a while. I don't know what it is. Matters. Matters maybe So we're doing a word we do a word of the week now. Troy's. You need to use the word throughout the week. figure out some excuse to use the word you know at a party or at work or whatever. So but you just threw out a couple of things that might need some explanation. So we're gonna have kind of words of the week. You talked about biblical theology and systematic theology. So really quickly, uh you tell me if I got this generally right. System systematic theology or systematic theologians take the Bible and break it down into small pieces and then categorize them and say, This is what the Bible says about God. Let's find all the sections of the Bible talk about God and let's put them together and s and and t and th let's take everything the Bible says about the nature of man and and and and put that all together and let's say everything it says about how the church should operate and let's put all that together and they break it up into these pieces and these categories. And they systematize the pieces. Um Biblical theologians are a little more holistic and organic in nature. They kind of step step back if the Thousand mile above ground view and see how the whole thing interweaves together. How does the beginning tie to the end? And how does the middle play to the beginning and the end? And it's it's more historical in its outlook and how does redemption play out in history over time and how uh right? Yeah. Yes, redemptive history. So those would be so determined for those that don't know. And if you can use that party, you will get a special prize. Say that again? Heils geschickte. You have to be careful when you say that word. That's right. There's a couple words. Anyway, so I'm not going to try to say it. But you're exactly right. Systematic theology is exactly what the confession of faith is. I mean, this is a systematic um delineation of what the Bible says. Whereas biblical theology is more the Hailsk, more the history of redemption, looking at the big picture in some kind of a linear fashion of the story, looking at the storyline of Scripture. It's interesting. I'd say that I'm constantly when I go to study the scripture, I feel like I'm constantly kind of bouncing from one of those approaches to another. You know, sometimes I'm just doing this word study, you know, and I'm just going straight through, okay, what does the Bible say everywhere in scripture about, you know, horses, you know, because I'm doing the four horses of the apocalypse, you know, so where do horses show up, you know, and is there is there some pattern so that when we get to Revelation, you know, the four horses of the apocalypse should look familiar to us, you know, like like you know, and I try to be systematic. But then there's other times that I back up and I'm like, okay, now what's the flow here? You know, Adam and Eve, you know, and then and then they fell, and then redemption, and no, you know, and and so I feel like as a student of the word that that I'm kind of bounced between those things. I kinda like both of them. That's a great place to be. One protects you from going too far in one direction or the other. So I mean to use I I'm trained in biblical theology, not systematic theology, so the confession is not my area of expertise. But it it keeps me from becoming a liberal or moving too far in one direction. It it stabilizes the dreading. Oh yeah. You listen to the Frederick Bates debate on Frey Skinner. The uh pastor at uh senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church is Dr. Jace Broadhurst. And Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel is Jonathan Schweitzer. And we're talking about confessions in general. Now we're going to transition a little bit onto what we're going to be tackling over these coming weeks and shows that we do together, the Westminster Confession of Faith. And I want to just provide a little bit of historical context because talking about history and systematizing it makes sense. Provide some history and context for the systematizing that was going on. Okay. So back in the early fifteen hundreds, you know, Luther starts the the reformations that sweep through uh Europe. And there are a number of leaders that pop up uh over the course of the of the coming decades. You know, John Calvin being one of them. Um Zwingli. Um Zinzendorf. I mean there's there's they're popping up everywhere. And eventually the Reformation, the the wave, the title wave of refer and there's a counter-reformation, you know, the the Roman Catholic Church responds and they they add some uh books to the canon of of their Bible in in response and that So all this is going on over the course of like a hundred, hundred and fifty years. Could you imagine living during that time? Could you imagine living in the late fifteen hundreds, early sixteen hundreds? I mean, just crazy, almost as crazy as now. So So now on the tail end of all this, the uh late to the game is uh what we now know as Great Britain. I don't know if it was called Great Britain back then, I don't know, but call it Great Britain now. So The Islands of Great Britain. Yeah. So uh they're late to the game and so there's still a lot of Roman Catholic influence, but there but then there's uh And there's different elements of the of of the reformed movement that are taking root there, but then the Calvinists feel like they got a shot here and and they have some power and control at a while and they pull together what were the fathers, what were they called? The The Divines. The Divines These big important you know, it wasn't a group of five center guys that sing in harmony. Get together and for several years they hashed this out and they're like, Okay, what do we believe? 'Cause you've all it's splintering. The church splinters. Yeah. Like crazy and and and there's a lot of disagreement over exactly how to understand things. So let's let's make sure we're all on the same page. To Jonathan's point about what's a confession supposed to do? It's supposed to protect us from losing our way and make sure we're all speaking the same language, defining our terms the same way, understanding things in a general sense. So let's work through this point by point, make sure that we're clear on all of this. And they come up with a Westminster Confession of Faith. Which is uh still a very important document in a number of traditions. Protestant uh rallying cry after uh, you know, Lutheran Calvin. I mean, is it is it like the one that The first that really is is attempting to bring it No Heidelberg would have been before it, right? Uh I don't know if I know my history well enough. I can name a dozen that came right after it. So it's it's one of the early ones anyway. But but anyway. But as far as the Calvinists and stuff, they would so I'm but but anyway, so that's kind of what's going on. So they're A bunch of guys who really know a lot of stuff about this tip down and said, What does the Bible say? And for now three hundred plus three hundred and seventy or so years, an awful lot of Protestant Christianity has been subscribing to the Westminster Confession of Faith. And if you he if you've been listening to this show or you hear Christians debate about certain issues of theology, they're going to talk about God's sovereign uh authority versus human responsibility and free will. Like that's a a point of debate and issue people are trying to grapple with. Well that is grappled with in the Westminster Confession of Faith. Yeah. So a lot of things we talk about even today are tied to this confession, which is one of the reasons that I chose. I also knew that Jace would be familiar with it. Uh I'm reasonably familiar with it, and I know Jonathan is familiar with it. I don't think he subscribes to it, but uh he's he's certainly familiar with the issues that it brings up because they're exactly the issues that Jonathan and I have been talking about for eight years. So that that those that's the reason why we picked it. And I was just thinking, uh just to clarify. Um Yeah. You asked the question about history and I said I my history wasn't very good. And I was thinking about twelve different ones that come after it. Yeah. No, most of them actually come before it. Oh the difference. The Scots Confession, the Belgian confession, the Heidelberg Confession, the Gallic Confession. That was after? All those are all before So yeah, these are all the Westminster outshine them. Um it does now. Hmm. Yes. But it took a while to Yeah, they what they were trying to do is work Scotland and with England because of the King I mean, you know, you need to understand all the politics that were going on, but no one cares about any of that stuff. But they were trying to come together with them. I could be around around the time of the King James Bible being Um yes, it would be probably about thirty years, thirty-five years after that. So not too far after that. It would have been during the Cromwellian Revolution and all that. If you know your history, go back and Like the Heidelberg, if I'm you know, boy, we can go really lose our one listener. Uh the but the Heidelberg is still an important confession. I think the Dove I think the Dutch reform the Dutch Reformed tradition. I think that is their confession, if I'm not mistaken. And you have like the Presbyterian Church in America or the Orthodox Presbyterian Church or some of the um the conservative Reformed Presbyterian churches, they're gonna be Westminster right people. uh for example. And then you've got a a a modified version really of the Westminster Confession of Faith, which is the London Confession, which is what your church is about. The Reformed Baptist folks basically are going to subscribe to that. Anyway, in case you're going to a church and and uh you're not sure what you believe, maybe now you know. Maybe uh anyway just helped you out. So Uh let's jump in a little bit. We're not going to finish this, but maybe next week we'll finish chapter one. But let's start chapter one. All right. Thirty whatever chapters. Well like I said, you guys looked at this before me, so I'm sure you're right. So chapter one is broken down into ten parts. And and uh it's one of the longest chapters uh in the confession. In part one, the gist of part one is that creation gives evidence of God's existence, but humankind needs God to reveal himself more specifically for us to truly know him. Uh God has done this in a variety of ways over time, but now the way he does this is through the Bible. And here's what it says. You know it's interesting. I feel like I feel like this First part of the Westminster Minster confession is precisely what uh the biggest concern about confessions would be would be that this first one ends up not being the case. that holy scripture is is the end authority for all uh arguments about the will of God and uh And here they are putting on an argument yeah of their own. Is that what you're saying? Well no well I'm saying that that that part of the reason I like what I like about the Westminster Confession is because it starts with this. Like this is the the place that that I'm uh attracted to it. Oh gotcha. Okay. Especially this first I mean This is one of the most glorious first little sections. You're about to read it. Yeah, let me re let me let me read it. Here we go. And I'll try to do it with some some some vigor in my mind. Although the light of nature although the light of nature and the works of creation and providence do so far manifest the goodness, wisdom, and power of God as to leave men unexcusable, Yet are they not sufficient to give the that knowledge of God and of His will which is necessary unto salvation? Therefore it pleased the Lord at sundry times and in diverse manners to reveal Himself and to declare that his will unto his church, and afterwards for the better preserving and propagating of the truth, and for the more sure establishment and comfort of the church against the corruption of the flesh and the malice of Satan and of the world to commit the same holy unto writing, which makes the holy scripture to be most necessary. Those former ways of God's revealing his will unto his people being now ceased. Now that last line might be the one that would cause the most stir for some people, I would think, right? Every the other God's other ways of revealing his will unto people has now ceased. That would mean no more prophecy. Right. Right? That would mean What else would that mean? No more miracles, maybe? What what what sorts of things would you be saying that we're going to be able to do that? I don't think Westminster would say it means no more miracles, but it would certainly mean no more inspired writings. or inspiration that is uh a final rule. Now I don't want us to spend three hours on this, but I mean I I gotta ask the question. They're gonna say the scripture is what it's all about. Where does the scripture say that? For example. It it doesn't really, right? So are they going beyond w The closest thing you might get is in Revelation, the last chapter it says if anybody who adds anything to this book, you know, is is uh screwed for cra you know, forever. But uh Which I think but the context I think is especially referring to just talking about the book of Revelation, yeah. Well Timothy certainly speaks of the inspiration of the word, uh referring to the Old Testament at least. Christ. Jonathan be inspired by the Holy Spirit to write the sixty-seventh book of the Protestant Bible? Why couldn't that happen? Yeah. According to Scripture. I mean how could we argue from Scripture that that's not possible? It's an important distinction because these are the arguments that we would use as Orthodox Christians against the Book of Mormon. for example, right? There's no further inspired writings, so therefore the Book of Mormon can't be the Word of God. Uh actually the reason why I disagree with the Book of Mormon is because it doesn't follow uh accurately uh the teachings of the only reason to argue against it but with uh with the teachings of scripture. Had he had he written in a way that uh was in alignment with uh scripture, uh I probably would uh read him as much as I would read Augustine or Calvin or other people, you know, had Joseph Smith done that. But, you know, the the um it seems to me that There is a uh you know, there's a church in town here that says that God still speaks. And what they mean by that is that God is speaking in such a way as to change what he used to say, i. e. about, say, homosexuality or or uh about um other cultural issues that that God has somehow changed his mind and so he's still speaking to us to keep us abreast of you know, the latest changes that God is making. And uh certainly that's not the case. I'm of the opinion that there are still people that are prophets. in the church today, uh, who God speaks to and says if if this nation does not repent or if this person does not repent that there is going to be um uh uh consequences and that uh there's an aut an authority that comes in what they say and how they say it that is backed up by uh signs and wonders. Uh but I would uh never take those people and the things that they say uh as scripture. I would never put them down on paper and say, okay, well this this uh you know is authoritative and so anything else that they write is authoritative. And so I'm I'm I'm comfortable with um up through like you're saying, which makes the Holy Scripture to be most necessary. But where it says those former ways of God revealing his will to his people being now ceased, uh I see no uh uh backing for that in scripture. I guess it all depends on what you mean by revealed will, how he has revealed his will. I mean I have no problem with the way you define prophets, I don't think. Um not really the main topic of conversation here, but that God still speaks today I'm perfectly happy with. The question is how does he speak and to what authority that does that speaking have? So I think he continues to reveal his will through all kinds of things. I mean the church is one of the main ways he reveals his will. I think that's a beautiful way for him to reveal it. all the different things that he does just in my neighbor talking to me right here, you can re help reveal God's will to me. Certainly. But he doesn't speak with the authority that he speaks in scripture. There has to be something on which we stand. that that I can say, no, I'm sorry, you're you're not correct in that because Scripture disagrees with you. Like you just said about the Book of Mormon. I can say the Book of Mormon is wrong because it disagrees with Scripture. Yeah. So I think we have to have some confidence in Scripture itself. And it's not simply because the church says this Bible is the best bi book. It's because throughout all of history we have looked at it, I mean it has been tested in millions of different ways to determine its accuracy in all these things. What we're dealing with is an inspired text. You use the word authority, uh that God doesn't speak with the same authority as he did back then. And I'm not sure that I would agree with that. uh uh I I I would I would split a hair with that. I would say that God, when he speaks today, um still speaks with the same authority. Uh the problem is that we don't have a way of verifying that uh the thing that was said um is um is accurate. I I I I don't I don't you know like up up through scripture there's clearly a sense that God was using Israel for a distinct purpose and and he uh developed in them uh uh patterns of of truthfulness of recording history and recording the word of God that that kind of boiled up in the prophets, boiled up in in those that recorded the history of Chronicles and Kings uh and these these things and All that being the case, uh that ended with the fall of Jerusalem and all of the books of the Bible were written, i it would appear, even in the New Testament, up until then, and then the nation of Israel was lost. And my sense is that is that the scriptures that have been given to us today uh were written in that context and it's not that God speaks with less less authority. We just uh no longer have grace from him to record and capture what was written in such a way that that it can uh carry Well I'm gonna jump in there and it's gonna be like an episode of Batman from the nineteen sixties. Will the penguin get his way with Robin? Will you know the Riddler man out with Batman? Find out next week Uh so that's a taste. We're gonna work through the next nine parts of chapter one next week, huh? All right, looking forward to it. And it's gonna be a fist fight You you guys were saying beforehand, I think you on and even off the air that you weren't sure there was gonna be a there's he was saying that's gonna be a fist fight. Yeah, we're gonna find out. Anyway, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor Cross Valley Chapel, Dr. Jace Broadhurst from Uh Poolsville Baptist Church, Senior Pastor There. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on WFMD. Thanks for listening. God bless. Footman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P, as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?