Footman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumbing plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to the Fredericks Base Debates. News Radio nine thirty WFMD. That's really weird. Nobody really cares about this except me, but I could hear everything in my headphones, but I couldn't hear anything in the studio monitors, uh which normally you can't until I turn the mics on. So it's just very weird. Slummoxed and flustered now. Weirded out for just a moment. Yeah, that was but yeah. Yeah. We should start the show over again. Yeah, you yeah. Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week, as always, by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor. Crossroads Valley Chapel and uh co-founder of the Frederick Faith debate and also Todd Westfall, who is the senior Odyssey pastor. Rowe? Mm-hmm. That's Hebrew for pastor at work. Word of the day. Make make a note of this. Okay on the show. If we introduce a new word maybe early in the show and then, you know, throughout the show if you know Johnus points if he uses it a lot or something. You know, and then uh I don't need the bonus points. We'll let you know about John then for you listening is you gotta try to use that word So this week's word is Roe. Roe. So like Roe Israel is the shepherd of Israel. Roy means shepherd. Okay, we're in a right top or guess in the right. So can you have a roway in wolves clothing? I mean a wolf in Roway's clothing. Uh yeah, I guess you Yes, Hebrew word. Anyway, so Todd Westwall is the uh senior Roe at uh El Shaddai Congregation, Messianic Jewish, uh a messianic uh Christian. What does that mean? It means that he's a Christian, but uh s well we'll get into this maybe in some different show, but very, very, very deep, strong roots in the Old Testament tradition. Very good. So Well said. Before we get into the topic of this week's show, what this is one of the frustrations uh sometimes of the way that we have to uh that we do this show. Uh we found that the best way to do that is to record the shows, because who's available at Sunday morning, you know, uh for the most part? And uh secondly, you know the schedules can change, you know, and so you don't want to get caught short like uh oh my goodness. We thought we were gonna tape a show on Saturday to air on Sunday, but the taping didn't happen on Sunday because or Saturday because there was a a death in the congregation and the guy couldn't make it or whatever. Right. You're scrambling. So we have a tendency to record the show you know a few weeks in advance. Right. Which is a good thing. That's wise. Right. One of the downsides is we can't always be as on the cutting edge with contemporary, you know, issues, things that are happening and changing. Right. I'm saying this right now and I'm all happy and upbeat and I'm worried about a word of the week and all that sort of stuff. In the meantime, by the time this air you know, you know, some horrible disaster could have struck the East Coast. Iceland probably have volcano erupted again. Yeah, yeah. Even on cultural issues this is why I'm bringing this up. Okay, yep, I'm following you. I'm gonna sound dated in saying this. But that's okay because if you're listening to this show You probably don't know a whole lot about what I'm going to be talking about anyway. And you can go back on the internet and look it up anyway. Right. But it's it's going to be important for you to know about this to listen up. There is a very popular show. In fact, it's a movement Yes it is. Among teenage girls particularly. This movement is called Glee. Glee it's a television program that airs on the Fox Network. And if you're familiar at all with um oh what's that Disney show call I just mentioned it before we go in on the air. The Dis uh high school music musical, right? High school musical gone bad. All right. Everything's overacted, everything's oversung, everything's overdone, everything's overdramatized. It's like Dukes of Hazard meets That means high school musical. But these these young girls that eat it up. So that's who watches this show. And everybody knows that's who watches this show. And Troy. Kater, well I have a daughter who's into this show and so we kind of pay attention to what she's watching, what she's exposed to. And I gotta tell you. Yeah. Yeah. So you're watching with your daughter the other day. Watching the show And it was the the episode in which they deified Madonna. Not the Madonna who gave birth to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. uh Sicone or whatever pop singer from the eighties. I never put it in those terms before, but they did. They totally like like uh re-verge Madonna. You know, they they they sanctified her, you know, it was like the Catholic Church at work with the original Madonna or something. So here's the deal the Kabbalistic twist. The fact that they want to build up and and hold up Madonna as this idealized woman Okay, that's troublesome, but Ben there done that. Every time you turn around, that's what's going on. You know, and the um situations being a little bit uh Not the kind of situations you want to encourage your young daughter to get herself into. Yeah, right. And yet somehow being glorified within the storyline of of the show. Yes. That's a problem too, but you can contextualize that. As a parent, you can say, well, you know, they're c use that as a teaching moment. In real life, there are consequences for that. These are what some of those consequences are. So I can deal with that, right? However, pornography uninvited is not welcome in my living room. Yeah. And that's what happened halfway through that show. They go through a series of images. It's like the VH1 channel that's like the really racy stuff. You know, it was like that on glee for high school or junior high girls. So if you are a grandparent or a parent and you have young people, you know, who are maybe into glee or you think could somehow end up becoming into glee It's not this oh Glee that sounds cute. What is it? Oh it's a it's a ongoing television musical. That sounds nice. Sounds wholesome, fun for the whole family. Maybe once upon a time it was when it started, I'm not sure, but it's not that now. Yeah, I don't know that it ever Well, I I will say this this episode that I'm talking about was the worst I've seen. Well, from the beginning they they uh promote homosexuality as normative. They promote sex among high school students as normative, you know, some more than others, you know, like it's no big deal. That's just the way it is. Which at some level or other is probably very normal. in high schools today. I mean, it's probably not that unusual a a uh uh a setup, you know, compared to today's high schools and that's a whole different Uh but to glorify it and make it something that should be uh chased after as a thing. So yeah. There you have it. Yeah. Yeah. And then the American Idol raising money for the UN is a totally different subject. But anyway So on that note. Yeah, on that note Let's talk about Babylon. Yeah, it's an interesting segue. What are we talking about today? We're talking about We're in the end times. That's what we're talking. We're talking about being in the end times. Um is is is Madonna the whore of Babylon? Uh is the UN the the beast, right? These are the questions we want answers to. Yes. So uh Jonathan thought it would be good, we were talking before this show, and he thought it would be a good place to start with uh the Nation of Israel. and what place does the nation of Israel play in the end times. There are divergent opinions on that. And I think that there are divergent opinions represented on this panel this week. So this ought to be interesting, I think, a little bit. Why don't we start with Todd, I guess, if you're comfortable, if not you can punt and we'll start with Jonathan. Okay. No. Uh if you can in a relatively short amount of time, you know like a minute or less possibly. Okay. You know, real quick bullet point kind of stuff. What what is your view of what the nation of Israel's role in uh end times is. Well again, just to uh to get started with that, uh God is a God of covenant and when he makes a covenant with a people And uh in that covenant he says it's forever, then then that's going to be walked out forever. And uh the things that we have as New Covenant believers in Yeshua, the Messiah of all the earth, the the Christ, um If we want to hold true to those covenants that he's made for us, we need to realize and understand that God's going to honor his covenants with Israel and with his people. So to have that understanding at the beginning that God's desire uh is to honor his promises and his covenants Uh and even to take it a step back to bear sheet to Genesis where God made a covenant with Adam and in his creation had a desire of fellowship with humanity that fell away because of sin. Uh God has been in the process of bringing back the fullness of that relationship. And in the process, he made covenants with Noah, He made covenants with other godly men along the way, Abraham and Israel to work toward the Messiah's coming and then reaching out to all the earth to bring humanity back to relationship with him. So If we want to stand on the truth of the new covenant, I believe we really need to press in to the Torah, to the old covenant, and find out what God has said. and the importance that Israel plays not only as a people, but as a land, uh as a uh uh a geographic location on the earth is also important to the heart of God, obviously. So Okay, yeah, there's there's uh a bunch of stuff in there that's gonna be bought up for a lot of conversation just in this by the way that occurs to me. What do we mean by end times? Might need to explain that a little bit. In the Bible, there's this continuative narrative of redemptive history. And in the New Testament, of course, uh we have the arrival of Jesus on the scene and then his death, the resurrection, and ascension into heaven. And uh the Bible teaches that Jesus will return a second time. And um The Bible talks about living in the last days, um, and there's question about what that means. When are the last days? Are the last days now? What happens in the last days? Is there a difference between the last days and the very last days? uh that sort of thing. And that's w kind of what what all this end times is. All the times, all the days leading up to the end of time as we know it. Mm-hmm. And the second advent of Christ. The s the the the second coming of Christ. and uh the millennium. Uh and has that started? Will it start later? Will it start after Jesus comes back? Will it you know there's all those kinds of questions but All of that is wrapped up in what we're talking about at end time. So it's a pretty complicated comp it might be the most difficult area to talk about in a way that is easy to follow because there's so many threads. But anyway, that's what we're talking about. And just to set up this show with uh with Roe Westfall, with Todd, um he and I went to uh school together at uh Messiah Biblical Institute, went to seminary together, and so we had the same teachers, and it's interesting that Um, you know, just in laying the foundation for the show, I uh uh I'm very close, my church Um and uh the the l the kind of the lineage, the heritage that my church uh has drawn its uh lineage from is Baptist on my dad's side. But then when it when we moved in the direction of being charismatic, we began to associate very closely with the messianic Jewish uh brothers and sisters and and so we have a long history of of interacting closely with these guys And that being the case, um well, the bottom line is that there was a time when my dad and uh some of Todd's um spiritual mentors and overseers literally were making covenant with one another uh that was so strong that when I showed up in Israel two years ago to see one of those guys. He literally broke into tears, you know, he and his wife saying, Man, how are your mom and dad doing? We miss them. It's so good to see you, you know, and and to to see how much you've grown up. And so um that being the case, uh even though When you're talking about uh eschatology and end times, we're just simply gonna disagree in a lot of different places. The the level of unity that that I feel like I have with Todd in a number of different ways, you know, just for the sake of the gospel, but also for the sake of uh things having to do with uh charismatic and and uh the baptism of the Holy Spirit and even having to do with with how you plant churches and and the apostolic movements. Um I'm possibly more in alignment with with those guys than than just about any other uh church or type of church in uh in Frederick. And so I think that's a good foundation to lay in terms of the nature of our relationship with one another. Everybody knows how you know how I'm related to you, Troy But uh in terms of Todd and those guys, um, even though we'll probably end up disagreeing on some things, there's just a tremendous amount of unity, and it's interesting that uh that that's the case. Okay. So now I'm going to give you the same question in the I threw it. I'm going to say ditto. I think you're the one that's in a different place. Well then let me press in a little bit on some questions to define what you meant by some of the generalized statements. Sure. Well it's an awful broad you know it's hard to get anywhere specific without five minutes to answer all those questions. will honor his promises to Israel. Right? So let's talk about what those promises are. Good. Okay. All right. Well either one of you. Ezekiel 37, God says, and prophesying to the nation of Israel, my servant David will be king over them. This is a passage That significantly deals with the end times. My servant David will be king over them, meaning over Israel. They will have one shepherd. In fact, this is uh the the vision of the dry bones where he's saying he's gonna bring back uh the northern ten tribes and the southern ten tribes, Judah and Joseph, and make them one nation again. Yes. Two staffs tied together. Two staffs will be tied together. That there'll be one nation again. David will be king over them. And it says, They and their children, their children's children will live there forever, and David my servant will be their prince forever And I will put my sanctuary among them forever, and I will establish them and increase their numbers. Then the nations will know that I the Lord make Israel holy when my sanctuary is among them forever. Right? And so Uh it's a very strong indication that he intends a very intimate, close, I'll be your God, you'll be my people relationship. with them forever. And that's one of them. Yeah, absolutely. Another one is is a prayer that's said by Jews every Shabbat uh and it's called the Shema. And in the midst of the Shema, without getting into all the Hebrew, what they're saying is that that there is one God We serve one God, and the God that we serve, his kingdom is eternal. It's forever and ever. And that God chose us and He is establishing us and His kingdom with us. uh to take uh what was just spoken in Ezekiel and and put it to practical terms. They believe and look to Jewish people uh they're still looking for the first return of the Messiah because they don't believe that Yeshua Jesus was the Messiah, uh most of them. In fact we've had rabbis on this show that have said that once they see Christ set up peace on earth then they'll say, Oh, he was the Messiah. Yeah. Well that was a poor imitation of the accent there. That was really a horrible horrible Danish accent. I don't know what that was. But All right. Well I I heard you read that passage. Yeah, that's one, yeah. And I'm uh I'm I'm not it's gonna come across like I'm being like taking a joke. I don't mean to go for it. In seriousness How how does that have anything to do with the nation of Israel today? He's talking about Israel and he's promising them that he will be their king forever. Right. And I read that as David is Jesus. Certainly. Me too. Sure. So we all do. So I so then all of a sudden all those promises are promises to Jesus, king and of his uh over his messianic kingdom, the prince of peace, the one who will be with us and abide with us forever, his kingdom will have no end, sounds like the church So how is that the how is that the nation of Israel and not the church? The reason why to my mind sorry. No, go ahead. No, that's good. The reason why to my mind is because the prophecy is prophesied to the nation of Israel in the context of Judah and Joseph being reunited with one another, and in the context of being reunited with one another, David will be the prince over them and it will be forever. And so there's clearly in my mind a uh a connection to the historical nation of Israel that has to do with reuniting them and then being in the land that um that even though Christ clearly and there's m plenty of other places that describe Christ being king over the whole earth and king over all the Gentiles in this particular context, it's clear to uh it it seems clear to me that uh that it's referring to his relationship with the nation of Israel to encourage them. In fact, shortly thereafter he's going to go into the his whole description of the uh how uh how there's gonna be a major attack by Gog and Magog. That's the very next chapter, you know, so Russia of today is gonna attack uh and there's gonna be a major battle, you know, major destruction and all of that is clearly indicated to be right there in the land. And so to over Yeah, see, but I don't I'm not I wouldn't consider it a metaphor, I would consider it a a type pointing to the anti-type. Jesus himself says in j uh in Luke twenty-four that the Old Testament, the the scriptures as they would have had it at that time, the scriptures testify to him. Moses and the prophets testify to him. So when we read Old Testament, what we today call the Old Testament, we should be looking for Well what was Jesus talking about? Jesus said they're testifying about him. So I'm going to read this passage now. What is this passage telling me about him? And I'm not doing that because I'm artificially implanting A metaphor unto the passage, I'm following the instruction of the Lord and Savior Himself who says that passage is about me. How is it so Now I'm not going to say it's merely about him. I believe that there is you know there's a type and there's a reality in that. Okay. But if that type is fulfilled in the anti-type What do you mean by anti-type? Meaning the the type points to what's to come. I'm using language, another word of the week. Jesus is the anti-type. Yeah. He he is the one to which the type is pointing. Okay. He an type meaning it typifies. Okay. Anti-type meaning it doesn't merely typify. It's not a type. It is the thing. Okay. So Jesus is the thing. The type points to the thing. Okay. If Jesus is the thing, once the thing has arrived, I mean it wasn't that passage doesn't point it to some future geopolitical nation of Israel. Ultimately. It's pointing to the future eternal reign of the messianic king, ultimately. The Vedic king. Right, and that's the Middle Ca and right, and that's why it's the genealogy uh in the New Testament twice. Yep. You know, uh tells us that Jesus is from the loins of David uh through a process of other loins along the way, but he is a Davidic king. So if he is the one who's ultimately ten ultimately the solution to the riddle Then why do we want to continue to try to find other solutions to the riddle? When the whole point, it seems to me, was, yes, there's there's something to be said about uh Uh human history. Yeah. Sure. But human history as it's recorded in the Bible isn't it's not a history book, right? Uh I have no reason to think that it's not it shares history. history. Sure. I'm happy with that. Well if the point of that redemptive history, if the lesson in that is everything's fulfilled in Christ, then why do we want to look beyond that? That's the part I'm not following. Well I don't feel like I'm looking beyond it. It's interesting that that that You feel like I'm looking beyond it, and I guess I'd like to explore that. Go ahead, Tom. Yeah, no, we're not looking beyond that. We're we're looking to something that empowers that and strengthens our faith in that. uh and and reveals more of the rooted truth in that. And what I meant when I said earlier even that God honors his covenant His desire was to to w pick a people that would be his. He would be their God and they would be my people. When God picks someone, uh he doesn't turn his back on whom he picks. Amen. And and when he calls someone out, uh and and this is where Paul in Romans gets really clear. Romans nine, ten, and eleven gets really clear when he starts talking about He's so burdened for his people that he would lose his own salvation for their salvation in chapter 9. But then he goes on to talk in chapter 11 about Israel's irrevocable calling. Okay, what does that mean? And you who've been as a wild olive branch and grafted into the original olive tree Because the olive the original olive branch was cut off, how much more does God desire to re-engraft in That original island break. Okay, so for example, it says in Joel 320 Judah will be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem through all generations. You know, like something like that. In fact, the very the the first prophecy prophecy that I read to you from Ezekiel is a prophecy that is referring to a return of the people of Israel to the land. And and uh where's the passage where it says, you know, uh can a nation be born in a day? uh where where it refers to uh uh again the sense that that Israel is re is returned to the nation in today. And the fact of the matter is that in history God has accomplished that. He made them a nation uh and restored them to the land, and no other nation has ever done that anywhere in history, and it fits Where he says Judah will be inhabited forever, Jerusalem through all generations, while they're back there again. And and and there seems to be a sense, you know, that that Russia is poised. you know, to uh to to um uh be the bad boy in the story, you know, to to impose their uh their um uh hubris, you know, on uh on Israel. You know, and so so the the sense that God called them a nation and said that he's still going to be a nation, for us to over spiritual or or turn that into a type in the New Testament, I feel like is uh it it is that that's what's unnecessary. Christ is the is the thing that unlocks the mystery, but a big part of the mystery is where does Israel fit and where does the church fit and then where do you know Antichrist I'd like to put it this way, Troy, just to just to share The reason Israel was chosen and picked was because of Jesus. He was birthed through them. Abraham's faithfulness God made a covenant with Abraham and then it went on through and made a covenant with David. Okay? And in that covenant with David, he said, Your kingdom will be forever. So here's a people that God chose to birth the Messiah, the Savior of the world through. So Israel is important at that time as a people because that's who God has chosen to bring the Savior through. Now He was born there. He was he was raised there. He lived in Israel. He was crucified there. Okay. He was buried there. So the reason Israel is important at the time of Messiah was because he was there And and he was fulfilling the prophetic scriptures in the Torah that we read about, uh from Joel, from Ezekiel, from Zachariah. Um the list goes on. But when Jesus left He said, I will return. The same way you saw me leave, I'm going to come back. I'm going to put my feet back on the Mount of Olives. So the reason Israel's important right now as a nation is because Jesus said, I'm gonna put my feet back on the Mount of Olives and and establish my kingdom in Jerusalem. How it be a new Jerusalem, a new heavens and a new earth still he is going to establish his kingdom. There's enough we're used to talk some more about this. Yeah, we could we are we're I mean we're gonna have to because believe it or not, I didn't even have a chance to reset and reintroduce you guys, which I usually think it'll happen. So my apologies to you listening in case you were like Who are these people talking? Uh I'm Froy Skinner. You've also heard Jonathan Sweitzer, who just said yes twice. Uh he's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Yes. And Ted Westwall is senior Roa? Is that how you say it? Roe. Roe. Yeah, that's right. Okay, Roe A. All right, Roe A Yeah the A comes off of the W, it's not Roe A. Roe. Yeah. Roe. Yeah, there you go. Almost sounds French. Anyway, yeah. Uh I would encourage you to visit visit us online at WFMD. com. Uh keyword faith. I think the keyword is still set up. If not, just go to the on-air drop-down menu, click on Faith Debate, and there's a there's a link there to the Faith Debate page. You can listen to this show again. Try to make some heads or tails of it later. When you figure it out, you know, let me know. And I'm gonna uh kind of end on this and whetch your whistle for next week's show I'm not disagreeing almost with anything that's being said uh by by Jonathan and Todd. I think I'm maybe disagreeing with what I'm anticipating to be behind what they're saying, so we will get into that next week. And I will leave you guys with this. Yeah. The Bible, the Old Testament, does not begin with the story of Abraham. So let's think about that and what impact that might have on the conversation that we're having. Thank you so much, you guys. Yes. Thank you for listening. Uh until next week, keep your kids away from glee. That's right. That's right. It's not gleeful. Don't send your money to the uh United Nations And uh we'll see you in a hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours. That's right. God bless. Thanks for listening. They make their life by how they service their clients from the first phone call to when they leave. Your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?