Those whom God effectually calls in the future. He also freely justifies, not by infusing righteousness into them, but by pardoning their sins and by accounting and accepting their persons as righteous. Not for anything wrought in them or done by them, but for Christ's sake alone, nor by imputing faith itself, the act of believing, or any other evangelical obedience to them as their righteousness But by imputing the obedience and satisfaction of Christ unto them, they receiving and resting on him and his righteousness by faith, which faith they have not of themselves is a gift of God. Faith, thus receiving and res resting on Christ and his righteousness, is the alone instrument of justification, yet is it not alone The person justified that even modern English, I don't know if that makes sense anymore. But is ever accompanied with uh all other saving graces and is no dead faith But works by love. That's the first part of chapter eleven of the Westminster Confession of Faith, the first two sections of a six section chapter of justification. I'm Troy Skinner of the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD and We'll be talking about that in a moment. We're going to finish up some thoughts on Chapter ten from last week with Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, the senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church, which is wrapping up their three day conference uh this week on the end times. And since you're hearing this show, the conference appear well unless it should happen really quickly. You should get in your car right now and run because the rapture is about to happen. There was some debate as to whether the conference would finish before Christ came again. It looks like it might just happen. So anyway, dinner last night was marvelous. Everybody had a great time. Excellent. Learned lots Right? Amazing. Amazing Wow. Wow. Okay, so what more can be said? Okay. Whoa. However you say that. Whoa. Okay. All right. Good advice. Now is that also German? Yes it is. Okay, so last week we're talking about effectual calling. Yes. And for a while we thought Jonathan was making some salient points on effectual calling now and out of the side. And that's where uh it seemed that you had another idea that you could help define all this. So let me let me define visible and invisible and then you take it and run with it how it fits with elect and predestination and however you were worried doing this. But The visible church is obviously the church that we see. It's Poolsville Baptist Church, for instance. It's what everybody sees. It's the hundred and uh forty people that come, the seventy-three members that are there. You know, it's it's that Church. It's what everyone sees. The invisible church, we don't know. That's the church that's really the church, the real ones that are saved. We would call them the elect in my terminology. So obviously there might be a few that are elect that aren't part of the church, um that is elect and saved. You can be elect before you're saved in my estimation. But most of those People who love Jesus love the bride, and so they'd be in the visible church as well. So the invisible church is housed in the visible church. So now how does that fit with Your understanding of predestination. Or however you want to destroy it. It deals with the issue of election, not predestination. The issue of election is who are considered to be the people of God. And the people of God in history do what? They do the works of God. They accomplish the purposes of God in history and they're they're blessed by God. They're given the strength to do the the the works of God. Right? And so the problem is at the end of the day. That when the church is persecuted, the visible church and the invisible church begin to be one. And in those moments, there are many that were in the elect That leave the elect because they're not really willing to die for the sake of Christ. No, well, maybe differently from what you understand. Elect are those who will be saved for sure. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And so the point is is that is that the elect like right now when people look at the Church of Jesus Christ. Well wait a minute, wait you said yeah, but that's you don't you don't agree with that, do you? That's not what you're s that's not what you're saying. You're not saying that the elect are those who will be saved. I'm saying that there are those that are a part of the church, that are a part of the elect, that will that will walk away from the church. when the persecution comes and when when their faith is truly tested. Okay. And that at that point they will no longer be the elect. Just in the same way that there are those that that in the nation of Israel that that as a result of the talking past each other because you're using technical terms totally different than history has used them Right. So that's why it's hard for me to ha have a conversation. Yes. They're saved. You're saying though they could leave that electedness, therefore losing their salvation, which is a different topic for a different show that we'll be getting on to. Coming soon, yeah. Coming soon. Yeah, but specifically what I'm getting at is that is that That there's a blessing that rests on the people of God. For example, if people know that you go to a certain church, uh you're They they they tend to have a more favorable opinion of you. There's a certain blessing that comes to you, you know, uh that that they think better of you. Uh maybe You might even get a better job. You know, there's just a sense in the neighborhood. And you could be faking it, you could be living, going to that church, doing all these things, but but not really s seriously. But then but then Oppression comes, some kind some kind of uh of persecution against the church and that person says, Forget it I'm not in this anymore. And at that point they're exposed to be not really part of the church. Not really part of the church. And so then they lose all of the blessing that they're trying to to uh kind of surf in. You know, they're trying trying to ride the way, they're trying to, you know, get whatever blessing they could, you know. You're a better person. And I'm saying that those are the issues that Paul was dealing with in Romans, the early passages, where he says it's not those that are circumcised externally. And today the the modern equivalent is those that are baptized as children. Right. Those aren't the ones that are saved. The ones that are saved are the ones that are circumcised at a heart level or baptized if you will, at a heart level. The words circumcision and baptism are are very similar in the New Testament. You know, that's the that's the sense that when you choose to be baptized. And so what I'm saying is that the that that what looks like the elect Does seem to change when persecution comes, and that's how God purifies his church. Uh he does it when the angels come and he picks out, you know, the ones that that are the wrong ones. that that that's what happens uh when the apocalypse comes, when when when there comes a time of of an end times where where there's war or whatever, people have to choose in those moments and as a result then then uh they're exposed for not really being sincere. And so that's how I use the term elect in history. The same thing was true that that the elect are not those that are of Israel, but those that when push came to shove and they saw the Christ They responded to the Christ, and in responding to the Christ, we're willing to take the persecution of those that rejected the Christ And so when they heard the preaching of the gospel, they rejected the message of the gospel and rejecting the message of the gospel, then it appears that God's holy elect people are no longer holy and elect. But that's the point is they walked away from their election. God didn't reject them. God didn't fail them. They failed God. They walked away from God. And that I feel is what the argument of Scripture is Not whether or not uh God chooses who's going to be saved and then make sure that they make it all the way, but that God offers salvation to all the elect. And those elect that walk away, they they lose the salvation. Those people that by believing uh are brought into the elect. uh will then receive the benefits. Now I want to make sure that I'm uh tracking with you properly 'cause I I uh you said something that either either you missed Did I hit that earlier salient point by the way? No, not well I mean you might have, but it it passed me by if you did. Either I misunderstood or you misspoke or or you've only half finished the thought before you moved on to a a different kind of thought because you said a second ago that Yeah, it's not that the elect were the are the well were the people of Israel. But I wasn't understanding that that was what you were saying before. I thought you were saying that the people of Israel were the elect. So did I misunderstand what you're trying to say? Yeah, what I'm saying is that is that it is dynamic. And God chose a group of people. To be his people, but many of them walked away from him, even though he chose them. That happened with with Israel that that happens now. And that at the time of Christ there were many of those that were the nation of Israel that live under whatever blessings God has for them. But who had chosen in their hearts to walk away from God. And as a result, when when God showed up in the flesh in Christ, they did not recognize him. And so then They uh they were destined for destruction. Now there is an idea. Uh Jason, the Old Testament, there's the idea that calls you know, Israel out to be his special chosen people. Yeah. Right? To be uh a light unto the world Right, and they're they are elect as a as a as a people, correct? Yeah, the word chosen shows up way more it's all over the which is why Paul had to write Romans nine ten eleven. Like how is Paul had to write Romans nine, ten, eleven specifically because the whole nation of Israel was considered the elect chosen people of God and Paul had to clarify why there was an Israel within Israel and and that God didn't fail, but that they failed. That was God's whole that that was Paul's whole point. So I don't know if this is a salient point or not that he had before, but it seems that, you know, if if we can talk about the people of Israel, the nation of Israel in the Old Testament as being elect by God. Clearly not all of them are saved, or led to believe that there were some pretty evil kings, and I'm going to guess that at least they weren't saved. Which is what Paul was saying in Romans three, where he's saying where he's saying, uh therefore uh uh all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and he goes into passage after passage after passage where where David says all men are wicked or where Isaiah says says there's no one good out there and he's not demonstrating that every single human being on the face of the planet is totally depraved. He's demonstrating that even the chosen people of God walked away from their election. And what do we do with the chain of faith? You know, God elects people and then you know he he he calls them, they're they respond, they're justified, they're sanctified. I mean it it it It it seems like the Bible is saying that this is going to happen, which leads to this which will happen, which leads to this which will happen, and yet you're saying, well, no, not uh not necessarily these are all gonna happen. No, I'm saying necessarily all those things will happen unless we choose to reject, to not receive. That if we choose to walk away from the grace of God, then Uh then we walk away from the grace of God. But if we do not, then all those he calls will be justified, will be sanctified, will be glorified. Yeah, I just uh I think I I think I grasp what you're saying after four or five weeks of shows. Um not probably more I'm not convinced that That that's what Romans is trying to say. Sure. So that's uh Oh, yeah. Okay. All right. Well I read the first two sections. I'm going to read uh the next couple and then I'll kind of paraphrase and we'll give ourselves a running start. By the way, this is the Freddy Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined by Dr. Jason Broadhurst, senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Uh soon to be doctor, one s one day to be doctor, John Sweiser. I have a brother who's a doctor. Okay. John Sweiser, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh this is section three and four of chapter eleven on justification in the Westminster Confession of Faith. Christ, by his obedience and death, did fully discharge the debt of all those that are thus justified, and did make a proper, real, and full satisfaction to his Father's justice. in their behalf. Yet inasmuch as he was given by the Father for them, and his obedience and satisfaction accepted in their stead, and both freely, not for anything in them, their justification is only of free grace. That both the exact justice and rich grace of God may be glorified in the justification of sinners. And then section four, God did from all eternity decree to justify all the elect, and Christ did in the fullness of time, die for their sins, and rise again for their justification. Nevertheless they are not justified until the Holy Spirit does in due time actually apply Christ unto them. So these first four sections, I guess, we could say that uh the people God saves or declared righteous by God as a gift, not because of the person, but because of Faith in Jesus Christ is and his obedience and righteousness. Even this faith, evidenced by good works, is a gift from God As sinners, people are in debt to God. Jesus paid the price of this debt, thus glorifying God by demonstrating both his justice. and his grace. People are not saved until the Holy Spirit applies Christ to them. Once saved, the person has their sins continually forgiven by God and will not lose their salvation, yet the person can still face the discipline of God until they repent. Um okay. That's the majority of chapter eleven. No, it says in here that the justification is only a free grace. Passage in Romans says that it that uh that therefore since you have been justified by faith in God's grace. And and it's justification is not only a free grace. It's it the the the pattern all through scripture is always By grace through faith, by grace through faith. But then the argument would be, right, that even faith that saves was a gift from God, which he gives to you by his grace, right? So isn't there a chain of logic there that would tie it to grace still? Um certainly yeah this is like you know okay certainly the part that we did was like point oh oh oh oh one and God's was like ninety nine point nine nine nine nine nine. I'm definitely in agreement with that. Calvinists would hate that though. Yeah, sure. Sure. I know that's a good thing. 00001 really of God and are justified by his grace as a gift. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. That's three twenty-four, right? Yeah. Whom God put forward as a propitiation for his blood. This is all straight from this. Good biblical language. To be received by faith. There's the faith part, which comes of course way after. But that's how it's to be received. So Calvinists agree with that. It's to be received by faith. But verse twenty-two, before that, this righteousness from God comes through faith. Faith in Christ Jesus, for all of sin falls short of the glory of God, justified freely by his grace. So actually, I mean, uh did the faith come first or the grace? I mean in that passage You know, you've got to go back to the beginning. And the beginning of Romans says that now a righteousness has been revealed that is by faith from first to last. Yep. No no problems with that. Right. So my point is that. Well this is the part where I think we we touched on it earlier. I don't know if it was earlier in this show or previous maybe last week's show. Uh and I and I actually paraphrased this ahead of time. Uh God does continue this I'm reading from the the Westminster Confession now, uh part five of chapter eleven for those reading along. Uh God I know that's at least Jason John. That's right. I'm I'm reading it. God does continue to forgive the sins of those that are justified, and although they can never fall from the state of justification, yet they may by their sins fall under God's fatherly displeasure. and not have the light of his countenance restored unto them until they humble themselves, confess their sins, beg pardon, and renew their faith and repentance. I know from what you said earlier, Jonathan, you don't like that section almost at all. No, where does it say that God is continually forgiving the sins of those that are justified? We are we are told in John, first John, that that if we sin and we confess our sins, that He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. The key is that we need to We need to go back to and we need to confess our sins. You know, uh the but maybe there's a period of time as we're in grace where where, you know, uh where the Lord is showing us our sins and what it is that we've done wrong. But but once it's clear that we've done something wrong, if we are not going to go and confess that sin, I don't believe that God is forgiving the sins. of those that that are uh that have not asked for forgiveness. I believe he forgives a sin when we ask for his forgiveness. Does he forgive sins that you don't ask for forgiveness because you forgot that you did them? Yeah, then that's a different situation. That has to do with uh the fallenness of man and our inability to know all things. But so I'm aware that God forgives sin when we ask him. I think that's very essential to this. The question is, who will ask for forgiveness of sins? True Christians will. People who are just playing a game will not ask for forgiveness and at some point will fall away because they were never part of us, as Scripture says. They left because they were never part of us. So I'm I'm saying that they're right there, and you're right there, God has continued to forgive the sins of those that are justified. He continuously does that. As we ask for his forgiveness, if we're Christians, we will ask for forgiveness. He's saying can continue to forgive the sins of those that are justified. Um although they can never fall from the state of justification, they may by their sins fall under God's fatherly displeasure, not have the light of his coun countenance restored unto them until they humble themselves, confess their sins. So they're saying not they're saying that that he's forgiving the sins uh and keeping them in a state of justification uh even when they haven't confessed their sins so and so people fall out of out of salvation over and over and over again? Like what if what if I'm having a really good ide Really bad day. I mean let's just talk experientially here. Yeah, and you're like and you're like debating again. It's really irritating. Yeah, right. Really bad day. Yeah. And and you know, I'm thinking all these bad thoughts about this guy and I want to kill him and things like that, for instance Right. And it takes me all the way till tomorrow to confess my sins, to call you on the phone. I mean whoever that was it would be, to call them on the phone and and apologize and to ask God forgiveness. Does that mean from that time to then I wasn't a Christian Uh I would say that well this goes back to because I hope I don't get any car accident during that time, because I'm in trouble, right? Yeah, I would say that this goes back to um what what I was talking about earlier about um the heart of the wise inclines of the right, the heart of the fool inclines of the left. That there is that there is the sense in us that we're making choices. And if at that point, if I'm just irritating enough that you decide to withhold forgiveness and hang on to your unforgiveness, it will produce in you a root of bitterness. that will that will uh wreak all kinds of havoc and until you're able to genuinely deal with that, in fact we're told, unless you forgive men their sins, our Heavenly Father won't forgive you your sins. And so so yes it is true that it's very important for you to be inclined to deal with that. Maybe it'll take some time because you're human, but the question is are you inclined to the right, are you inclined to the left? Are you inclined to deal with that thing? Or have you decided in your heart that you're not going to deal with that because that dude that you were debating was just so frustrating that you're not going to deal with it. qu an answer to the actual question. So right now I am inclined not to deal with it. In an hour I will be inclined because in that meantime have I lost my salvation? Um I'm s I'm not saying that you've lost your salvation in the meantime. But then you've got you haven't lost your salvation because God knows your heart. But he's displeased right now with your heart. You've fallen under fatherly displeasure. And don't have the light of his countenance. He's not smiling. In that moment you are not justified. I'm not justified? No, in that moment you're a sinner. I'm a sinner all the time. Yeah. Well so but I am still justified. Justified is a technical term that means that he has declared me righteous. He is no longer declaring me righteous. He's no longer his sins are no longer I mean his righteousness no longer imputed to me for that time, and yet I'm still somehow a Christian? Um yeah, I see where you're going with that and I'm not sure that I have an answer. That would be a salient point. Wait a minute. We are recording half. This is recorded, right? Lightning not okay. That's right. You gave me a salient point so I'm gonna give you one. And yours is still bugging me to be honest with you, so I can't wait to do a little study on your own. The justification of believers under the Old Testament was, in all these respects, one and the same with the justification of believers under the New Testament. So basically what's true about justification in the New Testament is also true in the Old Testament. Right. This is this is pretty fought over in carries with it the seal of the Holy Spirit that they clearly did not have in the Old Testament. Um and so um I'm I'm unsure that I'm prepared to agree with this particular statement. But I would say at the very least, perhaps, and I don't know whether this is what they're getting at right here, um that the justification is one and the same with the justification of the believers. It is that we are all justified by the same thing. That is, the Old Testament are looking to Christ, the New Testament is looking to Christ, all of this is by grace. And I think we agreed with this a few weeks ago. That everything is by grace that is not by the law in the old testament and by grace underneath. And I'd say again that that the the faith here if in fact Abraham was justified by works, he had something to boast about. But not before God. What does scripture say that Abraham believed God and it was credited to him with righteousness? That the sense is that our justification is by faith. Therefore since we have been justified through faith, we have peace with God. And that that that that that the the The question is how do you get the faith? The formula is the by grace through faith. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And God sent those who preach the gospel. That's how the faith comes. Yeah. So we're back to the same as a dead person. Maybe you should like set up you know like a uh you know like a little ice cream bar. Predestination and grace and stuff is I think the point of of of this last part is basically saying that, right? In the Old Testament, those who were saved, those who got salvation or were given salvation, however you want you say that, uh, it was through faith. Yes, to the man who does not work but trusts God who justifies the wicked, his faith is credited as righteousness. Yes. So I think that's kind of what they're saying, right? Yes. So the the the faith, the righteousness comes through faith. It's not through the law but through faith. Alright, so we've kind of come to a little bit of a conclusion, a little lull, feels like We're feeling good now. We're all happy. It's found a little something we agree on. Right? We can we can we can leave we can leave happy and well let's go have some ice cream. It's been a hot summer. Well satisfied. Okay. Anyway, all right, we're gonna wrap up the show then. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Troy Skinner is the host, that's me. Dr. Jace Rodhurst is uh the um senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. And I want to encourage you to listen to us online again. The podcasts are all available in the audio vault section of the website, WFMD. com. You can also access the audio vault from the Faith Debate page and probably the easiest way for you to get to the Faith Debate page is to just go to WFMB. com and find the keyword section and type in the word faith in the keyword section. It'll take you right to the Faith Abate page. And uh there's a Monday through Friday updated blog posting on the faith debate and and links to all sorts of um different faith traditions, whatever if you I wonder what Buddhists believe. You can find a link to uh a website that gives a pretty good representation of what Buddhists believe and why. Uh for the Do we have a link to Harry Potter I want to know what he believed. I bet there's people out there that want to know. I think you should put just off the tweak on the show, we'll be explaining to Jonathan Sweitzer that Harry Potter is a fictional character. Anyway, Harry and a Potter, I don't think. Thanks guys, appreciate it. Till next week, everybody. God bless. Putment Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P, as in your preferred plumber. Putment Plumbing, how can we make you smile?