Footman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Footman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumbing plumbing, how can we make you smile? So we had the concert last night? Michael Card performing in concert in Westminster to benefit the least of these ministries. And in case you missed it, you hear a little bit of a single right here. Anyway, it's not too late to support the cause. It's too late to have taken in the concert obviously. But if you missed the concert, you meant to go, things came up, whatever, or you know, who knows what, but you've been listening to this show for the last few weeks and you and you applaud. and would like to get involved with supporting what the least of these ministries is doing to to help um I almost hesitate to call them Haitians because they're without a country. Uh but formerly Haitians, I guess, living in the Dominican Republic in in the slave conditions, work quarters and uh and and and now left to just starve to death. And least of these ministries, led by Steve Hall, who's on the show again this week, doing good work in helping them to Um you're not feeding them like three squares a day or anything like that, which wouldn't be appropriate anyway, as we've talked about uh in an earlier uh edition of the show. Um but buying buying them some time to figure out how to to take care of themselves and their family and that sort of thing. So if you would like to learn more uh find out how to support or find out more about whether it's something you'd want to support, I would encourage you to visit them online at www. leastofin And you know what I like about the about this particular ministry is that it it comes right here from Maryland. You know, just just up the street there in Westminster, you know, God called Steve, a guy that that that is a neighbor you know, a businessman right here in the area to go down and into a and he's been there for some time just to help and to love and to to feed those guys. You know, and that's that's a pretty special thing, you know, that we get to be a part of that. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and I mentioned Steve Hall, founder and director of the Least of These Ministries. Say hello really quick so we can identify your voice. Hello everybody out there. Alright, so that's the voice. He says something you don't like, just remember it's Steve Hall. And then uh also tagging along is Greg Luke, who's involved with the least of these ministries. He's uh gone down on on missions trips down there and uh is s supports the the work that uh Steve does and uh but he's also involved we didn't even know this until you get to talking to somebody, right? He's involved with reasonable faith. And we talked We talked about the kinds of things that you interact on with your involvement with reasonable faith, but we never really explained exactly what reasonable faith is. So how about in in like sixty seconds or less? Give me an education, what is reasonable faith? Uh Reasonable Faith is an organization uh founded by Dr. William Lane Craig and uh Basically the mission is to provide an articulate defense of the the Christian world view. Well that's impossible. Is that the same th thing as uh immaculate? Yes. If you watch Dr. Craig and you mentioned you could last week you could see him on YouTube. If you watch him debate uh atheists on the other side, you'll you'll find actually that it's pretty impossible for them to stand up to him. Uh at least logically and reasonably uh So what do you do? Well what I do is uh I try to spend a little time with the youth in our church and uh I just began um I just got uh sanctioned to begin a chapter of Reasonable Faith in the this area and um I haven't found even a meeting place yet. It just happened recently. Um except that Steve just offered you a place. That's correct while we were off the area. Hopefully it connections are happening as we speak. In indeed, and well and I I tell you w what my purpose is is that Uh people like me who are Christians who are not really sure of their faith, my walk with the Lord changed dramatically when I went from being a guy who kinda was a Christian to a guy going, This is real Yeah, and you know what that's so funny to me because how often are we told by people in the world or uh university professors or atheists that to be a Christian you can't be a thinker. You know, and so once you start thinking you're gonna realize that you're gonna have to reject all that backward Christian stuff. And yet the exact opposite is the case. For most of us when we finally started thinking about ab about, you know, creation and how we got to be here and really thinking through the science, we're like, wow That stuff really points to the Lord. It's pretty amazing. Let me guess then, because that probably ties into why you do what you do. Because you're speaking to the youth, you said. I'm going to assume that's mostly high school students, maybe some middle school students, but most And you're trying to prepare these the young minds to be able to defend uh or at least withstand an assault upon their faith when they go away to These secular institutions are not a very important thing to do. At least to protect our own faith, but hopefully also to be able to bring others to to at least consider it. You know, uh Greg Kugel calls it putting a stone in somebody's shoe of giving them something to think about and shoe upon that that I don't know if you've ever read it. So it's supposed to be irritating. Pleasant evangelism. It's it's uh you know you leave them with something that makes them think But in in the case of of of me, if I would have had this when I w I gave my life to the Lord when I was sixteen and then as young adults do I walked away but thankfully, you know, Jesus never let go of me. Yeah. Um So do you do this in the context of your church or it's something that people outside youth outside of your church would come and do it? Well it's it's it's a new thing, but what I've done so far mainly has been in our church to Uh to talk but the youth at their you know they have youth meetings on Sunday night, now go by and I'll do a short lesson 'cause you know kids don't withstand long, tenuous explanations, but I'll give a shit off. Well something like something like the uh design of the universe and uh you know most people don't know. I never learned this in science, but indeed it is uh fact that uh even somebody like Stephen uh Stephen Hawking will tell you is true that uh the wor the universe is so finely tuned that no life would be possible at all. Uh if if we altered gravity by one part and ten to the sixtieth, that's uh that's a one with sixty zero. And I'll let me give you an example. Also the amount of matter in the universe when it began to expand, also if you change that by one part in ten to the sixtieth The universe either would have collapsed back by that much more or continued to expand so fast no stars would have been. You see, it's just a lucky chance that that that we are what we are. And there's such a small likelihood then it makes sense that there was some kind of a uh intelligent behind. And if you don't recognize the names Jonathan just rattled through, those are all pretty noteworthy uh. Yeah. Well Dawkins if you get the privilege of I I've never read his book, but I've read excerpts from it, and the main argument uh is summed up if you can search for Dawkins' argument on reasonable. Yes, and in that book he says this argument sums it up and he basically lists six things or so that are kind of Odd, and even if you submit to those, and I wouldn't, but even if you did, all of a sudden he said at the is is to sum it up, he says, Therefore it's reason you know, God most certainly does not exist or something, and it's like it came out of left field to whole argument doesn't even flow and I welcome you to to go to Dr. Craig's website to the Dr. Yeah, there's a guy that wrote a book in response to the God delusion called uh the atheist delusion or something like that, and it's written by a guy that's an atheist And uh and he rebuts every single one of Richard Dawkins' arguments, uh, basically saying that Richard Dawkins uh has some interesting beliefs but they're not scientific whatsoever. And for him to claim that they're scientific is uh is a mockery We well we were talking about uh last time about Abiogenesis, how our life began. I think we were on the air when we were talking about that. Yeah. And um Although not you can't count on everybody having been listening last year. It's uh a a formulation of how did life begin? What caused life begin? That's the study of of that area. And uh what we find according to the science is that there was no primordial soup. Uh Uh you know, when the earth first cooled it it would be possible for any life to exist all of a sudden it pops up. By the way, I hate to take anything for granted, but primordial soup. Primordial soup. The the elements. Similar to camels. You're kinda chunky full of life. It's good for you. You know, they'll tell you that there was a certain grouping of chemicals that were there that that life spontaneously generated out of those chemicals and what they thought would be there is not in the geological record. All of a sudden we just have life. And so to account for that Dr. Dawkins and and I I guess we're demining the term doctor when we use it. I shouldn't say that as a Christian, should I? But he he actually Dr. Dawkins is welcome to come on the show. Yes, he's welcome. Ben Stein's movie uh spelled. So in that doctor we get to hear Dr. Dawkins tell us that he believes in panspermia, which is that life was put here or came here by some means which he never really clarified, but aliens. Yeah, and there's I could give you a proof of how that could not even happen. He gets them to admit it was either Christopher Hitchens or Dawkins, but I'm not that maybe that we got started from aliens. Yes. Yeah, if you if you want to eat an eat We alerge you to We encourage you to look for Dr. Craig on YouTube. I I I'd say you can go look for Dr. Dawkins also and and and uh Google if you Googled or look for Dr. Dawkins and uh a a time when um a mutation added information to the genome and he tries to explain that he actually there's about 45 seconds of silence when he's asked the question, can you name a time when a mutation or uh uh you know one of these accidental things added information to the genome since we're more complex than the life we came from that had to happen over and over and over again. Yeah. We get silence from them. And uh So because there's so it's their faces. There's so many wide open holes in their arguments again and again. Well and um Uh so y we off there we were talking about this, but that uh you know if you're an atheist, uh you really have no choice but to believe that life started by accident and that it did evolve and if you steer off of that at all. Here's William Lane Craig in action. It's about it's a little maybe a little over two minutes. It's a little bit long, but this is a This is a classic clip. I've I've I've I've heard it in the case. It's almost as if we've got him here in the studio. Exactly. He was a little busy, couldn't make it uh today, so Let's see if that'll uh if it'll get starting up here. Desperate to believe Together with the fact that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is Okay, now this is this is uh Peter Dr Dr. Peter Atkins is talking about the existence of God. Well I I guess I don't see that. I mean why doesn't that fallacy of trying to say that by explaining how a belief originates, you thereby show the belief to be false Even if it were true that belief in the existence of God were the product of fear and anxiety and so forth, which I don't for a minute admit, but even if it were It that's simply a genetic fallacy to say that because that's the way the belief originally but therefore the belief is false. But that's only one half of the argument. I'm not saying that that alone is adequate, and I'm not saying that the fact that science can account for everything. It alone is also adequate for it taken together. The fact that one that science is omnipotent And the fact that I can understand why people are not going to be able to do that. Scientist omnipotent, don't you allow that? That is an argument against But two fallacious arguments put together don't don't make a sound argument, right? But um do you deny that science cannot account for everything Yes, I do deny the science. So what can't it come for? Well, I had you brought that up in the debate, I had a number of examples that I was going to give Uh I think there are a good number of things that cannot be scientifically proven, but that we're all rational to accept. Let me list let me list five. Logical and mathematical truths cannot be proven by science. Science presupposes logic and math, so that to try to prove them by science would be arguing in a circle uh metaphysical truths like there are other minds other than my own, or that the external world is real, or that the past was not created five minutes ago with an appearance of age are rational beliefs that cannot be scientifically proven. Ethical beliefs about statements of value uh are not accessible by the scientific method. You can't show by science whether the Nazi scientists in the camps did anything evil as opposed to the scientists in Western democracies. Aesthetic judgments, number four, cannot be accessed by the scientific method, because the beautiful like the good cannot be scientifically proven. And finally, most remarkably, would be science itself. Science cannot be justified by the scientific method. Science is permeated with um Unprovable assumptions. For example, in the special theory of relativity, the whole theory hinges on the assumption that the speed of light is constant in a one-way direction between any two points A and B. But that strictly cannot be proven. We simply have to assume that in order to uphold to the theory. Put that in your pipe and smoke couldn't. So we are uh none of these beliefs can be scientifically proven and yet they are accepted by all of us and we're right Is he good? Actually says, Well g g give me an example. Well I'll give you five. Not just gave five, but he kept on going, right. Well we talked about how good a debater is. He actually spends hours and weeks uh studying the person he's gonna debate and the arguments they have and giving them serious consideration and then saying, Well these are why it's weak and then he and then he brings them out. And uh So uh you know, uh doc uh uh we were talk we briefly s uh skimmed off of the how the universe began and uh Dr. Atkins' belief and in that debate uh Dr. Craig points out, uh Dr. Atkins never says it because maybe he's ashamed of it, but his theory was possibly that mathematical points in somewhere space didn't exist, but somewhere these points were aligning and realigning until they lined up perfectly to cause the universe. to begin to exist. And I scratch my head and go this is more reasonable than to believe that an intelligent being caused the universe. In fact at this point uh some of the the top astrophysicists, scientists out there are of the opinion that there's multiple universes, is that there's there's uh there's multiverses out there is what they call 'em. uh all of which can in no way be proven scientifically but in philosophy because you can think about the possibility like e like like this is where we get the the whole um uh uh what's what's the um what's the great program with Neo the the Matrix movies the Matrix moo movies come from this this idea that you can go into this whole different place in your mind and you can pick out whatever gun you want Mm-hmm. It comes from this idea of multiverse is that we could just pop into a different area and train for a little bit and then come back. uh all of which cannot be scientifically proven but is considered to be um sophisticated uh scientific reasoning in our day and age. Why? Because at the end of the day They're they're stretching, they're looking, they're trying to to prove something that they can't prove, and so they have to come up with these crazy, far out ideas. Uh just to pr just to prove the idea that an evolution happened. If I might touch on on that. The the uh I just glanced a across a couple of the fine-tuning uh numbers. There are some that are even higher than the ones we've mentioned. But when you put them all together, the likelihood of this happening by chance is so remote. that they don't even go with multiple ver universes now that they've gone to infinite universes so that every possibility is eventually tried and so eventually we would end up with this universe. The problem with that is that once you go to an infinite amount of universes, you don't get an infinite amount of uh of one of each kind, you get an infinite amount of each kind so that this universe would be replicated also an infinite amount of times. And so we're having this conversation an infinite amount and also times where you're on the other side or whether we're we're defending atheism. The babble that you've just been communicating for the last little while is what passes for scientific reasoning anymore. uh when you can't allow for supernatural creator, you're left with doing this. And it is uh inventing all kinds of absurdities that people who don't want to believe in in God and they actively must not uh will buy into these things even if you put it. You know, you were talking uh earlier about how d you know, evolution is their only answer. You know, and so they have to stick with it. Evolution by chance is the only answer if you don't believe in God. If you're an atheist and and and you believe there is no God, then evolution by chance is the only thing. What do you do with information that's against that is that Darwin is the one that came up with that about a hundred what, a hundred and thirty, hundred and fifty years ago. somewhere in that time frame. And it seems to me that as soon as science grabbed a hold of Darwin's idea, it took over the world. Oh finally we don't have to deal with God. Oh finally we can live however we want, have all the sex we want You know, we c we we can do whatever we want, we can do drugs, you know, we can get rid of the church and all of its control over our lives and morality and we can just, you know, do our own thing. And I kinda get the sense that for the l for the last hundred and thirty, hundred and fifty years that there's been this attempt to to milk Darwinism for all it's worth. And my sense is that we're going to outgrow it as a whole planet. You know, that that it'll hang on in certain places, but that increasingly it's gonna be exposed for the fraud that it is and because and it just like you were saying, it's the only answer that they have. That's why they have to hang on to it. That's why they're obsessed over it. Where at the end of the day, uh it's gonna it's gonna prove itself to not be uh helpful and I'm interested to see what'll happen at the end of the day. Yes, they do. If you you know you can see like Aldox Hus Huxley who wrote Brave New World basically said that. And he's the one that taught at the collegiate level that if you just took drugs it would give you some kind of a big experience. that would inspire you for the rest of your life. You know, and as a result we had the you know the sixties uh drug Let me let me jump because this is fun because we're we're we're ganging up on somebody who's not here. Yeah, isn't it fun? I feel like we're winning. I I I don't know, I'll give you a decision, you know, a split decision. Jonathan Sweitzer, as always, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and co-founder of the Faith Debate Show. Greg Luke, who is a volunteer and supporter with the Least of These Ministries. Steve Hall, founder and director of Least of These Ministries. is also here, although he's not uh opining very much on this week's uh show. He's he's just here as moral support uh for Greg. Uh and Greg is Steve as our moral foundation. He's the one that uh heard the call from God to go down to Haiti. To make a difference. But uh if somebody who disagreed with everybody in this room and what we've been talking about so far were here, they might start saying things like, you know You want to say that my argument doesn't make any sense and it's self-defeating and it's circular or whatever and you know it's not even scientific to hold to some of these scientific things, but What you offer isn't scientific either. It's not proving the case. You have to accept what you accept by faith. Right? Isn't it just a matter of faith? And how do you know your faith is real? Prove it Well there's a modicum of that. Well I feel like if you go that far, then you've gone farther than most scientists will ever go to admitists agree that But uh the earth is a zillion years old and the earth spontaneously uh generated out of some sort of primordial soup? question their assumption. So all these scientists all with all their degrees and you know, I mean it's not uh it's a minority though, clearly, right? Massive minority on the face of the planet. Atheists are like uh you you know, what was it like five percent of the earth is atheists? That means ninety-five percent of the planet. The ninety five percent which are the great unwashed, you're gonna compare those with these elite Area dite, academic, you know, super brilliant, two hundred and twenty IQ guys. You're gonna compare those? Yes, yes, Sneagle. I I am. And and your attitude is precisely what is making my point on my behalf. Let me and let me make one point. We don't disagree over the facts of of science. It's just the interpretation. How are you gonna of what what do these facts mean? Okay, we have a universe that began to exist. Uh it began uh time began, space began, matter began to exist, they did not exist before. I've had atheists say, well maybe some atoms collided together, and I'm like, you don't even understand what you believe because there were no atoms. There was nothing. And then all of a sudden it began to exist. This this doesn't happen. Yeah, you could go back as far as you want. But once you get back far enough, something had to start. You could persuade me that maybe I'm wrong, but you can't persuade me that you're right based on the evidence, can you? I I think you can. I don't you know there's a there's a a l uh lengthy some people would say uh there's a l a a lot of lengthy arguments that we could go to. We could persuade these about what I could persuade you that God exists? Can you prove that God exists? I could persuade you and even if you're open to it and give you uh concrete evidence that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, that He is God, and that He proved He was when He raised from the dead. And uh this is in the New Testament documents we're you know we're told that they were written long after when that's not in fact the case. That Couldn't he have when he died just spontaneously regenerated? Does he have to be God to have come back to life? I think at the end of the day that I would be a bit less um confident that I could make you believe it. Or that I could prove it to you only because uh the ability for somebody to see the truth is somewhat out of my hands You would have to make make certain choices in your own heart and in your own certain assumptions that that that you would have to be willing. But I think that I could get as far as as getting you to admit that uh that the God theory has uh a massive connection with the facts uh both historically and scientifically. If and and if I could get you to admit that, then at that point we're not dealing with the question of the facts, but we're dealing with your heart. And once we get back to dealing with the heart, then I think it's likely that most scientists, maybe you included, Sneagle, uh are in territory that that you're feeling very. What do you guys say to that pastor in the Netherlands Who's uh a pastor with uh I think it's called the You've been dying to bring this up. I can't remember what the name of the f of the denomination is. It's the Dutch Reformed Netherlands Evangelical. Yeah, yeah, that's what you mentioned earlier. Who's an admitted atheist? What do you say to him? I say you must be in it for the money. I don't understand. But I want to go back to the money. Is that true, Jonathan? Do you pass and make a lot of money? Well it depends. Back in the Middle Ages the uh priests seemed to make all kinds of money. Well the uh last one real fast. Uh you said it couldn't be proven. Uh doctor uh not doctor, least rob uh that came to Christ by attempting to prove that this all was nonsense by s by actually studying uh uh uh did the same thing. Exactly. But yeah, is that at the end of the day there's a heart issue that that changes everything and uh I don't know that you can prove to somebody something that their heart is unwilling to accept. Yeah. Sometimes even he doesn't. Well it's according to scripture. Yeah. God leaves it to us. That's going to be the last word. Lee Strobel, by the way, I was wondering when his name might come up. Uh author of Case for Christ, Case for the Creator. Actually his book, The Case for the Creator, speaks directly to these issues. It was a New York Times bestseller. You might want to Check that out. Uh Lee S and his last name's Scroble, S-T-R-O-B-E-L. It's not something that you eat. Oh strudel, strudel, strudel. No. Yeah. Although speaking of which, it's time for breakfast. Let's go get something to eat. Anyway, thank you so much. Um Greg Luke a volunteer with the Least of These Ministries and also with Reasonable Faith. Steve Hall, he did say hello, so we know he was here, founder and director of the Least of These Ministries. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. We're going to go out with a one last time with some Michael Card, in case you missed the concert last night. Until next week. God bless you. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P. As in your preferred plumber. Povin plumbing, how can we make you smile