Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred. Plumber. Plum and plumbing, how can we make you smile? This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner joined by Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and former Frederick City Alderman C. Paul Smith, local attorney author. Written a couple of books, I think, right? One of them is uh State of the Constitution. What's the other one called? The other one is I Will Send My Messenger. I will send my messenger. A book about the uh restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ You should write a book for kids. As a Mormon with as many kids as you have you should you should you write one book for them. You know what I do at Christmas time. I've done this about several times. I bring my bring my kids there and grandkids and I come up with a different story. Yeah. And then I have them illustrate it and we make it we make it Oh, all together. Yeah. Yeah. How many kids do you have again? Well, I have twelve kids. Twelve kids. I was just talking with uh the Schmeleks the other day. Joe Schmelic, he ran for Board of Education. He has ten kids. His uh his father has like thirty six grandkids. How many grandkids do you have? Sixteen. Sixteen. You're on your way. You know my way to grow up and have kids. Right? You know, that's a lot of kids. I've got five kids right now and I feel like I've got a lot. People look at me like, Whoa, how do you do it? you know, but but you know, I'm nothing, you know, it's all relative at the end of the day. Well, I know somebody that has nineteen kids and he once told me that if you can have three you can have nineteen. You know somebody's the number. Once you get to four, it never gets any worse. No, it's true because because previous to that point, see see When you go from two to three, you go from man to man to zone defense. Right? But at least you still got one hand per kid up to four. But after that You know, it's just a free for all. You know? You could st you have to start engaging your foot, you know, kick 'em back into play or something like that. So anyways. By the way, it occurs to me now here we are two weeks past February fourteenth Yeah. And we didn't wish each other a happy Valentine's Day and I I know that offended somebody greatly. So And last week was the community marriage week officially according to the uh the county commissioners Community Marriage Week. They've done it for the last three years. It's a great thing here in Frederick that uh that they so support the family that they want to s they want to encourage people to think about it and to give a whole week to to improving So I just want to ask, will you two be mine? Your Valentine? Be my sweetheart. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm gonna have to leave now again. Anyway. Do you hear this noise? Anyway, we've spent uh a couple of shows now together, the three of us, which you can tell we get a little punch drunk after we've done a number of shows together. overly familiar. It's good. It's more fun that way. And last week we were talking about uh religious rights in this country and some case law that and um And and that sets the foundation I think pretty well for what we're gonna be doing on this show. Because there have been brave souls who have bucked the system and fought for religious rights and ro religious freedoms, a show like this is able to exist. And what does that mean? A show like this, when it's done well, and I'm not sure how often we achieve that or not, but when it's done well, it creates a safe haven where people can feel comfortable publicly proclaiming what they believe even though they know there are going to be some people in the room with them who disagree. They're willing to state it, knowing that it will be heard, digested, processed perhaps challenged, and then they'll have an opportunity to challenge the challenges or to challenge the beliefs with somebody else and have an honest uh intellectual discourse that is vigorous But at the same time respectful and and grace filled kind of a thing. This sort of a show couldn't exist outside our financial fr uh of financial freedoms Woohoo, money. Religious freedom. Yes. We have no financial freedom. Who am I getting? That's right, that's right. My nurse of the dependence as yet to be attained. What country have I moved to? I think we still work till like, you know, july fifth Anyway, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, a Protestant uh Christian independent denominator Associated with any denomination, but a an independent Protestant Christian church, for those who knows what that label might mean. I uh am not leading any sort of a church, but uh I would also put myself in the uh pro evangelical conservative Protestant camp. Uh the conservative, a lot of those labels would s would apply. Maybe Paul would say, hey, those labels apply to me too. But the Protestant part, I guess not. Paul is very well known because he's a p politician in town, he's a Mormon. Well yeah, and I I mean I have a a great association with Protestants. We make this distinction though The Protestants are those religions that broke away or protested from basically the the Catholic Church in in Europe. Yes. And And so we distinguish ourselves because we believe in a restoration, that God appeared, called a prophet, and revealed things to restore the church to what it was during the days of Christ. So that that's why we use that's our distinction. But I mean in in terms of beliefs, although there are differences, but I f have great affinity to, you know, all Christian. Hence the uh the belief that um the unit that Zion uh will be uh in the United States and will be the re establishment of Zion, the the restoration of Zion. you know, here in the United States. of the mountains and all nations shall flow unto it, which I think is America. And the law will come forth uh let's see, the law will come forth out of Zion And the word of the Lord from Jerusalem and and I think that law reference actually is the Constitution which has spread throughout the world. But yes. So then the so that's very interesting. It's almost as though uh America a and I guess I hadn't thought about this before though I had around the edges of my mind. America is i i with its freedoms and its its being a light, a shining l city on a hill, a a light that cannot be hid and an ensign to the nation. Is is the the essence or or even the you know, a part of the the root inspiration behind the the the restoration that Mormonism uh anticipates. Uh and And I actually believe that it was in God's plan that this restoration take place here, that America really is a special place and has a special responsibility to all the world. Now I don't know how well Mormonism is understood by those who aren't Mormon. I mean people that go to John's church, some of them probably don't know what the heck John's talking about half- time. You know what I mean? So and I don't mean that with any disrespect to Jonathan. I don't know how well any of us would have to do it. Yeah those guys just fall asleep here. Yeah, exactly. I've been to some of your sermons. I I know. I feel their pain. No. Anyway. So I'm talking to your wife afterwards. So I thought what's an easy way to try to do this? Let's go let's figure out what do the Mormons say about their own faith? And there are thirteen articles of of faith that uh the Uh Church of Latter day Saints uh believe and subscribe to. Jonathan has them in front of him. Why don't you whip through a few of them really quick? Wait, we're gonna let we're gonna let uh do that I as I told you, I memor I memorized them as a youth when I was eleven years old. And I knew them word for words. All right, the first one We believe in God the Eternal Father and in His Son Jesus Christ and in the Holy Ghost. Is that right I do? That that's that is what the Article of Faith states. Yes. Okay. Good. You have any issue with that one? Uh I do because the hair split is going to come having to do with the definition or the the uh identification of the Son Jesus Christ and and who he is uh exactly in terms of divinity and that sort of thing. So I'll end up having uh uh an issue with it. Yes, what's the second one? We believe that man will be punished for his own sins and not for Adam's transgression. So what it says? We believe that through the atonement of Christ all mankind may be saved by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. By obedience to the law of the same thing. But he's got him right so far. Okay, but you got him right. So what's the fourth one? We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the gospel are first Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Second, repentance. Third, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins. Fourth, the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. Actually I think I'm not sure. Jonathan's gonna agree with a lot of that. Charismatics would say yes to all of those, including the laying out of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, uh evangelicals wouldn't necessarily. Right. Okay. Number five? Yes We believe that a man must be called of God by prophecy and by the laying on of hands by those who are in authority to preach the gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof. Um it has to do with those who are in leadership. Yeah. Being called of God. Yeah, I I would agree with the laying out of hands. I'm not so sure that it would have to be a prophetic uh word. So I may I I have some questions about what they mean by that. So does the prophecy have to come through somebody else or can I hear the prophecy in my own heart? It it comes your calling comes either by an angel or messenger from heaven or someone else. So I think I'd split some hairs and not quite be in agreement. Okay. Next one? What's the number what, six now? Yeah. Uh we believe in the same organization that existed in the primitive church, namely apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, and so forth. And I would be in agreement as a charismatic. But that's not. That's not going to probably be the majority of evangelical Protestants. No, definitely not. The Catholic Church I think would lean in the direction of being in agreement Uh interestingly. Anyways, keep going. Uh we believe in the gift of tongues, prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, the interpretation of tongues, and so forth. Uh and you mean in the present day present practice of those things. And I'd be in agreement. Similar to the last one. uh close. And um Very good. Keep going. Number eight, uh we believe the Bible No. Well as long as it's translated correctly, but that's the point. That's precisely where he and I would uh split some hairs. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Keep going. Number nine. In the words of Ringo Starr. Number nine? Number nine? Number nine. We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the kingdom of God. Yeah, see I would tend to be in agreement with that, but um but I'm not of the opinion that got that God is still writing scripture and so Uh things that he reveals about the kingdom of God, uh I I don't I would say could never quite become doctrine. That And I think that that that would be a significant place where uh the Mormons and I wouldn't disagree. Okay. Now if this was a David Letterman show, this next one would be the last one, but it's not the Letterman show, so number ten, three to the Number ten, we believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the ten tribes, that Zion, the new Jerusalem, will be built upon this, the American continent. And that the earth and that Christ will reign personally upon the earth, and that the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory. That means paradise. Paradise Glory. And he actually skipped one. Oh, skipped one. Yeah. But I I think I significantly disagree with that one. Uh you missed the one about uh we believe what number. No he didn't he didn't miss one. No Jonathan can't read. I read it wrong. Numberable. I don't have a steel. Yeah, yeah, see that was tense there for a moment. Right, but I did help you just And um number eleven, we claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our conscience and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may. Which is interesting 'cause that's like that's what we've been talking about for the last Four weeks on the show. So I'm in agreement with that. Not strong enough? Yeah. As a statement of faith? Yeah. In the context of talking about the secular world and the role of government and that sort of thing, I wouldn't have any issue. But if it's going to be a statement of faith, I'm not so sure I want to make it up to my conscience. I want to make it up to the will of God and his his decree. Oh, point is is that is that at the end of the day, you would still say that you're going to be judged For worshiping according to your own conscience if it's not in alignment with God's will. Yeah. But anyway Yeah, I think you guys are going too far. Basically we all claim the right to worship. Anyway, it's a it's a very significant like Minutia hairsplickai thing. Yes, yes. Choice personal religion. Number twelve. No, no, we're on twelve. We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers. and magistrates in honoring, obeying and sustaining the law. I'm in agreement? We're good to go. That'll be good. Yeah. That's why I don't mind you being aldermen. Keep going. And our bakers doesn't? Or commissioner. Um we believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men. Indeed, we may say we follow the admonition of Paul. We hope all things, we believe all things. Uh we have I'm getting this wrong. We have endured many things and hope to be able to endure all things That's pretty good. My wife will my wife will take me to task. Your kids will take you to cash is what happened. That's right. That's pretty good. All right, so where do you think Maybe the the most significant area of disagreement might be that you want to maybe The most s significant one? Yeah we might not tackle that one first. What do you think the biggest difference is? Um Uh it's all going to come down to uh the Bible is the Word of God translated correctly, you know, in the Book of Mormon, uh, I think is is ultimately what it comes down to. And it and it also then comes to uh the sec the one right after that about God revealing things and whether or not what God reveals today, you know, can be taken as doctrine and and at what point that is. Now let me let me ask this in a different way and and position it towards Paul. I don't know how often you have an opportunity to engage in these kinds of conversations with somebody who's not a Mormon and wants to kind of question these sorts of things. What's the one out of these thirteen that you get questioned about the most? Well, I probably the the biggest one is the belief in the Book of Mormon or modern revelation. And I would say uh one that's equally significant is really the nature of God and our relationship to Him. Uh those are the most profound. Yeah, and does that get into Christology? Well, I'm not sure what you mean by Christology. Who he is, the relationship of God to Jesus. We take literally the John chapter uh three, verse sixteen, that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. And we believe he was literally the son of God. That's funny, I believe that too, but the definition uh of what you mean by son of God is precisely where um uh where the the rub is. The uh one of the like I w I would say the same thing. We believe literally in that. And so Uh uh you yeah, it's a very important thing. Joseph Smith's what we call first vision, when in response to his prayer and seeking religious enlightenment, he was called as a prophet, and he explained that I saw a pillar of light that descended gradually until it fell upon me, and in the midst of this light I saw two personages whose brightness and glory defied all description Standing above me in the air, and one of them called me by name, saying, Joseph, this is my beloved son, hear him And then he went on and had an experience. But as a boy of fourteen, in response to his sincere prayer, he saw God the Father in Jesus Christ. A very unique experience. I mean Stephen looked into heaven and said he saw God or Jesus standing on the right hand of God. Sure. But not very many If any, account in the Bible of the two appearing. And yet, as I said, and as you know, there are multiple references to Jesus being the Son of God. And um I w I handed you earlier the proclamation on the family that that uh the prophet and twelve apostles recently uh produced in our church. Sure. And it and it states that that we are the family is really important. Eternally has been important and that we are children of heavenly parents and that we have a divine mission and destiny. I think that is that is one of the most inspiring, glorious thoughts. And as I last Sunday I was talking with several of the youth in our in our church. I'm I have responsibility for them. And one way to help them to be pure is to understand who you are And don't sell yourself short. You have divine potential and and it takes you have to be tough, spiritually tough to do it. But if you keep in mind your mission in life then then that can help you to resist temptation. Let me jump in and and corral this little bit. So we've got about, you know, ten, fifteen minutes left and there's we could talk for the next twelve years probably and you should have lots of fodder and lots of fun going back and forth. Um I don't want to spend a lot of time, although some would be tempted perhaps for us to do so, I don't want to spend a lot of time questioning uh Joseph Smith's experience. I think that uh that's fraught with problems anyway. How can I say what you've experienced, what I've experienced? You know, we it it's hard to argue against someone's experience. Yeah. So let's just for the sake of argument, for those who are gonna be mad at me for doing this, understands for the sake of argument. Let's just say Joseph Smith had that experience. It was some sort of a of a revelation po you know, from something. You know, the Mormons are going to say it's a revelation of God. Those who are going to be critical are going to say it's a revelation of something else. Let's just say he had the experience. And as a result of this whole thing You know, the Book of Mormon gets written, uh Mormonism gets established, all those sorts of things. And but but now we let's say he had that again for the sake of our he has that sort of vision. The teachings that spring from that start to diverge from what um, for lack of a better term in this context, mainstream uh Christianity would hold. And one of them is this question about uh heavenly parents and who is Jesus and and the thing that you shared with with us uh before the show, uh this article of proclamation to the world. Uh and you just referenced it. Uh here's the quote. All human beings, male and female, are created in the image of God. You're not going to disagree with that, are you, Jonathan? No. But here's where we start to have, I guess, some divergence, right? Each is a beloved spirit, son, or daughter of heavenly parents, and as such, each has a divine nature and destiny. Do you agree with that? Hmm, no. So maybe we should talk about that a little bit. Well, y let me mention this. You know the scripture in Genesis that God created man, male and female created he them. Yes. The implication of that, one of the clear implications, if male and female were created in the image of God. What does that mean? We know we have the Heavenly Father, and the meaning of father without mother is really, you know, it's uh y you limit its meaning. So Uh and we're told that we're going to be able to do that. So you're saying that that therefore we should assume that somewhere there's a heavenly mother? I w well I think that's the truth. I'm saying that it is it's you're saying that that's fair inference. Yeah. And I would argue that you're arguing from silence. Well it is you know as we as we said the truth is what it is and we want to arrive there and and we also know that as it says in Corinthians, one of my favorite verses, um Corinthians chapter two about the great things that God is willing to manifest to those that love him. They're there's spiritual manifestations of using spiritual words to define spiritual things. And it's um spiritual As you pointed out at the beginning, I mean it's a standard. How can you can't prove things to someone else? But nevertheless, there is inspiration and revelation that we can see that we can receive and we're all responsible for, you know, what we do with that. I guess I g I guess the thing is at the end of the day is that um if there is a divine mother out there, obviously the the Catholic Church leans in the direction of uh w with some of their mariology uh in directions where she's the queen of heaven and and the mother of God in in a way that uh that I'm very uncomfortable with that I feel like goes beyond scripture Um uh I I guess that that's that's m my concern is that is that then we find in the Old Testament, this idea all of a sudden that there's there's more than just God. God who is, you know, hero is where the Lord our God is one. uh hallelujah. You know, the the this this sense that that he is one, then all of a sudden we we have come up with, okay, well now there's a wife. you know, out there somewhere and and not just one wife, but there's actually many and we're all born of heavenly parents, just like Jesus was. You know, all all of this is i it i like I mean it's significant enough that it seems to me Christ would have told us that. Well y you know, there really is not a Why wouldn't he have told us? I I think it's all there uh by the Spirit. But listen to this. W you you believe in where Christ says that he has a heavenly mother He did not I don't know of a scripture where he said that in the New Testament, but but we believe in the resurrection that we will be resurrected. To me that means a man will be resurrected, a man A woman will be resurrected, a woman. And there's a there's a scripture in Peter people don't mention too often about him and and I think the reference was to him and his wife would be heirs together. of uh of the talks about that. However, Jesus says because the Sadducees were trying to trick him uh because the Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection. They said, Okay, Jesus, a man, uh a woman is married to a man, he dies, she gets married to another guy, he dies, gets married to another guy. Happened six times or whatever. It's a it's you know a bunch of number of times. When she gets to heaven, whose wife is she gonna be? And Jesus says says, you you you do not realize that you do not understand the scriptures. And and you are foolish, your hearts are dark, and he says he says, When you die you will be like the angels and you will not be Actually, I think you need to refer to the exact words in that passage. That passage. Because remember it was the Sadducees who asked him that question. They're the ones that did not believe in a resurrection. Correct. So they were ridiculing the resurrection with that question by pointing out how ridiculous it would be for uh in this situation. But of course but of course version do you like best? King James or King James. But of course, if you go back to the Old Testament, what was happening in that situation is the marriage when the first husband died, the other it was usually a brother, I believe, that was supposed to marry her and raise up seed to the first husband. That's right. Now that's w this we're t if he died and it's raising him up to the first husband, then we're talking about some later relationship. What do you mean by later relationship? If if the seed is being raised up to the first husband, that means that later she's going to be with the first husband in that relationship. And that passage. And when the when the Savior went on to say in that account um that's the same thing, Yeah. Not knowing the scriptures nor the power of God, for in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven. Right. And I submit that the meaning of that is not that marriage does not continue, but that the marriage decision needs to be made in this life. And that and that individuals are are are married? Uh well some are and some aren't. But that the marriage mm that the marriage needs to take place here And that if you forego that opportunity, then then it it becets gets to a point when it's too late. And that's why I think that hypothetical was based on the first marriage having been a marriage for time and eternity. This is gonna be the most frustrating show ever because we have a kid here. Yes. We're just getting this a really good meeting stuff. We have to stop. Oh my goodness. Um I just want to say because we we brought it up and I I'll feel remiss if I don't uh op uh opine just a little bit uh the beloved spirit, uh son or daughter of heavenly parents, and then it leads you to this conclusion and as such each has a divine nature and destiny. My concern with that, and I wish we had time to go back and forth on it, is that it kind of loses sight of the fall which is recorded in Genesis three, in which the the the the human nature is marred, uh kind of thing. So I think we want to be careful about, you know, that internal spark of the divine, if we can just be all we can be kind of thing. But anyway, that's I apologize for kind of taking the last word. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, C. Paul Smith, uh author of uh good to have you on the show, babe. Good to be here with you guys. I'm Froy Skinners, the Faith Debate. Thanks for listening. God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred place. Plummer. Pull them plumbing, how can we make you smile