Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumin' plumbing, how can we make you smile? Ah the little things bring me such joy. I see pretty colors and my face lights up. Jonathan's too. If your daughter is listening to this show, she is being be becoming more and more embarrassed by the comments that come out of her father. That is my goal. And that is as it should be. That's right. Yes. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week again by uh Constitutional Scholar Steve Paul Smith, local attorney, known to many of us uh as uh most most noteworthy to us because of his time serving as a uh alderman for the city of Frederick and uh plans I continue to try to serve As a commissioner. As a commissioner for the entire county. I'm I'm gonna run for that spot in the fall. Well actually I'm running now. Next it's the state The nation and then the world. Right. And by the way, in in his spare time he writes, he's written a book called The State of the Constitution. So he really knows his stuff. Yes, he does. No. He wrote a book. Yeah, I I'd appreciate the uh the strength of his uh understanding of these issues that he brings to the table. It's It's very very helpful. Let's see if we can dive into it. Well with Troy on the show, nobody's ever bored. Yeah, except except sometimes me myself. That's right. But anyway, what did you just say? Well we've been talking about uh leading up to this show, we've had Paul on a series of shows. Jonathan's on just about every single week. He's been on like ninety-five percent of the shows The only time he wasn't on was You're the only one that's never like not been on the show. Paul is officially running, but we're not inside the window Oh. Yeah we get inside that political window and we can't have Paul on the show without giving everybody else equal time, which becomes problematic. Wow, and then there were there were some campaign restrictions too that were recently overturned as I understand it uh in the recent case uh the campaign finance reports. Th the the restriction was in within thirty or sixty days of an election, uh you couldn't have the content ads and uh there's certain ads corporations couldn't run and And we'll get into that as a quick aside. It's not really a faith, it's more of a political question, but it I do struggle. Well it might be a faith related thing too. I don't know. I struggle with that decision because well I'm Uh anybody who listens to this show every year or not Troy's interest knows that I'm a conservative, all right? And I'm pretty well I'm I'm fiscally conservative, I'm generally politically conservative, I'm not sure. He's fashionably conservative Well I'm a conservative guy, you know. I've uh I I I'm I'm personality wise relatively conservative. However and the conservatives are applauding this decision by the United States Supreme Court I'm not so sure I'm in agreement because I'm not sure that I'm comfortable saying that a corporation has freedom of speech rights as though they were an individual. Well a union and a company and those sorts of things, they're not people. I think we're watering down what it means to be a person when we start giving people's rights to group entities. Well it's uh another way of looking at it is Can people combine together and associate together, combine their money to get a message out, whether it's by corporation or partnership? And the existing law, I think, had artificial distinctions where it prohibited corporations But anybody could form different types of of organizations to get around it and and and there'll be there'll be constantly ways to get around. uh was a mockery. And so just go ahead and let 'em do it, you know, let 'em spend whatever they want. I do feel like if if I'm a part of a corporation and the guy at the top is gonna make some kind of a political, you know, make it make a decision politically. I do feel like there should be some kind of appropriate voice that I have in whether or not that corporation is going to make a political comment. So so, you know, I th I I think that there's some some question there about, you know, uh the rights of the people that end up being represented. Maybe I'm misunderstanding, but as I understand it, it's not about a bunch of people getting together and pooling their money. It's about a business entity giving their business money to a cause. The language is much broader. That's the problem. It's corporations that were excluded. And j j so you'll understand that this really is important even to religious people. In uh about three years ago, there are all religious people, whether we want to admit it or not. That's one of the foundational principles of my belief. You know, the the con six or eight years ago Congress passed the uh Campaign Finance Reform Act. And then and then it passed constitutional m muster, which surprised me and a lot of others. Then about four years ago, the Supreme Court ruled in Wisconsin right to life that uh some of the provisions of that law are unconstitutional and it came up in a d in a in a uh campaign up in Wisconsin where the right to life group was running ads for their position, but in their ads they made statements about uh I think Russ Feingold, I think that was the name of the senator who was running So someone said, Hey, you violated the Campaign Finance Reform Act because you are running against him. Ironically, and he was one of the coff co-sponsors of the bill. Exactly So the Supreme Court came out five to four saying that this type of content ad did not violate the Constitution and they struck down a couple of parts of the Campaign Finance Reform Act. So now come forward three or four years later they have struck down another part of that law. And it I'm I'm glad to see that because it was what it established was in the last days of an election, the only people that can run content pieces are the media. And others were restricted. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Which is uh which is crazy because the media is so fabulously biased. Why should they have a right to say things when nobody else has a right to say things? Look at this show for example Yeah, but it's out there. Yes. I don't hide from it and I think that's the problem we get into with when we talk about the mainstream media and stuff is that they're not out in front of it saying, by the way I vote Democrat, or by the way, I lean to the left, or by the way, you know they try to pretend there's something they should just have a disclaimer running underneath their little headshots. I voted for Obama. I voted for Bush. corporation. You know, with all their slants. And so media corporations could say something but no other corporation slants paying for it. Exactly. Anyway, by the way, in that really wonderful discourse that we got from C. Paul Smith, if you gained nothing else out of it, you gained uh assurance that he's a smart guy. That's a smart guy. I tell my kids that all the time. Believe you. So b between this week's show and last week's show, it feels li I mean I couldn't point them out, so don't try to put me down on specifics. But it feels like I've lost another half a dozen of my uh religious liberties. And over you know, it feels like every day. There goes another one. What come come back here? Every time you turn around it feels like Is that really a justified feeling? Am I am I are we losing our religious r uh rights in this country? Or are we, you know, the sky is falling chicken little? I I think you do need to pay attention. It is amazing how many cases are out there that do affect important values and rights that we have. And I I just want to mention a few of them in in the course of our discussion today. One of them was a case in two thousand and two, Watchtower Bible and Tracts Society versus Stratton. This is a case in Ohio where these Jehovah's Witnesses were tracking or going through the neighborhood and they didn't get the business license that that city required them to have. Okay. And so there was a violation of the license first. That's what the law said. And and so they brought the suit saying that law is unconstitutional. The Supreme Court and this was a case written by Justice Stevens, who is often on the other side from me, but he said no, they have a right to speak and whether it's religious or whatever without getting a license that this restriction is it just goes too far. So th I that was a great decision. He pointed out that This decision requirement of a license would actually, and maybe not intentionally, but it would prohibit one neighbor from going across the street and talking to another neighbor about religion Or whatever substantive thing you wanted to. I had when I campaigned the first time about five years ago, I went in one of the neighborhoods in the town and and somebody said, Hey, didn't you see that line that sign? You can't solicit in our neighborhood And I'd I was familiar with this case and I said, Well, actually I didn't see the sign, but even if I had seen it, that that restriction is not constitutional. And I had this discussion with him and he wasn't happy at that time, although later I saw him and I I think he He's more favorable. Did he vote for you? I I I don't know. Um I didn't usually get in I didn't didn't usually get in arguments, but every once in a while you have to stand up for something and he was pretty articulate and I was trying to equal him and Well you gotta stand for something or you fall for anything, isn't it? Exactly. Yeah. So so in that case actually it went our d it went the direction of more religious uh freedom. Yes. Alright, so give us another challenge. All right. Another one uh there are a couple of prayer Uh there are three prayer decisions in the last uh schools, right? Yes, that's where the context comes up. And and actually as government, schools are a different special category of government. In other words. You can't have prayers at graduations. You can't have prayers at school football games. And uh of course you you can't have prayers in classroom, that goes back to nineteen sixty two. And I I went to school when we said the Lord And then I remember the decision came down and we stopped saying the Lord's Prayer. Well it makes sense that you can't say a prayer at a football game because in the world of secular humanism, the high school football game is the worship service. You know, a once again you're seeing so powerful. You know, you can't have a prayer there. Yes, yes. After the um the uh New Orleans uh and who do they play, Minnesota game the other day I saw the players kneeling together from both sides in a prayer. Sure. And of course, that's not a government entity. So they can do it. And I'm I'm glad they do it. I am the glad they have the courage to do it. It seems to me that if a community wanted to choose to have a prayer, they should be free to do so. If there was a community, you know, that uh that was particularly religious and they said, Look, we want to have a prayer before our football games, they should be free to do so. Well, I agree with you. I think it's the I think the classroom situation is different from the graduation or uh or the football game, which is a more public And see this this goes to the to the question of creating a secular world Instead of just creating a world where government does not establish a religion. The problem is that I have to pay taxes that pay for the public school system. So my taxes are going to create a entity that is doing something that is in direct contradiction with my religious values. And they're creating this public school system where no kids are allowed to be raised with any religious orientation. If they would just give me that money back in the form of a voucher so that I could take it to whatever school I wanted and it would could be a Christian school if I wanted, it could be a Muslim school, it could be a Catholic school, it could be whatever I wanted. then I would be fine with it. But the fact that they're using my funds to promote a secular society is a violation of my rights. Of my of my taxes. No taxation without representation. I'm about to have a tea party. Yeah, well that is the problem with public school with public schools is there shouldn't be public schools. If we didn't have public schools we wouldn't have this problem. Well I don't do away with the public schools. Give everybody their property taxes back or put take all their property tax money and put it into a pool that goes to vouchers and if people still want to send their students to Thomas Johnson High School or whatever Yeah. Okay, give your money to Thomas Johnson High School, or give it to Thomas Moore Academy, or give it wherever you you want to give it. Right. Why can't we do that? Yeah, so what do you feel about that? Are you in agreement with us or just route but then you could have a Mormon school. Well we do have some Mormon school Right, but the point is that your taxes have to pay for these secular schools as well. I d I don't want to just Say willy-nilly that teachers can do whatever they want in the classroom because I don't want them praying the name of SpongeBob SquarePants. You know what I mean? Can I get an Amen? Traditionally was I'm waving my hands. And uh I don't see any legitimate way for the federal government to get in there. I think the people who talk about the Tenth Amendment, they got it right on that one. We've gone too far in education. And I think it's also counterproductive because it robs the individual states of creativity and coming up with ways and means to meet the education and we're we're stuck with all these federal mandate anyway we're getting off the way further though and say it's not just it's not about the federal government versus the states. I would go even smaller than that. The parents have been robbed. Yeah, exactly. Of and in some cases they've willingly abdicated of the freedom to raise their children according to their conscience. that have to do with prayer in the school system. And I feel like the school system drives so much law having to do with with uh religious freedom. uh bec uh because it's so pervasive, it's everywhere and everybody wants to protect the kids and they get all anxious about it. And unfortunately uh it's it's just because there's such a lack of freedom the the school system has become this secular world that none of nobody really ever wanted. There are different ways that it's applied. I can tell you I know schools where they have prayers at football games and they don't care, you know, if the Supreme Court wants to come down and do whatever they want, let 'em come. They have that. But not local. That's the point. Nobody does that in Maryland. Here's another issue. I went to the graduation of uh somebody from Northwest about ten years ago and the individual there was a a young man who worked for me and he gave the the address. He was he was the speaker at the graduation. So he was down there and in the course of his speech he made some references to God in it was it was kind of a prayer in part of his speech. Okay. And I said to myself, yes, you know, way to go. Some schools though would say, You gotta let me see the text of your speech and before you give it and they're gonna censor out they will censor it And I don't think they need to do that. It's Gestapo. Um but some of them interpret it that way. Stalin. Chavez would be happy. It was presented to me as a true story. I, you know, didn't investigate it to make sure. But Some valedictorian at a high school, yeah. They they give a speech to the class. Yeah. And they had to get it censored beforehand. Yeah. Get it approved beforehand. And so this Val Victorian apparently orchestrated with some other students who disagree with this censorship that she, I think it was a she, she was going to sneeze. towards the conclusion of of her speech and then everybody in the audience that was in on this said, God bless you And then everybody stood up and applauded that God's name was invoked in the in during the uh That's hilarious. I hadn't heard that one, but but when you requ require you have a policy that requires reading of the speech, then you pretty much are stuck. You you can't let 'em go forward But why can't the s the school just do nothing? The point is is that if if if the student is the valedictorian, they should be free. They worked hard. They're the ones that that won the award. They should be free to share whatever's on their heart to share. Even if they want to pray in the name of Spongebob SquarePants. I think so. Now here's another I mean that stretches me, but I I recently went. I recently went to a concert that was I think it was West Frederick Middle School. Um a Christmas concert. Yeah. And so we listened to the music and holiday concert or a Christmas concert? And I was listening to the music. I was listening to the music and um and and reading the program and then I began to it began to dawn on me. Yeah. You know, there's no Christian music in that and then at the very end actually there were a couple of of you know Christmas carols. And uh and I began to think, wow, I I bet they really are worried about this. And of course some of the most beautiful music is is religious music, especially about the the Savior and And I I kind of felt, see, that's too bad, you know, why, you know where have we come? We have just as you say, this secular society where you can w you can worship God as long as you don't say Jesus Christ and do these things and and and we've got Everybody knows what the unwritten regulations are of what you can what your religion can be. Yeah. Now it's all a matter of degree. Because here we are on the public airwaves, having a discussion about how we don't have enough religious freedoms and we have all these things they're imposing upon us. It's all a matter of degree. We don't live in some dictatorial regime Under the c you know, the some authoritarian uh atheists. Yeah, but that wasn't always the case. There's been definitely a shift in the media uh over the last fifteen years that that has been driven by, you know, the limballs and the becks and the the hannities and and these guys that that has shifted where where there's a willingness on the part of many in the media now to address these kinds of issues and to show both sides of the perspective, you know, to to give more credibility to uh to Christian perspectives. Uh but that wasn't always the case. And I feel like the it's only gotten to where it is now because people stood up and said, Wait a second, you know, our rights are being and so I do feel like there's been a shift back in the direction of more rights for us. But not in the school system. The school system continues to be a this this whole area where that's not the case. Uh Hollywood even, you know, there's been a couple movies. Mel Gibson's put out a couple, you know, there's been a couple movies that have come out that that have ended up being willing to add uh address religious issues and to do it in a way that was really attractive and uh okay. And so I I feel like there has been a shift. It hasn't always been bad, but we got to where we are again, I feel like, because we rose up and said, Wait a second, we got rights here You know, there have been a a couple of other developments in with regard to prayer. Uh there were a couple of cases about a moment of silence in schools going back about ten years. Okay. And And the the way the the cases come down is if this policy for a moment of silence in the in the classroom is is used for a religious purpose, then you can't do it. You have to come up with a secular purpose. So in other words, you would have to say, well, I think that having a moment of silence at the beginning of the class helps to get them quiet and And has these, you know, come up with other reasons other than worship. If you're having a moment of silence so that people can pray, that might be struck down Yeah, but I feel like again we're we're tying ourselves into a pretzel with all these, you know, strange positions because the public school system uh is an area where there's no freedom for parents to decide what they want to do with their money that they pay in taxes for their own kids. And if that wasn't an issue, then we wouldn't have to worry about some kind of you know, pretzel, you know, c C w contortionist. That's the word I'm trying to come up with. Now I'll mention this about prayer though. The the cases we've been talking about, football games, graduations, and moment of silence, that's about the establishment clause side. The Supreme Court has nevertheless made it clear That an individual can pray in school as long as you're not disrupting the class. And uh that's that's they had to be drawn back. They have to be drawn back. And um another th another area, uh some of the schools would not allow a religious club to meet after school And there was a case a few years ago, the Good Hope case where they said, No, no, if you're you cannot just say you can't have religion. If you're gonna have ex And of course there's been a whole slew of constitutional issues on college campuses. where they would give money to one club but not to another because but not to a Christian club because the Christian club was not willing to have homosexuals in its leadership. So therefore they couldn't be a club that that received money like all the other student clubs uh at the university does. And there's been a whole slew of those that have been overturned that that have been fought and overturned. But there's there's definitely on college campuses and in the the the school public school environment there's still a major intimidation factor uh toward all these things that that only only now is starting to be pushed back. with people standing up for their rights and taking these things to court. You guys may know I'm very actively involved in Boy Scouts. And um there are a couple of things about Boy Scouts. If you do not believe in God, you're not you can't be a Boy Scout Okay. Very interesting. And and some people have challenged that in the courts. How can an organization say if you believe in God you can join, but if you don't, you can't? That has been upheld in the courts. Yes, it's of a freedom Freedom of association. And then of course the other issue in the Boy Scouts was the two thousand case of Dale versus Boy Scouts, where the Boy Scouts have said, well, we if we choose not to have a gay leader in our we ha we have the right to do that. That was a five to four decision. But it upheld the right of private people to make these decisions it relates to speech and association. It's a First Amendment right. So whether or not you agree to that, and that would probably offend some people, but thank goodness we have the right to do that. Yeah, I agree. Uh the the point is at the end of the day, if I have the right to associate with who I want to associate with and form an organization with those people I want to associate with, then I should be free to to decide that that there would be a moral issue that would define who's a part of that or not. And again that goes back to uh the college uh uh club uh student club uh issue as well. And so yeah, that's very similar. And there was a story I remember I I can't remember the details exactly where it was, but it was some primary education, like kind of kindergarten, first grade, something like that. where they were did some artwork. They would draw a picture or paint a painting or something and the student drew a picture that had a religious symbol on it. I think it was a cross maybe or something that was religious about And that picture wasn't allowed to hang on the wall. And if I remember the story correctly, I don't want to overstate this. I'm I I I do want to try to be careful to be as close to right as possible on this. But I seem to recall that the child was actually censured Yeah. By the teacher because this religious symbol symbol was constituted hate speech. Yeah. Wow. And you hear of students who are not allowed to do book reports on certain books because You know, they had uh uh too Christian a foundation, you know. But they could do Catcher in the Rye, it's got all sorts of swear words in it. Or they could do uh a separate piece which has all sorts of supposed connotations of homosexuality as undertones in it. They could do those books all day long. All of which is this contortion, uh, you know, mind-bending attempt to to try to have a public school system that fits everybody's religious um you know, uh desires and I I just think it's unwise. I don't know why we continue to do that. You know, it seems that that if uh that we could be a little bit more creative for a solution that that would provide freedom for everybody. For for the youth, you know, they have enough pressures they would avoid most of the youth will avoid these issues because most of the youth are just kind of timid. Exactly. And you'd like them to have feel a little more freedom of expression. If if we really are a tolerant society of others, why can't we encourage people to say what they think. Which is the root of this show, tolerance should never lead to to uh an unwillingness or fear of talking about religious stuff. If we're religious religiously tolerant, then a Mormon and a and somebody who's not a Mormon, a Christian, I I'm sorry, I hate to use that phrase, I think that's offensive, Protestant Yeah. Not really. About Mormon Christ uh Protestant issues. And it's interesting in this context, I mean, we already referenced the one case that had the Jehovah's Witnesses involved. I know that uh there's been a lot of uh case law that's been established because of the work of the Seventh day Adventists. uh uh on the freedom of religion in this country and of course you know the m the Mormons are are front and center on that. The Protestants wouldn't agree with some positions within some of those groups and yet we have the freedom to discuss them, disagree and try to come to terms and wrestle through it. But it wasn't always that way. When the Catholics first came into the nation they wanted to use public money to create schools. And we Protestants who were allowed to pray and had our basically our theology being taught in the public schools said, No, no, no, no, no, no religious schools get any money. And unfortunately we shot ourselves in the foot by making that decision and it has led to the current situation. So I feel like we need to uh repent publicly. We're wrong for that Catholic brothers and sisters and uh we need a change somehow. Just another reason why it's important not only to know what you believe but why you believe it And keep everything clear so you don't end up shooting yourself in the foot. That's really what this show is all about. There is a truth That's what I hold. And we're gonna dis you know, hopefully if we do our job well on this show we help to discern what that truth is. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, C. Paul Smith, former city alderman in the city of Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Thank you for listening. God bless you. by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Putmint How can we make you smile?