Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumin plumbing, how can we make you smile? God the great creator of all things does uphold, direct, dispose, and govern all creatures, actions and things, from the greatest even to the least, by his most wise and holy providence, according to his infallible foreknowledge and the free and immutable counsel of his own will. the praise of the glory of his wisdom, power, justice, goodness, and mercy. Although in relation to the foreknowledge and decree of God, the first cause of all things come to pass immutably and infallibly, yet by the same providence he orders them to fall out according to the According to the nature of second causes, either necessarily, freely, or contingently. God, in his ordinary providence, makes use of means, yet is free to work without, above, and against them at his pleasure. And there you have the first, third, or thereabout. Of Chapter 5 of the Westminster Confession of Faith, titled Of Providence. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on WFMD, joined this week again by John Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and co-founder of the Faith Fate Show. And Dr. James Brock. The senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. And um we have come to uh uh an agreement that there are going to be a lot of areas as we work through the Westminster Confession of Faith where there are going to be certain things that need to be addressed as far as ooh that word could mean a lot of different things and I want to make sure we're clear about what we think the intent was of the original writers here so that we're talking so we make sure we're talking about the same thing but then we'll move quickly move past. Uh if you're interested in that sort of thing, if you're interested in w how important a particular choice of word can be, that jazzes you Go online, listen to the podcast of of the last couple of shows probably and get a sense of how detailed um these discussions can be. And I love 'em. And I could get wrapped up in them and spend hours in them. In fact, I have. And we just did. Uh but for the purposes of this show, we we want to be able to cover uh this uh as as best as we can in in kind of broad brushstrokes, so we're gonna try to be as disciplined as possible, I guess. And these first three sections what are they called sections? What are they called? Chapters? Uh no, the chapter is chapter five. Section? Yeah. Section. Okay. Sections one, two, and three are what I just read. Uh oh there's gonna be parts, part one, two, and three. Let's debate section part. Which word do we like? See how see how this works? Basically it's uh there's it to my reading, they're basically saying God is in control of everything, no matter how great or how small, yet he nor in in spite of him being in control, he normally uses secondary causes as a means to accomplish his purposes although he does not need to use secondary causes. Do you think that's a reasonably good paraphrase? And if so, do you agree with that generally or do you have some some problems with what the divines wrote here? I like your paraphrase, well done. And I generally agree with the statement as you paraphrased it. That God is generally uh well not generally, let's say this, that he is that he is uh sovereign over all things um and uses secondary means to accomplish things doesn't not not necessarily but generally does use secondary causes. So if I'm going to go to witness someone, he uses my words to uh accomplish what he wants. Uh I'm gener generally in agreement with that, uh with this section about the sovereignty of God, and uh I probably would um would have some uh qualifications, uh different language that I would use in terms of uh whether or not God makes all things happen. You know, that uh as opposed to God has has has set a clear um process in in uh freedom inside of which man acts and reacts with uh God's uh desired will and that that in the process of men interacting with those things that that it's not that God makes me spill my coffee in the morning or God, you know, made this or that happen, but that um that my my choice to go with the will of God or against the will of God leads to certain uh results that uh that are uh things that that God has set into motion. And so Uh uh I feel a bit that this particular passage is creates this the this heavy sense that, you know, God made everything happen, you know, God made me you know, sp speed that time or God or or or God uh um uh you know, made me do this or that, that that because of the in the the language that is very um you know He can lead to stoicism a little bit, right? Like, well, I mean God's in control of everything, great and small. God did that. God did that. And okay, well My neighbor who is poked me in the eye, but that was just a secondary cause. God was the one who was in control of that secondary cause, so God poked me in the eye. I mean, but that's yeah, right? That's that could be a a problem in and how this is understood. Yes, a fatalistic aspect. I mean we kinda dealt with this just a few weeks ago, I guess, when we were Right. If we want to do the do it all over again, that's good too. That's right. But yeah, I think they would have said um There are no maverick molecules, as Sprohl has said over and over again. Um you know, there's there's nothing that is going on outside of God's uh reign, outside of his um his decree. Uh when he says something will happen, it happens. So so they would I I think they would have been fine with saying what you're not comfortable with. Um so if we're getting to the intent of them They would say God does control all things. Well then let me or if a person knows everything and he is all powerful. Uh epistemologically of just So the way we know things, then I would think that he controls all things. some of those fine hairs, then maybe we would find that we were in the same page, uh and maybe maybe not, but um I find myself just a bit uncomfortable with uh you know, some of the language that they use and I'm not sure that we want to continue to try to get into all those. I could guess, honey, you wouldn't like you wouldn't like infallible foreknowledge, probably. You wouldn't like immutable counsel. Yeah. Right? You wouldn't like um Let's see. Those two probably jumped off the page at me as ones you wouldn't like. Yeah. Um They w they would have said that God has a decreed will. That is this is this is what will happen. He has He has made decrees and it will happen. But he also would have said that people can go against his his uh desired will. I'm trying not to use big technical words for this. You know, what he wants us to do. He doesn't want us to sin. That's his will for us not to sin. But he has decreed certain things that will happen. For instance, uh there's no question if he's in control of all things and sovereign over everything, that everything happens within his um domain within his permissibility. The very first sentence says, uh God creator of all things does uphold, direct, dispose, and govern all creatures, actions and things. Uphold, direct, dispose, and govern. The problem with that phrase is specifically that it that it puts together uh several different terms. And so which ones of those things are are he is is he directing and or which ones of those does he govern? Which one of those uh that like like of my actions does he allow me uh freedom to choose my actions or or did he direct all of my actions? And and unfortunately that's precisely the difficulty with with a confession like this. is that it's not scripture. Scripture's 66 books. It's real long. And so it's trying to simplify. And so for the most part I agree, but I'm I lament the the the the bluntness of the tool that is attempting to summarize all of that in in one sentence and I feel like it does it uh fallibly. Let me take this idea, you know, God The creator of all things upholds, directs, disposes, and governs all creatures, actions, things from the greatest even to the least. And let's jump to part four or section four. The almighty power, unsearchable wisdom, and infinite goodness of God so far manifest themselves in His providence that it extends itself even to the first fall. and all other sins of angels and men, and that not by a bare permission, but such as has joined with it a most wise and powerful bounding and otherwise ordering and governing of them love this old English, and the manifold dispensation to his own holy ends. Yet so as the sinfulness thereof proceeds only from the creature and not from God who being most holy and righteous neither is nor can be the author or approver of sin. How can God okay, I'm a Christian, and I I I wrestle with trying to understand this tension all the time. How is somebody who's not a Christian You guys are talking out of both sides of your mouth. And one at the very beginning of this chapter, God cu governs, controls basically everything. And the last sentence here of section four says that he's not the author or approver of sin. If he's is he in control or isn't he in control? Which one is it? What say you, pastors? I would say he is ultimately in control, ultimately sovereign, but that he is not culpable for these things. So that is he is not blamable. He has a purpose behind these things. And I recognize the tension. I'm not trying to to play some game here. This is not an easy subject. Uh You know, I I deal with it my whole congregation all the time. I deal with it my own quiet time. This is a hard issue to try and understand. But in the same way that the person I believe we even used this illustration before. Now I'm starting to use my illustrations again. That's a real problem. I'm on here too often, I guess. Um in the same way that someone who creates, who makes a gun, a gun manufacturer would make a gun. is ultimately responsible for what happens with that gun, he's not to be held blamable for it. He's not culpable for it. So I think I think that might be where they are going with this. At least I can agree with that part as much as I can understand. Right. It's the problem of evil is the question we're tackling here. Exactly. Like for example, um we're all parents Mm-hmm. We're trying to to manage our homes with with uh that we govern it and we we direct the affairs of our homes. But that that direction and government of the affairs of the homes recognizes that sometimes My two sons, in the context of my government of the home, will choose to step outside of what my will is. My will is that they would get along, that they'd share with each other, that you know, that they'd be kind, that they'd be uh uh unselfish and and gentle and and you know communicate's my will But my will is not necessarily always accomplished. They're still learning to do what is right, and sometimes they do what is wrong. And in the context of that, then I still impose my will, but I impose my will in the context of them having stepped outside of the bounds of what is acceptable in my home. You know, and so they you know, one son just hit the other. You know, well whether or not the first son did something wrong, he still had no right to hit back, but I'm gonna work it through and I'm still gonna impose will into the situation, but but it's not like I directed one son to hit the other son. But in the context of the home and growing, they made some decisions that I still came into that situation with my will to to say, okay, that's stepping outside of my will and I'm gonna make sure as a good parent that that I'm being true to my responsibility to keep that home and those those young kids that don't know how to do things right doing things correctly. And I feel like I feel like that's what this is trying to get at. I as a parent have more goodness, wisdom, and power that manifest themselves in in my home, you know, extends itself you know, to to uh allowing a certain amount of freedom, you know, uh that kind of a thing, yeah. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, joined this week by Dr. Jason Rodhurst, the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist. Uh church in Poolsville of all places. And uh I am uh that wasn't a knock at Poolsville, that was a knock at the creativity or lack thereof in the name of the name. Yeah, we we thought about that for a long time. Anyway, and I'm Troy Skinner, this is for Faith Today. Yeah, that's true enough. I think this next section actually helps a little bit. At least it helps me. Yeah. And if it helps me, that's all that really matters. Section five. The most wise, righteous, and gracious God does oftentimes leave for a season his own children to manifold temptations and the corruption of their own hearts, to chastise them for their former sins, or to discover unto them the hidden strength of corruption and deceitfulness of their hearts, that they may be humbled, and to raise them to a more close and constant dependence for their support upon himself. and to make them more watchful against all future occasions of sin and for sundry other just and holy ends. Why that's helpful to me is Jesus, for the Christian's mindset, is God, and yet he's walking the earth. Needs to rest, needs to eat. He ends up dying. Of course he raises from the dead, but he lives a very human existence. But how is he God? Well God is able to limit himself when he chooses. And so I think in the issue of of our free will and our responsibility for our actions, God made the gun, he made the bullets in it, he made the person that pulled the trigger. But God chooses to oftentim leave for a season his own children to do with that gun what they will Not because he can't control it, but he chooses to self-limit. Do you think that that's a fair understanding of what this section is saying or not? You know, so I'm gonna guess he's gonna give me a tongue lashing here in a moment. Oh. Well I was gonna I was just gonna um uh inject there that uh I feel like Jace has repeatedly uh appealed to us to read kind of the whole thing together and then see if there aren't parts of the confession that qualify the part of the confession that we're reading right now in such a way that maybe we'd be more comfortable with it in that context. Which I feel like is is always the difficulty of scripture or even the revelation of God that that any of it uh left alone can present us with a picture of God that is imbalanced and and off. And uh again I I feel like the world has done a really good job of um taking phrases like that they may be humbled, you know, and to raise them to more close and constant dependence for their support on themselves. That in order for that to to have meaning in our generation with the extent of humanism and and and s and deception that that's out in the world really requires some very effective, thorough qualifying. Um nevertheless, uh I don't necessarily disagree with any of of what it's saying there. I just would say that um it's important in this day and age to uh to recognize that Like like this phrase constant dependence for their support upon himself. Like I I feel like in this day and age almost a better way to put that would be to say that um the bottom line is if you want to be God you can be God. But that means that you have to be responsible for the weather. You have to be responsible for all the economies around the world. You have to be responsible for uh for for all those people that are sending and making sure that they've all been disciplined. You want to have that responsibility? Well no, okay so God's the one the only one that can have that responsibility and so we've got to trust him to take care of those things while we take care of our arena of responsibility. And so that means that we have to depend on him doing what he needs to do. But um constant dependence for their support on himself I feel like in in this day and age has been so effectively mocked in the world and turned into, you know, that somehow God needs us to depend on him, that they turn it into like this this dependence thing that that unfortunately would be them misunderstanding the Westminster Confession. But nevertheless if we want to communicate in this day and age we have to take the time to delineate those kinds of things effectively. All right, Jace, so you w What did I get wrong? Oh, I I don't know that I would say you got anything wrong. I just I wanna I guess we want to see this chapter in light of the chapter of God's eternal decree, chapter three that we already did. So where I agree with what they're saying here, um if I could find that chapter, this fan is continuing to uh mess my book up here Um if you want I could read the next section of buy you some time to uh to find what you're looking for. Want to do that? Sure, go ahead. So I have to read it eventually anyway. Section six. As for those wicked and ungodly men whom God as a righteous judge for former sins does blind and harden, from them he not only withholds his grace whereby they might have been enlightened in their understandings and wrought upon in their hearts But sometimes also withdraws the gifts which they had, and exposes them to such objects as their corruption makes occasion of sin, and withal gives them over to their own lusts and temptations of the world and the power of Satan, whereby it comes to pass that they harden themselves even under those means which God uses for the softening of others. And the chapter ends with As the providence of God does in general reach to all creatures, so after a most special manner, it takes care of his church and disposes all things to the good thereof. So did you find your section you were looking for? Well yes I was just trying to get back to your um your summary of it and I kind of forgot how you summarized it. Um But you were saying that Well the summary of part four, I I don't know if I gave I gave you kind of my take on part four or part five, whatever. I mean th this are The summaries uh of part four, five, six, and seven together I think would be God's power and authority extend over uh even over all sin, including the very first sin, but this does not implicate God as originating sin or approving of sin. Part five, I think, is God sometimes allows his people to be tempted and make mistakes for their own good and growth toward holiness. Um part six, God doesn't just passively allow the sinful to slide into rebellion, but he makes an active part. Or takes an active part in hardening their heart and turning them over to their own lusts and the power of Satan. I guess that's that's the the caveat to to five that I probably would have presented there. Okay That it's not just that God I I don't want to portray God as backing off and having nothing to do with anything And therefore out of control in some way. Like like, oh I didn't know he was going to do that. Oh man, now I've got to figure out a way to get out of that. Um I think their big picture thing is God is in control of all of these things, everything that happens. So even he had all of it, he wasn't surprised by any of it. Well I just at at least say that. I think they're probably going a step further than that and saying that he designed it that way, so that sin actually was there to show God's mercy. So I I I think they're going further than that. I'm not sure that we How much time we have to get into. And that makes a lot of people very squeamish, right? I mean that part is uh by the way, part sell because just so I can finish my summaries for those f following along. Uh God provides for the general well-be being of all, but provo provides in a special way for the well-being of his church, uh I think is kind of the point uh at the end. Uh and I would agree. I mean I I wasn't meaning to go so far as to say that I think that God like takes a hands off approach and completely limits his his involvement in somebody's life. But but to get around the problem of evil If bad things happen and God's in control, like how did God not cause the bad things to happen? The only way that that seems to make sense to me and it's Seems like that could be what they're saying here is that, you know, God's ha allowing some of this stuff to happen, um not out of his control. That's I don't know what the right language is there. But he's he's leaving us to our own devices not because he's not capable of reigning us in, but because in his own sovereign power and his own design he's gonna let us. But then yeah, to your point There are times when he's going to inject himself in a very direct way, um, and harden somebody's heart or soften their heart or whatever and then see what they do with that. Not see what they do with that because God sees, right? That's what they're saying here. It's right. It's like we're talking against ourselves in this. This is this makes it tough It makes Christianity sound illogical or incoherent, which is not is not the point we want to make on this show, so wha what is the point we want to make? Yeah, the problem of evil. That's our problem here. people in response to their former sins. Because I feel like that's precisely my issue with with uh a uh a more Calvinist uh um interpretation of predestination and uh Romans uh uh what is it, nine, ten and eleven that are talking about you know, that God hardened Pharaoh's hearts in those places 'cause often o often times I feel like we're we're giving the impression that God did that arbitrarily. You know, and that he just arbitrarily chose that to ar harden Pharaoh's heart, or just arbitrarily uh chose to harden uh Esau's heart as opposed to recognizing that that that in his uh sovereignty th that that he was going to um keep a certain group as a place as a refuge for the righteous and another group as a refuge for the sinful and that anybody that wanted to could choose to go from one of those groups to the other. And so, therefore, uh it it's dealing with with a group, and so then the the the predestination is a corporate thing, not an individual predestination. And that that precisely the hardening and the softening, it's just very interesting to me that that they recognize, because that's what I've always always felt, the Bible's abundantly clear about why God hardens and why he softens it when he does it. And he always does it on the basis of our response to God's decrees. If we respond to his rebuke He softens our hearts. If we That was good all the way up until you got there, yeah. So we rejected the thing. Well he says, as for those wicked Well, you're right. I'm adding to it. He's talking about the sins. He's talking about the racet effect of sin that if they sin, he hardens their hearts. Agree. But what we would what I think Westminster would argue is that everyone sins. So And I would argue that as well. Right. So the hardening comes I mean, so there's still there's still a a not understanding of why this particular person is hardened, because all have sinned. So based on their sin, he hardens them. Well, who doesn't sin? Who doesn't have all of this ability to be hardened? And I will give you a heart of flesh. When that passes, the return, the response to God's rebuke, the power to respond comes for comes in the rebuke, comes in and God's speaking to us, you know, how can they respond If somebody has not been sent, well he has sent people and and even though somebody has been sent, providing them with the strength and the ability to respond Because the rebuke has come. The parent has come to the child and said, Look, I appeal to you. This is not how I want you to do it. If you keep doing it the wrong way, you're gonna get you know, a more severe correction, uh then than that that child has been given the strength and the ability to respond in that moment. And when they choose not to, and that's precisely what what they say in Romans eleven, ha did I not send someone? Have you not heard? And then they quote those passages from Isaiah and Jeremiah in the Psalms where they had been confronted with with the rebuke from God and they still chose to reject. And so so the the point is is that we've been told the basis upon which God God hardens and the basis upon which God softens, and it has to do with his rebuke, whether or not we're going to respond to it or not. And I feel like that's very consistent all through scripture. Yeah, I would just say that the the rebuke that he is uh uh that he's giving is is uh will be responded to based on something prior to even that. So based on regeneration in a person's heart. So he would rebuke is a general call that goes out, listen to me, come to me. That but the only ones that will respond to that, who will listen to that rebuke and who will hear it are those who have been regenerated Right, and you're saying that that regeneration uh is in no way based on a synergy between the ninety nine point nine nine nine percent power of God and the individual uh choosing then to respond to the grace of God in his heart. Yeah I think Westminster would hate the word synergy. In fact uh mo monergism is it would be the main term for justification. All God, a hundred percent. Sanctification is synergistic For sure. Holy Spirit. And so that's the nature of where I disagree with this particular Well that's gonna rap put a wrap on this week's show. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer Senior Pastor of Cross House Valley Chapel and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. We're gonna have a chance to tackle the problem even a little bit more next week because next week's chapter is talking about The fall of man in sin and the punishment thereof. That'll be an easy show. Oh yeah. Fun. Thanks for listening. Till next week. God bless. And thereafter for that matter. Make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing.