Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plum and plumbing, how can we make you smile? In his eternal purpose, to choose and ordain the Lord Jesus, his only begotten Son, to be the mediator between God and man. The prophet, priest, and king, the head and savior of his church, the heir of all things and judge of the world unto whom he did From all eternity give a people to be his seed and to be by him in time redeemed, called, justified, sanctified, and glorified. The Son of God, the second person of the Trinity, being very and eternal God of one substance and equal with the Father did When the fullness of time was come, take upon him man's nature, with all the essential properties and common infirmities thereof, yet without sin, being conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost in the womb of the Virgin Mary, of her substance. So that two whole perfect and distinct natures, the Godhead and the manhood, were inseparably joined together In one person without conversion, composition or confusion. Which person is very God and very man, yet one Christ the only mediator between God and man. And there we have the first two sections of chapter 8 of the Westminster Confession of Faith of Christ The Mediator. I'm Troy Skinner. Welcome to the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMB. Joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, who decided to join us from the very beginning of the show this week. We're excited about that. And Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Uh big conference coming up at Poolsville Baptist Church on October first, second, and third. On the end of the world. What will it look like? When will it happen? To the second. Find out. No. That's right. That's not exactly how that works. So it's uh it's thirty-five bucks. Three days of conference with some really cool, uh well studied people who are relatable to the average person includes dinner. Thirty thirty five bucks includes dinner on one of the nights. So good time had by all. If somebody's interested, they gotta do what? They go to your website? Go to the website, gloriousrainconference. com. You will find everything. Or go to Poolsville Baptist and they'll be in the I think that's easier to find, right? Poolsville Baptist. com is going to easier. Yeah. So okay, cool. So check that out. If you go, odds are good that you will see Jace. Odds are almost as good that you'll see me because I'm I'm hoping to go. And I'm not sure if Jonathan's gonna be able to make it or not. Oh, I'll make him alone. Odds are at least fifty fifty Jonathan will be there. I'm definitely very interested in being a part of that. So That sounded like a political incident. So anyway, so what we got here at the start is that uh for all eternity has been God's plan to make his son Jesus the Savior of the church and the judge of the world. And Jesus is the second person of the Trinity, he is fully God, but also fully man, yet without sin. That's the first two sections kind of in a nutshell. But your reaction to uh to what I read at the start of the show. Uh the first section? Yeah, the first two basically the first two sections I read at the start of the show. So I'm gonna separate them. The first section I feel very good about. Good. Um uh you know It's kind of stuff that you know our faith is uh built and based upon. I'm uh I'm uh vaguely uncomfortable with uh whether or not they're trying to define that uh that the people that would be saved were precisely chosen from before the creation of the world. It doesn't actually say that, it just says from all eternity gave a people. And so I don't think it goes far enough uh to give the indication in this that particular passage that uh that somehow God had precisely chosen who would and who would not And so that being the case, I'm very comfortable with that first sec first section. I like it. I think I would preach it if I had a chance Okay, and you're in agreement a hundred percent, right? I am in agreement a hundred percent, even if it does uh mean exactly what he would have trouble with. So now they didn't know. Talk about later on. In another part of the the confession. But yeah, they they were careful in how they boarded it here so that they weren't tackling too many issues in one chapter. So I think that they uh we'll give the divines some due credit on that. Okay Section two, I know you're gonna have a little bit of an issue uh there. I th well I shouldn't say I know, but I from previous conversations. I know you're not gonna like the word Trinity. Yes, yes. Right? So Yeah, and and the thing is is that a bunch of terminology that is used in here that at the end of the day um I'm uh I I'm uncomfortable with only if we're gonna build it as as our uh as our doctrine You know? Uh only because it it it just goes uh it it it uses words that you don't necessarily find in Scripture and I just find myself uncomfortable with Uh s some of this language or is language that was produced by the Creeds back in the day and again um uh I feel like there was an attempt at that time to to define things with a precision that the Bible does not seem to feel is necessary. Um and so the Bible does not define with a precision, i. e. whether or not um uh the Son of God was of one substance with the Father. Like I don't I don't No of any passage that gives us an absolute clear indication that he's of one substance with the Father. We're given plenty of uh passages that talk about Christ being one with the Father. and uh in sharing in glory with one another. Um and uh I certainly don't feel like I need to separate Jesus uh and again this is where I feel like language The they they do as good a job as anybody of trying to use language to define what they feel like the Bible's saying and not saying. I just feel like they get more precise than than is necessary. And then they even say that uh conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost in the womb of the Virgin Mary of her substance. You know, and again, I that's not that's that's not a word or or an idea that the Bible tries to tackle. It just says that he was born of a virgin, the Virgin Mary. It doesn't get into of her substance and these kinds of things, all of which were were uh were people that came later that attempted to attack the doctrine of the divinity of Jesus Christ and in attacking it they created enough of an insecurity in the believers of the day, that the believers of the day felt like they had to had to define things very clearly in reaction to those, and I don't know that they necessarily had to. Now Jace, uh I'm gonna put you in a position of taking up for the divines here. They're just trying to be clear in what would have been at that point in history the accepted language within like Oh, I disagree. They were fabulously controversial. That's why they had to have the the uh the the the conventions to come to I'm sorry, what's the name for it? when they came together to decide the cream they had to have these major assemblies where they where they hashed it out for you know weeks and months on end. Certainly that was controversial. My point is they w they weren't bringing They didn't they weren't the first to use the word Trinity. They weren't the first to talk about the uh the substance. They weren't the first to talk about the two natures. These were things that were wrestled o wrestled over for, you know, fifteen hundred years. And it was language. No, they're wrestled over for about three hundred years or four hundred years maybe when when they finally put them into a creed to come with with a definition. Well I think well Trinity I would have to say would probably was wrestled with for at least twelve hundred years by this by this point. Yeah but they're taking am I right they're taking the the language here two perfect distinct natures. They're they're taking that language almost word for word from one of the creeds. What from one of one of the the assemblies, one of those, you know, uh I see uh the councils, one of the councils back in the day. Well I could quote the probably both creeds. I don't I'd have to stop and and look at it or go through it if you want and figure it out if it's exactly from there. I mean the point is they're they're taking the idea from those from from those councils. Well perhaps, but we're still talking about a thousand years. Between then and that. I think when this is written. Yeah. Sure. So you're saying that that the language here then is. Okay. to to to respond to the people that were arguing these issues in the day. Now I don't want to put you on the spot and because I'm you know I don't know if if you're completely brushed up on your, you know, Christian church history, but if you could in a in a a moment or two Uh the controversies that are going on here too. How did we come to this language, right? There were there was some controversy about whether or not God You know, Jesus was God at all. Right. Is there i i is how is God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, is there such a thing as a three quote unquote person Trinit uh Trinitarian Godhead. And there was a council to address that. And then after that council was relatively settled, right? On on the language we would use. And then the same with substance, wasn't there a council that addressed the issue of what's the right word? Yes. And then there were you know, all the sort s the natures of Christ And these all came about because you have a few people, generally I mean one person that gets named these heresies, like Nestorianism, Eutikianism. Um Arianism, these are and all of these are still exist out there. In fact, Mormonism in Mormonism and Jehovah's Witnesses, these are just forms of those particular heresies that either emphasize too much the divinity of Christ or emphasize too much the humanity of Christ. Because the Bible does both. And so what these guys are trying to do is come together and make a consensus that says, don't go too far one direction, don't go too far the other direction. Let's Let's hem this in and and not be a heretic on either side. I don't think they're trying to say too much by that, except for don't go outside this. that Jesus is God and that Jesus is of merit, is man. This is the hypostatic union. It's not easy to do. See I'm comfortable with that language. But but they but but they they specifically go into substance. One substance, you know, with the father one's you know substance is another word for essence or something. I mean how do you describe the essence of you know this book that I have. If I pull off the cover, is it a book anymore? Well yeah. I mean at what point does it stop becoming a book? How many pages do I have to remove? Yeah, I'm with you. It's the essence of sunglasses. I pull off both edges. I still have sunglasses and and the nose pieces and the I think that's precisely why why there ended up being um a controversy because scripture doesn't come out and say Jesus is of one substance with the Father. And does Scripture doesn't come out and say Jesus was fully God and fully man. Right? It it it it never Right. There's no statement that says good and necessary consequences. Am I right? They they felt they needed to define more clearly those things. Defense was not because they went to Scripture and they were like, man, Scripture is inadequate. But because there were heretics that were pushing heresies and so in response to those heresies they felt like they had to come up with some language. And in that sense, again I'm I'm I'm comfortable with that. Okay, they had to do it. At the end of the day, I'm not comfortable with defining the relationship between Jesus, God, and the Holy Spirit uh precisely in those terms. They're all God. Because the Bible says they're all God. Jesus was a man. He took on the nature of of a servant. You know, uh uh humbled himself to the point of death on a cross. You know, I'm comfortable with all that language, but but when it goes on to the extra language, I just at the end of the day I'm like, uh, let's just go back to scripture. We haven't teach the scripture. What they're trying to do is defend against heresies that even still exist. I think that that's why I keep these that's why I hold to this so carefully because, you know, we have we have people out there that are that are now saying, well, Jesus is a God. Right. Alright, well, you know, John 1 1 and they're debatt battling this out in the Greek and trying to figure all this out. Right. He's a god. Well, I mean this this won't say well you can't do that. You can't just say he's a god or a church that says that they're Trinitarian but believes the Holy Spirit is simply a manifestation of God. There's one person, there's two persons, but the third person isn't really a person, he's more of a a force. So they're trying to Keep that. And we've got churches all over the place that are teaching this. One is Pentecostalism, for instance. And this is this is saying they're outside the pale of orthodoxy. They are not part of the Christian Faith. And I think we've I think somebody needs to say that. They need to ha we have to have some lines drawn. Perhaps the lines are too strict in certain areas. I'm not going to disagree with you there. Um but I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. I'm not going to question if somebody believes the w you know again the Westminster Confession, whether or not they're saved, whether or not they're, you know, Bible believing. I just I I I would if I was if I was going to teach through this, I would bounce off this passage and say, you know what I don't like the language here. It's pointing to something that's a very important truth that we need to hang on to in Scripture. Let's go to the passage of Scripture. Let's see what Scripture actually says. and um and let the scripture speak for itself. You know, the substance thing, you know, of of Mary's substance, you know, two perfect distinct natures. um uh you know, this kind of thing without conversion, composition, confusion. You know, I I again I feel like it's it's it's things that um at the end of the day I think scripture is adequate. Good. 'Cause I don't think that Jace was saying that people who would hold to these heretical outside the pale of orthodoxy that they couldn't be saved. He or or even if he thinks that, I don't think he said that. But y you kinda jumped there and said, I don't want to judge whether somebody's saved or not and we shouldn't but that's not e I think what Jason Jason's point was we're gonna put In writing, these are fundamental truths that are orthodox and you subscribe to these, then we can be in good fellowship together And we're going to find agreement and we're going to understand the Bible and God in a similar way and everything and we're going to be able to do good work together. And if you differ significantly from this We got some issues and we're maybe not going to be able to fellowship together the same way. I think that if I were to take the passages and attempt to summarize them Uh I feel like it's pretty probably pretty arrogant for me to say. I feel like I feel like I could do a better job finding a way to just use, you know, the the biblical language to say the same thing that this says. I'm afraid if you use the biblical language, that's the problem is you won't defend against Anything. I mean the Bible already says the biblical language. So that's already there. We've got that. So why even bother to say it? It what they're trying to do is give biblicality to it. fully sufficient to combat against all heresies. Well then where would Arius and Athanasius have a battle of? I mean they were both using the same Bible. Well I would like more time to study those out and to understand uh where it is that they went off. Uh it's clear to me that they went off. Uh Jesus. Uh there's not just a God, but he was you know, he he was God. He was with God in the beginning. Through him all things were made. You know, uh at at some point along the way it's clear to me that that those guys departed from scripture. Right? I mean that's basically what what all the what all the councils were saying. Right. Right. Right? But the words They were they were arguing from scripture. They weren't just making something up. They were arguing from scripture. So this is saying interpretation we must hold to. It's not saying this is They're both saying we believe it, but they're saying you have to agree with it in this way, in this interpretation. that I feel like you're referring to as well that um is uh I think uh an important doctrine to to uh to keep in mind. Um there's a doctrine that That scripture is not adequate for teaching us about the Lord and about salvation, but scripture as it is interpreted by the church. is what's adequate for finding the Lord. And the Orthodox Church, of course, had uh to this day they say that truth is not something that you discover, it's something that is revealed that has been handed down and so they're handing down the faith. The the Roman Catholic Church was a bit more dynamic and felt like uh that uh that the church was continuing to develop scripture you or or or inspira inspired scripture, as it were, uh uh inspired doctrines, you know, i. e. worship of Mary, these kinds of things. And I think you're saying a similar thing that the church has given us the Holy Spirit's interpretation of these passages and um I find myself honestly in my self-righteousness to be like a Luther, saying that I feel like there's ways where the Westminster Confession goes beyond what scripture is, and I say solo scriptura. You know, let's go back to Scripture and trust Scripture that that some of these might have been effective at the time for combating the heresies, but they're not scripture. They're attempts to combat something that I think at the end of the day goes beyond the Word of God. And if the Word of God is authoritative and sufficient, then Let's go back to the Word of God as well. I mean their what they would argue at least is that what we're trying to do is be faithful to Scripture. And in no way am I trying to take a Roman Catholic view of tradition. In fact, you know, the Westminster Confession of Faith is is the foundation for not doing such things. Nevertheless, but but this is precisely the the arrogance of us Protestants in claiming that we're no longer following the tradition uh that the church has handed down to us, we developed a tradition to hand down. Of of course. There's there's no I don't think that's arrogance at all personally. There's no doubt that we abide by tradition. Tradition is important. The analogy of faith is huge. The uh this Uh th a lot of what I worked on um for my PhD, uh whole chapter on just the analogy of faith, tradition is hugely important. What we aren't arguing is that the tradition be thrown away. It's just that it is not a standard. It is not what we base everything on. Scripture precedes tradition. Tradition must be considered. It would be it would be insane and I would say incredibly arrogant for us to ignore tradition, to have conversations with it, to to continue with it. And and we've mentioned this before. I'm not someone who says the Westminster Confession of Faith is perfect in all of its wording and everything. I would be all in favor of getting a good group, not necessarily just you by yourself, but to summarize or to to rewrite the confession. Right. Yeah, it would be very difficult. But you know if all the PCA guys, because they're the guys who use Westminster Confession Faith and they would say most accurately. I'm not a PCA guy. But if they all got together and they wrote something else with newer words, I would be more than Ha I'm sure we would have way more controversy than this even, but I would love to have that. But tradition is is hugely important. I don't want to denounce you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Uh Dr. Jace Broadhurst, I dropped my papers, hold on one second. Pick them up. There they are. Dr. Jace Broadhurst, who is the senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church and John Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And out of all that what I got was how unfair it is that Athanasius isn't as famous as it is. You're right. Yeah, I had to say that several times. No. The Athanasian Creed is beautiful. Athanasius Who's he? Arius gets Arianism named after him and he's famous. That's just not fair. Because Athanasius got exiled how many times and constantly be considered a heretic, but wrote a beautiful I mean just On the Trinity. Hugely important. Now I'm going to have another quick aside here just for you to th to ponder and think about. And if you would like to address this this cotton wild hair thought, we can maybe tackle it early in next week's show. So I'm not trying to set you up or anything, but It occurs to me that what these guys do isn't that uh the the divines in writing this confession isn't that different than what you guys do each and every Sunday when you're taking a passage of Scripture and explaining in your cases to your congregation, here's what the Bible in this passage is saying. Here's what it means. Here's what we should take from this. And they're putting it all out in some sort of systematized form forever. I mean could you imagine five hundred years from now somebody's grabbing one of your sermons and going through Oh, what do you use the word ain't there for? It's not even grammatically correct. We're crying out loud. You know. That ain't right. So anyway. Alright, I want to uh begin to cover the next section here. So let me start reading and see how well how well we how far we get into this. I'm not sure if we're going to have time to comment on it much, but hopefully I'll have time to at least read it into the record. So this is chapter 8, sections 3 and 4. The Lord Jesus, in his human nature, thus united to the divine, was sanctified and anointed with the Holy Spirit above measure. Having in him all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge, in whom it pleased the Father that all fullness should dwell, to that end, that being holy, harmless, undefiled, and full of grace and truth he might be thoroughly furnished to execute the office of a mediator and surety, which office he took not unto himself, but was thereunto called by his father, who put all power and judgment into his hand, and gave him commandment to execute the same. Now that's Three. I'm gonna read four because I think three and four kind of go together. At least my way of thinking. This office the Lord Jesus did most willingly undertake, which that he might discharge, he was made under the law and did perfectly fulfill it. Endured most grievous torments immediately in his soul, and most painful sufferings in his body, was crucified and died, was buried, and remained under the power of death, yet saw no corruption. On the third day he arose from the dead with the same body in which he suffered, with which also he ascended into heaven, and there sits at the right hand of his Father making intercession and shall return to judge men and angels at the end of the world. Love it. That's a that's a lot of stuff, some pretty powerful language. We've only got what two minutes. So Jonathan, just finish this up then. Here's what I'm gonna do. We're gonna get running through all this sort of stuff. Let me read the next couple of sections. And then just get them out of the way so next week we can get a nice running start at this. So here's Here's how 'cause we I'll play the music underneath. It'll sound pretty. Here comes the music underneath. Isn't that pretty? Love this music. Listen to that. Oh. Beautiful. Nobody plays the guitar like Neil Sean I tell ya. Anyway. It's got two first names. What can I get? It's Sean. S C H O N, not Sean. Yeah, but it's still sounds. Alright. So here's part five. The Lord Jesus, by his perfect obedience and sacrifice of himself, which he, through the eternal Spirit, once offered up unto God, has fully satisfied the justice of his Father, and purchased not only reconciliation, but an everlasting inheritance to the kingdom of heaven for those whom the Father has given unto him. Although the work of redemption was not actually wrought by Christ till after his incarnation yet The virtue, efficacy, and benefits thereof were communicated unto the elect in all ages successively from the beginning of the world in and by those promises types and sacrifices wherein he was revealed, and signified to be the seed of the woman which should bruise the serpent's head, and the lamb slain from the beginning of the world, being yesterday and today the same And forever. I've got sixty seconds left. Okay. Christ in the work of mediation acts according to both natures, by each nature doing that which is proper to itself, yet by reason of the unity of the person That which is proper to one nature is sometimes in Scripture attributed to the persons denominated by the other nature. Here we come down the home stretch to all those for whom Christ has purchased redemption He does certainly and effectu uh effectually apply and communicate the same, making intercession for them and revealing unto them in and by the word the mysteries of salvation. effectually persuading them by his spirit to believe and obey, and governing their hearts by his word and spirit, overcoming all their enemies by his almighty power and wisdom in such manner and ways as are most c consonant to his wonderful and unsearchable Dispensation. Well done. Whew, okay. I'm exhausted. Jonathan Sweit, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you, my friend. It's good to be here. Thank you. Doctor Jace Broadhurst, senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. Go to Poolsville Baptist dot com. Is that what it is? That works. Uh and find out about their conference uh October fifth First, second, and third, 35 bucks. Dinner in a conference can't beat that. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Pullman plumbing, how can we make you smile