Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumin' plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to the Frederick's Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930, WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner, joined this week by Dr. Jaith Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, and Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Sweitzer, co-founder of the Great Frederick Faith Debate. You chuck took your jacket off. Oh man, yeah, it gets hot in here, but a lot of hot air going around. And the question was asked And the truth matters, baby. The question was asked recently. What kind of people listen to this show? And you know, I don't know, but God bless ya You know, obviously. Yes. Look yourself in the mirror and ask yourself what kind of person are you? What kind of person are you? And I will say that this show puts demands on you. That's right. You know, not just anybody. Not just anybody can listen to this show. If you can hang with this show, yeah, I'm not sure what it says about you, but it says something. It does. It definitely says something. And you need to ask your wife or your spouse or your kids what it says about you because they will tell you. Now here's the challenge, all right? We've been covering the Westminster Confession of Faith a section at a time and and commenting on it as we go. We're on chapter we We're on chapter three last week. We're going to get into chapter four this week. And here's the challenge, all right? I'm going to read. This is chapter three, section seven. Seven. All right. The rest of mankind Google it and you'll find it. The rest of mankind God was pleased according to the unsearchable counsel of his own will, whereby he extends or withholds mercy as he pleases. for the glory of his sovereign power over his creatures to pass by and to ordain them to honor and wrath for their sin to the praise of his glorious justice. I ask you How do you read that and make it interesting? Okay. Okay, so so can we try it the way that I that I said? All right, go for it. Okay, every time That we get to a comma the next guy reads. Alright, we'll go in a counterclockwise I mean a clockwise. Alright, let's do eight then. We'll do eight. Who's gonna start? I will. The doctrine of this high mystery of predestination is to be handled with special prudence and care. That men offending the will of God revealed in his word and yielding obedience thereunto May He only gets like two words from the certainty of their effectual vocation. Be assured of their eternal election. So shall this doctrine afford matter of praise, reverence, and admiration of God, and of humility, and abundant consolation to all that Sincerely obey the gospel. That was fun. I have no clue what we read. Well here's here's what we read, right? Here's the gist of of of these this section of chapter three, right? Is that God has determined ahead of time How salvation would occur through faith in Jesus by the power of the Holy Spirit, and that some would serve to glorify his name by experiencing his wrath for their sin. And that this teaching of predestination is a tough pill to swallow, but it provides a comfort of assurance to those who are elect by God. I mean that's kind of it's admitting here, I think this last part is basically saying, look This is a high mystery. This is tough. You know, and we need to handle this with special prudence and care because this is this is tough water to navigate through. Uh, but it is what it is because of what the Bible teaches. I mean I think that's kind of what they're saying. So us grappling with this stuff and saying, Man, this is not sure I can agree, this is hard I I think that the divines who wrote the Westminster Confession are are would be in if they were here would be in agreement. They're not are, can't say present ends Uh would be uh in agreement with us if they were here. I think they're wrong to that that we need to swallow it. Uh nevertheless I appreciate their honesty about it. And I just see the opposite. I just see it as one of one of the more beautiful uh doctrines in Scripture that he has called me, not based on anything that I've done, not even my ability to uh to decide. Um as he says in Romans, not up to him who wills or him who runs. It's it's not even based on me. It's based on something he did, which gives me great confidence. that I can't lose it either. Which I don't know if we're gonna get to that particular point in here. But I'm I'm not I don't have to keep up. I I can rest in this because It it wasn't up to me to pat myself on the back for a response that I made where somebody else didn't respond. I can simply say, thank you. That's all I've got. I've just I can just appreciate it, and therefore I can continue In life, even when I fail every single stinking day over and over again, I know that he's got me in his hand because it's not up to me to lose it either. And it can be very comforting. I can see that, but I can also see where somebody would argue back that that it could be frustrating. Like what's the purpose and point of life? It's meaningless. If God's free destined everything and preordained everything and pre-planned and said this, you know, by his decree, eternal decree, is said from the beginning of time that this is the way it's going to be. It doesn't matter if I pray, doesn't matter if I serve, doesn't matter if I take this pencil and jab Jonathan Schweitzer in the eye, because if I do so, God said I was gonna do it, you know, eons ago. So what's the what's the point of our existence? Isn't it? The thing is that if I have chosen to receive God's grace There is nothing of my own strength in that. There there is no work of my choosing faith. The Bible never argues that choosing faith is a work. Nowhere, you would think that Paul would have taken time to argue that somehow choosing was an act of faith. Choosing is not a work The work is if, and this is what Paul does argue against, if I think I can earn my own salvation by my own great abilities to, you know, to do what is right in my life. And I know that that's not the case, and so my saying, I can't do that, I need the grace of God, I choose to accept his grace in my life, is not an act of pride. I mean that turns the whole gospel on its head. It's not an act of officers. It's an act of gratitude. Man, I'm not sure if you're acting if it's an act of God did it for me. Thank you, God, I receive that. I'm not gonna reject it. I receive your grace. So when you're standing next to someone who doesn't receive it, can there not is isn't there a The ability to boast in do your choice? I mean why didn't he get accepted? And I didn't because I chose. I'm boasting to him. I'm nothing. Paul certainly does that. I'll boast my weakness. Okay, I will boast to him. I'm nothing. I am low the lowest of the low and I deserve hell. And that is my boast. That I deserve hell. If that's my boasting, then yes I will boast to him. Well no, if that's exactly what I would say you should boast in, but I feel that you have the ability to boast if you say that I have that I made a choice you didn't. I did good. You didn't. It's only you had done it. That that's boasting. I mean if that was a problem. Well that's a definition of boasting. I did something you didn't. I did something good. I was just I'm not arguing from scripture. I'm just arguing Just the definition of boasting. I did good, you didn't. Right. That's what boasting is. But my argument is this is that Paul spends extensive time over the concern that we would try to earn our own salvation by our own works and spends no time whatsoever with any concern whatsoever that I'm gonna fall into boasting that I chose God and that the other guy did not. That in fact that my choosing of God is is an act of humility, not an act of boasting. And if Paul would have spent significant time saying, if you make a big deal about you choosing Christ, then you're boasting. If Paul would have gone into great, great detail about that. then I would be the first to say, you know what? We must not boast in that. But but he doesn't. So when Romans gives you the basis of his choice, not based on him who wills or runs, not on not based on what's the right thing. They did this last week. Um the seconds after, but then you were so far in a different direction I couldn't even. This is uh Romans nine, ten and eleven, isn't it? Well yes, certainly in there. Yeah Um certainly it's it's a it would be a nine. So it would be where he argues that you know I've chosen one and not chosen the other based on what? This is this is Pharaoh. He's talking about Pharaoh and he's talking about Jacob and Esau. Jacob and Esau, yeah. Yes. Uh yeah, this is this is what I feel like is precisely the point. Uh let's take let's take Pharaoh Well is it is it about Esau or or Jacob and um Aaron? Jacob and Esau. I've chosen them before they were even born. No choice based on no choice they were able to make. Yeah, it is through Isaac that your offspring will be reckoned. In other words, it's not the natural children, but it is the children of promise who are regarded as Abraham's offspring. Alright? He is not dealing with individual salvation in that passage. In fact, when he talks about Jacob have I loved, but Esau I hated, that passage comes from uh Malachi chapter one. which is the prophets prophesying hundreds, almost thousands of years later, that the children of Esau as a corporate group Ended up being hated by God. Nowhere are we told that Esau as an individual was hated by God, but later on we're told that the children of Esau are hated by God because They rejected the children of Jacob when they came out of Israel, when they came out of Egypt. And so Esau have I hated He's talking about the children of Esau that that that ended up falling into major sin. So he's dealing with not individual salvation here, but corporate salvation. He's dealing with the role of the Jews. in the in the sovereign purposes of God. He's not dealing with individual individual salvation. He came to the end of that at the end of of Romans seven and eight where he's where he's talking about the individuals. Those I called, I predestined, blah, blah, blah, all the way to glory, you know, and and they they will overcome in all things. But then he says, But I speak the truth in Christ, I'm not lying. My conscience confirms it. I have great sorrow for who for this whole group of people, Israel. He's not talking about individuals, he's talking about a corporate group there. But not all who have descended from Israel are Israel. Isn't that the beginning of verse six? Yeah. So that's still a corporate group he's referring to. He he's he's going from in in chapter 5 and chapter 6, he's clearly dealing with individuals coming into salvation. When he moves into chapter 9, he's abundantly clear that he's moved from dealing with individual salvation back to the people of Israel as a whole. And the the conundrum that it would appear that God is rejecting those who he had said would be his sovereign people forever. And so he's dealing with that passage. How is it that that some of them will be Israel and some of them will be not. He's not dealing with with Gentiles along with them. He's dealing with the Jewish Israeli people and how is it that some of them end up being rejected and some of them do not? Here's my my commentary notes. Just uh I thought it was interesting. This is just the NIV study bible the most popular study bible in the world here. In verses 6 through 13, Paul is clearly dealing with personal and not national election. He is not portraying the nation Israel, Jacob, over the nation Edom, though Malachi 1, which is what you were speaking of, does speak of the nations. Paul's intention is evident in light of the problem he's addressing. How can God's promise stand when so many who comprise Israel are unbelieving and therefore cut off? Yeah, and I'm in disagreement with that. Right. Uh in fact when we come to Pharaoh, Pharaoh is very important. Pharaoh represents the nation of Egypt. And this is what God has been doing. It's going to happen with Gog and Magog. God a and and we found it happening uh Russia, I feel like, is a great example. Clearly Gog and Magog seems to, in the history of the world, have a predestined to have an election in God to be to be used for evil purposes. And uh and though there may be seasons where where there's revival that breaks out in Russia, there seems to be the sense that in the in God's uh purposes on the earth that Gog and Magog are gonna end up being the bad guy. Russia, uh the the the from the land of Gogol, you know, the these these people that that come from the north. Well I've noticed Solzanitin, Dostoevsky, one after another, said, you know what? I want nothing to do with the destiny that is Russia. And instead, I'm going to the United States where I can find a new destiny. Individuals are able to opt out of the predestination. Pharaoh is clearly referring to the entire nation that God shaped up. And in fact in uh in Ezekiel, where he's talking about Pharaoh, uh, you know, that that that he shapes Pharaoh up like clay. He he shapes a nation up like clay, and if they reject him, then he will make them into something else. He's not dealing with individuals, he's dealing with a nation. Well, Egypt is a nation that he shaped up. They rejected him. And so in rejecting them, he hardened the heart of Pharaoh, who had already chosen To reject the purposes of God, he kept hardening them, he said, You know what? I've had enough with you, Pharaoh, and so now I'm going to use you for my glory I'm gonna harden your heart and I'm gonna harden your heart and you've lost all opportunity to even change and to respond. Well I would I would argue at least in there somewhere he raised them up for the purpose of destruction. So that's an actual verse. The whole nation. Okay. But without a doubt. Okay. And he destroyed them and he was glorified. Israel walked away free and clear. And Pharaoh is the representation of that. Just like for example, I agree. Yeah. Okay. And so that being the case Yeah, God hardened him. And the reality is that God hardens whom he will, but he's made it clear to us who he will. He hardens those who reject his purposes. And he gets into that very principle then later on in chapter 11 of Romans, where he says, how can someone hear unless somebody sent to them? And he says, Well I did send somebody to them. And I preached the gospel to them, but they refused to hear. And because they refused to hear, now he's saying, I'm rejecting you, I'm rejecting all of you for a period of time. until the the fullness of the Gentiles have come, at which point then he says all Israel will be saved. Yeah, I I not with you on that particular passage either, but that's we're going to get further away in understanding of 12 through 14. Well and so so the point is is that is that there's a historical corporate thing that's going on there that people can choose to participate in or not participate in. And uh that he gives us the basis of that. If you reject his word when it comes, faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. When the word of God comes to you and you reject it, you will be hardened. and you will lose salvation. You will lose the opportunity parti to participate in the election to glory, and you will be uh you will be put into the election of Egypt, which is being shaped up to be destroyed for the glory of God. But if God all right, uh let's let's grant because I I agree that you can pull out of this national election kind of things. I I believe that people would leave one and go that's fine. Sure. So just thinking about bigger picture definitions of God. Good. If God knows something's gonna happen and he's all powerful, I guess I'm confused as to how that is not determinative. Like if I'm aware of something and I I know all things and I am all powerful. Do I not by definition determine what will happen? Can there be maverick molecules with a God who knows everything and is all powerful? I think that is a fascinating question. I do not think scripture answers it. And I'm unwilling to try to answer it in any kind of a definitive way as well. I'll I'll I'll I'll play with the idea, I'll grapple with the idea, but if we're gonna build doctrine on that, I I think it is unwise. It goes beyond what scripture focuses on. It's a metaphysical uh a bigger picture thing. I mean we're taking lots of scriptural text That say he's all powerful and say that he knows all things. Those are in scripture, I think. Yes, they are. So we're taking good and necessary consequences, as they say. We have this information. How do we define a God like that? How do we how God gives us the choice as to whether or not we're going to be a part of his election unto glory or whether or not we're going to be a part of his election unto destruction. He gives us that choice. He knows the end from the beginning. Absolutely. Does that mean that he determines or doesn't determine? That is not a a a question that Scripture answers. Scripture uh grapples with the idea that God has given us this free choice, this free will, and that in the midst of us choosing to reject God And and like the Tower of Babel, like Babylon, like Egypt, we we join together in this beast nation. you know, in our rejection of God, that that that will not be sufficient to somehow uh contradict or or stop the purposes of God. God will still have his purposes come to pass, which is that the righteous will be blessed, that those who who accept his grace will be a part of his election unto glory, and that the rest are going to be destroyed. That there's nothing that that Satan can do. to set himself up as God and to be stronger than God, God's purpose is going to come to pass. And his purpose is that we would uh that those who choose him would love him and would be with him. for eternity that we w we'd be satisfied or uh enjoy him forever. Now Jonathan, what do you do with a passage you know where Jesus talks about you know, those that the Father gives him, you know, he's not going to lose any of them. Uh that traditionally is understood as talking about individuals and not a a corporate entity. Um but do you understand that corporately as well? Uh no, again, the the the question in my mind is whether or not uh what what is the basis upon which God makes the choice? And we're told the basis upon which God makes the choice. When he speaks his word to us and we receive it, not whether or not we can follow it, it says at the end of Isaiah, who this is he upon whom I look. He whose heart trembles at my word. When when our hearts tremble at his word, when he speaks to us and we hear it, then God says, That's the one that I choose. Many are called But fewer chosen. What's the basis upon which they're chosen? Because when they come to the party, they do it the way that God said to do it. Their hearts trembled at his word. a at his commands. And so God makes the choice. He told us the basis upon which he made the choice. And and so Jesus isn't coming making that choice of those people, but Jesus is coming saying that my God has chosen certain ones And and I've lost none of those that he's given to me. And that's certainly the case. Those that that responded to to the word of God, God chose them, they're a part of his election. And uh and they're a part of his his purposes uh in the world. They will be protected, they will be glorified, they will be overcomers, neither height nor death nor things present will ever be able to separate them from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Though it is possible that they could choose to separate themselves from God, which is not in contradiction to that particular passage. Now this is going way back and maybe a little bit off topic, but what the heck. Um go all the way back to the very first people. You know, Adam and Eve. And they got God gave them a choice. Yeah. You know, eat from the tree or not eat from the tree. They disobeyed. And they disobeyed. They ate from the tree. Yeah. Um If they never eat from the tree, then how does all the predestination in Christ that was decreed from before time happen? Well Christ knew that we were gonna fall. That we would not be able to to to uh uh say no to the temptation. That's why he had to set Christ up. I mean s yeah, yeah. Predestine us in Christ. He didn't predestine us in our own works and righteousness. He predestined us in Christ. And that was true for Adam and Eve as while they fell. Again it's a it's a um That's where again. But it's not an idea we have to deal with. Adam and Eve fell. Th there there wasn't a group of people on the earth that that chose to not fall, that would not need to be in Christ. God was wise and knew that that falling into sin would be an issue and that there would be those that would fall into sin and and would say, Wow, now I need help And would turn like Seth uh in the lineage of faith. Uh Mahalil, Methuselah, Lemech, Noah, Enos. Eber, Pedleg. Yeah. This is so this is gonna end up being uh a recurring point of contention and issue as as we move through uh the Westminster Confession. And it happens that I think this has been the the complete contention on my part is that I feel like the Westminster Confess confession leads in a direction that's simply Calvinist and and even the word immutable in this context is precisely what what I believe the people at Westminster thought that it meant. God is immutable. And the immutable meant that before the creation of the world, he thought everything and everything uh everything as it was going to happen, and so history is simply a expression of those thoughts. And I'm not in agreement with that. I'm I I'm of the opinion that uh that yes, God knew the end from the beginning, but that he uh he fully allows us to to make those choices. I'm wondering I'm trying to that the predestination passages, the election passages are dealing with uh our choices to join a corporate group. Would you would you say that y uh this is a theological kind of a thing, so for insider inside baseball, I don't know if you uh would characterize yourself this way or not, would you call yourself an adherent to middle knowledge? Do you know even what I'm asking when I say that w like William Craig is famous for the for his middle knowledge position. Yeah, I mean go go ahead and describe it. Well it sounds like what you're describing kind of or God uh Uh he sees the end from the beginning by understand it's like a chess it's like a chess board almost. I'm trying to put it in in layman's terms. God sees all of history and all of the variables like a big chess match and he knows what the moves are gonna be, so many zillions of moves in advance that he can anticipate the end game. So he didn't he didn't force people to play the to play he didn't force the opponent to play his moves any particular way, but he knows chess so well, he understands the middle part of the game so well that he can see how the ends End is gonna come. Ephesians three I feel like gets into that. That he made known to us the mystery of his will, and he made known the mystery of his will to all the the principalities and powers in the heavenly realms that that he would be his glory would rest on the church You know, and that that is the great mystery, you know, that that in Christ there would be neither Jew nor Gentile, male nor female. You know, and so Paul's great um desire there is to is to clarify for the Gentiles how it is that they have always been just as special to God as the um as the Jews ever were. One of the problems with with the view because uh I actually have some affinity for that. I I don't know what to make of all of this, to be honest. I bounce back and forth, but w uh William Lane Craig is such a a bright thinker that he he sometimes persuades me a little bit until I read somebody else and then I start to question a little bit and bounce back and forth all over the place. Um but one of the problems is gonna be the i the idea of okay If God doesn't know what's going to happen, there could have been an eventuality where no one gets saved and Christ dies in vain Right. Nobody responds because God's not preordaining that people or decreeing that people are going to respond. He's leaving it all up to chance. And so from the beginning he was planning to sacrifice his son. potentially planning his exercise his son to no effect? I mean w if that aga again it's a fascinating question. It doesn't reflect reality or anything that we see in Scripture. It's a fascinating question. And worth our sitting around even and grappling with. But my appeal is that we not make any doctrine based off of questions like that. That would be an appeal to What? It's not an appeal to the Bible for the doctrine. It's an appeal to to our metaphysical um questions and thoughts. And at the end of the day. At the end of the day, the Catholics, by reading Scripture and the Blessedness of Mary And uh the fact that the saints are surrounding us like a great cloud of witnesses and they're still alive up in heaven, and we went to them and asked them to pray for us while they were still on the earth. You know, and and uh and we uh appreciated the the the faith of their prayers while they're still on the earth. And so now that they're they're up in heaven, why don't we continue to pray to them? What's what's the big deal? They're still alive. Why not we go to them and say, hey, would you pray to the Father for for us? Because we're still having a problem with this uh this thing over here that you seem to have a lot of faith for when you were alive. And and they they they came up with these great fascinating thoughts and they added the scripture And my fear is that that some of these Calvinist doctrines have done the same thing in an attempt to metaphysically grapple with things they've gone beyond the teaching of Scripture and the fascinating ideas and worth great minds even thinking about, but let us not build doctrine off of those. Well, we're going to wrap up the show on that point because we are out of time. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor, Cross of Zelda Chapel. Thank you. Dr. Jace Broadhurst, the Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, to thank you. Thank you for listening. This is the Faith Debate on WFMD. God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Povin plumbings, how can we make you smile