This is the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Broadway Putin Plumbing and Heather. How can we make you smile? And online at WFMD. com keyword faith. Or you might have noticed recently we now have seven blog posts a week, not just five. Not that you notice, I don't know. Yeah, no, no, that's very important to notice seven instead of And that encouraging voice is Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and the other encouraging voice you're about to hear is that of Paul Monday, who is the senior pastor at Frederick Church of the B Brethren and host of the Time of Challenge radio program, which you just got done listening to a few minutes ago. Absolutely. And now you're gonna be I am so excited about this topic we're gonna do today. So, actually I'm confused. How are you doing this show? preaching in your eight thirty thirds fine you know I you know I I I can do more than one thing at once. My kids are gonna start believing that science is not real again. I can multicast So it's uh all things are possible. So Well we we had some some fun with what some could think were lighter topics, but they're not light when you're dealing with them. It was interesting last week because we were dealing with the whole issue of uh, you know, cremation. Uh yeah, I got to wanting to joke about it a couple of times and I was like, you know what, you can't really joke about that. You know, you you can't treat it lightly. It's you know, you're dealing with the issue of death and and y e even talking about it, you just it's important to kind of hush your tone a little bit and just be more, you know, uh sober. Absolutely because one of the great f fallacies, it's you know, it's a cliche, you know, that you know, well death it's Right, right, right, right. It's not normal. For me it's gonna be a traumatic experience. It's not it's not It we God didn't create so that we would die. Death exists because of sin. That's right. It is not it is not normative. What is normative is life. And so there's a reason that we are sensitive to it, that people get a little bit afraid of it, that we have respect. for it. So um but yeah you're you're right. Oh cremation, is it okay or not? That could be kind of a interesting kind of fun off the wall topic but it's a serious deal because we often say that. Week before that we talked about, you know, our our pets Very traumatic. And I bring that up because this week's topic, on the face of it, would seem like That's a little more theological. That's a more serious topic. But the reality is it's less important in some ways than the last two topics we talked about. Right, right. Death. Right? No, this week we're talk well, death is divorce, death. I don't know. This week we're talking about divorce and particularly whether or not it's okay for pastors to serve if they've been divorced. Now I don't know that this would be my conversion story, although it an argument could be made that it maybe it is. You know, I uh I'm not sure uh that I want to go so far as to say that. But a very important moment in my theological and Christian development took place while I was driving in my car a number of years ago, listening to Charles Stanley on the radio. Yes. And Charles Stanley is down in Georgia. He's been doing a radio ministry for First Baptist Church. And a television ministry for many years. He's a best selling author, you know, pretty well known uh I don't think leader. Leader in the American Christian movement very much. Very well known guy. And he and he was teaching something uh on his radio program that really resonated and crystallized for me in a in a fresh new way that my salvation was I mean I knew it already but it like I said crystallized in this new way my salvation was a gift of God. And that once that gift was bestowed upon me, then it was up to me to live a life that was becoming a follower of Jesus, that would be a light unto the world, that out of gratitude for Jesus I would live a life that was worthy of the gift of the people. So he really inspired kind of a new angle on that and saw something you hadn't seen before. Yeah he helped me to really understand in my uh the way I now understand the gospel really took root then. Okay. The point So how does that apply to the story? The point of the story is Charles Stanley, who I think is a magnificent pastor, a wonderful teacher of God's word, is divorced. There are Christian radio stations that used to carry Charles Stanley Radio Ministry that now refuse to broadcast his show because he's a divorced pastor. What does the Bible say about that? Is that an appropriate response? Can somebody be divorced and continue to be a pastor? Well and and there are other I mean there are other examples, for example. Uh Ned Graham, the son of Billy Graham, is divorced. Uh John Hagee who's also another popular media uh uh uh evangelists or whatever uh is divorced. Uh uh it's amazing how many uh supposedly the the rate of divorce even among evangelical believers is not i i is is equal or higher than the divorce rate across the United States. And and and clergy, uh evangelical clergy are not exempt from that. So yeah, I think we're on to something as to uh the the other thing if I should say this about Brother Stanley and I have the highest respect, you know, for his ministry in many regards Uh he actually made a commitment uh uh prior uh uh to the divorce being finalized that if it would be finalized, you know, he would step down at least for a season And then, you know, as it came down to the wire in terms of kind of uh it was going to happen and indeed, you know, the decision needed to be made, then then he backed off of that. And for for many, just to just add a little bit of a different uh flavor to this. For for any number of people it was not just the divorce issue or maybe it wasn't a divorce issue as it was the commitment to to step down and indeed uh it didn't happen. And in many respects it I think it happened because he is such a popular uh figure and uh um not only was his church dependent on his leadership in terms of all attendance and revenue but then his uh uh his radio ministry and whatever. So so it's amazing how how even among believers, you know, expediency and the practicalities of life mix in here. And uh but the reality is he continues to preach on every week uh with a tremendous following and apparently uh tremendous fruit bearing from his ministry. So it it it's it's it it's really a tough one because uh I I I I I'll just kinda just kind of put my uh um uh view out here uh early on. Um I have a real problem when there is at least not a period of sabbatical, when there is not a period of stepping down and acknowledging uh the tragedy uh and the failure. I mean divorce is a failure. Now it's not the final failure, it doesn't mean your life is over. But I think for any of us just to go on and and to pretend as if it's no big deal uh and there not to be any consequences, I think that for me is the larger issue. Now I'll I'll say a little bit more about whether I believe a pastor could ever be restored. Uh uh that's kind of a separate issue. But in the case of s of of Charles Stanley, the thing really disappointed me deeply was that he did say he was going to step down and then I think with some practicalities, I'm guessing financial practicalities in terms of keeping the church budget funded and the in and the media ministry funded he wouldn't do it. And supposedly he sent out his executive pastor to kinda make the announcement of the turnaround of of the switch or whatever. And I think I have more of a problem with that where we don't acknowledge you know, sin is sin if we don't acknowledge uh the failure and we don't simply sit down for a time of of of of seeking God. Uh uh a a period of uh of a sabbatical, of of uh letting God speak to us. I think really the restoration part of this really begins with w what is the will of God? I mean what is the voice of God speaking into uh a broken pastor. Now I do also want to say here at the at the get-go We need to differentiate very clearly between those of us in leadership, pastoral leadership, and believers, just simply believers who are getting a divorce. I mean we're we're talking really about two different categories. So We have any number of people listening to us this morning who are divorced, who are believers, and I think that's that's almost a program in and of itself. I mean we're really trying to focus in on pastors who, rightly or wrongly, I think have to be held to a higher standard. Yeah, I don't think that uh 'cause it would be a totally different show, but f to try to handle that really quickly since you brought it up. Yeah. Uh you can be divorced and still be a Christian. I mean there's clear scripture on that. So I don't think we have to debate that right now. But there is a question about what the qualifications are for church leadership and they're pretty clearly articulated in the New Testament, you know, that you will be uh the husband of uh a a good and faithful husband to a good and faithful wife. You know, that you have a your home life is together, your kids are obedient. I mean those those are those are the criteria And then we have pastors who are already ha ha at one time in their life met that criteria and now they fail to meet that criteria. Right. Do they have to get that criteria back in do they have to go on sabbatical? Get their life back in order, meet the criteria again, and then can be considered for the pastorate again? Or is it as simple as, okay, I paid my penance, I sat out for six months, and here I am back again? You know, what do you think, John? I think that God hates divorce. So you're gonna play it safe. And I think that that Moses permitted than to divorce because their hearts were hard and that that that that that issue of hardness of heart is still why God hates So all you're doing is reading the Bible to me so far. And so so Which isn't bad in itself. Laying that as my foundation, I feel like uh I'm in the same place of what both of you guys are saying, that the issue at the end of the day is that is that if if this man uh uh is is proved not able to work through resolving necessary conflicts uh or um you know uh uh helping to lead his family to uh to scripture and to the Lord to work things through or you know, possibly um not putting his his family first, like where it says in Ephesians five, husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. I mean, I don't know Andy Stanley's situation, but if they got divorced because she was sick and tired of him putting the ministry First, then that is the the rumor or the story. Then he needed to leave the ministry. I don't care how gifted he is and how many people have been blessed, his first responsibility is not to to the sheep, but to his wife. And the the passage there says that you would lay down your life for your wife. Well if you've got a pastor that won't lay his life down for his wife How likely is it that the same pastor is not going to be willing to lay down his life for his sheep? And in the name of big vision for the church and these kinds of things, he's going to be willing to let a few sheep get walked over. This is my big concern that that the hardness of heart that's uh that that scripture associates with divorce would would perpetrate itself in the church at large And certainly it's true in the church at large in the United States that that there's a move away from us being in relationship with one another and caring about each other and more in the direction of a mega church orientation that is all about, you know, the the gifting of the guy at the front. You know, in i i not to say that gifting is not important. I feel like gifting is a very important part of of of a call to ministry. Gifting is very important. But if if the gifting has lost its root in character, then then the church is going astray big time. And so I'm not saying that Stanley's responsible for you know the church of the United States going astray. I'm not going to go that far, but I would say that that I have major concerns. Well it is a and Jonathan is onto something because my my question would be Where where were the elders of First Baptist Church in Atlanta? In other words, where were they? I mean it wasn't like this all all of a sudden popped out uh you know uh uh s suddenly without any warning at all. Right. Uh my guess is there are all kinds of indicators. Uh uh uh related to this. I'm guessing, and again this borders on on on on going too far and being a little judgmental, I'm just guessing it did come down to the fact that this is a mega church. If you've got a mega church, uh a lot of it rises, evolves on revenue. Uh I mean very quickly. I mean you're in trouble. It's hard to if the numbers drop off conclusions. And if you've got your you've got your star quarterback or whatever, uh you could you s could simply ask the question, uh was it a case of not being able to afford to have him out of the game? And by virtue of that of just pure money, if you want to if I can be that presumptuous, and I uh and I'm being very presumptuous, I guess, in saying that What does that say again about our character within the church? Are are we really, you know, going the route of expediency or whatever? Uh and and uh and in and really that that is very, very, very, very serious because Because here you have a high profile public figure, uh, who somehow is being protected. But, you know, what about Mrs. Stanley? I mean, what uh I don't even know her first name, but what about her? Ephesians hasn't been honored. the sabbatical or w or the you know a time of admonition or whatever, mandatory counseling, therapy, w whatever it takes, uh, you know, where part of that uh uh you know needs to to really be built back into this man's life But in fairness to Charles Stanley, this seems to be the pattern among so-called celebrity pastors who have fallen, that very few of them, with the with the big exception of Gordon MacDonald uh who wrote the book uh uh several different books that have been uh really real renowned in quoting ordering ordering my private world etc etc. He's probably about the only highly uh you know, celebrity type a Christian leader that has really s fully submitted to Christian discipline and to uh a time of admonition and a season of being accountable after they've fallen. And I think probably if there's a poster child for authentic biblical restoration it would be Gordon Macdonald. But you look at even Ted Haggard, for example. He supposedly was going out in the wilderness and gonna be going to submit himself to Christian Brothers. But but then what happened was He just didn't want to hear the counsel. He didn't want to hear it. It appears though he w didn't want to deal with it. So what is he doing? He's with and again, this this sounds a little judgmental, but I'll just say it anyhow without completing his restoration process, without full submission to the elders of the church, he's come back now, I think started another ministry, another congregation. But in case you're not familiar with Ted Haggard's story, he's the he it was in the news big time a couple of years ago now probably. Uh he got caught uh having some sort of a um uh homosexual sex homosexual gender liaison and uh he he But while he is a married man. Right. And be but even before that he was a pretty well I mean he's a very well known as the president of the National Association. with George Bush, he's the talking head shows a lot of time. He's the guy with the smile Yeah. And the point is that he didn't submit. You know, there's two places in the New Testament where Christ says two places. Go ahead. I just want to make sure Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Paul Monday, Senior Pastor at Frederick Church of the Brethren. This is the Faith Debate on WFMD, 9 30 A. M. All right, two p places in the New Testament. Two places in the New Testament where Christ says that he will give us the keys of the kingdom of heaven. One of them is where where uh uh where Peter uh says that uh you are the Christ, the Son of the living God, and he says I'll give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. The second place is in the context of church discipline where he says uh if your brother sins against you in Matthew eighteen go show him his fault just between the two of you the pr that that process of church discipline which which what that's saying is that that the power of the church, you know, that the gates of hell we're told will not prevail against is rooted in uh precisely our ability to work through these kinds of conflicts in a biblical manner, in a in an appropriate manner. When the church uh uh preempts that process and doesn't work out that process, in the name of gifting, what they've done is they have lost their power. They have spilled pardon me for saying it, they've spilled their seed. You know, th they they they lose their their the very vitality uh that is the church. I believe that that's the case and I think that that's true. Yeah, and and and part of the reason why the vitality is is is uh lost is because Whether we like it or not, as pastors, we are being watched all the time. Exactly. And and and youth and young adults in particular are watching us along with everybody else. The same situation that the Catholic Church fell into with all of the Right. And and what it And again you can oversimplify and you go too far with it. But but basically we start to get down to you know well well what's the use or what difference does it really make? In other words if If my pastor does it thus and so and essentially gets away with it, then why should I listen to anything that he's saying about any sense of absolutely truth or any sense of that which makes her breaks character. Because essentially he did something that should make her break character and there was no acknowledgement whatsoever No repentance, uh uh uh no stepping down in terms of of uh authentic, not punitive, but authentic consequences So, you know, if I'm a young adult or you sitting there uh in whatever church, including my congregation, why should I listen to anything that you're saying? in terms of it truly convicting me. I mean I'll listen to you because I you know I like you or I'll listen to you because of uh the fact that this is my congregation, but in terms of that which is going to penetrate my life and convict me of sin and call me to a whole different way of life, I'm not gonna I don't think I'll listen to you anymore in that regard because essentially what I'll say lose the moral authority. Yeah, in other words what I will say is logos and ethos. I'll basically say I say I'll say Well, I have figured out how the game is played. It's all about expediency, it's all about money, it's all about power, it's all about just if you got enough talent and a giftedness, uh, you can get away to anything. Now it's very interesting in this regard. Uh we're gonna switch to another uh you know, so called uh leader type. But but it's interesting to watch this whole discussion with a Tiger Woods, for example. Right. Uh and I think the jury's still out on this Uh at what point will his gift now his giftedness has hasn't totally returned yet, but I mean at what point will his giftedness return and the giftedness in itself be enough to restore you know, his authority. But but the question even with Tiger. But but the essence of Tiger Woods, for example, is even as a secular guy Will he ever have the authority of a role model anymore in our culture? Right. I think he can Um b in a secular sense he certainly can because Kobe Bryant is a really good example. There's a guy that was accused of rape in a in a Colorado hotel room and and this is about five, seven years ago or but maybe five years ago. And now he's You know, top of the charts is in popularity NBA all over again. does commit and and again another another another deal of this is you know i i sort of how do you rank sin or whatever. I mean all pastors sin. I mean you know I mean we're not perfect. But but at what point is a sin so public and so pronounced that that that there needs to be this stepping down, there needs to be this repentance and even in spite of all that, uh will you ever look at your spiritual leader the same way? I think it's and and so I'm I'm not Coming out on a judgment on that way, but but uh Timothy says that if a leader sins, rebuke him publicly. And we have a an ethic too often in the church that if a leader sins, we're gonna protect him or we're gonna sweep it under the rug. And it seems to me like like that process uh undermines our ethos, the the the sense of integrity in the church and we lose credibility with the world. Well with their priests who they were trying to protect Right, it wasn't cover it was a cover up. And I don't care how big it is. I mean as a pastor, I don't know what you do, but as a pastor, I think it's appropriate for a pastor to admit his weakness, to admit the faults to help his people to not put them up on a pedestal so that the people can have an accurate view of how amazing God's grace is, not how amazing their pastor is. Right, right, right. It's about God's grace. Towards the conclusion of the program. I mean where where does grace kick in in such a way that it literally covers a multitude of sins, including, you know. even the sin of a pastor this public and this pronounced. Is it is it possible for grace I mean scripture basically says scripture is grace is to be larger than any any other uh sin and and can restoration be done in such a way that grace then final has the final word. I think it can happen. There needs to be repentance and those who are the the leaders and the elders in their church have to make that determination whether they think the the repentance is authentic and if an appropriate amount of time has passed and that sort of thing. And it's interesting the thing that Jonathan's just talking about with the pastors going up on a pedestal. I think there's a related issue here as it relates at least to the pastorate. And this idea and we don't have time to get into this in any any depth, but this idea of vocation I think has been damaging. Yeah, this idea that you guys well, Charles Stanley, he had an important ministry. Right, right. You know, well if he was leading a c uh a Fortune five hundred company, that'd be an important job too. Sure. Sure. And so he's no different than the other guy putting his job ahead of his marriage and as a result his marriage falls apart. Right. But somehow well the pastor, he's doing the Lord's work. You know, he's pastoring the flock and you know that's way more important than the marriage and we've missed you know this whole idea of vocation. Everybody's job should be done unto the Lord. Absolutely. Right. I think that we've lost uh we we've lost sight of of that reality and we have people like Jonathan Schweitzer who are up on a pedestal. That's right. Right. It's amazing how amazing I am. And well, but my point is and needing to purposefully be conscious of finding ways to remind his congregation that I'm not really up on the status quo. Right, right, right. You know I mean you're d Paul, you're pastor of one of the largest churches in Frederick County. I don't know what your membership is, but it I know it's one of the largest in Frederick County. You're kind of up on a on a pedestal of sorts. Right. Probably even among your peers. There are probably pastors that look to you as like, wow, you're right. You're up there. Well, you're right. I mean and and and and you you know, but that's not reality. I mean that's not the call of God in terms of the way God wants us to position ourselves and and to present ourselves. It's exactly what Jonathan's saying. I mean the more vulnerable we can be. But the but the challenge is that many laity cannot accept that level of vulnerability. Um and and it's amazing. Uh i uh uh uh i even i even in terms of dress that that I have to be very careful and I'm uh any of my members that are listening, I'm very respectful when I'm saying this, that there are just certainly situations or whatever that I have to look, you know, like a pastor uh in that way. Uh but I wonder sometimes why there is this particular need for us to look a particular way, whether it's the black suit, the tie, whatever. Uh I'm not trying to in any way be disrespectful for people who have that stereotype of a pastor. But in some ways, uh just the title that's traditionally given to us, you know, reverend whatever. Right. You see, in our tradition we don't typically use that. But uh it it it is just it is just a major issue where where where we do not in any way uh say that we I mean we are called to a higher standard. as leaders, uh Christian leaders. But we can't go too far with that for the very reasons you're saying, Troy. It's funny you say the reverence thing, because that's always made me uncomfortable. I have a I I'm not comfortable using that Reverend ran for school board a couple years back and the news stories would refer to him as Reverend Jonathan Schweitzer. They were trying to be respectful. Exactly. But you I've never known you to introduce yourself as Reverend or whatever. In fact, I introduced myself as Jonathan Schweitzer. What do you do? I'm a pastor Right. If it comes up each other and that's the route our tradition takes as well. Anyway. Um Pastor, Reverend, what do you want me to call you now? Uh Paul Monday, he's a senior pastor at the that is your title there, right? Senior pastor? Absolutely. I should have confirmed that like four shows ago. No no no no no. Senior pastor at uh Frederick Church of the Brethren. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel and uh Co-founder of the Frederick Faith Debate and Paul Monday is a host of the Time of Challenge radio program. The day is from 8 day 30 here on WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I encourage you to visit visit us online at wfmd. com keywordfaith. On that webpage you will find a uh A blog just about every day. Seven times a week there's a blog there. That's pretty much every day, kinda, right? Uh links to the audio vault where you can find access to uh previous Faith Debate shows. This I think is Faith Debate Show number three hundred and two Three hundred and two. Is that right? Two, three, something like that. No going back. Uh and not all the shows are there, but w there's like a hundred and fifty shows there. Wow. So you can just go crazy and make fun of us. You can download them into your iPod and you know, you got problems if you're doing that probably. Yeah. It's good to run to to the faith debate because it energizes you. Yes. Yes. Energizer Bunny of Radio. Anyway, thanks so much for listening. Till next week. God bless.