Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumbing plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Halima Harrison with Angel Wings Transportation, and Vera Bagley, who is with We Are One Body Ministries, who Halima Harrison is also. a part of. The Faith Debate if you're not familiar, if this is your first time tuning in, where have you been for the last five and a half years? Yeah. But if you are, here's what we're all about. The truth matters, babe. That's it, huh? We're here to discuss the truth. We used to have this whole sophisticated, you know, like Thomas Jefferson once said, you know, the class of ideas, but We're just throwing that out today, huh? We're paring it down. Okay. Okay. Well for the record you look nice. You know, you you don't quite look like you know how you're sounding. You know, it's like a disconnect. Yeah. I'm looking nice. I walked right into that one, didn't I fear? I try not to, but you know, sure enough Anyway, we've been doing this show for a long time and if if you haven't heard it before, you know, sometimes you'll hear us do shows with people who aren't Christians Uh and we'll talk about the differences between their uh their faith and uh compared to the Christian faith, because Jonathan Sweitzer is a Christian pastor. I am a self-professed uh evangelical uh Christian myself. Uh but this is a show where everybody on the show is a professing Christian. And so And we'll see where the areas of disagreement might be. I'm not sure there'll be a whole lot of disagreement. And sometimes that's okay. The whole point is for us to honestly share our understanding of the truth and if all four of us on the panel today end up agreeing a hundred percent on everything, so be it. You know, we don't want you know we're not gonna try to take up it's gonna be hard for me to come out at the end of the show and agree with everything. I'm gonna I'm gonna have to work hard to make sure Well I was gonna say odds are we'll probably find some nuance here or there we'll say, now wait a minute, are you sure that that's really the truth? Kind of thing. We might not say it that way, but that's kind of what the show is all about. So Before we go too much further though, I want to give uh Halima and Vera a chance to explain what their two ministries that are Angel Wings Transportation. Uh start with that one. Angel Wayne Transportation is a company that uh takes loved ones to see their uh family members who are incarcerated. Uh there's a lot of a lack of transportation in that area, so we provide that for uh the family members so they can go and help the the in inmates be rehabilitated with love. Like what do you do? You send like a bus or you send like a cab or you know like like uh wha what does the transportation look like Yeah, we do a charter bus soon and we go ahead and we take a we actually serve Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia and um And uh Pennsylvania as well. All of those all of the states that had the correctional facilities. That's where we take them. Yeah. And it's a it's a business. Yes, it's a business. But you treat it like a ministry. A ministry, right, because the whole point of it is, you know, as Psalm sixty eight six says s God sets the families uh to the solitary. So the whole point is to bring the families to the inmates. And w and what is God? God is love. And how can someone get really healed by receiving love? If the inmates are inside you know, they look forward to receiving visits because that's all they know. So mo m uh nine times out of ten they actually have better behavior in the jails uh when they know that they have someone that's coming to them on a constant basis. Wow. And how long you been doing that? Uh not very long, but we've been doing it for since about November of this year. Yeah. Yeah. So it's been very rewarding. Bring them together Now it seems like there's more and more of this sort of thing that's going on. And Jonathan, I'd like to get your take as a as a pastor. full-time professional ministry. Oh, okay. Traditional, huh? If you do traditional full time professional ministry is you're a pastor and you shepherd a flock, a church, and you preach on Sundays and you conduct baptisms and weddings and funerals and you minister to people, you help marriages stay together, those sorts of things, right? Provide counseling. We're such a you know charismatic uh you know Traditional has has so many connotations. Anyway, so and so you're saying But traditionally you think, hey, what do you do for a living? Well I'm in professional full time Christian ministry. Right. Right. Normally you'd think, oh, can't she a pastor. Right. Right. But now it's becoming more and more common where you start running into people like Farrah and Halima and you say, What do you do? Well I'm in professional full-time Christian ministry. Oh, you're a pastor. No, not a pastor. Mm-hmm. I provide transportation for families to go visit inmates and t what? Yeah. So what's your take on that? Well I think that um In the United States, probably from the beginning, uh there has been this recognition that there are niches that for one reason or another that the church isn't reaching. Like for example when when uh everybody started moving to the big cities uh the y y you you had this brand new niche What do people do if they if they want to be Christian and have fun with other, you know, young people? Well, they came up with the Young Men's Christian Association, the YMCA's. And it was a ministry that was started out of this niche that the churches weren't providing a place, you know, to connect. Well the same thing happened when they took prayer out of schools. There was a need for some kind of ministry into the schools, and so, you know, you came up with fellowship Christian athletes and various parachurch ministries and the reality is that the way that the prison system is set up in the United States and uh with broken families and such, I could totally see that this is a significant niche. And um there's there's always kind of been a little bit of a uh a love-hate relationship, I'd say, uh, i if I would go that strong even between parachurch ministries and church ministries. 'Cause the churches are like, Oh well we should be able to do that inside the church you know, but at the same time most churches are super grateful and praise God that somebody stepped up to do it and you know if it has to be outside of the church then then so be it. Let it let it be. So I mean that that's a significant niche. That's an important niche. I'll maybe have an older uh woman of a church who'll say, Oh, my ministry handles that, my church handles that and uh you find that, you know, the attention to The specific little details with uh actually providing the transportation, getting the people what the word says sometimes may not be able to be fulfilled fulfilled by the traditional church because the traditional church has such a responsibility as well to um to actually go and to um you know mentor and you're developing your your your feeding you're growing your flock And it's such a a predominant responsibility for a pastor. So for you know, really uh the parent churches and the traditional churches can work And you know it's a real trick. uh discernment and and grace because at the end of the day if a pastor, you know, gets to feeling sideways with somebody who is who is uh, you know, promoting or offering, you know, a service like what you guys offer, I think it's I think it's easy for uh for a pastor to to just kind of write it off and just be like, you know what, that's not gonna happen. You know, and so it really requires a lot of you know, a lot of prudence it it seems like, in thinking through, okay, how do we How do we help to you know to set this ministry up in such a way that it looks like you know we're here to serve, that that it doesn't look like we're here trying to pull people away to our own thing, you know, but you know, that in and how do we build that sense of trust, you know, and respect and that kind of thing. Even here in Frederick, there's a ministerium that gets together on a weekly on a monthly basis rather, and there's a certain number of those guys that are parachurch guys. And we've made a real effort here in Frederick to to make it abundantly clear that that we consider the parachurch guys as as solid a minister as the guys that are are pastors and everybody's a minister but but when we come to this meeting, we don't want there to be any sense that the pastors are trying to win the parachurch guys or that the parachurch guys are trying to win the others. We want there to be a sense of of family and and uh you know that we're all working in the fields of the Lord together. That's very difficult, it seems to me, to uh to break through to that level of connections between pastors and Parachurch ministries, I would imagine. Now I want to ask uh Vera a question because uh Angel Wings Transportation isn't is not a ministry that uh Vera is direct to be involved in operating day to day. That's what Halima does. They they kind of partner up on the We Are One Body Ministries. But you are involved in the sense that you you you and your husband, I guess, own uh Bagley Generators. Yes. And you're a sponsor or or or some sort of financial uh supporter of Angel Wings Transportation, right? Yes. We own Bagley Generation Consulting Services and We support Angel Wings transportation fully. Um financially. Um they provide meals to the the riders on the buses, whatever we can do to support her because the truth of the mat the matter is, pastors, even though we work for the same God, they really haven't embraced this idea that she has, don't you? Yeah. And You know, I wish that, you know, more people would kinda gather around this great vision that she has because if we can, you know, re b rehabilitate the the prisoners then, you know, once they come out, you know and we kinda wanna ignore it too. We kinda wanna ignore it and Well here's my question for you now, because you have a business. Yes. And pro uh providing generators, uh electricity and that sort of thing, right? Is an important service. You don't have electricity, they need to have generators There's an element of service involved in that, and as a Christian, you're bringing Christian service and a Christian mentality into your business. So where's the line this might be for all three of you? I don't know, but I'm addressing kind of a beer, but it could be any of you Where's the line drawn? What's the difference between Bagley Generators and Angel Wing Transportation? They're both businesses They're both run by Christians. They're both providing a valuable service. So where do we feel comfortable as Christians identifying one endeavor as That's ministry and another as, well that's not ministry. I'm just a Christian who's in business. Like where where does that line get drawn, do you think? Well in our business we really don't have that line because everything we do is ministry Um, the generator uh it's that's our service. We do uh consulting for power generators and you know, we're doing pretty well at that business. My husband has been in the business for over fourteen years, is what he did in the military. Okay. Um so he's very knowledgeable about it but But is that a ministry or is that a business? But when he has the opportunity to minister someone while he's doing the business, he does it. Okay, so in that sense he's a Christian that is doing business and he is he is not afraid yet to fully be a Christian in the context of that. Though though I wouldn't I I I think in the in the normal terminology of minister that that's not quite what people would say. Not like you know, not like he's not a minister. He's clearly a lay minister. He's gifted, you know, he's called by God to that place and and is doing very important work. But I like what you're describing, Troy, what w the the delineation there is that is that that's a business, but when when like the Angels Wings thing seems like completely ministry oriented, like like you're not just trying to run a business, but you're trying to to what? Like what makes the difference between the one and the other? He mean you want to jump in on that one? Well, for me what what I'm getting here is that, you know, in the Word, God needs uh, you know, people to make an abundance of money in order to support uh his vision into be able to uh go out in the land and preach the w word. I mean we would love to be able to do it for free. Airlines cost money, trains cost money, transportation, you know, everything costs money. So, you know, you need people in order to be able to help those who are in ministry to go out and preach the word of God. Hence our ministry, we are one body. We are one body comes from, you know, Second Corinthians where it states we are one body but many members. Everyone has a different uh sort of a role that you have to do in order for it to work, you know, and and that's where, you know, the line can be merged together where as her is, you know, God's calling maybe on uh is on her, you know, to make large sums of money. Well why? To be able to finance and help those missionaries who want to go overseas and and to minister to those in foreign lands. Well they need someone to support them. Right. Yeah absolutely This is a face debate on Troy Skinner. Um he's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, also on the panel this week Halima Harrison and uh Vera Bagley with Angel Wings Transportation and We Are One Body Ministries, two different ministry things. And we'll we'll talk a little bit more about We Are One Body in a minute and let people understand what that's all about because it's a completely different kind of a thing. But I have I'm intrigued by this whole you know, when is it business, when is it ministry? And it kinda kinda comes into a heading of like the theology of work You know? And how is a Christian supposed to approach their job, if their business owner approach their business? Uh some could argue, in fact I'll include myself in that list of some who would argue that all Christians are in ministry. All Christians are in full time ministry. Everything that we do should be to the glory of God and to the advancement of the kingdom and and all of that, right? Yeah. The the difference is when it becomes and that's why I was careful before to use the word professional, full time professional Christian ministry. When you're paid specifically to do something that people would recognize as okay, he's Jonathan Schweitzer is clearly a professional minister. Yeah, right. Yeah. It's it i is this a good distinction I'm o I'm offering uh uh when I go to to meet with people it's all spiritually oriented. And if if I have a a physical element to it, you know, maybe helping people to get, you know, like transportation to a place or something, it's it's kinda that's the secondary, but the goal is a spiritual goal Whereas, you know, uh where you work, you work, you know, for a radio station. Your goal is to get people that are gonna uh you know uh mar market their stuff on the radio, you know, to get advertisers, you know, to get good programming. It's you know, it's a very worldly kind of a thing. And your hope is that you bring into that worldly thing kingdom principles that that people that know you will know that you're a believer. Whereas the difference No, I don't know. I think it might be, but I'm trying to think, okay, how do we translate that understanding of the distinction? Yeah. into biblical language. Like how does the Bible describe the distinction? And I'm wondering, is it as simple as you work inside of what we would call the church? the institution of the church. The body is a church. We're all the church. All believers are the church. But you work with inside this institution that has been established. Right? And so that that makes you A different kind of a thing. In my opinion, because he's a pastor, then we auto we automatically know that he's coming to us on a Christian basis. Nevertheless, I would say that it's true at least what, ten percent of the time? Don't know what a night job is. But um with most businesses like Bagley Generations, unless you have an open conversation with me outside of the business, you won't know that we are Christians. And so we kinda keep that on our website at Philippians four thirteen. I can do all things through Christ who strengthened me. So they know they know right up doing business right up front. It's nothing Hidden. He said, Come boldly before the throne. So it's right there. Like for example, when I play golf with uh with people that uh that I've never met before, you know, and I and I go out, we get to like the fourth or fifth hole, and variably they ask the question, so what do you do for a living? Like I was asking you you know, a little bit 'cause we just met each other here uh before the show. I was asking you a little bit and you're like, oh well, you know, I came out of the out of the armed forces and you know we do generators. That kind of thing. I'm like, oh okay, that's what you do. But when I say I'm a pastor, then all of a sudden, you know, they get all embarrassed because they've been cussing and different things like that. You know, and weather at it always carries this this this stigma Whereas that's not necessarily the case. You know, they might find out that you're Christians and and you're you're quick to show that, but but the distinction, you know, is well what do you do for a living? Well what I do for a living is Is that. Well this is what the debate is with you you touched on it a little bit, Jonathan, earlier of like five minutes ago, about the parachurch situation. The parachurches did like Bagley Generations. Or generators? Bagley Generations. Generations. Okay, I said it wrong earlier. I apologize. Bagley Generations is clearly a business operated by Christians and in in the context of them living their lives, they're doing ministry as Christians, but they're running uh a business. And it and we don't have a whole lot of issue with understanding that distinction. Jonathan is the pastor of a church and we don't have any problem distinguishing, okay, yeah, I understand what that means. The parachurch groups are kind of sort of maybe somewhere in between, right? They're not really institutional church organizations, but they're not really businesses either. They kind of fall somewhere in between. And that's And the reality is that the money the money question I think is a big part of what ends up um uh creating some of the the fear because if you gotta if you've got a a m a ministry that's a paraturch ministry, you know, it's coming to the church uh then then there's a little bit of a of a you know nervous twitch that the pastor's like, oh great, you know, at some point they're gonna be asking us for money here, you know, uh this kind of a thing. And again, uh you know the question is how how is ministry pay for itself. And I think that's kind of where you where you want to drive the discussion here. How does ministry pay for itself? And in in the the church part of ministry, ministry pays for itself through tithes and offerings. You know, so people bring tithes and offerings, they come into the storehouse, and if the church is being uh diligent with the funds that are coming in, then they're they're creating ministries out of those funds for the poor, for the hurting, for the outcast, evangelism ministries. as well as pastoral ministries. There's a whole slew of things that they that they flow that money towards. Uh and it sounds like your model and again all parachurch ministries have this. is the question is how are they gonna pay for it. You know, at some point they're gonna have to go out and ask people specifically for money. And again that can be a little bit of a thing, okay, pastors like, okay, well, you know, if people are giving there then they're not gonna give it the church, you know. And you know, those kinds of questions. You know, you'll you'll even hear some parachurch ministries like Dobson and different ones say, look, give your tithes and offerings at your church and then you know and then give to us above and beyond that but make sure you know y you you'll hear some of that kind of language from some parachurch ministries you know, to to try to try to work through some of those issues. So Holima, do you think that Angel Wings Transportation is do you think of it in terms of kind of being a parachurch organization? No, because we actually do charge. We charge the general public uh for our services. Um and unfortunately because of what you just mentioned, sure. Um, you know, the distinction between the two uh where we can look at is that, you know, i as the ties are coming into the storehouse and you're creating your own ministries, you know, if God puts upon the minister's heart to sew into s another you know, another ministry, another and if they're obedient to the God's voice, then that's how the church is able to go and fund other things that are may not be housed particularly inside their ministry. It it's just all about being obedient to God's word and listening to his voice, you know, to what to do. Because God is not going to set things up. and not provide a way to finance it and not provide for it. Certainly. Yeah, I could So does parachurch, you know, do those sorts of organizations exist only because the institutional church has failed? Is that why they exist? They're filling the gaps that the v the regular quote unquote church has somehow Well that's a great question, but but uh help me to understand where the cynic plays into that. Well no you were talking about um people are Uh I don't know if it's uh I don't know how I want to back that up and think about how the cynic part of it. You you said something 'cause I Now I'm babbling. I have I've been babble. I have always uh not always, but in in recent years I have had a strong affinity for people that want to get involved in parachurch type mm of ministries. They have a heart for it. And and they're meeting a need Yeah. That the church isn't meeting and they're like, I'm gonna step out and I'm gonna do this thing. The youth needs to be spoken to or you know, kids will go away to college, so many of them fall away. We need to go speak to those people. Or if or if Helema has said, Yeah, my thing is a parachurch uh thing because the church isn't providing transportation to these inmates and somebody's got to do it. So I'm setting up this parachurch or I would be totally cool with that. And yet at the same time there is the concern, well if I start giving a bunch of money to Halima or to uh campus crusade for Christ or Youth for Christ or any of those sorts of organizations. Yeah. Am I somehow shortchanging my church, my my home church that I tithe to? Sure. You know, but am I not but if my home church were doing those things then I wouldn't be giving the money to the parachurches. So that's where this this like is is it a cynical I guess it is it a cynical thing to say well it's the church's fault that these parachurch organ and these pastors who start twitching Whenever a parachurch guy shows up, they have nobody to blame but themselves. Is that fair? Uh y yeah, I I'd say that's very fair, um, but that you have to put it in context. And the context is um The Protestant Church broke off of the Catholic Church. So you know now you got two different churches, and then off of that broke the uh broke off the um Presbyterians and then the Church of England and then when they all got to the United States you had this this explosion of denominations. And if you've got an explosion of denominations, then what that means is that those denominations don't have some kind of a structure that pulls them all together that is asking the question, okay, where are the holes, you know, in the in society where people aren't receiving ministry. Well, and so so one church might be ministering in w you know, one place, well this is what God called us to do, another church this is what God called us to do. But if there was one church that was in complete unity, and it sounds like that's something you guys are for, and the church was in complete unity, there was a sense of of the leaders coming together, then they could all say, Okay, where are we missing it here in town? You know, where we could raise up another ministry. And inside the Catholic Church when there was just one They had two kinds of ministries. One was was a mu monastic kind of a ministry that that would go out and try to try to identify the niche needs that were out there, and then the other ones were the parishes, you know, where the priest would go to church on every Sunday. Well we don't have that kind of structure anymore and so that's a major issue where where you have these monastic endeavors that start up, but because there isn't a larger structure, it can look like there's this this divide between them that shouldn't have to be there, but is because the church is divided anyways. Well can I ask you a quick question? Is it mostly because the pastors are looking at the congregation as their source I m meaning money wise. Meaning so they're afraid to give uh you know, to give to uh parent churches or people who do it outside because they're feeling that they're now taken away from the bottom line. You know, versus uh the actual movement and and actual, you know, uh the the actual humanity of whatever the the the church maybe doing our cause maybe. And so it just like you would find that in a marriage You know, the it's always fear that drives those things. And I'd say that that the fear of being provided for is definitely an issue uh that that creates some of that struggle there. Yeah, without a doubt. It's one of them. I'd say there's many others, but I'd say it's that that that's definitely an issue. Well it's been a pleasure having you three on the panel. We didn't get a chance at all of t on today's show to talk about We Are One Body Ministries other than mention it. So we will Next week we'll have the same panel on and we'll focus more on that and what that's all about. And it occurs to me as we're wrapping up the show, is the faith debate a sort of parachurch thing? Yes, except for the fact that nobody's paying for anything. That's true. Yes, but it's sponsored, right. Yeah, but that's not we're not seeing any of that Yeah. Anyway. Yeah. Thank you. Let's put a whole show talk about how you and I don't get any money for this. That's a good idea. Yeah. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. Halima Harrison, thank you. Angel Angel Wings Transportation and Vera Bagley. Um who's a supporter of Angel Wing Transportation also with We Are One Body Ministries. Thank you for listening. We encourage you to tune back in this same place 167 and a half hours from now. That's right. Count 'em. The clock starts now. Anybody who won't snow between now and then. Anyone who listens to this show with any regularity will never ever forget that there are a hundred and sixty eight hours in a week. That's yeah, that's right. And you realize you sleep like a third of that away. Yeah. Yeah, well some people do. Yeah. Through the show mostly. Anyway, thanks for listening. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a pea as in your preferred plumber. Povin plumbing, how can we make you smile