Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumin' plumbing, how can we make you smile? This is the face debate. I'm Troy Skinner and you ever have one of those deja vu moments where you feel like you've been somewhere before? That's one way to put it. I know. Anyway, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, is on the show. Welcome back And uh C. Paul Smith, former alderman for the City of Frederick, is uh on the show. And last week we ended in kind of an awkward place. We were getting all riled up about what was going on with uh what Pat Robertson had to say about Haiti And it we read a a a letter to the editor from the Frederick News Post by a gentleman who really ripped into Pat Robertson and then I And all Christians as a result. And all Christians including, you know, our good buddy R. C. Sproul, who I've never met, but I feel like I know him. Yes. You know. Uh so of course we had to we had to rise up to R C Sproul's defense. It's different from R. C. Cola. Yeah. Yeah. More so than even Pat Roberts' defense. We had to rip the writer to the Yeah. It was the Christian thing to do. Uh-oh. But anyway, the lightning Since we're talking about the fine retribution. But we we were we were on a roll and Jonathan had a few more things on his mind. I said, you know we have to hold those things until next week. And it's not often that Troy dec decides that we need to hear John out. In fact it's the first time I think so market calendars. But you might not have heard the comments or you you might not have heard last week's show. Yes. So let's listen to what Pat Robertson said and we'll let more of it play this time than played last time so you can get a better sense of the context, okay? Yes. Christy, something happened a long time ago in Haiti and uh people may not want to talk about it. They were under the heel of the French. Uh you know, Napoleon the Third and whatever. And they got together and swore a pact to the devil. They said, We will serve you if you'll get us free from the French. It's a true story And so the devil said, Okay, it's a deal and um they kicked the French out, you know, the Haitians revolted and got themselves free But ever since they have been cursed by by one thing after the other, desperately poor, that island of Hispanoa is one island. down the middle. On the one side is Haiti, on the other side is the Dominican Republic. Dominican Republic is is prosperous, healthy, full of resorts, etc. Haiti is in desperate poverty. Same islands. They need to have and we need to pray for them a great turning to God and out of this tragedy I'm optimistic something good may come. And so there we have a fuller context of what Pat Robertson had to say. And I don't know, I have this really witty thing that comes to mind for me to say now, and that is to apologize to those who are mad at me now because I gave a fuller context Because they want to have a chance to rail against what Pat Robertson had to say out of context, but now we put it in context making it much more difficult to rail. Wouldn't you say? I mean uh he's obviously he's feeling some pain there. He's got like a pastoral sensitivity in his voice. Yeah. It's paining him to say this. Yeah. The reality is though that this is what I think happened and what's going on. Right, isn't that your son? Totally. And the reality is that if I was talking to my son, say my son got into a car accident that was his fault because he was doing something that was wrong, but he ended up in, say, the hospital or something like that. The reality is that somehow in the context of that, uh, at some point I would I would I would look at him and say, look, you know I'm appealing to you, like I have been appealing to you, that you need to change how it is that you're that that you're going about driving. Do you see what can happen? Man, you're broken. You're sitting here. I'm crying about it, you know. And and the reality is that what happened in Haiti uh is is exacerbated. It's made way worse by the fact uh that there's so much corruption, you know, and everything going on in and uh you know I'm reminded of Jonah and Nineveh. When Jonah went to Nineveh He said, You guys are sinful. You need to repent, or else God's going to come and destroy you. I mean, it was a it was the most bigoted, self-righteous statement, uh in uh non-PC statement. And in the context, the Ninevites said, You know what, you're right, we need to change. And God didn't destroy them. Whether or not what happened in Haiti was was God's judgment, though Um there's still the question of whether or not their their chosen spiritual uh commitments Which everybody agrees are witchcraft and voodoo. If you ask them, they would even say, Yeah, you know, th the these are the things that we give ourselves to. They they would even be uh positive about it. You know, that that that's a good thing. But obviously whatever those choices were did not set their society up to be prepared for a major crisis. And that's unfortunate. I I wish that was not the case. I wish they were more prepared. What a koja and luja uh lucid uh lucid response by Jonathan Schweitzer. But all I heard was, I'm appealing to you. I am appealing to you. Oh yeah. I saw he was hypnotizing me. Now I I find Johnson Sweitzer appealing. I'm not sure Did you you you just went really weird on me, man. So I'm gonna have to like get up, leave the room and come back and just reset myself. Anyway, well last week on the show we had the question what the context was and hopefully he was raising money and he was. They did a uh telethon on their on the seven hundred club erasing. money for Haiti, so that should hopefully make people feel a little bit better about what Pat had to say. What other comments and thoughts do you have on this? On the one hand, whether or not you agree with Pat Robertson, I think you have to be grateful that we have the right to speak up and w and we're glad that he has the the wherewithal to say what he thinks, whether or not we agree with him. Good point. Um if if he were a government official, my recommendation would would have been not to get into this. And and some churches have taken that approach rather than what he did. Um, there may very well have been, you know Wickedness that caused this? I don't know. But I was glad to see that he was involved in an effort to help the people and and uh you know sin is is real and and that's what you address. Uh that's what ministers address. Thank goodness he has the courage to acknowledge their sin and wickedness and that we should try to be good people and avoid that. So if you had to give a uh ten, fifteen second uh audio clip of what you think about this, what would you say in that ten fifteen second audio clip? As a government official, I would not have gone into this area at all. Yeah. If it were uh My private thoughts, I I don't know I don't think that the pact of two hundred years ago necessarily would ca have caused this problem. I think it's probably if there if there was a wickedness that caused it, it's probably something that's going on now. I think God is gives people a chance to repent, so to speak. So it is possible but I I don't know. So it's interesting where we are going to try to draw the lines and we're thinking particularly in a contemporary American context, which makes sense because we're living in contemporary America. Uh but you think about it, you know uh and in the Protestant tradition, somebody like John Calvin, he was a government magistrate and he was also involved in the in the teaching of of religion for the people that were in the city of Geneva. Uh Martin Luther was very involved in politics. Popes throughout this generations have been involved in politics. The Vatican is a city state uh all itself kind of thing. So Uh, is this a uniquely American concern about trying to I don't know, split a hair or make that d that discernment of if I'm gonna speak as a government official I Do or don't say these sorts of things, but as a private citizen I can say these other things. Is that you need to hear? Go ahead. You make a great point. If you're familiar with the history of every one of our colonies Most of them w had religious people that came here and and and Massachusetts was one and my ancestors came across, I had several that were on the Mayflower. And uh church religion was very important. And who's the one down in uh Georgia? Uh the Methodist uh guy, I forget his name, another well known reformist. Uh so all up and down the the coast, the the people that came here, many of them came here with very strong religious beliefs, and there was a connection between religion and the government Yeah, in fact there was even uh there's even record of whole cities or whole counties that uh had some kind of tragedy hit them, whether it was a illness or whether it was famine or whether You know, crop failure that would literally say, look, we need to pray, so let's call the call the entire community to praying and fasting that God would forgive us so that He could come back and start to bless us again. You know, there there's th it's a it it was a very American thing to do that and uh for it to somehow be less American for that to be the case now I think is is not a uh necessary um conclusion to draw. Yes. And the other one we were talking about off the air. You were talking about Abraham Lincoln Lincoln's second inaugural address where he makes reference to our national sins and and the need for God to bless us, a just a profound doctrine. To me, the interesting thing about that was uh in Lincoln's second address, he did invoke God's blessings and mentioned the need to repent even. He didn't mention the name of Jesus Christ. Um, but I'll tell ya, that's what I believe, that that Jesus Christ is the God of this land and if we will serve him uh will be greatly blessed. And you're saying that as a private citizen, not as a political candidate, right? That's correct. So if as soon as if I'm on the dais I I would really try to avoid that. Uh now if they asked me to say a prayer at a public meeting I we've already been through that a week or so ago, I would say it, but but I would avoid that because I I don't know. It's just not a fully appropriate in it. You know, we've got these really strong religious roots. And then for the next hundred years after the establishment of this nation, still pretty good firm rooting in religion. I mean Lincoln is is president uh almost a hundred what, ninety years in. Yeah. You know, eighty five, ninety years into our country. So next hundred years So then over the next hundred things begin to guide get a little bit weird. And now here we find ourselves over the last thirty or forty where they've gotten so strange that we don't even really feel like we have a freedom of religion because there's all this pressure to have a freedom from religion, which we addressed really briefly in a previous show with Paul. you know, sixty, seventy years ago. And until then there pretty it there wasn't a lot of cases on it and it was pretty much the way I I presume all of us believe and that is They just didn't want the government to establish one religion. Professing a belief in God, there was nothing wrong with that. You can put in God we trust on your money, you can add it to the pledge in nineteen fifty and And that wasn't a problem. But the law has really developed in the last sixty, seventy years. And why why wasn't that a problem? Yeah. Why wasn't that a problem? To put God in trust and all this sort of stuff. I I I don't I don't know. I do know that that the atheists, for example, are more vocal and uh it it's very interesting if if you remember the Ten Commandments um issue we had here in Frederick where an atheist, a young man, went by the Ten Commandment Monument over there near uh Memorial Park. And in order for him to bring his suit, he had to go his lawsuit, he had to go by that and say Ooh, that offended me. That hurt me. He had to articulate some harm. And the courts began to recognize a principle of harm. And it's it's you can't it's very it's You can't put your finger around it, it's not concrete. It's it's a fiction, it's almost ridiculous. But uh but that's the mentality that somehow you know the y something that you've said is gonna is gonna make me so offended that that uh that my that I'm intimidated by your religious orientation or something. Which a and and it's an idea that is totally foreign. What you can't do unless you mindset unless you study the law, you wouldn't have thought of it. This eighteen year old went by if he didn't know the law and the principles of law, he wouldn't he would have ended up not having a valid suit, because he would have said d they would have said, Well, did you see that monument? Yeah. Did it hurt you? Well, it didn't hurt me. Or you I mean you kind of would have to say uh you have to realize, hey, I gotta be hurt and offended and it's gotta really bother me and I you gotta come up with something. So uh th that's one development. Uh one other thing it's just worth mentioning here, the the First Amendment freedoms of religion are really broken it down into two parts. You have the Establishment Clause and the Free Exercise Clause. Okay. The establishment clause says that Congress shall kn make no law respecting the establishment of religion. So it says the government can't establish a religion. And it fur affirmatively establishes that right to worship. So when you look at the cases that come about, you have to put it in one of the two categories. Sometimes you have One that's got both. But usually it breaks down into two. And they have totally different rationales. So what constitutes that Trying to confuse with Constitution, but what makes for the establishment of a religion? If we want to put a monument to the Ten Commandments up in a park Is that the city establishing a religion? To me it's not, but obviously some people disagree with that, right? Yeah, well the Ten Commandments are all over the Capitol building They're all over uh downtown Washington, D. C. I mean if you're gonna get rid of the Ten Commandments, you're gonna get rid of like uh uh every picture of the founding fathers that y th that is out there practically. I mean it's it's uh it'd be pretty hard to eradicate that. Uh it's interesting. I I can tell you where the Ten Commandments are in the Montgomery County Circuit Court Yeah. We don't have one i we don't have one in Frederick. Uh I've been to Washington County and it's right there on the court grounds outside their Ten Commandment monument that was put there in the fifties. But But the way the the law has come to be on that is is th the if the government is is promoting this as their view, you have problems. If it's there with other documents, it'll be okay. Um And uh you know I'm not sh uh sure I agree with the direction it's gone, but that's the way it's going. So it has to be a law I mean we we're dealing with whether or not they're legislating that somebody has to worship a certain way. I mean is putting up a monument the establishment of a law Well it the interpretation has gone from there. It's not just passing a law, now it's official acts. So that has been interpreted to include much more than that. Which unfortunately is goes beyond the Constitution. I mean do you feel like that's constitutionally appropriate for them to to read that into it? I mean the Supreme Court just made a decision that that went against their d deceases pretty firmly and they gave a gave a good argument for doing so because so many previous courts have been uh so so out of line with constitutional principles that they had to they had to move back to what was right. Interestingly I probably am not so troubled by that. What I am more troubled by is The the Ten Commandments uh it's not just one religion. There are many Christian religions and the the Jewish religion and other a number of religions that embrace For that matter even Islam claims that they are the uh the current inheritors of the Judeo-Christian background Uh and so at some level even they b w would agree that the Ten Commandments are righteous. So so in in light of this, it's my understanding that the original meaning of the establishment clauses. We're not going to have a Catholic run church or a Presbyterian or Baptist run. It wasn't even saying you can't we couldn't adopt a Christian view. Um because most of the religions up and down the coast, they were Christians. And there was definitely comments made about not uh not uh not blocking out Muslim worship either. They called them Mahatmatins back then. The Mahatmutans were also allowed to worship according to the dictates of their concept. I mean I think it is good that we accommodate all of them. And uh you know whatever they are. And I think that's good. As a government that is as a government. But but the thing that concerns me is when we are becoming uh going so far that we we want to have a an atheistic government And some people think that's better. Totally secular. You can't mention God, can't refer to him, and and and of course the issue we face now is you can say in God we trust, but boy When you mention the name of Jesus Christ, you r run into problems. You're listening to the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner with former city alderman of in the city of Frederick, C. Paul Smith, and Jonathan Sweitzer, who's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. A couple of thoughts occurred to me. One, I I always understood that the you know the Constitution was governing what the federal government could do. So if it says that the Congress shall pass no law to establish a gov uh a religion, that's not to preclude the states or a county or a city or s or something from doing that, right? Yeah v uh very interesting point. I'm a Mormon as you know, and um in the eighteen thirties and forties, uh more well, I'll take to take you to eighteen thirty-eight. I had ancestors who lived in Missouri when Governor Boggs uh signed an executive order that all Mormons must leave the state or be exterminated. And and so Yeah, they left. And I mean it was I won't I won't get into the full story. Well I went back to Illinois for a while, but but the the Mormons then uh sought redress and couldn't get it because this was a state act. The Constitution gave this federal government no authority to do anything By virtue of the Fourteenth Amendment, though, we have something called the by incorporation, these rights became binding on the states. And it happened through a period of time where it's a little bit. What does the fourteenth Amendment say? The fourteenth Amendment includes several things. It's the statement that has the equal protection. Uh right. No wait, that's not the wording. The equal protection of the law shall not be denied to anyone. Um so But anyway, the point is the const through that amendment, the uh all of the Bill of Rights uh now have become applicable uh to the states and binding on the states. Well the Bill of Rights were already binding on the states, weren't they? No. The one not the ones as Troy said, not the ones that said Congress shall not do this. Congress shall not do this. It was not until after again eighteen sixty eight was when that amendment was passed that they began to be binding. And you have The fourteenth Amendment, when you couple that with uh all this discrimination litigation, uh when you couple that with the entitlements that people get in the government has just So it was a fourteenth Amendment, a bad amendment? uh effective, uh has one had one of the greatest effects on our nation than any amendment because of what it's done. And a lot of it's good, but not all of it. It seems like the equal protection part is the thing that leads to all the religious things. People want to be protected from religion. Like you can't be imposing a religion on me. I need to be protected from You religious zealots, you Christians and Jews out there, kind of thing, right? You can't put your Ten Commandment monuments up in my city park. I should be protected from that See there actually in the fourteenth Amendment is an equal protection and a due process clause. It's the due process clause that incorporates these things. Um It's a little bit complicated but it's deep. But I wanna know this stuff. I wanna know why it is that all of a sudden, you know, I I I don't have the right. to freedom of religion. Why why I can't speak up publicly? Why everybody wants to shut me shut me down in public? And if if the fourteenth Amendment is where that that's coming from, then I feel like I want to understand it a little bit. Now every time y you have a Ten Commandment monument, you know, in fifty states, you have litigation in many states on the same issues. So when our Ten Commandments monument was being litigated here in town, people began to do a little research. I certainly did And there are there are a dozen cases from around the country where they have dealt with this issue a little bit differently. We are in the Fourth Circuit, which actually is a pretty conservative circuit. Hm. I was encouraging the city to take this to court because we've got North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, very religious conservative places, and they probably would see a way for that monument to stay here. Uh whereas other jurisdictions uh you know are a little more well, less conservative. Mm-hmm. So fascinating. I have a proposal. Okay. So that we can have to be a little bit more. But the three of us together were powerful, influential Yeah, individuals. Alright. So would you make a pact with me to establish a brand new religion? And our holy scriptures will begin with the phrase, we the people, in order to form a perfect union Blah blah blah blah blah. That becomes our religion. All right. And the leader or the founder of a religion is Thomas Jefferson. Uh one of the great uh prophets and deacons of a religion would be uh George Washington, John Adams, John Quincy Adams, Abraham Lincoln. I'm going to make the United States Constitution and the Declaration of Independence my holy scripture. That is my religion. And I'm going to have it recognized as a religion by the United States government. Can I now claim that uh the government has established a religion because I mean you know what I mean? How convoluted does it does it become at some point? That's very interesting. What that reminds me of is if you ever want to get your uh a uh an exemption have a charitable organization, just come up with your own religion, then you can get the contributions in there and they can be be tax exempt. And you can believe whatever you want really. Uh what's the guy's name? Uh editor of Newsweek magazine, John Meachum, uh wrote American Gospel and he basically argues what you just argued. that there is a a religion that is a public civil religion in the United States where it's okay to use certain kind of phrases if you're a politician as long as you don't uh use the name of Jesus or Muhammad or Moses or any of these people as long as you keep it uh this kind of nameless uh uh you know deist kind of a God that it's okay But as soon as you move more in a direction of something that is sectarian, then uh then you are, you know, no longer supposed to do it. You've kind of swung back around to a a thought that I had when I asked the question early on in this show about, you know, why was it okay to say in God we trust and have all this mentioned to God and rights endowed to us by our Creator. Why was that okay? Well because at the time deism was was considered okay. Yeah. And through our culture it became okay to have these kind of bland generic ideas of God. And you could find some way to have that language feel inclusive. I mean even the Hindus, they have a pantheon of gods, but they're gonna accept You know, you any almost anybody's idea of God, they'll just add it to their pantheon kind of. I don't want to oversimpli uh simplify it, but you get to this point where it's i it has no meaning because it means everything to everybody at any time And that idea of God, which is like a a secular idea, a secular humanist so secular humanism becomes the religion of the land, right? Yeah, y it I understand where you're going and and and that is a concern, but You know, when uh on after 9-11 when Congress got out there on the steps and saying, God bless America, I I was touched by that and and I think that illustrates one really valuable thing of Kind stay kind of staying general. They were certainly united in their belief in God, and there were certain differences. And I think there's value to taking that and working with that many times. On the other hand, her or maybe in addition to that though, my belief in God is very personal. He is a real being to me that I've communicated with and love him and and when I mention m my Savior Jesus Christ. It's very personal and and um I mean it's real. So I I don't know how you can get everybody to go there. Just saying what I said, you know, is gonna offend some people, but but that's But we have to have the ability and the and the form to be able to express that. And yeah, it seems to me that that in the late uh I guess the last seventy years or so of our nation that there was a move in the direction of this this uh uh intensive secularization of things and that it came on the heels of of uh World War Two somehow. Uh and uh you know, I don't uh probably we could sit here and try to analyze, you know, what it was, but there certainly has been an attempt to move things in a direction that I think the Founding Fathers did not intend that was not the case for the first hundred and thirty years of the of the nation. And my hope is that we're coming to the back end of that, that that that uh effort to uh secularize the public square is is fizzling out and it's being exposed a little bit. And I hope that continues so that there uh th that we could get back to what the founding fathers were, you know, so that we could be a nation that is truly free to to worship according to our conscience. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We're joined this week by C. Paul Smith With a former city alderman in the city of Frederick. I'm Froy Skinner. You've been listening to the Faith Debate. Thanks so much for listening to the video. By how they service their clients from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?