Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumbing plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to Frederick Face today. On Fredericks News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. The show is brought to you by Putman Employment and Heating. How can we make you smile? On the panel again this week, we have Jonathan Swacer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, the Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church in Poolsville, Maryland. And we are on an Odyssey, a quest to cover all of the Westminster Confession of Faith in the next twenty-five minutes. No. Woo. No. We're going to uh be covering it over the course of many months, actually, on the show. And we just last week we talked generally about confessions as a whole, the history. very loosely of uh of uh of confessions and the Westminster Confession of Faith more specifically. Why the con uh Westminster Confession of Faith specifically you ask? Listen to last week's show. So we've got into uh chapter one. That's right, because it is on the internet and you can podcast it. So go to the audio vault, download it, listen to it over and over again. It's a great sleeping aid, so I'm told. Uh we started chapter one, but towards the very end of the show we just kinda got into it and chapter one is broken up into ten parts and we tackled part one for the most part, but the one thing we didn't talk about was uh w at any great length because I didn't think Jonathan and Jace would disagree with it, but you know, some you listening might disagree. Uh it's the although the light of nature, the very first words, although the light of nature and the works of creation and providence do so far manifest the goodness, wisdom, and power of God as to leave men without excuse. Yet they're not sufficient unto salvation, blah blah blah. It goes on based on paraphrasing that last part. Nature, what we see around us, is enough evidence that God exists that we should believe based on that, but we we don't and won't because we have blinded hearts. Um but we're left without excuse. And so because we refuse to recognize uh God's existence and our need and dependence on God just based on what we see around us, that in and of itself leaves us Without excuse so that we can't avoid condemnation. So we are in need of the Well that's not what it's saying. It's it's it's saying here that they are not sufficient. to give knowledge of God necessary unto salvation. So if that's the case, then it is true that uh the Westminster is claiming that you cannot if you if if you lived in Aboriginal Australia and nobody had ever come and preached the gospel to you, what this is saying is that if you don't know the name of Jesus Christ, if you don't know the will of God as it's as it's delineated in in the Bible and you die in that state that there is no revelation of nature that is sufficient to keep you from condemnation, to to to save you. And I'm actually would say that I think I'm in disagreement with that. I think that that there is adequate uh revelation in nature for those that are paying attention, uh uh that God would uh respond and show himself uh uh You know, whether whether it meant, you know, like for example, in Islamic countries we're here all the time about uh people catching visions of Jesus Christ. You know, well how is it that God chose to go and reveal Himself to them more specifically? It's because they had caught the revelation in nature that's out there and the response of their heart was such that God says, I'm going to I'm going to give them a revelation of my son Jesus Christ and Uh I can imagine that there are those that have died without actually hearing a person preach the gospel and or um teach them the word of God, but did not die. And go to hell but but were saved because they had adequate of reading into that line an idea that's actually not a stated in that line but is covered in another part of the confession where it talks because I I'm almost adding in my mind when I'm reading that, and this is shame on me because it's not there, but what I'm adding is either not sufficient because of the fallen nature of man. to give knowledge of God. You know, it's like that an understanding that because man is fallen, they're not sufficient. But it actually doesn't say that, so maybe it would be better if it actually did Give the reason. Well, and Jace was saying earlier that that's one thing about the confessions that you have to r uh you ha i it y you gotta use the confession to interpret the confession, kinda like scripture. You know, and so Um I think it's important to go ahead and and recognize that the confession does add something like that later on. Chapter six is all about that. Very very important to understand this. I wish there were ways. I I often wish that they had put that one up next or even first. How do you choose which chapter is going to come first in each one of these sections? But Um certainly, I mean I think you and I would definitely disagree on this even as to what we're sure what we're saying what you're saying here. Um men are inexcusable by what is given to them. So God's revelation to them makes them inexcusable. They are now depraved, according to chapter six. Absolutely. And They cannot come to Christ without the Word. I think that's why it's in this section of Holy Scripture is to try and show you that the Word must be preached, that the that Christ must be proclaimed in order for them to come to knowledge of the truth. And I think they probably started with scripture because the context is they're still kind of battling Roman Catholicism, which held uh uh a strong posi still holds a strong position for the tradition of the church and the and the power of the pope. Uh and they're saying, no, no, it's about the scriptures, so let's start there. So I think and I think we see that in the very next point in part two. It says, Under the name of Holy Scripture or the Word of God written, are now contained all the books of the Old and New Testament, which are these. And I'm not going to read them all for the sake of time, but basically find a Protestant Bible, open it up, and you'll find sixty-six books of the Bible listed there. Those are the 66 that are listed here in the Westminster Confession of Faith. And it says that all of these are given by inspiration of God. So basically they're saying the Protestant and not the extra books in the Roman Catholic Bible, the Protestant Bible has all of the books of the completed Bible, which is the So do you guys have any disagreement with that? You're not Roman Catholic, so you're not going to disagree with that part of it, but I want to come back real quick to the uh to what he was saying from Romans. Um which which verse there are you using in Romans to say that uh that that a person cannot through what he sees in creation divine qualities of God that he cannot arrive uh uh at a at a realization that God is holy And then in being holy, uh, he still desires a relationship with man, but man is incapable of attaining to God, and so there must be some way that God makes for for man to uh to uh be forgiven of his sin and to to to be brought to that state. I I'm of the opinion that that uh that that can be discerned from creation And so yes the gospel is the power of God unto salvation, but I'm saying that all creation is preaching the gospel. The wrath of God is being revealed from heaven against all ungodli against all the godlessness and wickedness of men who suppress the truth by their wickedness. Since what may be known about God is plain to them because God has made it plain to them. For since the creation of the world, God's invisible qualities, his eternal power, and divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood from what has been made, so that men are without excuse. So that's the first side of what you were saying, right? Yeah. And you're in agreement with that. Well of course you're agreeing with that. I just read the Bible, so I didn't interpret it. You agree with it. God nor gave thanks to him, but their thinking became futile, their foolish hearts were darkened, although they claimed to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the mortal God for images. made to look like mortal man and birds and animals and reptiles. So basically this whole section is God giving them over to all of their idolatry, I guess. Yes. Without a doubt. Yes. Um they commit indecent acts, blah blah blah. Furthermore, since they don't think it worthwhile to retain the knowledge of God, he gives them over to a depraved mind. Yeah. To what ought not to be done. So So what you're arguing, I understand, is that in their depravity I feel almost feel like we have to wait for chapter six to be able to do this right, uh which is probably why you skipped ahead to the second point. In their depravity. Just because Troy wants to go through systematically doesn't mean that we can't go through holding. Of course he is the host of the show, so that would be uh impolite. I I guess uh the argument is made from all of Romans. You asked me what verse. That's gonna be that's the problem with systematic theology is that proof texting Kill I mean it doesn't work. Sure. So you need an uh you need a larger argument. But the argument that Romans I think makes is that these people are absolutely depraved. and cannot come to a knowledge of the truth. He's saying that all men are absolutely depraved in this passage in Romans 1? Um Yes. My reading of it is that they uh that the wrath of God is not being revealed against all humanity but against all the godlessness and wickedness of men who suppress the truth by their wickedness. It doesn't say that the wrath of God is revealed against all men, but it's qualifying what men the wrath of God is being revealed against. So in your mind there are some who are godly and righteous in and of themselves. In my mind, there are those who uh who who do exactly what it says here. uh i that that they don't suppress the truth with their wickedness, but instead they uh they glorify and give thanks to God and in so doing God each step of the way to the extent that they do that from being a young child till uh they're grown uh grown up that that he protects. He doesn't give them over. And I see four giving overs there and Uh I I know that I can say without a doubt that not every single human being uh is been totally given over to you know, the the homosexual perversions that are in verse twenty six or the uh the every form of uh wickedness that is in twenty nine thirty through thirty two, you know, that that not everybody's gotten there. So that means that that at some level there's been enough of a conscience that people have been kept from going that far You know, uh there there's been some m uh maintaining of that and so uh so that being the case, um I think God responds to that. God is dynamic interacting with humans, and to the extent that they refuse to glorify him, he gives them over. To the extent that they glorify him, he doesn't give them over. Well the good news is this will save us some time when we get to chapter six, because we won't have to cover some of the same ground. Uh the bad news is we're a little bit behind now on chapter one. So in the interest of saving some time, uh I don't think there's a whole lot of disagreement here in the room with parts two and three. They kind of go together I read part two. Part three is the books commonly called uh Apocrypha, not being of done that's the extra books the Roman Catholic Church added uh to to their holy canon. Uh not being of divine inspiration are no part of the canon of the scripture, and therefore of no authority in the Church of God, nor to be in any otherwise approved or made use of than uh than other human writings. Um so you guys aren't gonna really disagree with that. If we had a Roman Catholic in the room, they'd be arguing with us on that. But uh unfortunately we don't have a Roman Catholic in the room, so We'll move. I was actually initially planning on playing a little devil's advocate and taking the position of the Roman Catholic, but in the interest of time, we'll press forward. Part four. The authority of the Holy Scripture, for which it ought to be believed and obeyed, depends not upon the testimony of any man or church, but wholly upon God, who is truth itself. The author thereof, and therefore it is to be received because it is the word of God. So the gist of that is God attests to the authority of the Bible, not man or any institution. Uh you know, the next one talks about the the testimony of the church uh um uh invites people to recognize the authority of the word of g uh that that is in Well part five is the next part which is and and I'm of the opinion that the reason why that we uh accept the authority of Holy Scripture is because of the testimony of the church. And so you really can't separate those two. You know, if somebody just comes to you and says, You need to believe the Bible because it's true, well, I'm I'm gonna take issue with that, you know. I I I believe the Bible because the testimony of the church But then part five. Esteem of the Holy Holy Scripture. Well here let me the testimony of the church moves me in that direction. Let me move uh let me read to uh part five now, we'll tie them together because I don't think that that's what part five is saying. I think that part five is basically saying, Hey the Bible is this really, really cool thing. Uh but this is this is but this is not why we believe it's God's word, not because it's a really cool book, but because people the uh people believe in the Bible because of the Holy Spirit's So here's how it reads. We may be moved and induced by the testimony of the church to a an high and reverent esteem of the Holy Scripture and the heaviness of the matter, the efficacy of the doctrine, the majesty of the style, the consent of all the parts, the scope of the whole, which is to give all glory to God the full discovery it makes of the only way of man's salvation, and many other incomparable excellencies, and the entire perfection thereof, they are arguments whereby it does abundantly evidence itself to be the Word of God, yet notwithstanding Our full persuasion and assurance of the infallible truth and divine authority thereof is from the inward work of the Holy Spirit bearing witness by and with the Word in our hearts. So it's not talking about the tradition of the church there, right? Uh I I'm saying that one of the th w that that what this passage is saying i i it's it's It's a um corollary. It's backing up number four. Number four is that the authority of the scripture is based on God, not based on anything else. Even though the testimony of the church moves people to esteem Holy Scripture and the the the reading the Bible in and of itself As you read it, you're caught up with the majesty and you're caught up with with how true it is, and that that in and of itself, it gives evidence to the fact that it's the word of God, but that at the end of the day, what convinces us that it is the word of God is the inward working of the Holy Spirit. You know what I think of when I when I read this part of chapter one? I'm reminded of the of us of an argument that the uh the Islam makes, that the the Muslim would make about the the Quran. It's it's it's a book to be esteemed am among a uh any other 'cause it's the most excellent book. It's it's it's such a wonderful you know, it's so well written. It's so ma it has a a a a lofty majesty about it and therefore it is the word of God And here in this confession we're saying, Yeah, the Bible has that too, but that's not why we believe it's the Bible. You know, well the Roman Catholics say because the church tradition says and say, Yeah, well that too, but that's not why we believe it's the Bible. See, I'd be concerned that somebody would take the Bible and in reading number four they'd say The Word of God is the Word of God. So that's all you need to know. Without saying no, it's the Holy Spirit in your heart that that helps you to see the truth of the Word of God. And that furthermore the testimony of of the church and when you when you read the thing it it clearly evidences itself to be the word of God that uh that that there's that it's appropriate for us to appeal to people on those bases, you know, for the authority of the people. But it is circular, right, Jace? I mean it's uh the the Bible tells us that we understand the Bible because the Holy Spirit illumines our mind So that's why we say the Holy Spirit helps us to understand and recognize what the canon should be. And so it it's circular, right? The canon tells us what the canon is. That is actually largely true, but circular arguments aren't necessarily invalid. But I w you know that's I guess that's why I'm bringing it up. I want you know I wanted to make sure that we addressed that because it's I think it's screaming out right now. Wait a minute, you're saying the God says that God is, and therefore God is what God says? Wait a minute, that sounds like you're you know you're you're you're making your point to make your point. Like I I don't see how you're making your point. But so in what way is a circular argument okay Well the well the point is is that um I agree with you. I think that they are the Holy Spirit enlarges it it it awakens us to be able to catch the big picture of what the Word of God is saying. And outside of that um it's uh it it's unlikely that we will recognize how relevant in applicable, how how pervasively relevant the Word of God is to everything that we see, that that it reflects the truth that it uh that it becomes our testimony that you know that that this you know when we look at what's going on in the world, when we look at the the fall of man in the w world, when we look at, you know, the are the difficulties that we face in life And then we read of the Word of God. We're like, the Word of God is saying the exact thing that's happening. You know, it's it's it's precise. It's it's answering the questions that we're all dealing with. It's it's the Holy Spirit that helps us to to make those connections and to recognize that that's the case. And so it is the canon uh that yeah, I I mean I I I can see that it's a circular argument, but um It's uh I'm not fearful of that I guess is what I'm saying. I think that certain for myself I I end up I mean I don't just accept all circular arguments and say, well they're they're okay. Right. Uh but uh every when you get down into the really nitty-gritty, every argument is gonna end up having some element of circularity in it. The the I I don't think you can have a pure argument if if you argue it completely through that's gonna be absent of any circularity. Arguments have bases. Which they are the based. So if you've got something that's based, then that one has an argument that's based on something. Right. And Dai Descartes the one that that so effectively tried to move the basis of all reality from God who is I am that I am to man who I think therefore I am. And he he tried to to take the base of all arguments away from well God created everything, look at it, to, well, I can think, so therefore I'm the foundation of all truth. And so I'll start there. And so You know, I guess those are the those are the two great circles, hum humanism and theism. Now part six of chapter one says, the whole counsel of God concerning all things necessary for his own glory, man's salvation, faith, and life is either expressly set down in Scripture, or by good and necessary consequence may be deduced from Scripture, unto which nothing at any time is to be added, whether by new revelations of the spirit or traditions of men, Nevertheless, we acknowledge the inward illumination of the Spirit of God to be necessary for the saving understanding of such things as are revealed in the Word, and that there are some circumstances concerning the worship of God, the government of the church common to human actions in societies which are to be ordered by the light of nature and Christian prudence according to the general rules of the word, which are always to be observed. So basically, Bible's all we need to give God glory for our own salvation. Uh but not without the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives and nothing to be added to the Bible, which is kind of echoing something we talked about earlier. There's no new revelations or new traditions echoing something it said earlier. And but this is something that's kind of new. However, a common sense interpretation of the Bible is acceptable for living out our life and organizing our society. So here we're we're entering in where human reason and common sense is is given permission, is okay. So it's like it's scripture plus common sense. Is that how we should understand this? Yeah, basically they're yeah. Yeah, sure. Basically they're saying that that the most important things scripture deals adequately with, we know what it says, uh it's clear and uh for those areas that scripture is not so clear Um that's not a problem because uh we can use our common sense to resolve whatever issues are out there, you know, whether or not we're allowed to drive a car. You know, we we can deal with that. Scripture's not gonna kinda tell us whether or not we're allowed to drive a car, but we can you know, and for that matter, uh they're saying make decisions about the government of the church The good and necessary consequence, is that really what you're talking about there? That that line? Trying to uh determine where you're talking this common sense. Uh right there at the end of uh number six, where it says there are some circumstances concerning the worship of God, government of the church, common to human actions, which are ordered by the light of nature. And Christian pu prudence according to general rules of the word. So that comes from the good and necessary consequence that it started in the first little part there. It's just the Bible doesn't say how to fix your Volc Volkswagen or or specifically, you know, how you should be romantic to your wife or all these things in order to save your marriages, but there are good and necessary consequences. instance. But a good and necessary consequence, Westminster would argue you can derive that from the Word of God. So I think that's that's what it's trying to get down to, I I hope, I think. Okay. All right, we've got uh I don't know five minutes. Let's see if we can finish chapter one in five minutes. This is gonna be tight, but we'll see. Alright, part seven. Parts of the Bible are difficult to understand is what it's gonna tell us, right? But the critical parts, those needed for salvation are understandable to ordinary people, and these are the words of the confession. All things in Scripture are not alike plain in themselves, nor alike clear unto all Yet those things which are necessary to be known, believed, and observed for salvation, are so clearly propounded and opened in some place of Scripture or other that not only the learned but the unlearned in a due use of the ordinary means may attain unto a sufficient understanding of them. So Yeah, some of it's pretty tough to understand. I mean there's there's a famous passage where Peter says, boy, that stuff that Paul says is pretty hard to understand. Uh but that just because parts of it are hard to understand, there's some mysteries involved. The uh where the brass tax, where the rubber meets the road, where what you need to know for s for your salvation is pretty easy and basic. Right? That's kind of what this section is saying. That's really in like you were saying in the beginning, it's in it contrary to the Roman Catholic Church would have s which would have said It's all just for the elite to know and let us give you the information. You can't use your own Bibles. So they're making an argument that there is something that we can gain from everything. They're not saying that there shouldn't be teachers. that there shouldn't be experts in the Hebrew text and things, but there is uh just the basic stuff in your language, you can get what you need to get, what is necessary for salvation from Scripture. Um I think they've said uh what's the common phrase that it's deep enough to swim in and shallow enough or I I don't know, but different Everyone's looking at me like I'm weird. Okay uh you can get it Anybody can get something. Grandma who has no education living in the middle of nowhere. It's a great structure. Right. Yes. If you're an adult you laugh at other things, and if you're a child you laugh at other things. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So this is I think it's very important to understand against Rome that scripture is clear and that while pastors are needed to help, they aren't needed you can read scripture on your own. So I don't ever want to give my congregation, for instance, the idea that, okay, everything that you read there is totally wrong. Here's the answer from the the answer guy. Right. That I want them to trust in their own reading of the Bible and then have me help them. That's pretty important doctrine. And to tied to this really the next section, part eight, is is kind of tied to that Same basic theme. It's saying the original texts were perfect and we should turn to the original languages to resolve any controversies. However, translations into native tongues into other languages are good and useful. And that's what you're saying. We should make it a accessible to the average person, not just for the elite. Uh that sort of thing. Right? So in the interest of time maybe we'll we'll jump past Uh that nine and ten I think go together. They're basically saying that scripture is used to interpret scripture and scripture is the ultimate authority, right, of itself. I mean, is there what am I missing by trying to get through that so quickly? Um not this yeah, nine and ten is called the analogy of faith. So it's um scripture I I think you did it well. Scripture interprets scripture. Uh good and necessary consequence of course, with if you want to bring that in there too. But yes, we use uh the Bible to interpret. So we have maybe thirty to forty-five seconds left. If you can answer this. I'm not a Bible reader, not a regular church attender. Maybe I go a little bit, I'm a little bit interested, and I pick up the Bible, I start to read it, and I'm like, those guys on the radio are crazy. This this is not easy to understand. This isn't for anybody. I don't know what the heck I'm reading. I open it up to uh You know, of apparently a very uh I'm in Revelation, I'm in Daniel, I'm in Ezekiel. I don't know what's going on here. Yeah, whatever. So what do you say to them Smarty Pants, it makes it so easy for everybody to understand. They're reading the wrong parts of the Bible first. Is that what you're telling them? Well this is a this is a difficult uh issue in uh our day and age because many people can't read anymore at uh up to an eighth grade level. They're we're we're losing the ability to read and they can share text in shorthand though. Yeah, yeah. And so somebody needs to create the uh text Bible, you know. Oh please. You said it out loud, somebody will hear you and now it's gonna happen. Well, I d I don't doubt that it will. I mean that that's the point is that is that if if people are having a hard time understanding it then usually, you know, uh there's cultural reasons why that can be the case. Alright. Well we're gonna wrap up the show there. We didn't do a word of the week. We've got to do two next week now. All right. Uh Jonathan Sweiser, senior pastor of Cross House Alley Chapel, Jace Broadhurst is uh Dr. Jace Broadhurst Senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. Thanks for listening. God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing, that's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Pulmin plumbing, how can we make you smile