Footman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Put and Plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to the Frederick Base Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Our show's brought to us equipment plumbing and heating helps we make you smile. Back on the show by popular demand, Jonathan Schweister, Senior Pastor of Crossfield's Valley Chapel, and even more popular demand, Dr. J S Rodhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolville. Baptist Church. He He's got a fan club, groupies? Yeah, yeah. All the doctors. By everybody out by the window. Yeah. All the doctors. I see ER. They've got lots of groupies. They do. That's right. Automatically you're like attractive. I just walk around and they're following it. Oh yes. Okay. Very important. Now i i i if you haven't seen Jace before, just a picture of George Clooney and there you go. There you have it. Wow. George Clooney. Who is my other choice? Anthony Edwards? Okay. Yes, sir. Thanks for watching. Noah Wiley? Yeah, Noah Wiley. Well he was a good looking guy, right? I don't know. That's hard for me to tell. Except for Mario Lemieux. You're famous. Yeah, that's what my wife thought and that's why she was attracted to me. Oh really? Back in the day. Okay. Interesting. Yeah, there's uh th there's a whole show right there. But we're gonna press on. We are Uh tackling the Westminster Confession of Faith a chapter at a time and this week we're up to chapter two. And fortunately chapter two only has three parts, which will give us a little more time to kind of Which is appropriate because it's about the Holy Trinity. Oh nice. I bet you they planned that. So this is this is gonna be yeah, right. Three parts for the Trinity. That makes sense. Uh anybody who's a r theological geek uh w will understand this. John Frame would love this. Indeed. John Frame is uh Vern Poitris, yeah. He's he's a modern theologian. He's alive today, writing alive and well, and he's all about threes. He loves the number three. He finds threes, triads he calls them. He finds them everywhere. There's three of us in this room. Yeah, how about he's obsessed. He's actually has an illness, I believe, about Alright, so now we're on chapter two. They should have made this chapter three probably, right? If they were gonna be Oh good point. Yeah, they really messed that up. And that would have made it easier on our first chapter two, which was so darn long. John Frames would be very unhappy with it. Was he really? So anyway, chapter two of God and of the Holy Trinity. And we're gonna have some fodder for conversation, I think on this week's show. Sure. All right. Here's what the first part is in a nutshell, right? There is one God. He's perfect, unchanging, all powerful, all knowing, all loving, and fully just. That's the gist of it. But here's what it says. There is but one only living and true God who is infinite in being and perfection, a most pure spirit, invisible, without body, parts, or passions, immutable, immense, eternal. But there's some big words in here. We've got some words of the week coming up. Uh incomprehensible, almighty, most wise, most holy, most free, most absolute, working all things according to the counsel of his own immutable and most righteous will for his own glory. Most loving, gracious, merciful, long-suffering, abundant goodness and truth, forgiving iniquity, transgression, and sin, the rewarder of them that diligently seek him, and withal most just and terrible in his judgments hating all sin, and who will by no means clear the guilty. Wow. Bum bum bum. The last part sign up. Dark. Uh the rest of it is, you know, he's the m he's he's the he's the hostest with the mostest uh going on there in the first part of it, right? Actually you referring to him that way I feel like is is part of where I get I get a little bit uncomfortable with with this particular list. I'd rather they just use the words that are in the Bible. But in a couple of places here, immutable, most pure spirit, um uh let's make immutable in computer. Hold on a second, let's make immutable our word of the week. Immutable means the one Unchanged. Unchanging. With no variableness. The problem is that the word immutable uh shows up in uh in Plato and the the early Greek philosophers in a way that it defined a quality of God that uh that uh that leaves the the the sense that he has no emotions, you know, that that he can't love, that he that that he's he's this rock that is immutable and unfortunately the the use of of some of these terms I feel like I'd I feel like I'm most comfortable you know, I I don't mind somebody reading this, but at the end of the day I'd rather, like you just did a second ago, just quote from scripture where it says that um, you know Now under the King, eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, or where where uh you know, where it says that um Uh he is the he is the true God, the living God and everlasting king. I'd rather use those phrases, but when they start using these other words that they're kinda trying to to use their own language, I just I I get a little uncomfortable with it. Because I feel like there's the potential to introduce ideas that are uh inadvertent, that are unnecessary. Now if they were to use the biblical language, what biblical language would they use? Like like where you said in in John was the verse. Yeah, there's no unva there's no unchangeable there's no changeableness or no variabless in him. There's no variableness in him. But that's just a translation. Well I could easily say there he's immutable. In fact I'm sure there's some translation that probably does say that. Yeah and I'm uncomfortable with it. So you just don't like the word immutable because it has a connection with Platonic philosophy. Yes. Yeah, very much so because a lot of Platonic there's a strong argument to be made that that Greek philosophy has uh Augustine, Calvin for that matter, Luther spent great amounts of time uh uh defining their th their th theology of the Bible in terms that come from the ancient Greek. And that being the case, I I just get uncomfortable with with a God that is that is so immutable that there's no recognition of uh of um his you know, the dynamic reality of who God is and the way that he dynamically interacts with with humanity. Because There was a time when God was not also man. But then there came a time when God was both God and man. Mm-hmm. Well that's a change. That's a variable that's introduced, but obviously if so The people who wrote this confession agree with that. So they're understanding immutable differently. So how how are we to understand unchanging, invariable, immutable? Certainly God changes. We've got plenty of places in the Bible that speak of him changing his mind, for instance, although that's a b that's a huge tackle. I don't know if we want to deal with um But you know, Moses convinces him of something, so he changes the way he was going to do something. So there's certainly that In fact the word there in the Hebrew is the same word that is used for repent. We're t we're told that God repents of w of the evil that He was going to perpetrate on the nation of Israel. Nevertheless, that word is the same word that is used. uh for um for our repenting. And so that being the case, I feel like that word in the Hebrew that once again, l like it said here in Westminster Confessing last week that that where there is co controversy we need to go back to the original Hebrew. And so I'm I'm okay with somebody writing these things and I'm kind of inspired by it. I'm good with it. But if if we're gonna use that for doctrine I I'm I'm lost. I I I I'm not willing to use the word immutable. Well immutable has been I'm not sure how we get past this language problem, but immutable has been used for centuries. to define God. And Westminster actually defines it. That's my concern. That's precisely my concern. See that's actually what what beholdens me to it because of its historical um um connection. That I'm not I'm not writing things anew. That the theologians like Augustine and those guys uh had already embraced a measure of worldliness in their attempt to uh to um uh to reconcile Christianity with the Greco Roman world that that that is precisely the the compromise that was being introduced in the into into the church that resulted in some of the idolatry and some of the gross uh uh Well things that we're like that you really have an issue with. Always. But isn't I mean scripture is written in Greek, which has its connection. I mean look at the Lagos doctrine from John one. Does that not come from I mean what are you gonna do with John? Well I'm uncomfortable with John for using the word logos to ex divine Jesus. Well but that's the point is that Paul and the the writers of scripture, John were of the opinion, wrote as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. And so their use of those words was in context and they didn't use the word that is that that we we translate to immutable from the Greek. They use the word that that tends to be translated there's no shadow of changing or what whatever it is that that we use to change. And And I think that th that that there's value in appreciating those distinctions. Let me ask this. We take the word out, we lose the concept. So if we take the word and the concept out, what do we lose? What what's the danger? What's the risk? What why is that word in here? What what are w what were the divines who wrote the the confession guard guarding against by including that language? Excellent. So def defining this through the confession, because not only did they write the Westminster confession, they wrote the Westminster. Catechism, larger catechism, the shorter catechism. The shorter catechism says, What is God? God is a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. That's the immutability that he's immutable in. It doesn't go any further than that. So obviously, remember this is a shortened thing. They can't say everything or they could say they would say nothing. So what they're trying to say is he's unchangeable in these ways. In his being, his being doesn't change, he's a spirit. In his wisdom, he doesn't get smarter or dumber or anything like that, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. Those are the ways that he is immutable. that he is unchanging. I don't think even I don't think the Westminster Divines, and since I did my dissertation on one of these guys, I know he wouldn't have thought of God as firm and unbending and never compromising and never talking to people. Like I mean, in fact you're gonna find in the rest of the confession that he's quite a god of imminence of of grace and coming down and accommodating. The fact that he writes in any kind of language is an accommodation to us. A beautiful accommodation that we couldn't do without it's interesting that um I I feel like the way that this plays out is specifically in the sovereignty of God discussions. You know, whether you know, uh whether or not God is responsible, you know, for for the creation of evil and in and where man comes into the discussion. And and at the end of the day, I feel like the the doctrine of the immutability of God as opposed to parallache Or however you pronounce that, which is the Greek word there in James, which which is translated fickleness or variableness, which I feel like is a great description. Immutable Makes me think rock. You know, it makes me think something very different. But but if somebody says he's not fickle, that's a very human word. God is not fickle. I appreciate the fact that God is not fickle. He's not like he's not like the uh Greco-Roman gods who tended to be like a great soap opera in the sky. Right. Right. And and and that's precisely the point. Our God is not like that. Right. But the in the Greco Roman mind they they took it back to this idea that God from the creation of the world had had figured everything out and that we were just he was the big idea uh you know everything was an idea in his mind and and it's just the outworking of the idea that was in his mind. And there's this sense that that that's where his sovereignty came from. And that's precisely where I uh I feel like we need to understand the in uh the the unchanging nature of God. in more of a Hebrew mindset than in a Greco-Roman mindset. And that word paral paralage, uh which is translated fickleness and strongs or variableness, is uh is a much better translation for communicating uh that that God's not fickle, that God is not uh is not just run by passions and one day he likes me and the next day he doesn't you know, just 'cause he feels like it, like Zeus and the and the other gods, but that instead that God is the kind of God that uh that he treats me with justice and righteousness and uh and he's not Fickle in that sense. I think what we're arguing about is whether you like words that they chose three hundred and fifty years ago. So what you would say is we need to rewrite this in modern English, and then you feel better about it. Because it's not the I mean they understood immutable exactly as you're saying. That's what they would have heard when you said that. They wouldn't have heard what you described. They'd have heard well exactly what I read from their catechism that they wrote. What I'm saying is that is that anything that is written beyond Scripture, as it says in Westminster Confession, has the danger of carrying a taint of our own interpretation of Scripture. I mean the argument that you're making is looking blatantly on sound because every time you translate something, you have made an interpretation. You cannot translate without it. That's what Westminster says. You have to go back when when there's controversy to the original. But as soon as I start speaking to you about the original, I've made an interpretation. As long as I'm going to speak in English, I've interpreted. Yeah, but that's so that's why we sit and we have the discussion. Well, yes. So that we can split the hairs and split the hairs that need to be split so that we can get down to. What I'm saying is that is that by them choosing to to include that particular word back then I just feel like it's a poor choice. All right. We could keep going on this, but I feel like it would be pointless. I think it's a beautiful choice. I love the word immutable. And I don't have any of the preconceptions that you have with that word, so I don't I think that the Except that you did the exact thing that that I feel like is is uh is the danger uh in in uh your approach to the sovereignty of God ends up being uh something that feels to me a bit less human. I feel like it's less than a lot I hear that. Language does kind of evolve over time. I mean English is not spoken exactly the same way now that it was four hundred years ago. Right, sure. And it won't be spoken the same as it is now four hundred years from now. So there's gonna come a time when this needs to get some sort of a radical redraft It's redrafted all the time in very ears. And at some point somebody might put the word God is not fickle there. Indeed. Right? Instead of immutable, and then it'll be clear. Wouldn't know what immutable means all that. Well sure. I I Yeah. But also most people wouldn't understand uh many of the words in scripture. So I mean we do have to look them up. I let's I mean we need to admit our vocabulary stinks in the modern day. So Like even the word incomprehensible could leave the impression that we can never even understand anything about God. So why bother trying? You know, well he's not incomprehensible. The point is is that is that we can understand about him what needs to be understood about him, but there's Definitely parts about him that are beyond our understanding. in defining something more absolute. And Jace is if I'm understanding correctly, Jace is saying that back then, you know, incomprehensible wasn't meant absolutely incomprehensible, as not that you couldn't comprehend anything at all about But there was this magnificence about him that couldn't be fully his great preacher's searchable, some psalm says. So that's probably what they're getting. Absolutely. Which I'm comfortable with. Right. But if they say that, then this gets longer and longer and longer. They're trying to distill this down into a And I'm saying I'm I'm okay with them doing that. Right. But as soon as they've done it, they've limited themselves to a certain time in history and we just have to recognize that that's not scripture. Oh, uh a hundred percent. Now we're totally on the same page. Everybody's a man of their time. So if I say something now, you can't hold me to that the same way next week even. I am a man of my time. I'm learning, I'm changing, I'm moving, uh I'm fickle indeed. So you guys would agree at the first part though, right? There is but one only living and true God. Yes. Okay, good. Alright. Now part two uh you can give me a chance to be a monologue or anotheist or anything else? Uh part two is you know God needs nothing and is an autonomous authority worthy of worship and obedience. I mean that's the gist of it. Uh God has this is what it says. God has all life, glory, goodness, blessedness, and uh in and of himself and is alone in and unto himself all sufficient, not standing in need of any creatures which he has made. Now that's I'm gonna stop there because that's an uh a point that sometimes people will talk about Well God created people and man or whatever because he lonely He needed his creature. Sure. But th and this is speaking against that. This is Yeah, ripping that to pieces I think. And and your word for the day? A sayety. Ooh. There you go. If you like the word I That's that's the word for this area, a sayity, that he is in himself sufficient. That he exists in and of himself and nobody else That's good. I like that. Whenever I need a word of the week, I'm calling Jace. So it goes on to say nor deriving any glory from uh his creatures. uh but only manifesting his own glory in by, unto, and upon them. He is the alone fountain of all being, of whom, through whom, and to whom are all things and has made most sovereign dominion over them, to do so by them, for them, or upon them, whatsoever he uh himself pleases In his sight all things are open and manifest. His knowledge is infinite, infallible, and independent upon the creature. So as nothing is to him contingent or uncertain, Uh boy I don't know if the average high school student will understand this anymore. He is most holy in all his counsels, in all his works, in all his commands. To him is due from angels and men and every other creature whatsoever Worship, service, or obedience he is pleased to require of them. That's a lot of fancy fancy language to basically again say God needs nothing and is an autonomous authority worthy of worship and obedience. Wow, sweet. That's a good summary, yeah. That's what it comes down to. All right. We have any any fodder for discuss discussion. You guys want to go out each other's throats on that one at all? Yeah, I've I again I feel a bit uncomfortable with um with uh with the getting into unto himself all sufficient not standing in need of any creatures uh which he has made um uh the clearly the the passage that they refer to in uh Um what is it uh there God made the world, all things therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth. Dwelleth not in temples made with hands, neither is worshipped with men's hands, as though he needed anything, seeing he giveth to all life and breath and all things Um, you know, one in Acts I feel like it's it's clarifying the um uh God's freedom from man, but but I don't feel like it goes so far as to somehow uh leave this sense that uh that that God is not interested in you know connecting with us. It's just clarifying that uh that he's you know, neither is worshiped as though he needed anything, seeing he giveth life to all and breath and all things, that Uh there's there's just a sense again in this passage, uh in the confession that, you know, sometimes s somehow he um Uh again looking relationally, and I think that's tends to be the difference between uh my theological approach and um a sovereignty of God approach. I don't know if you think that this is is uh an accurate or f or fair uh on interpretation of the differences that are going on here. And my language is limited because I hate the word I'm going to use, but I can't think of a better one. You know, God is multifaceted. Yeah. There's all these different angles uh from which you can uh observe God has God has made himself available to be observed. There's all these different ways to try to grapple with this this gigantic, enormous you know, creator. Yeah. Uh and so when you try to pick a particular point of emphasis, it's it's gonna almost feel like you're overemphasizing it. Because you picked a point of emphasis. Is that what Jonathan maybe is saying? They're emphasizing something here that I feel is they're overemphasizing it. But are they overemphasizing it or are they just when we preach? I mean you start somewhere. I mean when you're evangelizing somebody, you're not telling them about the relationship that Jesus has with you, at least in my particular understanding. That's not where you start. You need to help them you even start them with God. Who is God? He's holy. He's unapproachable light. I mean, this is a transcendent God who needs nothing, especially not you, and he's holy and you have offended him. You know, then you go to the man. I mean you need to approach all that stuff. And if you're looking for grace, Westminster's got it. Tons of it. Relationship, it's here. But they have I mean we're only in chapter two. So they've got to start out saying, God is so holy, you know, lightning from his fingertips, Habakkuk III is talking about. I mean, this is this is God. Fear him. You know, we gotta start somewhere. And then it's gonna say, but But grace. You know, it's and yet he accommodates us and he comes down to us in all of his incomprehensibleness and search unsearchableness and all these things, manifesting his glory everywhere. He comes down, he bends the knee to us and he And he puts his arms around us, and that's all coming. I just I feel like we're giving we're doing a disservice to them 'cause they can't say everything right away to us completely. We're we're worried about that. But You know, I preach that way all the time. If I'm preaching from a text that talks about that, I start there and then at the end I say, but here's the here's the gospel part of it. They haven't gotten to the gospel yet. We're getting there. Yeah, and and maybe that's part of the maybe that's part of the thing is that um uh you know, even on these shows, we've only got a half hour for each one that that we can end up than falling to that very thing that we're not getting to the butt. Right. You know, that we're not appreciating the butt. And um again I appreciate the butt. Yeah. I don't think I want to be in here anymore actually. For the record. Oh we have less than five minutes to tackle the last part of chapter two and the the last part of chapter two. You guys won't have anything to say about this. In the unity of the Godhead there are three persons of one substance, power, and eternity God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Ghost. The Father is of none, neither begotten nor proceeding. The Son is eternally begotten of the Father, the Holy Ghost eternally proceeding from the Father and the Son. Basically there's a Godhead of three persons, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, but there's some language in there that uh would make some, I think, a little uncomfortable, perhaps even some in this room. Uh substance is an interesting word. Uh the idea that it seems like there's a hierarchy uh where there's an un an inequality within the Godhead could be uh m understood or misunderstood from this with uh somehow the the Father being more God, let's say, than the the Holy Spirit is or whatever. I mean those are some things that occur to me. What are your uh thoughts or concerns? I think it's fighting exactly against that. So I'm not sure where I mean it's trying to say that all three persons are of one substance, power, and eternity, that there is no subordinance here. Now We are finding that there is subordination. There is economic trinity. There is subordination in the Trinity. Again, I'm going to be with you on this. how are we gonna I mean we gotta do something about this language because right I uh Trinity already is in my mind an i an unfathomable, unsearchable greatness of God. It's already huge. Yeah. And All they're trying to do is say what history has always said, two thousand years worth, or at their point, sixteen hundred years worth, trying to draw a line around this and say, Don't go outside of this. You know, he's one and he's three. One essence, three persons. And it's for me it's a it's a beautiful truth that's uncompromisable, so for Christians. So this is gonna be Well that's precisely the thing. It's just the word the the words that that they use happen to be words that are not biblical words, especially defining the Trinity. Um and uh Uh I think it ends up trying to say things that the Bible did not seem to feel like it was so important to clarify. uh couple hundred years of the church that, you know, some people said, you know, that Jesus wasn't God, so they had to clarify that he was God. You know, he was fully God. But then they're like, okay, well if he's fully God then he's not man at all and the Gnostics were all happy, you know, and or or whatever. You know, there's this back and forth and and in in the attempt to clarify and to rally people know he's fully God and fully man You know, uh and then it well, is there anywhere in scripture that that it precisely says that? But somehow it gets at the idea that Jesus is begotten of the Father, nevertheless he's to be worshipped along with the Father. You know, but God is one, you know, and and these are all phrases that Scripture used. So if we have to use a word to try to summarize all those things, Fine you can use Trinity, but I'm never gonna gonna uh feel happy with it. And I'm never gonna like the idea, you know, what one substance, power in eternity, you know, only because the Bible never says one substance anywhere. It it it it says these other things that that whatever we end up thinking about it, the Bible says that Jesus Christ is to be worshipped, you know, that uh that he came from the Father, that he is God. You know, that God is one. It says all those things and I'm comfortable with all those things being said. I'm uncomfortable with us. Yeah, well not not ones that the Bible doesn't use. I don't like a technical term that the Bible doesn't use because it's our attempt to boil it down and in doing so uh we we both limit God and and we say more about God than we should say about God. And it's use. Like a whole show just on it is going to keep coming up over and over. Faith debate. Uh Jace Broadhurst to Jonathan Sweitzer, I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. God bless. Foodman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P, as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?