Don't be confused. Yes, this is the faith debate. Roy Skinner and we're changing up our music just a little bit this week, actually for the next couple of weeks. This is El Shaddai by Michael Card. And why would I be playing El Shaddai by Michael Card, someone wonders? Well Michael Card is coming to the area to do a concert. To Carroll County. That's right. Westminster. Yeah. So um And what's the date for that? March twenty-seventh, I believe. So we're we're twenty days away. Michael Card is a fascinating, uh uh very folksy uh mu uh Christian musician. I've I've always uh I've followed him through the years. I've had different tapes of his through the years. He's a deep Thinker as well and I've always enjoyed his music uh because of those things. I heard him one time uh playing along with Phil Keggy And uh they were a great, great mix for each other. Well the reason that Michael Card is coming uh to the area is because there's a benefit concert uh going on on March twenty-seventh. um to benefit the least of these ministries. Oh, okay. And the founder of the least of these ministries is on the panel this week. Excellent. And he brought with him uh a volunteer slash supporter. So I wanna I want to welcome Steve Hall and Greg Luke to the show. And now we were talking before the show that you know we generally try to find some areas where we can really get into some some grist for the mill kind of thing. So if you can't find anything else that you disagree with, certainly you can disagree with the way Jonathan looks, maybe You know, the car he drives. Find something that we can, you know, go after Jonathan on. Or the fact that Troy is so dressed up on such a obvious you know day for relaxing and just kinda dressing down. You know, he he's he's just a bit overdressed with that great nice tie. Though it's still it's a nice fit though. I like I like the way it all fits together. I appreciate it. So the least of these ministries was in Haiti before anybody really realized, you know, maybe that there was a Haiti. I mean you know what I mean? There's been an earthquake. In case you didn't hear, by the way, news flash, earthquake in Haiti devastating. Uh just hor horrendous. I mean horrendously devastating. Think about that. The population of Frederick County dead. That would be the the whole population of Frederick County. I mean, we're you know what I mean? We're talking uh big time uh uh and And maybe a little bit more, right? For the county and plus. Probably right about, yeah, probably right about. Now at least if these ministries is is involved at some level, I guess you have to at some basic level be involved in helping with uh earthquake relief and that sort of thing, but that's not your primary mission. That's not why you've been down there for all these years. So before we dive into the Grist for the Mill Steve, why don't you explain a little bit what Least of These Ministries does and why it exists? Okay, the Least of These Ministries really we work in the Dominican Republic, which is next door neighbor to Haiti. Uh but we do work with Haitian people. Practically everybody we work with is a Haitian person. And uh they came across uh the border years ago to get jobs uh in the sugar plantations And in the recent years, uh machinery has taken over the sugarcane plantations, so there's less and less work for the the manual labor for the men. So they find themselves without work and without work there's there's no money so there's no food to eat. And uh the people are not accepted any longer by their government because they say you you went to the Dominican Republic Uh so they're kind of refugees, they're kind of without a country. Absolutely. They're stranded there. The Dominicans won't help them and uh they don't need them anymore. They would like them to go home and uh the Haitians don't want them home. And since the earthquake a lot of them don't want to go back either. Is is it something akin to the you know, Mexicans coming across the border or the illegal uh immigrant problem we have in the United States? And it would be similar I guess then if Mexico wouldn't take them back. Right? Because Amer the United States government doesn't want the illegals here, at least And then if they couldn't go back to that room. Is it kind it's kind of that situation? Illegally entered the Dominican Republic because of severe family situations? Okay, so it is a little bit different. And the people argue that is what is happening here in the United States. But we're not going there. Yeah, keep going, yeah. Uh well the people soon became uh basically enslaved. When we first started going down there, the people were confined to the the plantations. and they weren't allowed to leave. They could be beat, they could be shot the royal. Well how do you get them out then? You go down there and say, by the way, I'm with the least of these ministries, uh they're coming with me. Well that's a long story if you want to go into that. Uh uh the guy who was the president of the largest bank in the Dominican Republic decided he needed more money. So he stole all the money out of his own bank and went to Venezuela. Two point four billion. You can look it up on the internet It's one of the biggest thefts ever. Yeah, when did that happen? Um in two thousand and four, I think. Just five. Two point four billion. We're you know, yeah, it's not you know, the economy has changed. But back then that was a lot of money. But you're talking about the United States. Now in the Dominican Republic it was so much money it bankrupted the country. Sure. And to get a big influx of cash they nationalized all the plantations and then they sold a lease to the plantations to a big conglomerate in Venezuela. And they came in and took over the farming operations in in the country. So that's in the Dominican Republic. Yes. So so so these people that were slaves Uh the government said, Okay, well you no longer are indentured to your plantation owners, now go back to your country. Uh and the country wouldn't accept accept them back, so now they're stranded and they're So Haiti refused to let them back in. Refused, yes. Well I'm probably you know pretty close to the typical American on this. I mean if it's uh south of Key West you know, or or east of Maine. Geographically challenged west of, you know, Alaska or north of Minnesota. I don't know anything about it. Do you know where the Olympics are were? What what are those? Is that where the American hockey team beat the Canadian hockey team? Yeah, I'm familiar with that. Up there in Maine? Yeah, that's uh that's like our fifty-first state, right, Canada? Yes, yeah. But anyway, the island of Hispaniola has these two nations on it, uh Haiti and Dominican Republic. Yes And what I've heard about the situation sounds like maybe it hasn't been exactly accurate. On the on the west side you've got Haiti completely corrupt government, the economy is upside down, the the the the the people are a mess. There's all sorts of voodoo and we'll maybe we'll talk a little bit about that as the show progresses. Spiritually they're a they're a mess But then just across the border of the Dominican Republic there's it's an oasis where they've got this really good government and the economy is strong and obviously that's not true. Well I guess everything's relative. I mean maybe maybe in relative terms it does look like that. But yeah, so you tell us though. Well the Dominican Dominican Republic looks looks a lot better to the Haitians, uh, but it doesn't look that good to us. government. Yeah, that's my experience. Because I've you know I've been to Costa Rica and I've been down to South Africa and Zimbabwe and and different places and the reality is that is that it's all relative. If you I i if you go to these countries, you're like, man, they're nothing like the United States, but then you go to a country that's really bad, like Haiti or like uh Albania was was massively poor when I was there, and then you're like, man Man, there's just you know, oh to be in a third world country, you know, once you've been in one of these other countries that are that are so so uh poor and impoverished at every level. So if the situation in the Dominican Republic is not that great, the government is corrupt and they're enslaving Haitian people and that sort of thing. Um how do you navigate through that? How does the least of these ministries get established there? How do you not end up like the Baptist thrown in jail for trying to do something nice? Well I don't know how do we start to tell you guys what what I say stays in this room, right? Nobody's listening. When we first went there, I went there on a fact finding trip to find out because the Lord called me to do this. And uh I visited one of the big uh organizations, I forget now which one it was, but they said it takes about three years to get approved by the government to come in and and do anything to help the people. How long ago did you go down for your fact finding min miss? Uh it's about twelve years ago. Okay. And about ninety seven or so. Yes. And I didn't want to wait. So uh we went ahead and we operated up until about Four years ago or five years ago we operated without the approval of the government and because we're out in the So you almost were like the Baptist. Yeah, almost. Wow. We were out in the hinterlands and uh and uh the city of Barona is the further city from the the capital of uh the Dominican Republic. How big is Bahrona? It's got about fifty thousand people. So so nobody bothered us. We operated there and we went out and fed people every day and did our thing. But now you're recognized by the government and you're allowed to be there. We made the mistake. We we bought a new truck. Uh and uh we needed a a bigger truck because we were feeding up to seven thousand people. And it was a Toyota and the accelerator stuck and it was just a mess. Rice and beans everywhere. But uh uh when we we bought the truck and paid cash for it and uh when we went to register it we had to have a registration number which a federal number, a government number, which we didn't have. And we're still working on that Um but we've got a temporary that we're working on now. So uh I have to ask you the question then, uh are you uh Th these Baptists that attempted to take, you know, these these kids out and apparently they did it knowing uh the the parents knew that they were taking their kids over to the Dominican Republic. Uh is that really that unusual? a thing that that they would have you know that they would have have seen, okay, how bad it is for them now in Haiti, you know, we'll just take 'em over to to Dominican Republic. I mean I mean barring any discussion of whether or not they had bad motives and maybe were trying to sell them, you know, on some kind of black market or something like that. But but just, you know, the the the basic sense that things are bad in Haiti And maybe a little bit better in uh Dominican Republic. Would you say that there's probably a lot more that that ha that happens than anybody makes a big deal about? Well, as far as them coming across the border in the Dominican Republic, there are always people sneaking across the border because it's they consider it a better life than Haiti. And who's more likely to try to stop them from sneaking across the border? The Haitians or the Dominicans? The Dominicans. Oh yeah. Yes. The they all our friends down there always tell us it's no problem going into Haiti. Nobody checks your papers 'cause no nobody nobody in their right mind goes into Haiti so they don't care. But if you're trying to come back from Haiti the Dominicans are going to check your papers. It could be. Yeah, apparently for it marriage. You know, you weren't uh recognized by the Dominican government. Yeah. Uh and so you have this call to go down there and help these Haitian why? Like how do you even know that this was going on? Well, uh I d I was on a mission trip with uh a friend of mine had invited me to go. It said the first time his tr church was going to Haiti or to the Dominican Republic and He wanted me to go along, so I went with him. And while we were there the pastor we were working for invited us to go visit a bate. I had no idea what a bate is, so we We found out a couple days later that that's these people were all slaves from the the plantation and bate is a French word for work camp. and the Haitians uh speak a lot of French. Mm-hmm. So that's why it was called a bate. Mm. And uh it was just the filthiest, smelliest uh I grew up on a farm, I knew what a barnyard smells like and and every house in around them smelled like a barnyard. It was just a a filthy place. And uh but the pastor didn't really tell us much about it. Uh but on the plane on the way home, um, and this is hard for a lot of people to believe, uh I was watching a movie and had the headphones on, enjoying life and and back then you even got a meal on the airplane. I was eating and No, no I don't. But I do remember that that during the movie the sound stopped and you expect the pilot to come on and say, uh, either grab the air the oxygen mask we're or we're fine at forty thousand feet and everything's fine, one thing or the other. But anyway, uh instead a voice came on uh the earphone and and the first thing he said was, um, I've got work for you. Huh. And I'm I'm listening to it and I'm thought Well that's an odd message from the pilot. What's he need fixing? And and then uh the mechanic uh the the the voice went on to say, uh you you've seen my people i in the Dominican Republic. What are you going to do about it? Mm-hmm. And and I so I ride away I'm thinking, this is not the pilot, this is the pilot. Did anybody else hear the voice? No, nobody. My friend was sitting next to me, I poked him, I said, I think this calls for you But uh uh he didn't catch what I was talking about and and I said, What are you listening to? and and and he had some kind of music on he was listening to. Um actually heard an audible voice. I heard an audible voice just like us sitting here. And God went on to explain the situation. I argued with him. I I said, why don't you call Billy Graham? He knows all about this stuff. I don't know anything about being that uh Poor Billy, scapegoat for everybody. I can go down and build a building, but I don't know anything about feeding people and and doing all the things that you're asking me to do. Uh but uh But were you what what was your uh uh occupation at the time. Uh I ran a s a small business, uh uh glazing business, a a commercial glass company. Yeah, yeah. And uh I came home and had discussions with my wife and and it just seemed like uh From the time we got to the airport in Baltimore I got in my car and drove out the first thing on the radio I always have Christian radio and the first thing came on was uh was the the scripture for Matthew twenty five, what you've done for the least of these you've done for me. And sealed the deal right there. And the hence the name for the ministry, right? Well it that it was was lodged in my head but it didn't really have a whole lot of meaning to me. Uh I've got this radio in my office that I never turn on, but for some reason the first day back I s sat down turned it on and sat down at the desk And here comes this message out again. The same the same scripture. And I heard four times that same week. Oh. So I went out to my wife's desk and I said, uh I I know what we're gonna call our ministry. And she said What ministry? So we had a talk about uh Hey, guess what? We're gonna honeymoon in Haiti in the Dominican Republic. We're we're gonna be we' Bill Bill and Hillary. We started out with about seven hundred people. I said we're gonna feed feed seven hundred people. She said, What are we gonna feed 'em? Just like that. And that's how we got started really. Jonathan, have you ever talked to somebody or have you yourself uh heard an audible voice from God? This is the first time I think I've heard a story like that. The silence that you hear is what I what I No, I don't I can't say that I've ever heard an audible voice from the Lord. Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. You don't look you don't look like wild eyed, you know Yeah. Weird, you don't look at the case. There. Yeah. Yeah. For those of you that can't see him, uh he's as clean cut as they come. You know, looks looks like he's uh he's uh straight laced, you know, good solid. Has it happened again? No. Okay. Uh I've never gotten the voice a second time. Um That was kind of the second time, but we won't go into that because I uh God spoke to me many years before. Again audibly? Audibly, yes. What did he say that time? uh basically the same kind of thing. I've got work for you. Won't you open your heart and let me in? And uh believe it or not, it was the mini middle of the church service the preacher was preaching and I blurted out in the middle of his sermon, I thought you were in my heart And I sat there in the pew and had a discussion and uh the pr the pastor actually had to stop preaching until I got finished my little talk. And then I'd I realized what was happening and jumped up and ran out of the church and uh I never darkened the church door again for four years. Oh wow I'm scar scared to death. I've heard that can happen when you have the fillings, you know, in the back and pick up the radio frequency. Uh oh Wait, seriously, has has anybody ever tried to uh explain this away to you and they hear this story you've you've been brave enough to share it with somebody and they're like, phff, well here's probably what happened, you're schizophrenic. Or here's probably what happened, you know, you're you picked up a radio frequency off of your uh off of the the the fillings of the floor. Treat this story. Well, normally I don't tell people because I'm afraid of it, I think. But I have shared it with a few people and we convinced them there's this the two of us in this room listening to him, so uh didn't take much convincing though. That's right. He's heard the show before, he knows. Odds are I spoke to a f a group of ladies over in uh West Virginia about uh three months ago and and I uh for whatever reason I s told about that while I was talking and and one of the ladies said Well that same thing happened to me. Mm-hmm. And I was really surprised. And and I've had two or three people who said they've they've heard audible voices from God that have have spoken to them and Well I'm a believer that God still speaks and that he still moves in the hearts and lives of people. And that might be part of why, you know, Jonathan and I say, well, we've we've never run into cross anybody before because it hasn't happened to us and so we've never shared a story. But I know that when I became uh more active active in in my faith and was going to church more regularly, was studying the Bible more faithfully, was you know, was was having more fellowship. All of a sudden I noticed how, hey, that guy over there, he's a Christian. And hey, that guy over there, he's a Christian. You start you know, so you you start noticing things more So you buy a new car and all of a sudden you notice that everybody has your car. In fact, it's the same color in your car. How'd that happen? So it's probably the same kind of thing. We've never had a chance to interchange at that level with somebody, right, John? So it's never come up. Yeah, I'd say that yeah, it's not common that you run across vi you know, I I think there's probably s maybe a handful of people through the years that have said to me that they've heard an audible voice from God. How'd you know? Like did you ever you ever have any doubts that that might not have been God? No, I never really had any doubts. I mean he was asking me to do good things. Uh and Right, right. And uh it was so even if it wasn't God, I mean it was a good thing. So n no nobody was gonna get hurt by it or do anything like that Uh he didn't tell me how to run the the mechanics of the the business or anything else uh although Steve you did, you know, illegally enter the Dominican Republic, so let's talk about that. Is that the Christian thing to do? It was at the moment. Well explain what do you mean? Well well, uh if you've never stood and looked at a starving person and touched that person and prayed with them or had a little child grab you around the legs and ask you for not a toy but a glass of water to drink, it's hard to explain. Uh I mean I I've talked with for years with people like Greg and and he went down last year on a trip and and he saw the same thing. Yeah. And until you see it and feel it, you you can't understand. So how So when God tells you, Feed my people, I want you to give them food, nourish their bodies, make them stronger, and the government says, No, you gotta go through all these forms and all this stuff to get before you can do that And you look at these people and you say, Well they're all gonna be dead before I get the forms filled out. Right. You you don't wait. Yeah. And how much of your ministry is focused on feeding and those sorts of the physical needs? uh versus the spiritual needs. How much gospel sharing? How much proselytizing takes place? Well the the ministry's main goal, we were called by God to feed the people. Mm. Uh he didn't mention anything about evangelism or or preaching the word or anything else. But there again, maybe I'm breaking his rules, but uh we have on our staff in the Dominican Republic a full-time evangelist So when we take the truck out to feed rice and beans for the day, uh we've got a captive audience of two, three, four, five, six, seven hundred people standing in line waiting for their food. Yeah. And he takes his Bible and he teaches a Bible lesson. Walks up and down the road teaching a Bible lesson. And uh the next day he goes to we go to another bate and he uses the same lesson, but the next week he comes back he has another lesson prepared that he works on. So so it's uh I don't know how you would break that down in percentages. But God told you to feed the people and you decided to uh additionally uh preach the word of God to them. That's still uh feeding the people. It's something that uh as Christians we're called to do is to share this gift that we've been given. And uh doesn't sound like breaking the rules to me, right? Does it sound right? Yeah, yeah. Doesn't sound like breaking the rules to you, John? Yeah, that's uh disobedience. Yeah, it's a I g it it's a it's a uh shrewd as serpents, harmless as doves kind of a scenario where you're yeah, may maybe you're not doing exactly what is legal But you're certainly doing what is right and uh that's a fine line to walk between those two things. Well we had we had a lady a number of years ago. Uh there was a lady that was probably forty years old and she had a growth on her left cheek almost the size of a football. Mm. It was not cancerous, it was just a big tumor that actually pushed her right jaw to the almost under her right ear. Huh. So that she could only take nourishment uh they poured it actually in her mouth. They didn't have straws or anything, they just poured it in her mouth. And our guy named Franklin that runs the ministry for us down there asked us to look at this lady and and it was grotesque to look at. But he said, uh is there some way we can help her? And I said, I don't know. This is your country. You tell me. He said, Well, she's not permitted to leave the plantation and she's not permitted to go to a doctor or go to a hospital. Wow. And I said, Well You mean because she's Haitian she can't even go to the hospital? They said, That's right. I said, Well suppose she's dying or having a baby. He said, No, she could not go to the hospital. They would not accept her And I said, Well, I know how this country works and everybody takes a bribe for something. Okay. See what you can do about it. Uh so we went on home after that and a couple days later I got an email said I found a doctor that for eight hundred dollars he'll come in on a Sunday if we bring the patient in and they'll do the surgery. So that's what we did. Now there again we were breaking the laws or the rules of of their country by taking this lady into a hospital But you look at the two pictures and you would not think it's the same woman to change her life to where she could actually eat food and and act like act and look like a normal person. Yeah, so that takes the discussion in a fascinating direction. It clearly comes a time. I think for Christians, I I I'd say that this has probably been the case uh uh on the various mission trips that I've been on as well, that there comes a point where you know that there's certain laws you know, just 'cause you're new in the country and people explain them to you where where when you're looking at a situation and all you're gonna do is help the person. You're not gonna hurt anything You're not undermining the governmental structure. You're not, you know, somehow um you know causing uh great corruption in the country, but you're bringing something good. In a moment like that to make the decision to do what it takes to help the person, uh I think I'm inclined to say that that, you know, that's the right time to break the law. Well if you guys are okay with it, we can uh come back on next week's show, talk a little bit about more of the specifics of exactly what you do and you guys have had feet on the ground since the earthquake. You can talk about what's going on there. Um we've heard just a little bit uh from Greg Luke. He's his voice opine did he's just a little bit we'll hear more from Greg because he's he's been there relatively recently. and I know Steve has been too. And w we've got just a little bit of time left other than, you know, um a quick uh a a long bio of Michael Card. We don't have time for that, but why don't you real quickly tell us about the Michael Card concert, things we need to know. You know, when it is, where it is, how you find out about tickets. Okay, it's March the twenty-seventh, and that's the Saturday night before Palm Sunday. Uh you can get tickets by calling the Least of These Ministries in Westminster. Uh 410-848-2128 if you're good at remembering numbers. And uh you can buy tickets by credit card or whatever, and we'll be glad to mail it out for you. And it's at seven o'clock and we're holding in in the the new hall at Grace Lutheran Church there on twenty-one Carroll Street in in downtown Westminster. And uh it's going to be a spec spectacular uh performance. Uh Michael's even written some new music for this. Uh there he's going to have the Westminster United Methodists and Graysleuth in choirs are going to join to back him up And a string quartet and uh it really looks like an exciting evening when he's going to present the Easter story through scripture and song. And if somebody wants to get tickets they go to the le it's not the least. You go to leastofthesmen. org. Wot leastofthesmen, short for ministries. uh dot org and that's where they'll find out all how to get the phone number and whatever they need to to order the tickets and that sort of thing. That's our website. They can find out all kinds of things about us. Okay, might be a cool outing for a church to do as a group, maybe a group. Very much so, fellowship thing. Oh yeah. Get ten, twelve, fifteen, twenty, hundred, thousand, you know, whatever. How much are you looking to raise that night? How much money? Yeah. Oh, we'd like to raise ten thousand dollars. I don't know if we'll make it or not. Uh but we would sure like to. Yeah, well let's see uh see if it can happen. Well here's praying. Well, as we he we have a little Michael Cart music play in the background, we will wrap up this Week's edition of the Faith Debate Show. I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Steve Hall, the founder and director of Least of These Ministries, and uh Greg Luke, a volunteer and supporter with the lease of these ministries. Thank you so much for listening. Be back next week, same place, same time. Putmint plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putmint Plumbing is dedicated to providing Top of the line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing, that's with a pea, as in your preferred plumber. Clumin Plumbing, how can we make you smile?