Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Encouraging you to visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. On the panel for the third week in a row, we have Dave Brieber, author of the Lost Commandment. Have we missed what Jesus Really Wants? And Jonathan Schweitzer Senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Have we missed what Jonathan really wants? What do you really want? You know what I want for winter to be over. Well it's just started. What do you want? Th though for that matter, uh we've had a pretty warm one. It's supposed to you know, we've had a lot of sixty degrees days and that s that kind of thing. I'm gonna have to tell you that uh, you know, you should read, you know, the Old Testament There's something in there about there's a time and a season for everything, something along those lines of a song about it. Turn, turn, turn. Turn turn turn. You should enjoy all the seasons. Oh, that's so sad. I lived in Florida for a long time. We purposely moved back north because we wanted to have seasons. Yeah. I just don't like the cold. You don't know cold. Go like Minnesota or something like that. Then you'll go cold. Did you? Yeah, yeah. And they get snow like nobody's business. I mean when it snows out there, it snows and snows and you get y I mean you have people getting you know, going to the hospital all the time because they're shoveling snow, you know, and things happen, you know, there's unpro yeah, killing over and And uh can't handle it. Yeah, I grew up in Chicago. The tough thing about the snow there is the w it wind it is pretty significant. It's called the windy city for a reason. Right. And so you get lots of drifting. Yeah. And that's the killer. Yeah. You know, it's actually snows I've lived in uh upstate New York. Snows more there than it does in Chicago, but there's no there's not nearly as much drifting as there in Chicago. So yeah. Yeah. And there's nothing quite like that cold coming off the lake. I don't care how many layers of clothes you're wearing, it cuts through 'em all Right into your bones. Just like the word of God. Come on. So we're talking about this uh this lost commandment, the uh w what I'm almost making a big assumption here. Okay. There's probably one person right now listening that didn't hear the previous two shows that the three of us have done together. So Dave, why don't you take, you know, thirty-eight seconds and And ex explain to us uh, you know, the gist of your of your book and what this Lost Commandment is all about. The the Lost Commandment is Uh actually a commandment found in the Gospel of John when Jesus at the Last Supper told his apostles, uh a new command I give you, love one another, as I have loved you. so you must love one another. And it's the as I have loved you that's new. Uh the premise of the book is that this commandment was intended by Jesus to replace the golden rule uh but has been um not focused on for much of church history. Um instead the the golden rule that we should love our neighbors as ourselves has has uh uh taken its place Which is very interesting. The way that you w kind of work that out, that that he actually went from from the golden rule uh which is do unto others as you would have them do unto you to uh love your neighbor as yourself like i all the way then to this lost commandment almost like like there's a a progression there from one to the next, and that that love your neighbor or do unto others as you would have them do unto you was like the Old Testament. Then Christ took it to a new level uh in uh the Sermon on the Mount that that we need to go beyond the Old Testament law, but then that he went even farther and he said, Look, now I've given you the light, as it were. Now you really see what life is all about. Love people as I have loved you. It's a it's a fascinating progression that I feel like I I I'm gonna end up playing with theologically a little bit. I know this book is totally not theological, but But it's a uh it's it's really an important uh distinction that I'm hearing. Yeah, that prog uh if I could just elaborate on the progression. At the time that Jesus taught on earth, there was a a popular perception that what it meant to love our neighbors as ourselves was simply to do no harm. Uh and that was a misunderstanding of the Golden Rule, frankly. Um Jesus then clarified that when we loved our neighbors as ourselves, it was the positive that we should do to them the what we would have them do to us. Not that we should avoid doing to them what we would not want them to do to us. So he cur he he made that correction uh of how it what it meant to live according to the law and the prophets, but then he took it to another level. uh by saying that um you know we're not only to love our neighbors but we're to love our our enemies and we're um uh he just took it to an entirely uh different level ultimately is love as I have loved you. He loved his enemies. They crucified him. He forgave them. He loved them. That's the ultimate expression. Right. So so so the the new level the new level of love, the higher level of love was summarized at the Last Supper in this new commandment that we love others as he has loved us. Now let's walk through the you know the the language a little bit. Let's you know let's uh let's kinda take it up a little atomistically, you know, a little word at a time kind of thing. Nice. That sounds really exciting. I give you this I give you this a new commandment What's new about it? And what way does Jesus mean t to tell us that this is new? Well th the i when you look at the what's new is the as I have loved you. So he's he's his example. So Jesus changes the reference point, and by changing the reference point, he changes everything. You know, if I said, you know, that you should love as Hitler loved you as as comp as compared to compared to loving as Jesus loved you, you can see that whatever you tack on after the as really defines what it means to love. Um but it's important to know that what the word new means in the original language. There's a range of meaning of the Greek of the word new. Part of it is it's the most recent command. Part of it is that it's a different command. But there is a sense of the m of the word new that is your placement. uh when uh in Hebrews eight thirteen in describing what Jesus meant by new covenant, the writer of Hebrews said that by using the word new, Jesus rendered the old covenant obsolete. Now the that That phrase New Covenant was spoken w probably within minutes of the giving of this new command. So it stands to reason that when Jesus said And in the context of Passover Right. You know, which refers back to Jeremiah, right? And then as soon as he does that, then they get up and they head out to the Mount of Olives and as they're doing that, that's when he gives them the new commandment when that comes. Yeah, they start they started talking about the new commandment before they got up. But in the middle of talking about it, he says in John fourteen, uh come it's time to leave. So they continue the discussion as they're walking toward the Mount of Olives. So it's not. Or or the or what else is. Yeah, and so so things m start moving really quickly. Which is interesting because this commandment doesn't show up in any of any of the other epistles or any of the other gospels. It only shows up in the writings of John and I think what you're what you say in the book is that that it's because John's the one that remembered it. He's the one that lived the longest and he remembered, you know, that that that there was this thing that Christ was talking about, this newness that that centered everything on Christ and that's what we need to do is we need to let Christ be the standard. So when Paul says in Colossians three thirteen that we should forgive as the Lord has forgiven us. I mean that sounds very much like the new command, but uh th th the the the source of what love means comes from Jesus and we are to take what he did for us and pass it on But you know, it's interesting about J uh John. Um John was what we would regard as Jesus' cousin. Uh John's uh when you look at the accounts of the of the crucifixion, there's a woman, uh uh John's mother is at the crucifixion. Her name was probably Salome uh and she uh was um with the disciple with the apostles and disciples through Jesus' minister. So she's probably known Jesus from a a very, very small boy and he's in the inner circle with Jesus all all along the way. He's among the first to be uh to be called. He's a fishing partner with uh his brother and with Peter and with Andrew. They're all basically fishing partners. So he's known Jesus a long, long time. Um he's the one sitting next to Jesus at the Last Supper. He's of he goes into Gethsemane to pray just before Jesus was arrested. He's present with Jesus at the Transfiguration when Moses and Elijah appear. Um he's he's one of the the the inside uh you know, the very, very closest to Jesus. And so I think that he had a particular um particularly strong opportunity to perceive uh what it meant to be loved by Jesus. uh the the recollections that he shares in this gospel are so different from the other gospels had actually led many liberal critical uh um uh historians uh uh c critical what's the word? Critical what the higher critical critical uh people to reject his gospel as as having any validity to it uh because it was somehow written later and you know it was just people trying to add things that, you know, they felt like they needed to add now instead of actually being eyewitness account kind of thing. Well clearly they're wrong. You're wrong. Well I think I think I think that they're wrong because there's no That was an easy argument to make I was just wondering. uh to me that the other gospels were being circulated and John felt the need to uh to to s supplement the account of Jesus' life to add some things that were were being spoken of orally but had not been documented in writing. And actually, you know, I could play devil's advocate, make a big deal about that, but I want to get to the more to the meat of uh where this is going. So go to your next question, Sure. Well no, there's a point in which I mean it's it's new in that you know now we have Jesus as the standard bearer, the example we should love like he loved, and that that's a new spin on it. But there's an uh we don't want to overstate that so much, right? It's not like all of a sudden like God never, through the first however many thousands of years of history there was up until the the the time of Jesus Christ, he never intended or wanted anybody to love each other in a full godly way. So we don't want to overstate it like that wasn't always the ideal, right? But it's maybe wasn't issued in the form of a command before. Like h how how how should we Well I I feel like that's an obvious answer. Sorry. Sorry. Don't mean to like uh make you seem so unobvious. The point is is that is that mankind was was sinful and and in many regards had lost uh sight of God and had lost an understanding of what it meant to be righteous And so God had chosen the nation of Israel to to bring us back, to lead us to Christ, so that we could be reminded of what God's love was all about. So it's not like it's not like God wasn't trying to bring in it all those years, but but that literally mankind was incapable of seeing and understanding it and it took God's historical interaction with the nation of Israel for all those years for for even a Jewish individual at at the turn of the century back during Jesus' life to to be like, oh, this is what it's all about. Oh, how did we not see it for all those years? The point is is that is that God was bringing us to that point. Uh by the way, you're listening to the Freddy Faith Debate, I'm Troy Skinner. He's Jonathan Schweitzer, obviously. Senior Pastor Professor. That was fun. Did your wife do that to you? Well I say obviously too often. No. The Lost Commandment does his book have we missed what Jesus really wants. And well to us it might seem obvious. Okay. But there are those. We've talked about it on the show in the past, you know. The New Testament That's the God of love. Oh, I see. In the Old Testament, he is that vengeful, hate-filled, you know, self-centered, let's destroy everybody and dash babies upon the rocks, God And so there's this new thing, like God has completely had an about face. But we don't want to say that all of a sudden God has had an about face and there's this brand new thing. No. Um not at all. And and it's important uh i uh some of the reaction I've gotten to this to this book n by some pastors is a sense of uh a dis I think a a sense of discouragement that that I'm trying somehow to be critical of of pastors or uh or the church and that's um that's not that's not my intention. There are there have been great Christians who have loved as Jesus loved. There have been pastors who have elaborated on what that means by teaching through uh the meaning of love in for years and years and giving their lives to that. Um what has been missing, and I just simply observe this by looking at at sermons and books and and numerous sources, what has been missing is are the words of this commandment. And I d I don't know why that is. Uh you know It occurs to me, and this is it's all speculation when we start thinking about why people wouldn't have gone that direction, but it occurs to me that there has arisen with the Enlightenment and the secular humanism that has risen with that, uh, and the historical criticism of the Bible, the higher criticism, kind of for the first time in the history of the world, a a very strong um uh sophisticated um uh body of of elite education uh uh uh savants, some professors that have for the first time argued that Jesus Christ does not have to be the standard. His teachings are good, but but that Christ isn't necessarily so important to that. Just his teachings are. And all that being the case, it occurs to me that maybe Maybe the point is that for the first time in the history of the world we have to be reminded. We gotta love like Christ loved, you know, whereas previous to that It was kinda like, you know, well duh. You know, like it was just that was assumed already. I mean, I don't know, I could be wrong, but certainly that is the case with Enlightenment in the last two hundred years that they've happened. and kind to all the pastors out there. But I gotta tell ya. Yeah. I'm not a pastor. I can get away with this. Yeah, good. You guys travel in circles where you're dealing with pastors, you're preaching, whatever, you know what you gotta You know, at at some level you're a pastor. You're you know, you're you're in a leadership role and you're preaching, so you would put yourself in that I don't have to worry about putting myself in that group. I'm not leading a church. So I can throw rocks. His name is Troy Skinner. Not if you want to love as Jesus. I don't I don't live in glass houses. I can throw rocks. I don't live in a glass house like you guys do. No. Seriously. We do have a crisis in my opinion My humble opinion, we have a crisis, uh, at least in the American church. First of all, there are way more to Jonathan's point, there are way more um uh leaders in cr in the in Christian circles who are willing to deny the authentic truth of of Scripture. and replace it with something other. And they have various incarnations of what those others are. But they they're willing to replace it. So you got that problem. But then you've got really good God-fearing, um Bible-believing, you know, uh gospel-centered in their mindset preachers who don't preach that way. They know the truth. They believe the truth. One-on-one, you take them out for a cup of coffee, they will tell you the truth. But when they get on the pulpit in front of a congregation All of a sudden it's seeker sensitive. You can't talk about sin because that might offend somebody. We can't talk about God's righteousness and his and his and his vengeance and his it and and the appropriateness of his wrath. uh poured out on the on the un unrighteous because that could offend somebody. Sin. Let's talk about mistakes, you know. Let's not talk about sin. Let's talk about uh errors in our thinking and and uh and um Po poor poor motivation because of the way we were upbrought and all those sorts you're like, what are you talking about? So let's hit each other through the you know in the middle of the eyes. So what's what's been your response from pastors? Have you had any pastors that have been like, you know what, I'm just totally not interested in the U. , you know. Some pastors um like yourself are very thrilled and enthusiastic and um supportive. Some are it it's as you might predict. Some some are um mildly uh pleased and and I I have had some I guess the greatest surprise I've had is that I've had some pastors who've who've really felt uh giving me a negative reaction. Yeah and like when they when they give you the negative reaction, like what is what is the basis of that? Have they been open enough to tell you? Well I think it's a sense of discouragement about the premise of o about the statement in the book that it's lost. And I think that they feel that that is an attack. Yeah. They somehow they're being attacked by you and they're saying that's not true. I I had a I talked to Pastor um locally who's a r you know a respected person, I think. And um and um Hi his response was that he f found that um he did not think that the commandment was lost and he thought that the book was um too basic, which is, you know, J. I. Packer says that it'll be uh that that everyone who reads it will find it to be challenging and since J. I. Packer is fairly uh you know, fairly up there in Christian thinking, I I was surprised that this pastor thought it was too basic but But he but I said to him, you know, is this a is this a commandment that you f frequently preach about or is this at the center of your church? Is it is it in your mission statement? Is it what what's the evidence of it in your church? And he said that He thought that I was making a mistake in the premise of my book that in in in looking for the com the the words of the commandment itself because the commandment was so omnipresent in in the teaching of the church that it was implicit that you didn't even have to s say it. Well I would say that there's probably some first of all um I would say there's probably some truth to that and it actually goes to a question I was going to ask, but You've now got me on a different line of thought. I want to ask this really quick. You wrote this book. Your intended audience was who? Who are you writing this for? I'm br I'm writing it primarily for Christians to use in uh small groups and devotionals, but I wanted it to be I wanted it to be a book that is clear enough that you could hand it to someone who doesn't know the Lord. Now and I'll tell you a brief story. Um when I was um writing the book I had a number of people who were reading the manuscript as I as I uh wrote. Uh and my assistant at the time uh w saw the email traffic and she um was helping proofread the book and it just it happens that she was from an Islamic home. She was raised in Islamicum. So she saw the email traffic about the book and sh and and s some people were wondering, you know, who's your audience and and is the is the chapter about the gospel too basic for for Christians and and they were sort of encouraging me to redirect it toward an exclusively Christian audience. And this woman came into my office and begged me not to do that because she said, you know, I've never considered Christianity before and I'm reading this book. Um please do not do that. Please do not um only right for Christians. So um Well the reason I asked the question is I mean it's I don't know who the pastors are talking about and it's probably good that I don't, but Right. And it sounds like maybe he misunderstood who your audience was going to be 'cause it's not like you're writing this for academia. You weren't writing this to be a seminary uh book that would be teach future p pastors how to you know thing I mean maybe it could be used in that way but that wasn't who your intended audience was. You weren't trying to write the next, you know, Institutes of the Christian religion or the next systematic theology or the whatever. This is supposed to be a practical book that the average person who's gone to high school or graduated high school or whatever could get get their teeth into and understand. So it's not if you made it too heavy, you would have completely missed the mark on who your audience is supposed to be to be. So I don't think that's a fair fair criticism. Yeah it seems to me like the book is written precisely for those masses that Gallup and Barna uh had uh had surveyed to say that uh okay here's an answer to that. This is how we're supposed to love, you know, so let's get to it. I I I that's exactly right. I wish that past that seminaries and uh and commentary writers would Um although the book is not written in the academic tone and doesn't go uh doesn't use some of the methodology that they would use. It it's my hope that I'll be able to persuade some of the commentators to take another look at this commandment in order to um to see whether or not their view of it might be adjusted. I know a lot of people are critical of somebody like let's say a Max Lakeda who's a pretty popular uh Christian author these days. days uh every book he puts out is like a bestseller. Uh and they're critical it's a little bit too light and soft and fluffy and all that sort of stuff. But just because he's easy to read doesn't mean that the stuff that he writes about doesn't have a penetrating truth behind it. Right. And I know people that have used macroplato books to great effect in small group studies and it has impacted their lives in very positive ways, much more so than something written by, you know, Jonathan Edwards in the eighteen hundreds that you know nobody could understand anymore or whatever. You know, I I don't know if that's a fair example to Jonathan Edwards, but can I can I just make one short point? I I wrote it for devotional and small group study. There were there are free small group materials on my website, um, DaveGrieber. com for those who are curious whether they might be interested in using it for that uh purpose. And Graber is G-R-E-B-E-R, DaveGrieber. com. All right, so now to the other point of that pastor who is critical of your book. saying that, uh, well, this isn't really a lost commandment. It's kind of implicit throughout all the teaching. I would probably agree with him. But what's man, all the more damning that it's not preached more specifically. If it's implicit, why don't we preach it in an explicit way? Why do you what are we afraid of? Why can't we make it crystal clear? Jesus makes it crystal clear. I'm giving you this command. Hello, I'm Jesus, Son of God. Command. Anybody listening? Hello, hello, hello. You know? Why how is it that we would just leave it there and say, Well it's implicit. We don't really have to talk about it. In fact that's what I feel like is the power of the book. You move in on a couple of you know, humility, forgiveness, uh serving, mission, what's the other one? Um in order. It's joy, relationship, mission, humility, obedience, forgiveness, and service. There are seven seven parts. Yeah, yeah, I feel like the way that you move in on those different areas Like again, they're implicit all through scriptures, like you're saying, but but taking the time to go back and to walk it through and to tie it into that Christ is the is the model by which we live our lives, uh, I feel like is uh it's really hasn't been done and it needed to be d done. There's an appendix in my book of scriptures that echoes the teaching of the Lost Commandment. It's it's not it's not a commandment that sits there all by its lonesome in a couple of places in John. It's a commandment that when you It's just like striking a turn tuning fork and then hearing the tones go all the way through the teaching of Scripture once you know what you're listening for. Well, I've enjoyed this show, we've accomplished an awful lot, but we really still haven't spent a whole lot of time in refining any in any sort of uh Real strong what it means to love like Jesus. And I think it does come it comes to obedience is a big part of it. And I think I want if you guys are okay with that, maybe we could do another show, talk about that and and anything else that you want. Yeah. Yeah. And I've kind of playfully, you know, suggested to Jonathan that he can share with us, you know, what he really wants. He can. Maybe next week he'll tell us. I want you to wear that tie that you were wearing the other. See I think the cliffhanger. There it is. Next week's episode of Batman. Everybody wants to know. When is it ministry? When is it show? Yes. Anyway, thank you, uh Dave Grieber. He is the author of The Lost Commandment. Have we missed what Jesus Really Wants? Jonathan Sweitzer is senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. You have a blog too, right? Yeah, you can go to Jonathansweitzer. org. JonathanSweitzer. org gets you. Or you can go to a blog spot and just, you know, look up Jonathan Sweitzer. Okay. And yours is DaveGrieber. com. Yep. Dave Grieber, G-R-E-B-E-R. Again, the book is the Lost Commandment. I'm Troy Skinner. I encourage you to go to our website, WFMD. com keyword faith. You can also go to the audio vote section of the uh WFMD website and find, I don't know, probably three hundred podcasts of faith debates from the past. And I'll tell you, out of those three hundred, four or five of them really, really good shows. So when you identify which ones they are, send me an email, would you, so I can flag 'em for everybody else. We're following in uh Bob Miller's footsteps. The worst show you ever want to do this to do. Anyway, thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thank you for listening. Have a great week ahead. God bless you.