Uh love the sound of that music. None of that heavy That'll rock and roll in your face. Wake up. Kind of music we played last week. This is this is the music we're supposed to play. Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate. On WFMD, where we always play easy, relaxing favorites. I'm finding myself not liking the show right now. And are sure to talk over your music. I'm Troy Skidder, this is Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD. Join This week as always by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And again this week by uh our lead in and praise the Lord for such a strong lead in. Exactly. Pastor Paul Monday, senior pastor at uh the Frederick Church of the Brethren and host of the Time of Challenge, which airs immediately before this show. If you missed it, get up earlier next week. Yeah I mentioned last week. I probably shouldn't have because every week now Jonathan's gonna make me bring it up. But according to the Arbitron Ratings research, uh the eight a. m. hour on Sundays is the most listened to hour of the day on WFMD. So Absolutely. Our program starts it off. It would probably be the most listened to hour of the whole week if it weren't for us bringing the numbers down. Right, right, right. And then the uh the eight to nine hour uh on Sunday mornings actually uh is is not only the strongest hour on Sunday, but actually beats some of the big name shows that air during the week. It beats Unbelievable. It beats Beck, beats Michael Savage. And so that's not a rush, right? No, don't be in rush. If Glenn Beck heard that, his head would be about to explode. He needs his uh his duct tape Well I think Glenn Beck's I just say, you know, third most listened to radio program on WFMD. Or something something like that. That's right. But anyway. So last week we d definitive uh definitively answered the question of whether or not animals go to heaven. And this week we're going to equally definitively answer the question about whether it's appropriate to uh have your body cremated. Now it's interesting that this question w that we would have stumbled upon talking about this question uh uh uh in lead up to this show because not I don't know how many weeks ago. Just a few weeks ago, somehow the idea of and I guess my family's morbid, I don't know. But the idea of what to do when my mom dies came up. Well that's not morbid. And my mom was saying to me, I don't know, I'm I'm thinking maybe I would just want to be cremated 'cause that's gonna be easiest and cheapest and blah blah blah and I don't want to be a burden on everybody and But I don't know. I mean, is it a sin to be cremated? And she asked that question She asked that question. And uh so we talked about it for a while and uh I'll share my answer later in the program, but Uh I want to hear from you uh well studied, distinguished pastors. Well it's very appropriate because cremation I mean is on the rise. If y if you if we had a funeral director here this morning, I mean they would indicate that more and more people now uh are are opting for this and rightly or wrongly part of what I hear is it's just the economics of it all that I think it's appropriate we're talking about this this morning because the biblical or the theological part of this is not where people begin. I think that as people are are are are aging and kind of thinking about, well, you know, life's over anyhow Um they're probably more worried uh if the research is correct in terms of how much something's gonna cost, uh, you know, even kind of their final, you know, arrangements As opposed to what scripture would say or what God would think on this. Right, right. If you're not familiar with the movie from the seventies, that's like maybe seventy two ish, something like that I want to say you've entered into the great uh void in my background. But without giving too much away, because everyone will run out and rent boiling green now. But basically there's you know, there's an overpopulation problem, there's this aging problem, and and there's and because of the overpopulation there's kind of a famine issue. So they decide to kill two birds with one stone, so the aging are assisted basically into death and then once they die they're uh bottled up and canned up and become food products and store shelves Wow. All of that nice music that opened the show. But but but really it's it's we we do we talked a lot in the last program about elderly and the dynamics in terms of an ancient culture, which probably with with the baby boomer uh population being one of the largest in recent uh history and the aging, you know, that that's gonna evolve pretty rapidly here. Uh I mean and a and the fact we are in a recession here. Uh I mean increasingly people are becoming incredibly uh efficient and pretty pragmatic about all choices, including I think this choice as well. Uh so um So I was asking before the show, where does the idea that being cre cremated is somehow wrong come from. And I can't find anybody that would tell me. A lot of people will go back they'll go to to um uh to the the whole idea of uh of the last days and the resurrection of the dead and there's the uh general sense that, you know, if I destroy my body uh through cremation or if my you know form and frame are literally uh destroyed uh in this way that then it's a violation of uh of what is to happen at the very end of time where you know there there's the resurrection of the body. So so it gets a little technical in terms of kind of where you come out of the way. Uh the reason why that's fascinating to me is because the the closest passage that I can find in scripture that talks about ashes and death and dead bodies is talking about the Valley of Kidron, the Khidron Valley next to Jerusalem where it says that they would put the dead bodies and ashes. So dead bodies and ashes are thrown in that particular valley. And it's interesting if you've ever been to the Khedron Valley, to the Valley of Jehoshaphat Right? It's right up on the side of the Mount of Olives. Right. So the valley between Jerusalem and uh the Mount of Olives is Kidron Valley. And you know what's there? Thousands upon thousands upon thousands of graves. to be like the first one that gets to see him and touch him fingers. So it's interesting that you put that that issue together. I you know I I'm vaguely aware of there being a pagan ritual of burning the kings of old. Right. You know, you picked up a little bit bit of this in the in The Lord of the Rings, you know, where he was going to die and be burned like the kings of you know, the pagan kings of old. You know, there is a sense that that maybe the church at some point reacted to that, but I'm unaware of any doctrine uh through church ages that talked about uh cremating as being bad and so Well there might not be any passages that negatively but I'm I mean I By the way, for the record, so that doesn't be too awkward for me to share, I've I ended up counseling my mother that I couldn't think of any biblical reason why she couldn't be cremated if that was her wish. You know, so that's where I ended up on that. However, however, that said, I mean we can't build a negative case, but I think you could try to build a positive case. In the uh you know, there's lots of stories about death and burial in the Old Testament. Right. Lots of cases where it was important that the bones be removed from the tomb and relocated to the promised land and things like that. So there was this idea of hanging onto the body. There's one example where I think Saul, uh, because his sons had been mutilated in in w war uh they ended up I think burning the bodies, but they saved and buried the bones So you can have the if you have you can start to build a positive case that the biblical at least in the Old Testament anyway, the the biblical norm is burial And since there's no mention of cremation, the biblical norm is burial, but maybe we should hedge on the on the safe side and let's not risk. We know burial's okay. Right. We're not real sure about cremation, so let's just play it safe. That could be part of it. The other thing is think about in the early years of of Christian persecution, and Christians were burned at the stake or things like that, and there was a negative association perhaps and so You know, and then the idea that maybe the body is a temple and in fact the catacombs were r you know, they they really went out of their way to bury you know, the bodies of those that had died in the catacombs. You know, where the Christians hung out. Very much so. And so it seems to me okay, well, let's follow that out. My biggest concern is that when somebody has passed away that there be a memorial You know that there be like if your mom, you know, when when she passes, that there'd be a way, a place where you can go to you know, just to remember her, you know, to memorialize her. And so when they're buried there's a there's a there's a stone you could go, the then the you know, wha whatever's on the stone, you know, that whole sense of You know, what what's your stone gonna say? Um I feel like there that it's important to us as a culture, and I don't know that I could say why sc biblically, but maybe you know part of what you're saying that that we could remember Troy Skinner when he had gone on and that his life counted for something, you know, and that uh that that we find ways to re you know, to to remember and to appreciate You know, what what that life meant. It seems to me like those kinds of things are valuable, but again I can't say that I know a place in scripture for that. No, and you can have a memorial and remember somebody in that without having the body in a casket You can do that with a with an earnest. See the irony of this is that oftentimes in apologetics when we're talking about how we differentiate between world religions, uh oftentimes that's said Christianity i is the only religion uh you know whose founder uh does not have a grave. And so i i it it's not to contradict what Jonathan's saying necessarily, but but but we are called, you know, essentially as Christians to have faith in Christ in the resurrection, uh and and that it's not dependent on going and finding the tomb of Jesus Um uh but supposedly every other uh leader of every other world religion, you can go and visit their burial site and that indeed it is a part of religious ritual, I guess, in terms of actually practicing that religion and venerating, you know, the the founder or w or whatever. But that's not to say that, you know, other than Christ himself, you know, in terms of not having a burial place It doesn't mean that for believers there isn't value because because uh you know throughout the Old Testament and New Testament uh you know all kinds of memorials were built, all kinds of places of remembrance. uh uh you know were were lifted up and sanctified as being uh critically important to uh to faith uh in that way. I I I think in some ways um The the the the awkwardness of cream cremation for for many believers is is this idea that the body itself is the t is the temple, the temple for the Holy Spirit. And that the body itself, they go back to to uh creation, it's the idea of that we've been formed and shaped, you know, by God Himself, you know, out of the earth, out of the clay and and all that type of thing. And though you can very quickly then jump and say, but the essence of that is being a living soul rather than your physical form and frame, um, you know, there's a lot in Scripture in terms of you know, not dishonoring your body and and and and and and and the whole idea of purity, you know, whether it's sexual purity or whatever. So it's kind of like this ver this tension between valuing the body And the need for purity and holiness in that way. But then also then uh this idea that that primarily you know we are not what we see in terms of our form and frame. We're primarily this sense of soul uh that God has created. Because that is that's what's created the image of God. It's not our form physical uh form and frame. Right. And so that gets me thinking about how the Egyptians were so concerned about entombing the body, that they had this huge memorial, you know, so that they would live forever. You know, this uh they just found one down in in uh a Mayan temple, you know, uh somewhere down in South America just recently they found that that the temples actually had major tombs to the to you know, to the to the king and and right. They'd never found those previously and that was a big deal and they found some dead what it looked like dead children that it looks like were were killed at the death of the anyways, all that's off to the side. You know, the point is that we we don't want to go there You know, we're somehow we're preparing the body for this afterlife. Absolutely. Because clearly that's not the case. Uh and and and yet on the other side it seems like the it is important to memorialize. You know, it even draws my attention to all the lists of of the genealogies in the Bible where you're remembering that this guy did this and this guy did this, you know, that that it's important to to remember and to to write. They will have bodies, the Bible says. on the other side in heaven. Right, right. Believers will will have resurrection bodies, but they're not the same bodies. There's something different and supernatural about those bodies. And I wonder part of you know the idea could be well I've got to make sure my body's ready for God to make it. I know that would almost weak me out. Oh no. But if you wake up I ruined it. God can't put it back all the King's horses and all the King's men. Anyway, right. I think uh for cremation because essentially it's going to happen anyhow through the natural process that God has designed in terms of of of dust returning to dust. I mean in other words we are formed out of dust And uh that's where it's not necessarily in the Bible, but it's the classic phrase, uh ashes to ashes, dust to dust. And I think that's where it comes from that in essence whether you're cremated or whether your body is placed in the casket and it decomposes Heath Paul Monday, senior pastor at the Frederick Church of the Brethren, joined this week by my colleague, partner in crime Senior Pastor of Crossroads of Valley Chapel, Jonathan Sweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Freddy Faith Debate on Freddie's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm wondering if It wouldn't be f the argument wouldn't have come from the pages of Scripture, but I don't think you can make an argument of a real strong argument from the pages of Scripture that you shouldn't be cremated. So what are the other what's the psychology going on there? And part of it is I think there's this there's this kind of a almost a pop culture idea that you as long as the body's still there, you're not really dead yet You know? That's why people have their like your ghost is out there somewhere. Yeah, somehow you're still alive you know, you're not dead yet. I mean you're dead, but you're not really dead. But you know, Walt Disney has his body frozen because well, as long as he's frozen he's not really dead. Or yeah, you know, the same idea. Or Lennon, uh Lennon's tomb where you can go and actually see, yeah. Yeah, you know, the s or the or the uh you know the same thing that happens at at Wakes. You know, where open casket wakes and stuff and the and the body is there, but it's not the person. And yet so often we find ourselves treating and and respecting that that body as the person, as the living soul, as the as that entity that we loved so much. Uh but it's it's No, no, no, no. But I'm wondering if there's this fear like oh I I I I don't want to be cremated because then Then I'm really dead. I'm really dead then. You know, at least before I decompose, maybe something could happen. Maybe Jesus can call me out of the tomb like he did Lazarus. Something can happen, but Cremation. Boy, that has the right thing. Yeah, there's the finality to it, and then it's uh and then it's a little morbid to say this, but you you just think about the actual kind of process of that. you know, that just the thought of going through that. So it's it's a much more peaceful, settled thing to think, well I'm just gonna lie down, I'll be you know, I'll be laid in a grave and there's there's more of a mellow sense about that. Whereas the whole idea of uh you could almost say it's such a violent kind of thing, it's such a horrific kind of thing that that I think for a lot of people it just i it's not it's not the idea of passing on the idea of passing on or uh of of your final moments or of dying or whatever and and eternity has more of this peaceful sense of of of of of living on with God and and it's uh kind it's it's the re yeah, let's put it this way. It's the rest in peace kind of motif Whereas when you're talking about cremation, you don't you don't think rest in peace. You know, you think there's a whole different metaphor. Right. And it's interesting actually I had forgotten this. You know, maybe it's uh pardon the secular humanist slant on this phrase, but it might be Freudian. Uh when I was How old would I have been? I was in my early, early teens or preteens, I can't remember exactly how old I was now. Between ten and fourteen when my when my grandfather on my uh on my uh father's side of the family past and he was cremated. Mm-hmm. Okay. And I remember at that age wondering it might have been like ten or eleven now that I think about exactly but anyway, I remember thinking at that uh at that age Like, is it hurt? Exactly, that's what I'm saying. Is is he like experiencing pain right now? I mean he's being burned. You know That whole idea of he's not really dead yet. Exactly. See and i so so th a lot yeah, there's there's um Yeah there's a lot of, I think, um mystery in a sense or even fear of of just the whole process that's involved. And that's what we're talking about. Or afraid to die. And so talking about what we're going to do with the body afterwards, you know, is just a little bit it wigs us all out. 'Cause we're gonna have to die. We've got to deal with this question that at some point, you know, it's one of the man wants to die and then the judgment you know, the finality of it all. But that's okay, right. So maybe that's the psychology It's okay to be afraid to die though, right? Well you know the larger question I'll just kinda I'll just kind of uh uh drop into the into the debate here is when I grew up in Hakerstown, uh it it was a kind of a more liberal congregation. And part of that was that the clergy there would not conduct funeral services. They would only conduct memorial services. And the whole idea in terms of of the difference there was that uh that the services to be a celebration of life And it's about the spirit of the person that is now living on with with God in eternity. And that in that essence in the in that instance the body was almost immaterial. In other words, it it really has little or nothing to do with the with the worship service itself. But coming back to Frederick now, fourteen years ago, um th this land is primarily towards funeral services rather than memorial services. And at least in the services that I participated in, uh not in a morbid way I think or inappropriate way, but the body has a fairly central role. I mean it's normally upfront uh in front of the sanctuary, et cetera, et cetera. Well yeah, but but when I was throwing up at the i if the body got in the sanctuary at all, it was at the back of the sanctuary But but in a cast, but but normally what would happen is the the burial would happen prior to the memorial service, so we sort of got that out of the way, got the body out of the way, and that actually the the actual religious service uh lit had lit had nothing to do with the body. So so in some ways the theology behind that? Well it's exactly what we're saying. That that primarily Yeah but we remember it's at a funeral you still memorialize and remember what what happened and but but but that's the point that that it's it's primarily we're remembering the soul, the spirit of an individual that that really in some respects is not synonymous with the with the with the bodily form and frame. and that and that that really that's what we're celebrating and that the body, you know, is not the essence of uh Okay, but this is where I'm confused about all that. Why would a more conservative congregation Not also go the direction of memorial. Whereas a liberal would. In some respects you could say the memorial service at the end of the day give the impression that okay we're not so sure that they're going to heaven, but we're gonna remember the spirit of the guy. Well in terms of my experience it wasn't that, but I think you could go that way. Uh But but I think here in Frederick County the con the conservatism goes more with traditionalism and I think traditionally uh that you know the body you have a funeral service with the body and frankly traditionally you don't cremate But as Frederick County is changing, I think it'd be interesting if we had a funeral director here, probably funeral directors would say that the county is getting a little bit more liberal or a little bit more trendy or whatever. And cremate yeah, cremation as we're going south, get it? Oh, there's Montgomery County people are coming up here. Well whatever. Maybe they're br maybe they're bringing the cremation. I don't know what it is. But but but here's the here's the weird twist if you want to this again this b borders on the morbid or whatever, but I think until recently there wasn't even the capacity within the county. to actually kind of execute kind of the the the whole act of creation that actually we had to go over to Washington County uh and that's the only place where it actually could be done. Now I think just recently a funeral home here in Frederick actually kind of has what you might call full service, you know, possibilities in that way. But it's it's really I I've been really surprised that that people who I thought were very conservative and very traditional in every other aspect of their life in terms of not wanting much change. were indeed open to cremation. And again, coming back to where I started at the beginning of the program, it's because of I I hate to say it, fiscal conservatism. That it is so much cheaper to be cremated. It is nuts how expensive it is to be buried. I mean to my crazy expensive. So maybe that's why everybody doesn't want to be cremated because at the end of the day They want to live on and they wanna be among the rich. Even in death, they wanna be buried among the rich because they could afford a burial. No, no, no, that's cynical and I don't really believe that. But but that would go too far. The the weirdest part that I just experienced recently in this regard, uh, and again the funeral home will not be named, uh, but actually with a service probably being offered by all funeral homes are specially made caskets that look like very expensive caskets, but in reality are not expensive at all, that are designed for cremation. So it's not the just the traditional thought of that, but actually there is now kind of what you might call the best of both worlds in the sense that you can actually present uh your loved one in a casket But the whole idea is that it will not be buried, but it would be cremated. If you're not comfortable answering the question, you don't have to. But have you thought about this? Have you decided? Do you want to be buried, cremated? What? Uh I'm very comfortable with the question. I honestly have never really thought about it. And at the end of the day, I certainly would not want what they do with my body, my dead body, to affect them financially in a negative way. And so I think I probably would tend, you know, just off the top of my head, I thought about a little bit when you pitched it to me, but it's just not big enough maybe that I've really thought about it. I know I'm going to heaven. You know, I know that they're gonna go on, but but the one thing that I think would affect me was that would be, okay, now that I've passed on, my wife and kids, you know, would be burdened with this great financial responsibility to go buried somewhere. Are you are you comfortable answering the question? Yeah, for for me I traditional. I I would be at this point uncomfortable with auto creation. But I'm sitting here saying why? I don't I don't really have a biblical or even a rational it's more of an emotional thing. So that's probably another subject. My grandfather just passed away and we buried him. in upstate New York where he was, you know, born and grew up, you know, and so right there in town next to all the other Schweitzers, you know, that that had had been big part of that town through the ages and It was interesting. I I mean it was pretty special to be there together to to watch the casket go into the ground. There's an emotional thing there of just No, no. The r the recent desecration that has happened to gravesites at Arlington Cemetery. Right. And and so like w where does this fit into all this? In other words, uh um I mean it's the dishonoring of the memory of the dead that that is affected. And I guess maybe if you want to bottom line this, I mean how much how much how much of how many how much of a physical remain do you need to have in order to have a gravesite? And are we really saying the bottom line is you need to have a grave site that is honored and respected because I think really in terms of conversation, there's no debate about the fact everybody was absolutely uh devastated and horrified that whenever a grape site is tampered with or violated. And you think of the recent press and in Arlington, I mean I I don't know all the stats on it, but it was absolutely horrendous. It has to do with dishonoring the memory of the dead and dis and so therefore they're dishonored, you know, who they are. Well that's going to wrap the show. By the way, I'm thinking I want my body donated to science. Oh, okay. We didn't even touch on that. No. So didn't even get to that area. Save it to the very ankle because I didn't want to go into that one too long. So anyway. Jonathan Sweitzer, Cedar Faster at Crossroads Valley Chapel And uh Paul Monday, Senior Pastor at Frederick Church of the Brethren and host of Time of Challenge here on WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Our shows are brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith Thanks so much for listening to the Faith Debate on WFMD. Until next week, 167 and a half hours away from now. God bless. Footman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P, as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumber? Things, how can we make you smile?