Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putmint Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P has in your preferred plumber. Well then plumbing, how can we make you smile? Very mellow. Yeah, he has a few songs that are a little bit more intense, but for the most part he's a lighter Uh the intensity comes from the uh the the words, you know, and the the music as opposed to you know like some kind of a rock beat or something like that. What pray tell are they talking about? Oh he said pray. Can he say that on the radio? Listening to Michael Card music. Why? Because Michael Card's gonna be in concert in Carroll County in uh just a couple of weeks. March twenty-seventh. Yeah, Saturday, March twenty seventh. Um and for a fundraiser. A fundraiser to benefit the least of these ministries and on for the second week in a row to talk about what the least of these ministries is doing. And to help promote the concert. What the heck, right? We're shameless. It's like a bribe. It's it's like going to Haiti or Dominican Republic or Mexico and you have to yeah you're you're you're b we're bribing you or guilting you, whatever. Go buy a ticket and go to the show. That's right, that's right. We'll take a bribe right now if you want to. Anyway, pardon the rather informal start to the show. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to Faith Debate, and yes, the Faith Debate where Truth Matters Yeah. Tell about the truth, baby. Oh, he said it again. You didn't last week. You notice that? Yeah. No, I didn't. Sh I got at the end of the show and I said, Praise the Lord. Anyway. That's twice now. Pray too. Anyway. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Steve Hall is a founder and uh current director of the Lease of Vies Ministries. You'll find out a little bit more about what that is if you missed last week's show. And Greg Luke, we heard a little bit. We know what his voice sounds like at least now. Yes. But this week we'll hear a little bit more of what he has to say. He is a uh a supporter and volunteer with the least of these ministries. In a nutshell, there are Haitians Yeah. Before the earthquake, who had such a horrible life in Haiti that they fled across the border into the Dominican Republic. and uh just to find work where they were horribly taken advantage of enslaved enslaved basically. Um And they get stuck there because they they they can't get back into Haiti, I guess, or even if they could, they don't want to, particularly now, I yeah. And they're in a really bad place. They're kind of people without a country. And uh worse than that, I guess, they're people without food, without without a future, or whatever. And so riding home from a missions trip to the Dominican Republic, um, about a decade, decade and a half ago, uh Steve Hall was watching a movie a memorable a good movie, one of Hollywood's finest 'cause he couldn't remember what it was called. And in the middle of the movie the dialogue cuts out and and uh God tells him that he needs to go feed his people in Haiti. And audible voice. An audible voice, which is really a cool story. So anyway, so now, ever since then, Steve and his minions have been breaking the law in the Min Dominican Republic feeding starving people That nobody else is taking care of. Praise the Lord. We talked about that a little bit, and I do want us to, before we get into exactly what you're doing day to day and what you've seen when you've been out on the street, I do want us to we touched on it last week. Okay. Uh but I want to drive the home point the drive the point home uh now. Yeah. And I'll let Jonathan do that 'cause he drives the point home really well. Uh he gets impassioned. He's a he's a pastor, he's a preacher after all. Okay. So we as Christians, because everybody in this room on this show, on this panel today is a Christian. We as Christians are instructed to abide by the authorities under which we live. You know if our government tells us uh to pay our taxes, we You know, give unto Caesar what is Caesar's. We have to be law abiding, rule abiding people. Yeah. And yet here we have a situation where abiding by the rules would would mean watching or allowing people to starve to death, to be enslaved, whatever. So speak to that Pastor Schweitzer, if you would. So you want you want me to say why is it okay to do that? Well biblically? Or if it's okay. Well first of all, I'm going to ask you the question, is it okay? And if so, tell me why. Um clearly uh there is a divine law to take care of the poor, to help those that are hurting, that can't uh speak up for themselves. uh and this is pervasive throughout all scripture and it is uh it the the strength of that particular um uh command is strong enough that that for any of us if we're in a situation where the poor are not being taken care of, where their their rights uh where where justice is not being done on their behalf, it's appropriate for Christians to uh not try to stick their nose uh stick their thumb in in the government's nose, but to be shrewd as serpents and harmless as doves, to work uh to help those that simply can't help themselves even if it means doing things that uh uh that would be against the law. Now uh it would not be okay to say sell drugs in order to raise money, you know, to feed the poor. That would be a a clear example of of going too far. But if what you're doing is uh is going into a country to help people that nobody else is helping and they really need to help and and all you're doing is you're breaking some uh some laws that have to do with filling out paperwork and and uh um you know being a legal organization, those kinds of things. You know, at the end of the day, do your best to stay in line with uh whatever laws are there. But but we have to obey the law of God to take care of the poor. And the wise as serpents, gentle as doves might be a pr pretty good rule of thumb to kind of keep in mind, right? For example, there have been people in this country, in the United States, who have murdered abortion doctors. Right. Right? In the name of God because they want to save the babies from these late term abortions or whatever. But that's not being as harmless as a dove, is it? That's violating God's law against murder. Profoundly. Right. So In this case, there's no law of God that's being violated. They're going over there and feeding people and giving them good work and giving them good environment in which to live and raise families or whatever, right? So Well that that uh saving the baby struck a nerve with me because when we first went there we found that the infant death rate was about thirty-six percent in these in these villages. Um come on more than half the babies live. Yeah, what? They should have been happy with that. But a lot of that was due to the fact that the mothers were so undernourished that they could not produce milk to feed the babies. So after four or five days the baby would die of starvation. And you know, there are numerous countries uh around the world, Africa, different places, where the government w where what is legal uh ends up um uh making it difficult to really help those that that are most needy. And um, you know, j just thinking about people being so malnourished And the government just not even caring or uh may maybe it's not the government's responsibility. Maybe it's just that's the point, it's just other Dominicans' responsibility to care. But people for whatever reason there's a There's a whole thing. Hey man, I was gonna correct you. I'm glad you caught yourself. I was gonna correct you there. In fact, nowhere in the Bible does it say that it's the government's role to take care of the poor. In fact what it says is it says that it is our responsibility to take care of the poor. You and me as individuals. And that's what you've done. You took it upon yourself. from an audible voice of God to to go down there and to to make a difference. In the villages we're feeding now, we've got the infant death rate down to about twelve percent Wow. Are you serious? You're like you're you're actually measuring in the towns where you're active. Every village has a village leader and he helps us with those kind of figures taking care of things and uh And keeping track of things. How many villages are are you in then? Eight. Eight villages. You're in eight villages, and those villages, instead of one third of all babies dying from malnutrition, it's only down to one tenth. Yes That's significant. And when uh when we go we go there to do something in one of these villages, uh my wife and I really have a uh kind of a a shroud of kids around us all the time. Sure, I would imagine. We were walking through one of the villages uh this past summer and these kids came up and grabbed our hands and just held on like they wouldn't never let us go and and just smiling and uh three or four of 'em had no clothing and some just had no shoes and they were walking along. And I just said to my wife, I said, Ann, do you realize if if if we hadn't started feeding in this battery that these kids may not be alive. They may have been part of that thirty six percent who died because you explained last week what bate means, but Okay, a baté is uh it's a French word that means work camp And it's a place where these people uh lived at the plantations to work. They were just mud and sticky. But they're no longer plantations. It's they're just places where people live and there's nothing for them to do now. Right. That's the reason why they're starving. Yes. Trying to turn it into concentration camps or something almost. Yeah. Well I want to get we have an opportunity for Greg to to jump in. Greg Luke who's uh bend down and and and if you can uh uh I didn't clear this in advance so if this isn't something you can speak to, but I'm curious what was it like down on the island of Hispaniola I don't know, you know, before the earthquake, six months ago, a year ago, whenever you might have been there a while back, compared with how it is post earthquake. Well, I I haven't been down since the earthquake. Yeah, but from his description in in Barona right across the Haitian border in the Dominican Republic, they really weren't affected uh other than just feeling it a little bit. Everything is normal there. I was gonna say fine, but it's more normal. Uh but the Dominicans actually live fairly well in comparison to most third world countries. It's the Haitians and the Bates that l that live on dirt floors and um have very little food to eat and uh the you know the the the only modern electronics I saw while I was there was that they did have uh the government had lottery sales offices there, believe it or not, to sell these people lottery tickets. But the you know, but they didn't have enough money to buy food to eat. Have there been more people flooding across the border since things are better across the border? And does that put more pressure on a ministry like the Lisa V's ministries? Yes, we we do have uh more people coming up across the board. I can't give you an exact number now. We have a card that we give out to every family. We go door to door with the village leader and and give out a card and put the people's name on it and how many children they have. 'Cause when it comes to free foods, most people have sixteen kids right away. Right. But the village leader makes sure we get the right number of kids and then when they come to our truck We give them a cup of rice and a cup of beans for every nut member in that family, whether it's a baby or an adult. They get one cup of rice and a half a cup of beans. Uh and what do they eat the rest of the time? Well, anything? Uh we we're teaching them and we have taught most of them that if they can serve a little bit, they can actually stretch that into two meals. Uh they don't need to fix it all because sometimes they fix it all and they can't eat it all. They have no refrigeration so it goes bad overnight in that temperature. So we th we we've taught them to to stretch it and they make it ac actually into two meals And then once a month we give every person in the family gets an egg. One egg. We can't afford to do it more often than that. Sure. And and uh when you're handing these out They're like gold to these people and one of the guys I was on the truck with, one of the things we did. Is it a boiled egg or is it like uh just a regular egg? Fresh egg. So they gotta be really careful with it. We we he dropped one and it broke and Tears almost came to these people's eyes watching that get weight. I mean, they were gonna poop it up and just take that home with them to try to cook w cook it if they could. Now what if anything can be done, is being done to help these people to figure out how to provide for themselves better. I mean because obviously feeding them once or twice a week and giving them an egg once a month is not the solution. That's a stopgap measure. Yeah, no I was thinking the same thing. What do you do? How do you help them to get out of this? Well we've wondered that ever since we got started, uh just just what the end or the answer is to this because uh they have to forage for themselves and they're living in the plantation areas so there are there are coconuts and there are bananas and mangoes and And plantins, a plantin is a thing like a banana but it's it's treated like a potato. And so there's there's there's I don't know that that I consider them tasty, but I've I've had a whole fixed right they're very good. But uh there's some five finger purchase out in those plantations, so they they find a way to survive. Five finger purchases, I got you. So if if they wanted to, could they just start farming the plantations and and uh like really make it productive? No, that and that and I've been asked this question uh about teaching them to fish and what have you so that they can be self sustaining ever since we started ministry. Uh if you saw pictures of this place if you uh the it's house upon house Yeah. They they've got the space in between the houses that they might be able to b raise some string beans in. There's only one of the C pictures they're on your website? Yes www. dot leastofthesmen dot org. Okay. So there's no place. There's no property. W and when when the government sold the the the rights to the to farm these plantations, the the new uh uh farmer that came in, this big conglomerate, they came in and plowed up anything that looked like a garden space. They plowed right up to the houses and they planted sugarcane because that's They every piece of ground was valuable to them. And so they came in with big uh machines and they they didn't need the laborers anymore, which uh these guys were laboring previously, and so they're they're kind of stuck Where there's nothing they can do, there's no way they can make money, and they're just stuck there. You know, I I've often thought to myself, you know, I've read again and again in Psalms and Proverbs where it says that the Lord Himself Looks out for the poor and needy. You know, and so therefore if you give to the poor and needy, you give to the Lord. And I thought to myself often, you know, like like my imagination kicks in, like, so what happens when somebody's really poor? I mean That means God's showing himself strong as somebody's about to starve and they need help and they're crying out to God for help. God's saying that He will move on their behalf. And here in this situation, it appears that God has has audibly spoken to a to a guy to come and help a group of people that are simply incapable of helping themselves. I mean the the the the f the way that that backs up scripture uh is just so amazing to me. I'm I'm I'm kind of sitting here, you know, it's almost like a magic trick. You told me you're gonna do it, God, now you did it. You know, like I'm surprised. But he did it in this situation. And I don't want to turn it into a political discourse and discount the spiritual significance even though we love a good political discourse. John, I'm sure you do. I I've uh had had the the privilege of uh spending a little bit of time on vacation in Hawaii. And I've been on all of the islands that you can go to as a tourist, some of the islands or pr uh there's at least one big island that's privately owned and you can't you can't go on that. But uh they have had a kind of a similar situation with sugar cane and pineapple and and and that sort of thing where that was their big industry and those industries have pulled out. And yet Hawaii continues to thrive or at least survive, if not thrive, uh economically because they've found other ways. Um to build an economy, mostly through tourism I would have to say. I mean what's the hope for Haiti and Dominican uh Republic. I mean, yeah, this has got to be something like you dream about, you think about, you obsess about all the time. Can't they become a tourist hotspot? Well the They do have uh golf courses and those kind of like those d uh villages where you can go to and enjoy the beach and play golf and everything, but that's on the other side of the Dominican Republic and the Haitians are not allowed to work there. Or come anywhere near there. They're not allowed off their batets. And the west side is probably a dry side of the area. Right. Well it's the Haitian side, is the Haiti side is the is a dry side? Uh there's a r a ridge of mountains that runs the length of the country and it's kind of the wet wet in the stays north of the that ridge of my of uh mountains. So uh there's much more level farmland on the lower side and that's where the people So it's hopeless It well there's no future. You you asked earlier why why we only give them one meal a day and it's because we don't want to make them totally dependent on us. They've still got to find something to do Now there there's a train that runs from the plantations to the sugarcane factory where they grind it up and make sugar, and sugarcane is always falling off the train. So one of the things that these people have developed are little carts, they go out and they pick up the sugar cane and they can sell it to the sugar cane company. Uh and the the biblical idea that you that you not reap to the edges of your of your fields, but you allow the poor to glean, you know, so that's a that's an appropriate thing. Well the poor are gleaning, but it's not because it's uh they they did it on purpose. Great It's to survive. And they they pick they pick the the plantains and the bananas and things like that and and uh this train as it goes along, you can tell what's harvested the sugar cane by the size of it. If they're about fourteen to sixteen inch pieces, you know it was done by the machine. If it's in six foot pieces it was done by man. And it's it's down to about Forty percent of it looks like as I watch the train cars, uh it looks like it's ha handled by hand. So there is the the corners where the machines can't get into. Men are hired to go out and cut that. But basically speaking, uh, one combine puts a hundred and twenty five men out of work. So it's drastically reduced the amount of work that's out there. They've gotta get jobs making combines. Or something. Yeah, but one combine. I mean how many people does it take to make one combine? I mean you're right. It's about a dozen John Sweitzers to put in a light bulb, so it does, it does. Though though if if if you're helping me out between the two of us, shoot only takes an hour or so. It sounds like the the the C V S Network's Survivor show as your life. Yeah. Like people go on Survivor, I think they're on it for it spreads out over many weeks 'cause it's one hour per week over many weeks, but I think the the contestants Uh if you make it all right. I think it's thirty nine, forty days if you make it all the way to the end. And at the end they're they're becoming emaciated, they lose a whole bunch of weight, their skin isn't very good, their attitudes are poor And whenever their hair is fallen out of whenever they win they get like this great meal Yeah, exactly all the food they could eat. Yeah, they they get an egg Well sort of sounds like the people in the bad taste. Yeah, no, but I mean seriously, they they're roughing it they went in healthy and they rough it for forty ish days and they leave practically feeling like they're gonna die and they didn't have it as bad as the people the Haitians do. And the Haitians it's their life. Have you ever heard of mud cookies? Uh yeah, we used to make those, but you know, we pretended to eat 'em. We didn't actually eat 'em. They they do actually make mud cookies down there made out of mud and they they eat them And uh actually there's probably a little bit? There's probably a tiny, tiny, tiny bit of nutrition in there, right? Because there's very tiny. There's stuff in the dirt, I guess. Very tiny. But yeah, wow. Very tiny, meaning there is some. I mean sarcastic right there. There's also plants will draw nourishment out of the soil, so there's got to be something in the soil. But yeah, it's depending on where they get the mud from, they can get all kind of parasites and everything else. It's more filling than it is nutritious. Four inches in diameter, about uh half inch thick. Have you had one? I ate the corner off of one. And just enough to say that I had tasted one of them and I s But most of it out. And it tastes like mud. But but to a starving person or a hungry person, it's something. And they lay them out in the sun and they dry and And uh they're called mud cookies. And we talked about the climate, you know, being drier on one side, that sort of thing. Um let's talk about the spiritual climate. What's it like spiritually among the Haitian people that are in the Dominican Republic and then maybe the Dominican Republic uh at large? Well, uh we've made big inroads as far as uh the Christian spiritual aspects of it. Uh we've built a couple of churches and uh The smaller churches I can say are pretty full. The bigger churches don't fill up but they have the same amount of people coming to them. Interesting. So it's it's kinda like here more women than men go to church and on Sunday Sunday morning Uh in a bate with four hundred people we may get uh twenty-five or thirty adults to come and about sixty kids that'll come to church on a Sunday morning. Uh as far as uh I know you're leaning towards the voodoo thing. Uh well what kind of they show up at church, what do they hear? They hear the they hear what we would recognize as a gospel centered, biblical, evangelical kind of Spanish, but if you if you understood Spanish you would hear that, yes. Okay. I sit there and I go on. They talk about sin and righteousness and and salvation and and uh holiness and and all those Things Okay. Well then what about voodoo? It's is that overdone? It's not as prevalent as as we're made to believe? Uh it's not as prevalent in in the batteries where we work anymore. Uh Uh when we first went there there were several places that had the circle fence that they did the sacrifices in and there was always something in the fire that you could see that they had they had sacrificed something just recently. But uh most of those aren't even used anymore. And and some of the people uh we've been told have said to uh our guy down there, uh, your Jesus gives us food, their God gave us nothing. Wow. Very interesting. So we've we've made inroads and we have a sign on the back. Did you ever like uh preach in those churches, ever preach against You know not against Buddhism, you just preach not in that. You just preach Christ and righteousness and salvation and fed 'em and they figured it out. Yes. Huh. Well I was saying that one of the things that we do when we go down there is is worship with those people in those churches and you can't understand the language unless you speak Spanish and I'm muy pequeño on my part, but I felt the Holy Spirit move me being there more than I have in any church here, uh except for the day I gave my life to the Lord. And uh how so? Um, you I could just feel the the the presence of God welling up in me as these people sang with all their hearts and worship the Lord, you're looking around and going They have nothing. They got nothing under singing. And and I'm gonna go home and in a week I'm gonna be complaining because the hot water runs out on my shower. Changes everything, doesn't it? Going going on these kind of things is a is a gift from God and I would recommend if you have the chance for anybody out there to do it. Yeah. You you mentioned uh the earthquake. And and post earthquake Uh we visited the hospital down there. We were there the uh just a few days. I think the earth earthquake was on a Monday and we went down that Saturday to uh to the DR and we visited the the hospital and to see people in there that are missing uh limbs, um crushed arms, legs, ribs, um anesthesia. No no anesthesia. Uh the people that were some were going to die because of their injuries or what have you, and they're clutching a Bible. Oh. And they're praying and and we we prayed with them and and when we prayed with them you could see a joy on their face. I don't think I could lie in that bed with my leg missing or my arm missing or my ribs crushed that I'm going to die. and have a smile on my face for anything. So you've had the privilege of s witnessing some authentic true conversions of people who were utterly lost. And now they're at a place where they can find joy in just the most deplorable situation. Well, I think a lot of that joy was there. They they they need God much more than we do. I mean I can open my refrigerator and get almost anything I want out of it. What do I need God for? That's that's the way a lot of people in this world are are feeling. Right. Uh but when when people don't even have a refrigerator or electricity to run it or anything else, uh they need God because God sustains them Yeah, you know, that the story is told that a hundred years ago if there's some kind of major disaster here in the United States, you would have the mayor of towns and and uh governors calling for concerted prayer, you know, to go to God and and cry out repentance and say, God forgive us our sins, you know, and come renew, you know, your favor towards us, uh would would you is it that kind of a thing, kind of a foxhole conversion, a a a crisis scenario conversion? I mean not like that means it's a bad thing, but Um, do they believe that God can come and bless them uh uh despite what's going on? Like or the or I believe I believe they do. I believe they they think that God is going to bless them and bring them through this tragedy uh one way or the other, whether they lose limbs or or what have you. Uh and when you speak of conversions Uh we've had people on our teams that have received the Lord and had the conversion while they were there. And and going on to do great things in the ministry in different ministries back here. So it it works both ways. Yeah, bring it on. Well we're heading down the home stretch. We've got about a minute left and I'd want to give you a chance again, like we did last week, to talk about the concert that's coming up with Michael Card. uh in Carroll County. Uh March twenty seventh, I think seven o'clock the show starts. Michael Cardin concert to benefit the least of these ministries. So he's gonna be doing I probably some of the songs like El Shaddai or things I would imagine he'll he'll pepper that in but The gist of the show is to be uh the Easter story in song. Right, what other thoughts and you can find out ticket information at www. dot leastofesmen, M I N dot org. What else do we need to know? Anything? Just it's going to be a spectacular concert. Uh there's some new music uh and uh couple of choir local choir directors that are going to be backing them up with their choirs are just thrilled by this music and uh And they it's just like they've been given a golden platter. They they're just overjoyed to be able to sing with Michael Card. Awesome. Well we've got some Michael Card music playing in the background. This is a song called Why, by the way, for those listening and paying attention, taking notes at home. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapter. Dapple, thank you again for being on the show, my friend. Thank you. I'm Steve Hall, founder and director of the Least of These Ministries, along with Greg Luke, volunteer and supporter of the least of these ministries. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate, and I want to thank you again for listening. Until next week, God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putmint Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Pum and plumbings, how can we make you smile?