Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred Plumber. Plum and plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to the Critic Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Todd of El Shaddai Congregation, he's the senior Roe there, which is basically the same thing as a senior pastor, just a nice Hebrew word for shepherd. For shepherd, so Uh this is uh show four in our arc of four shows talking about uh end times. We introduce something new that I'm gonna try to remember to do from now on as best as I can. Here we go. A a word of the week So we had uh Roe, which was shepherd, Hebrew word for shepherd. Uh what was last week's do you remember anymore? Rapture etcher which is uh uh uh the belief that Jesus will call up his believers unto himself uh toward the end of the world before things get really, really, really bad. Yeah. Um and then Jonathan introduced a word that I think we should make the uh word of the week this week. Was it uh epistemology? Epistemology. Epistemology, uh the study of uh of how we know things. Right? The study of what we know and how we come to know it. Like when the study of how we come to know things basically. You know, he's dealing with epistemology. You know, when somebody says, I know that you're angry with me, well how do you know that? You know? It's a qu i i it grapples with how it is that that we come to think that we're sure that we know something. And of course that's a that has a big deal to do with safe, you know. What do I know? So our wives know we don't know anything. That's true. So don't forget your homework assignments. See we our our job is easy. We come up with the word Yeah. Your assignment actually we should maybe should give ourselves this assignment too and see how well we do. We should try to use the word of the week in regular everyday conversation as often as possible during the week. Figure out some way to say epistemology Now I feel like I'm Bill O'Reilly, you know. So and then you email me the results you get, you know. The spin stops here. How many weird looks did you get? Yeah, the reality is the spin's always going on. The the trick is to acknowledge one's own spin. We all have a point of view, we all have some sort of presupposition, you know, we all have a view on the world and a bias. The trick is not to deny it, but to acknowledge it and to keep it in mind when you're wrestling with difficult issues And to walk with one another as believers in unity even with those distinct differences that we have. Absolutely. So last week we were talking about the rapture kind of in terms of when we thought it would happen. Okay. Right. Todd was of the view that the rapture will uh will happen and that it will happen in the middle of the tribulation. The end. Oh the end. Jonathan's end of the tribulation. Jonathan's the middle of the tribulation. Uh In conjunction with the fall feast of the end of the tribulation before the mill the millennium. I'm not sure where the millennium is going to happen, but I think that there is going to be a rapture, but that it's not something where we're caught up into the air, but that it's something that has to do with God uh providing a way that his people do not suffer his wrath. And I'm of the opinion that there isn't a rapture and it's ironic that we have three people all with different views and none of us are share well none of us that are in agreement And none of us share what is the most popular view in mainstream American Christian culture anyway, which is pre-tribulation, the left behind series stuff where Jesus will rapture his church out and then a seven year tribulation will come and three and a half years in there's the abomination of desecration in the temple and there's the rise of the Antichrist and the you know all of that sort of stuff going on But none of us has that view of when the rapture will will happen, which is really fascinating to me. What are the odds? Well, with you and me, the odds weren't so bad, but you know the move. Todd and I'm sure. And I was careful to say, you know, mainstream American Christian pop culture view because I really do that's my understanding of that view. It is not the mainstream longstanding view of a church. You know, uh Jonathan a couple of weeks ago mentioned John Calvin. You can throw in Martin Luther, the you know, some of these stalwarts of the uh the the founders of the Protestant Church for crying out loud. They uh um didn't have a uh a rapture in my they didn't understand that there would be a rapture of the church, for example. It's a relatively new thing within the last hundred just 150 years probably is when it's really kinda and it's primarily been in America. And if people believe in the rapture around the world it's because ec America has exported the view. Yeah. So it's it's kind of it's an interesting thing. But anyway, that's uh that's a little history lesson for you. So if you believe in the rapture And you're talking about the timing when it falls within the tribulation, before the tribulation, in the middle of the tribulation, or after the tribulation Uh or if you're like me, you don't even believe in a rapture, you you're still gonna have a view of the tribulation 'cause the Bible talks about tribulation, you know, the troubled times, right? What uh what is your view of the tribulation? Do you bel for example, mainstream view in America right now of of among those that call themselves you know Christian, maybe and go to church once in a while or whatever? Even those who go to church a lot. Right. Uh uh might believe something like this. Jesus raptures up his church and then there's a seven year period of time, a literal exact seven year period of time of tribulation Is uh uh Jonathan, I don't think based on what you said a couple we was it last week or two weeks ago, that you think that it's a seven year period of time. Is that right? Um I do believe that there are that uh that there is a limit to the tribulations. uh into the wrath of God. It seems like the wrath of God itself is more like a day. Uh it's uh we're we're told that those days will be cut short for the sake of the elect. Um, and there does seem to be a a sense that there are certain times in history where God broke it down into a certain number of days. uh like, you know, seven, you know, uh sets of seven years and that sort of thing and uh particularly out of Daniel and so I'm of the opinion that uh that there was a time where there was a seven year tribulation uh right before the fall of Jerusalem that that had been uh that that is related to the end times. It r was related to the end times for the nation of Israel. uh and uh that the there was gonna be a new heavens and a new earth uh and there was. Uh Israel ceased to be a nation for a significant period of time. And uh um And so w when I when I think about the end times, I think that there have been many uh scenarios like that through history that are end times. And as it comes up to the fulfilling of those end times where where a certain nation has lost its uh right to exist anymore, uh and they're coming under the judgment of God, that uh that That it's reasonable to expect that there's uh some variation of a seven-year tribulation that happens in those contexts How would you tie? Do you believe it's a seven year cycle? I do again uh correlating with the feasts and and and how uh Revelation unfolds them. Um there's a great book for listeners. I don't know if you plug books or do anything here, but it's uh Revelation, the Passover Key, and there's a connection to Revelation in what took place when God delivered Israel out of Egypt. in the the different uh judgments that came there with the plagues and the different things and how they correlate in line with with um revelations, but I believe that there's there's a seven year period. I believe it's a literal seven year period. Um I also want to say that I think that it's important to um I guess distinguish a a lot of our opinions are formed by how we view Scripture, whether we take it literally at what's that or how we view it and um you know I tend to take things literally when I read scripture, when it talks about Israel, when it talks about the believers, when it talks about the end times kingdom when it talks about how that goes and I don't I don't know your guys' view of that and and and there's a broad stream of views across Christendom and how they view things if it's just more of just uh you know uh an idea that's a concept that's being brought forth or or taken literally. But I I believe when we unfold the end times and we enfold them in light of the fall feast. Uh it correlates evenly with those those seven years and how we'll see them. Yeah, to answer your question about uh literally or not Um I feel like it's that that we should take the scriptures as they present themselves to us. So there's a guy that was on the show that uh promoted that particular idea and I it and it makes sense. Like uh the poetic Scriptures, you know, uh you don't believe that we literally rest under the the uh wings of the Almighty or that we run to a strong tower. But uh you're certainly of the opinion that it's the truth that we run to us to the name of the Lord like a strong tower. That's a metaphor that that embodies the truth in um particularly the idea of the sun falling from the sky and the moon turning blood red and the stars falling from the sky is an idea that showed up shows up several places in scripture uh and we're led to believe that it's already happened for Babylon, that the stars no longer shine and the sun no longer shines and the moon no no longer shines for Babylon. The same thing that happened for Egypt and uh and then we're told that it's going to happen for Israel. Well if that's the case and it's already happened for them then uh then uh I I that gives me the impression that we need to interpret scripture in such a way to say, okay, well what happened then? What are they referring to? In fact there's a passage uh that I was just studying today in Daniel where it says the the the starry hosts will fall to the ground. And then that same word hosts is used uh just a few verses later and it says the hosts of the righteous in that fits with what I feel like is the uh biblical idea of these cosmos shaking events is that that the sun, the moon and the stars represent the the lights that that cause that nation to exist, the powers that be. Like like the sun and the moon and the stars for the United States would be the president. And the senators, you know, the the Congress and uh the judiciary. And if if those things were to fall from the sky in a day, well, we wouldn't be a nation anymore. A nation would come to the end of its days. And I believe that that happened for the nation of Israel in AD seventy and that we're going to see that happen for the entire world, uh uh at the at the final return of Christ, that the that the sun will no longer shine and that the moon will will no longer sign. And so um so I for the most part I'm a literalist, uh except for those places where As I'm using scripture to interpret scripture, I find that scripture is giving me a reason to uh to find a metaphor. And I I I think that there are places where scripture presents itself to us that way. And so um that would be an example of one for me. I guess in the context of talking over the end times. Yeah. Uh uh and um in what we're looking at. you know, uh when we talk about the kingdom of God and the kingdom to come, uh the the Mess Messianic kingdom, the kingdom of David, you know, when I talk about these things and we're talking about them today, I'm taking them literally. Yeah. That there's a kingdom that Jesus has come to establish. He came and he established and made a way for people to come to relationship with God through his blood. Yeah, I believe that's literal. And and that there's a way that he's going to come it incomplete. Was the work on the cross complete? Yes, but there's still a reason he's returning and that is to complete his kingdom literally. uh that we will be with him and forever will be with the Lord. That there's a so when I talk about it that way I guess I meant more in the context of what Well like in Matthew twenty-four where it says that in that time you will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven uh you know in in great power and glory Well that particular passage, uh, you only you only see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven in one other place in all scripture. Do you know where it is? It's in Daniel. Daniel says, uh, you know, when he's talking about the uh the the four beasts He comes to the final beast and in the context of the final beast and the blasphemous horn that uh you know that that was so vile and was making war on the saints. that that in that time we're we're told that thrones are set up and that the ancient of days sits down to j and the books are open and is going to judge the world. And we're told at that time that the Son of Man will come on the clouds of heaven. to the ancient of days and will receive sovereignty and power and glory and all the nations of the earth will worship him. And so I'm led to believe that Christ would have been clearly uh uh uh um a cognizant of the fact that when he's using that phrase that people are gonna turn back to Daniel and say, well, clearly he's referring to that because Daniel's prophecies were like the prophecies having to do with the end times. That's where where his disciples, his he if he said it to his disciples, he knows his disciples that have been saying, well when's all this going to happen? that that's what what they're you know looking for. So he's referring to that. And I'm of the opinion that in a that that Jesus did that. He's already come on the clouds of heaven to the ancient of days. and uh and has received all power and all authority and that he reigns uh on high. I do believe that there is going to be be a time where he comes again you know, to to uh you know, grab a hold of the beast and throw the beast into the to to the sea and uh, you know, whatever those metaphors mean. You know, I believe those are metaphors. There's not an actual beast that we're gonna see, but the beast represents uh a uh kingdom that conglomerate of nations a conglomerate of nations that does not uh uh uh give God the glory that he's due. It's a it's a conglomerate of nations that has rejected the rule of God. So they're a beast. And so anyways, I'm I'm pretty far off from where we were, but my point is is that uh that, you know, I'm I'm viewing Matthew twenty-four in that context. And so um I believe that's already happened. That it happened literally that he ascended on the clouds of heaven too uh to the ancient of days to receive all power and glory. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh joined this week also by Todd Westfall, Senior Rowe at El Shaddai Congregation. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Faith Debate on WFMD and Um I'm not sure if it matters exactly, but it sparked the thought, so in case anybody cares, I would consider myself a literalist if by literalist you mean that everything that the Bible teaches is literally true. Right. I believe that what the Bible teaches to be true is literally true. Right. Uh but what is the Bible teaching when it talks about, you know, uh God's going to protect us like a mother hen protects the the chick You know, is that is God teaching that God is like a chicken? Physically like a chicken or whatever? I don't think that that's there's there's a principle behind that. Kind of the same with the with with the stuff that has to do with the end times. I mean even even as because you called yourself Todd a literalist, but you don't take every single word you said. It's truth in the in the the things that we exegete from the scripture, the things that the scripture the the things that Actually, that will be a word of the week in a future episode. But the the psycho debate faith guys. Yeah, the faith psychos will will know that. They're keeping score. I wanted to so I'm I'm basically I I was pointing out that we're kind of in agreement, but the labels, how semantics sometimes can confuse us. We're basically in agreement. But one thing I want to add to what's already been said. For somebody who really wants to try, okay, how do I understand? If if if I want to be a literalist, or if I don't, if I just want to adhere to what the Bible says is true, if I want to approach it that way, well how do I determine what the Bible is teaching as true? How do you do that? And it seems to me that one way there's of a combination of things that becomes one way to try to figure that out. One is when you're reading it, figure out what the author intended it to mean to the original readers. Original readers. Right. What did those what would those readers have understood it to mean? That's not merely what it means, but it certainly means at least that Right. Also, because Christ tells us the Bible. It's an interesting principle because uh I just couple weeks ago we were talking on the show about uh what the nation of Israel means uh in the Old Testament. And I feel like that's one of the reasons why I believe You know, that that Israel is still a nation. So I've that that was, you know, something we talked about a couple other weeks ago. Right. So those passages in the Old Testament talking about Israel, the people in Israel at that time would have understood them to mean them for sure. Then this another thing though, well two more things really, there might be more, but there's at least two more that occur to me, is as you're reading up Jesus tells us the scriptures are about him. They testify to Christ. It's a book about Jesus and how he saves us from ourselves. Jesus. That's really what the book's about. So the second principle is as you're reading these passages, how do they inform you about Jesus? How do they help you understand who Jesus is, what he's done Okay. And then related to that is okay, this is what they meant this is what they believed or understood it to mean when it was originally written. Here's how it informs me about Jesus and now how does that apply to my life? What does it mean for me today. Yeah. And if you run it through those three funnels or sieve it you know, run it through those three sieves or whatever, you end up with something I think that approaches A place where you can have some confidence that I think I can have some confidence that I'm understanding this passage to be biblical truth. So when you're reading something like Revelation or even the Daniel prophecies in this apocalyptic language or something like that, how would the original audience have received it? I think they would have understood that this is metaphor, allegory Uh well all I'll know is that with Daniel that we're told that that uh he didn't understand it and that he would lay, you know, like for days on end in bed because it so uh wiped him out just getting the uh the revelation. So Uh I don't know that we uh that Daniel we're given the impression that Daniel didn't really understand it. Now I believe that we talked about the seven years and I threw that out there because you guys know what we're talking about. Right. And the the the faith psychos out there know w what I'm talking about. Maybe not everybody would know what that means. I think that the seven years comes through uh primarily from uh from Daniel, I think. And from phrases in in the Bible that talk about time you know, there'll be a time, times and a half a time. Right. So you take a time as one Times is two, one plus two is three, then a half a time is a half. Yes, so you have three and a half and you have these two cycles of a time times and a half a time. And added together make seven years. So that's where that idea comes from. And Daniel talks about the the seventy seven. Right. Each seven is a seven year, you know, week of years is is what it is. So it could you know it turns out to be four hundred. So then how do you understand that? Do you understand it as, you know, each time represents a year? Does you know does does each seven represent, you know uh a week, uh seven years, uh a a a cycle of years? So that's how the Uh that's how people end up having different divergent views of what the end time is all about because that's the word from God. Yeah. Yeah. But he doesn't tell us how to really understand that. And we can't get inside God's head. Yeah. So we end up having some uh discussions. I I I, by the way, f um didn't Uh in fairness, you guys have revealed, you know, where your your view is. My all millennial non-uh focus on a tribulation view, you know, what does that mean? I think that the tribulation is ongoing and uh and that we are in the tribulation and have been, you know, for close to two thousand years. So that would be my view. And and uh A D seventy is a key year for me. It's with the destruction descrup destruction of uh the temple and of the city of Jerusalem. Uh and so all the things in the Not all of I I don't want to overstate my my case. Things in the New Testament that are pointing to some future time and a destruction, a time of tribulation, I think find their fulfillment in the destruction of the temple in the city of Jerusalem, but I don't think it ends there. I think there there's a recurring cycle of fulfillment over and over and over again. Yeah. And how that helps me, why that's a comfortable fit for me, because if I have that view, then to me that means Jesus could return in the twinkle of an eye at any moment post-80 seventy. But the other views are harder for me to grapple with that. It means that Jesus can't come back until at least seven years have gone by. And I have a hard time you making having that work within my theological construct of how to understand the Bible. So that's that's my view of the tribulation. It's it's ongoing now. Uh I don't think that there's from my point of view, I don't think there's biblical support that the church is rescued from it. I think the exact exact opposite is taught. We will be persecuted. Uh there will be times of trouble. You know, there will be tribulation for the church, especially for the church Um so but there's also a provision of God's grace and strength during that time. I would say I agree with you and and y and we have a historical context to go by of God's people and how he's uh you know when when troubles and tribulations and attacks came, how he protected and can you t and and how many of them lost their lives in the context of that, but how He was with his people and and uh his desire uh is for us to be prepared as believers. And I think if you hold a pre-trib rapture view in a view that God has already took all the trouble on the cross, so you're never going to have any trouble in your life, you kinda erase most of the context of the gospels and the epistles when they're all preparing us that that hey it you're be prepared because in this world you're going to have trials and tribulations especially for your faith especially if you stand up for the gospel. So we as workers in the kingdom need to prepare people with their faith that when these things come, they don't feel they're abandoned by God, but maybe it's coming because of their faith in God. Not because they don't have faith in God. It's not a coincidence that the word witness and the word martyr are the same word. in your witness. You know, th that's what that's where the word comes from. People were witnessing their faith and they were killed for it and they became known as the martyrs because they witnessed unto their death. And so we've come to associate martyr with, oh, that means they died. It means they witnessed And they died because of their witness. So I th there's such a tight connection between the the Christian believer and the idea of persecution and suffering uh this side of uh the perfect reign of reign of uh of of Christ. Certainly. So uh in Revelation, and this will test us in a big way, we'll see how much uh how much we can get through it. Uh in Revelation it says We have like three or four minutes of this that all of those that are not sealed by God that have the mark of the beast will experience a certain amount of suffering and that those that do not have the mark of the beast do not experience that suffering. Uh based on what you just said, you give you giving me the impression that you think that we're gonna go through everything that uh, you know that that there's no distinction between tribulation and the wrath of God. But that that clearly gives me in the impression that God is making a distinction, that there are certain things that he will allow to happen to those that have the mark of the beast, whatever it is you think that is. that he's not going to allow to happen to those that have the mark of God on them, the mark of the Lamb. And so would you agree that that's the case, or how do you interpret that particular passage? I'm not sure I'm understanding exactly what the question is. Well you're saying that that we're all gonna face tribulation, that we've been in the tribulation, and that there's not a time that we're rescued from the wrath of God or that we're rescued from things that other people. We're rescued from the wrath of God because Jesus takes the wrath of God for the believer. Right. Okay. I I don't I don't see the tribulation of the wrath of God as synonymous. Neither do I. Okay. Though I do have the impression that one happens first and then the next one happens after that and that that's where the Lord takes us out of the way so that we don't experience his wrath Yeah, I think that happens on the last day. There's we're talking about the last days, but the Bible also speaks of the last day. Final, yeah. The day, and so it's a singular word as opposed to a plural word. I think on that last day there's this wrath of God, and we're saved from that because we're saved. From that's what it means to be saved. You're saved from the wrath of God. In case you're a Christian and you say you're saved and you didn't know what it meant before, that's what it means. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Yeah, and there's a ton of questions and places we could go with that that we will not be able to get into. No, we won't Can you believe we spent four weeks talking about this? We haven't gotten into the Antichrist yet. That's right. Who do you think? There's so much to talk about. There's many Antichrists, though. You bring that question up again. I think there are many and I don't know if there's an an ultimate one, but if there is, my money's on Jonathan's way. I don't know if you did. I don't know if you said that or not. Well we have just a You know, a minute or so left. You have any final thought that would take you fifteen seconds to share? I'll go first. Yeah, go. Um I just want to say that um you know when we were talking about preparing ourselves for the coming of the Lord, that we need to we need to be looking as though uh He just ascended and said that He's going to be returning. We need to have our faith at a place as believers looking for his return, being prepared, oil in our lamps, our wicks trimmed, ready and prepared, and that our suffering comes not necessarily because of the wrath of God, but because of our stance of faith and morality and righteousness in a lost, fallen earth and in a in a uh uh uh psychology of mind that has ungodliness at its heart. So we s we suffer because we stand for righteousness and truth, because we've been redeemed from something We've been redeemed from the curse of the law. We've been redeemed from Yeah, you don't have to agree with that. At the end of the day, um whatever you believe about the end times, the Bible's very clear that we need to be ready. And I'm going to echo that and add this, you know, we're a lot of times we talk about end times, it's people looking for a sign here, a sign there. What does this mean? How do you interpret that? And Jesus told us don't be looking for these silly signs, you know? So Keep that in mind. Thanks for listening to Faith Debate. John Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crosswood Valley Chapel, Todd Westfall, the senior Rowe at El Shaddai Congregation. I'm Troy Skinner. This has been the Faith Debate. Thanks for listening. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your performance. Fur plumber. Pub and plumbing, how can we make you smile