God gave to Adam a law. as a covenant of works, by which he bound him and all his posterity to personal, entire, exact, and perpetual obedience, promised life upon the fulfilling, and threatened death upon the breach of it, and endued him with power and ability to keep it. This law, after his fall, continued to be a perfect rule of righteousness. And as such was delivered by God upon upon Mount Sinai in ten commandments and written in two tablets. The first four commandments containing our duty towards God, the other six our duty to man. Besides this law, commonly called moral, God was pleased to give to the people of Israel as a church under age. Ceremonial laws containing several typical ordinances, partly of worship prefiguring Christ, his graces, actions, sufferings, and benefits, and partly holding forth divers instructions of moral duties, all which Ceremonial laws are now abrogated under the New Testament. To them also, as a body politic, he gave sundry judicial laws, which expired together with the state of that people, not obliging under any now, further that the general equity thereof may require. The moral law does not forever bind all, as well justify persons as others, to the obedience thereof, and that not only in regard of the matter contained in it, but also in respect of the authority of God, the Creator who gave it. Neither does Christ in the gospel any way dissolve but much strengthen this obligation. I'm Troy Skinner. What I just talked about, we're not going to talk about for just a second. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Jonathan Sweitz, Senior Pastor of Crosshose Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church on the panel. We're talking about the Westminster Confession of Faith. What I just read to you is pretty much the first half of chapter 19. It's the first five of seven sections, but uh section six is a long one. Uh so really the first five are are about the same length as sections six and seven together. But before we get into talking about chapter nineteen of the Westminster Confession of Faith, of the law of God I don't think it's a coincidence that this falls here. I don't think there's many coincidences in the structure of the Westminster Confession of Faith. Right on the heels of talking about assurance. You know, and you're gonna have your doubts, things are gonna happen, you're gonna do things that are mortifying even to you, but you can still have assurance. But that's not an excuse to go on sinning. Because God gave us a law and we're still bound by that law, even with Christ. I mean that's what uh the section I just read, part of what the section I just said. God's law has its beginning in the Garden of Eden with Adam and Eve, and Aven after the fall and Jesus, all that stuff. We'll get into talking about that in a second, but toward the end of last week's show Yeah. And it's coming up a few other times in in a variety of these shows in the Westmin Westminster Confession of Faith. Jonathan was been talking about Uh the tree and the grafting in and out that tr the the uh that Paul writes about in Romans. And um Christ being the root and the tree, uh people f falling off and falling out of salvation, or at that at least that's the e that's the way that Jonathan would would portray that. And that image keeps coming up and I think we probably should spend a few minutes talking about that image. Um I I guess I'll start by saying my understanding of that image First of all, when you explain to a little kid about or try to explain to a little kid about the Trinity. Yeah. you know, the the the God is three, God is one kind of a thing. You sometimes use these analogies and they always fall they they're helpful to a certain degree, but they come up a little bit short. You know, I think that's been my experience with all analogies. I love analogies, but they always come up just a little bit short. Yeah. And this is kind of an analogy. This tree is an analogy. And so I think when we try to press it a little bit too far, it ends up coming up a little bit short. I understand the tree to be more of a Less about particular salvation and more about the corporate salvation, which which is something that's near and dear to Jonathan's heart, which is interesting that he looks at the tree not as a corporate thing, but as a particular thing. So the tree represents, uh going back a couple of shows, represents, let's say, the church or the people of God, the the the visible elect, if you will, right? The chosen that we can see. Uh that's not what I say that it is, but it's interesting how you're saying it. So I don't know that it necessarily means those that are actually the invisible church. See, I feel like that's precisely the point that Paul's making with this tree That the tree of salvation is that is that he's broken off those that are not coming to God through Jesus Christ and by faith. But are trying to do it by their own works. So he basically what he's saying is that is that the tree represents those that are truly saved And so there are those that look like they're Jews, good Jews, that uh that have followed the law and have an external sense of righteousness, but because they didn't pursue righteousness by faith, they've actually been broken off You don't see that when you look at the nation of Israel, but it's true they've been broken off already, and so the people that are that have been grafted in are not those that look like they've come to Christ. But those that are in Christ. That's the point. He's the vine, we're the branches. We've been grafted in. And if we've been grafted in, then there's that what? Flow of the Holy Spirit. He's bringing life to us. The Father is the gardener, but Jesus is the vine. His Spirit living in us is bringing us life. And so so this this picture uh of the actual tree is the is is is the the the church, not the visible church, but the actual church, people that are actually in Christ. And so they're broken off uh when uh when they were a part of the covenant of God in the Old Testament, but they didn't live by faith. Instead they approached it by works, and so God broke them off. And I'm saying that all through history God was breaking them off, and that in this generation, uh, they've been broken off at well a as well, and that now, which appears to be the first time in the history of the world Though it's not, but it but it appears to it because of the the gospel of Jesus Christ that Gentiles are being grafted in. Actually there are plenty of other Gentiles like uh Ruth who who was grafted in by faith. She came by faith, not by works. And uh so she was she was grafted in. Apparently the prostitute at Jericho was grafted in. And there are many uh others that left Egypt with the uh Israelites. And so that's my sense. It's a little bit different from what you say. Yeah, well the the the tree represents what we can see. We can see the tree. We can see the church, we can see the people of God. And then Paul, in the context of what he's writing, he's talking he's talking in a context where They're wondering what to do with the Jews. The Jewish question, what do we do with these Jews that don't believe in Jesus? Like they're he's he's speaking to that. He's saying, look, they They look like they were on that tree, but they've been broken off. They're no longer part of who we are. They're no part of they're no longer part of the tree that as we know it. I mean he's using a metaphor. Right. This isn't a tree that you can see. He's using using a metaphor about that comes from the Old Testament, about the root that comes out of Jesse. And he's saying that there are branches that have been broken off, Ahab, Jezebel, down through the ages. There's plenty of them down through the ages, and that there were some in Christ's time as well. that that had grown up out of Jesse, you know, out the the Jews, Judah, you know, that that grew up out of out of Jesse's lineage. They were broken off It's not like you can see that they were broken off. You just see that Christ has exposed them as not being as not approaching God by faith. And now he's called Well you can only see it in the sense that if you're a Christian you can see who's chosen God by faith and who hasn't. I think what what he's saying, obviously he's not saying you can see any tree, but it's a metaphor. Right. Of course it's I I I don't think he said anything else either, but that that now there's a bunch of Gentiles here too. You look out, I mean you can see. Look. Absolutely. Oh my goodness. It's not just Jews. Whoa, there's Gentiles too. So you can see them. There they are. Now the question isn't which ones are actually Christians The question is which ones have somehow gathered into Christianity? Into Christ So you don't think the tree represents Christianity? I think it represents Christianity in the big sense in that it represents the church. So I'd probably be where you are, and to be honest with you, this is some I'm not willing to quite go down quite as firmly as he simply because I'm looking at it right now as if for the first time. I know I've studied this many times, but my artist shows so much you have to be prepared in season and out. Right, for every single text. And it's always back to Romans since you just preached that art text. So I wish that was a few years ago. Well it was about four years ago. That was that is where I've always been. I'm willing to consider options, but yeah, I see it as a big picture. Here are Jews and Gentiles pulled in now, grafted in. Now the question is which ones of them are real. I want to give the impression that I'm gonna uh uh leave an impression that's further than what I would intend to leave. uh some sort of a duality in how to understand the tree. So in one sense I guess it's talking about salvation because salvation comes through the church. So yes it's talking about salvation. But I think it's not only talking about I think there's a bigger understanding of what the tree represents that Paul's writing there. Does that make sense? I'm not I'm not disagreeing with what you would say it represents. I'm saying that it represents Um is more the right word? Represents more than that? Is that the right word? I mean Romans 9, 10, 11, at the end of Romans 8, Paul is at the highest levels of excitement and joy. Nothing can separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus. And as he's in the midst of making that great statement that nothing can separate us from the love. Except our own choice. Yeah, that's precisely my point. That is exactly what Paul did. He's thinking about that and he's just made this great claim that nothing can separate us. Oh but yeah, Bokeh, now I gotta deal with the Jews, cause now it looks like something has separated the Jews who were God's elect, so now I gotta deal with this question because I've made this statement and and l anybody that's paying attention is gonna realize that some of these Jews that that uh that were a part of the elect now are not a part of the elect. Okay, I gotta deal with this question And so logically he goes from the highest heights of of guaranteeing salvation into, okay, but there is this major caveat. And the major caveat in 9, 10, and 11 is specifically dealing with how those who were what does he say? He says, I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart. The people of Israel have been cut off from Christ. uh uh the the members of my own race and and he talks about how how how is it that that could happen. Did God reject them? And he goes into this great extensive passage where he's describing that no God didn't reject them. God sent them messages messengers. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. Did they hear? Yes, of course they heard But they did not combine what they heard with faith, and therefore they were not saved. And so then because of unbelief, they've been broken off. And now those that have heard the message of the gospel in Christ have been grafted in. Right, but what have they been broken off from? They've been broken off of the church. That's why the Jews aren't considered Christians. They've been broken off of the tree of those that are saved in in God, that are that are God's people that are saved. Salvation history. Hilgeshik day is that it? Hell's Geshikte. Helsgday. Right? They they they've been broken off of the tree of salvation, the history of salvation, and others have been grafted in. So they were hardened. The elect got what they were d trying for. They were going for w whatever it is that they were, you know, Christ, they were going for Christ. They got it. And the others were hardened. Yeah, I don't like the way you use the word elect, but uh but I'm willing to What then Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking. The elect obtained it, but the rest were hardened. Yeah, right. I was just quoting Romans eleven seven. Sure, sure. So you and I need to define elect before I'm gonna agree with you because I'm not gonna agree with you define elect. So I don't agree with the way you define elect, but yes Uh that's the point is that the elect got it and the others did not, and they did not get it. We're told exactly why in Romans 11. Because of unbelief, they were broken off, and you stand by faith If God did not spare the natural branches, he will not spare you either. I just can't get away from that passage. Paul directly warns and he says it could happen to you. The way that it happened to the people of Israel. And when he says to you, he's he's pointing at the at at the Christians and I would say he's pointing at the Gentiles He's he's pointing at Gentile Christians. Amen. Well, Gentiles that may or may not be Christians. Gentiles that have gathered it together as Christians, but not necessarily are professing Christians, maybe. Yeah, and I guess that's where I would I would argue that Paul's Paul's not dealing with the question of those that look like they're Christians. He's dealing with those that have been grafted in Which brings us back to the first John passage, which, as you said, probably off the air I guess, seems to bring it all together on this question of perseverance. Um chapter two. Chapter two. Is it nineteen? Yeah, he says they went out from us, but they did not really belong to us, for if they had belonged to us, they would have remained with us, but their going show g showed that none of them belong to us. That's a new international version. Uh most of us don't like that. They went out from us. They were not of us. the new King James. A transliteration is where you define the phrase Not word by word. Uh thought by thought translation, they have I don't know what the special words are. Not transliteration. Transliteration is taking a Hebrew word and spelling it out in English letters Okay. Okay. But it's not a word for word translation. It's a phrase by phrase translation. In fact, let's let's be let's be real here. There is no such thing as a word for word translation. Just to be perfectly clear, having studied linguistics and done all this stuff. No such thing as a word for word translation. You can never translate word from word from one language to another. Impossible. Alright, so keep going with your argument. Okay, but NIV is a good idea. Nevertheless, that yeah, well I use I use the NIV on Sunday mornings. When I study, I'm less likely to do so because I know that the King James attempts to be word by word. It makes a greater attempt to when there's a word in the Hebrew to to define it and stick it in the same place in the sentence. Define it and stick it in the same place in the sentence. What you're hearing here is a good argument for reading uh You know, parallel Bibles, reading the two or three different translations of the Bible kind of take away. I feel like the King is more helpful in terms of uh understanding the the Greek here. It says they went out from us, they were not of us, for if they had been of us, they would have continued with us. But They went out, that word they went out is not in the original Greek. It says, but that they might be made manifest that none of them were of us. The question is, at what point did they become not of us? And I'm saying that that that that transl that that uh that translation is not so precise as the NIV might make it out to be. What they're saying is that whether or not they were of us. How do you know if somebody's of us? Well, for the same reason in Romans uh Romans 11. If they were broken off, they were broken off because of unbelief. That shows that they were not of us. Right? And if they had been of us, they would have continued with us. So they they stopped believing and so then they moved away from the believers. That makes total sense. I don't feel like that's a once saved, always saved scenario, but that's a scenario that's recognizing what happened uh in in reality. They were not of us. If they had been of us, they would have continued with us. They went out from us. What made them not of us is that they were not living by faith. And they no longer were living by faith. Is it possible that some of them had been living by faith at some point? It's possible. We don't know. He doesn't get into that distinction, but he clarifies that there are now Antichrists, some that actually went out from us, and they're not of us. The definition of being of us I'd say from Romans eleven or Romans, you know, two, three, four for that matter, is those that have come by faith and that are continuing by faith. And so somebody could have been of us and now not of us. I think that's reasonable. And God Pulled them away because they're no longer of us. Alright. Are we done about the tree for now? Sure. Alright. I think I could I'm going to be able to do that. So you gave me the last word, is that what you're saying? I I I'm I'm pretty sure there's uh there's a lot more to go here. I I don't know how f how much to do. I I'm uh I hate to let it be uh uh go ahead. We'll go on to the law. No, no, let's go on to the law. I I think I've said my piece. I mean we can go back and listen to the other things. I I think the arguments were were in there. I don't need to keep arguing the same thing. Uh but I um doctrinally it's just not right for Jonathan to have the last words. I feel like we would keep saying the same things in the last words Now to him who is able to keep us from stumbling and to present us blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy to the only God our Saviour through Jesus Christ our Lord be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority for all time, now and forever. He is able to keep me from stumbling. But he decides not to, I guess. Did he keep you from stumbling last week? How many times did you sin last week? Oh to f keep me from stumbling and present me blameless before the presence of the five years. He's capable, but he chooses not to and you're If you choose to walk away. Alright, keep going. He's gonna break you off if you had unbelief in Romans eleven. So anyways, yeah. It's not? So show me. You have not shown me a different understanding of Romans eleven. I thought that's the whole thing we just did. We showed you a different understanding of Romans eleven and you argued just a different interpretation of it. We were trying to say Gentiles, bigger picture. Okay. Okay we just disagree on that. Alright, the section of the law. Uh it was a while ago, something surmised. God's law has its beginning in the Garden of Eden with Adam and Eve, and after the fall of man the law was written down during the time of Moses. Ten Commandments. For the Old Testament people of Israel were supplemented by ceremonial laws which pointed to Christ. God also gave Israel judicial laws for governing their nation. These no longer apply since ancient Israel ceased to exist. However, the moral law continues to apply to everyone. That's The best they could do to try to paraphrase a a lot of uh a a lot of stuff there. You guys in basic agreement there? Or do we have fodder for disagreement there? No, I'm good with it. Yeah, I think I I think that we're in agreement, right? There's different kinds of law in the Old Testament, ceremonial and all that pointing to Christ, fulfilled in Christ. Yeah. Um I've been thinking about this for years actually as to the way Westminster separates into three these sections of law. Yeah. Judicial, ceremonial, and moral. And I don't think I've come to any conclusion, but you know uh I struggle with it a little bit. I can't believe this, but I'm the one that's struggling a little bit with this, and he's pretty good with it. Um I I I maybe I just wish they had said more about how things are fulfilled in Christ, which they are gonna say in in six and seven. I But is it simply that the m that the that the judicial and the ceremonial laws are abrogated, that they're they're completely done away with, or is it that they've Maybe they do say this. That it's been fulfilled in Christ, not set aside, but still there. It's just that now that Jesus is here It it's like they looked forward to this and now he's here and now that's what they were always talking about. But then that the question of how the moral law is different than the ceremonial and the judicial law. Because in the same sense, Jesus is also the fulfillment of the moral law. I mean, he is the one who kept the law perfectly. He's the one who now keeps us from having to keep the law perfectly. Uh certainly they still follow, so why don't the why don't the ceremonial and judicial law continue? I'm really just Thinking out loud. Sure. Okay, let's talk about the definitions of those, right? The moral law is like um uh don't kill, don't steal, you know, honor your mother and father, keep the Sabbath. Uh the judicial law is what If you uh if you commit adultery you're stoned. Is that the judicial law? Yes. Case laws, casuistic laws versus appadential laws. Right. And then the the ceremonial law is Is everything having to do with the sacrifices around the tabernacle? Right. Obviously Christ fulfilled the sacrifice having to do with the tabernacle. Yeah. Right? And so so that law is not gone. It's just been fulfilled in Christ. That sacrifice has been made in Christ and so when we sin, he is the sacrifice for our sin. We don't have to go through all the other the the moral law We're still called to to rise to what? It's summed up in love your neighbor as yourself, love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Right? And so we're still rising to that love, you know, that we'd be perfected in love, that we'd be sanctified to love And so the d the the part about the judicial is this. If I catch you um committing adultery, do I stone you or not? And it seems to me like once again that society uh has has its own judicial case law, right? And and what the Old Testament provides for us is insight into how bad God viewed various sins. Some sins were just so bad that you just bring a pigeon. You know? Some's you know, some some sins were bad enough that that you bring a pigeon and you pay, you know, um uh restitution to the person that you sinned against. You know, some sins were so bad that uh that you would have to go through a whole ceremonial cleansing uh, you know, in order to be clean again. And some sins were so bad that they were worthy of of you being removed from society forever. And it seems to me like like the application to today is Do we recognize that adultery is that bad any longer? Do we recognize that homosexuality is that bad any longer? Do we recognize that that um uh breaking the Sabbath is so bad that that it would it would be destructive of society. Like why would God remove people from society? Why would he why would he have them stoned? It seems to me like like the question is is d does the judicial law in particular still provide for us a a measuring of how bad Certain uh illegal activity really is I like that. I uh I would emphasize judicial doesn't simply mean that there's something that comes with it that is a negative consequence. Judicial is has to I mean even questions like mould laws or not not mixing certain kinds of fabrics together. I mean it seems that those principles that are there if not the specifics, are still there based on the character of God. That is, that there should be separation between Christians and non Christians, that we're to be in the world but not of the world. That those things still exist in the same sense kind of that the moral law still exists. So there's there's principles behind all of these laws, even the ceremonial laws. That God is a God of order. Yeah. That He designs things to be exactly cube in the tabernacle and and that you know that the the tapestries are purple for a reason and pomegranates are hanging down on the you know, all these things, ephes, they all have symbols that are still relevant. Yeah. And so I I I guess And I'm not disagreeing with them at all. In fact I'm probably all on board with them. But I I'm concerned that people will somehow go, Okay, so I don't have to really read Leviticus. Right. I I don't have to read Deuteronomy. I just have to as long as I'm good with the Ten Commandments And I know that, you know, adultery is wrong and killing in Sabbath. I know those things are wrong. Then these others I can just skip as if they're no longer relevant because Christ abrogated them. They're gone. And I would say, well he fulfilled them. You gotta know what it means for him to have fulfilled them. I mean what does it say in scripture? There there's a couple places Christ fulfilled you know, um that he did away with the old law. Yeah, it's there. No question. What does it mean for him? Precisely. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I I guess I just want to tell listeners uh because I I've dealt with this in congregations. Yeah. You know, they're just like, Well what's what's the point in even reading these things? What's you know, this is I and and I'm afraid that they're missing a huge piece of what Christianity is. You know, th they don't understand that that architecture can be there for a reason that can lift the majesty of God because of how transcendent and great God is that he showed us in making the tabernacle in Exodus twenty-six through forty. I mean it was that kind of Important. So anyway, I still I agree with them. I just kinda wanted to talk about it for a second. Well, and that's gonna put a wrap on the show. We are out of time. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jay Sproadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. We didn't quite finish uh chapter nineteen of the law of God, so we'll have to see if maybe we want to swing around and finish it up. Next week we'll figure that out between this show and the next show. If not, we'll just pretend that we figured it out and move forward and nobody will remember. Right. Anyway, and by the way, there's a lesson in this for you. Pastors listening, preach the whole Bible. Amen. Especially the Old Testament. That's right. Anyway, thanks for listening. This is the Faith Debate. God bless. by how they service their clients from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?