Repentance until life is an Evangelical grace, the doctrine whereof is to be preached by every minister of the gospel as well as that of faith in Christ. Thus contrary to the holy nature and righteous law of God, and upon the apprehension of His mercy in Christ as such As our penitent so grieves for and hates his sins as to turn from them and unto God, purposing and endeavoring to walk with him. In all the ways of his commandments, although repentance is not to be rested in as any satisfaction for sin or any cause of the pardon thereof, which is the act of God's free grace in Christ, yet it is of such necessity to all sinners that none may expect pardon without it. That's the first half of chapter fifteen of the Westminster Confession of Faith, which we may or may not get to today, I'm not sure, because we've got some loose ends to tie up from last week's show talking about chapter fourteen and part of the reason we have loose ends to tie up from chapter fourteen is we spent a lot of time talking in last week's show, just not a whole lot of time talking about chapter fourteen. So Uh back to uh do more damage is uh Jonathan like how I preface that? Jonathan Sweister, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner, by the way. Our show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And uh back to uh keep us on the straight and arrow, Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. So chapter fourteen, before we Before we go back to a couple of things, I just want to say we'll get into it uh as was rightfully pointed out by by by Jace. We will get uh to this uh in a later chapter of the confession. But Uh the passage that Jonathan mentioned at the la at the end of last week's show and he was talk we were talking about once saved, always saved, and he was using the the the the tree and people grafted in and the branches falling off and saying that's evidence that somebody can lose their salvation. I'm uh just for the record, uh plant this seed. See, there's a metaphor there with the tree. Plant this seed so that we come back later to talk about this, we can you know we can remind ourselves that we talked about this. Taking a pa any passage in isolation can be a a little bit dangerous. And I would say how do we read that Romans passage about the tree and grafting in and tr branches falling off In light of what John says in uh in in First John, you know, those that fell away were never really among us to begin with. Sure. Or Jesus saying, you know, those that the Father gives me I will never lose. Nobody can overpower the will of the Father. The Father who wants who calls those and puts them in my hand won't be lost. That's a very loose Paraphrase. But there are passages like that that would seem to to almost contradict uh how you understand that. Is that is that, you know, and I only hit one passage, there's three or four other passages that I feel like uh are uh also uh valuable in that discussion for grappling with whether or not um uh w with specifically the idea that we can lose our salvation. And uh I feel like there's enough of those on both sides that Um it really requires some patient working through to decide, okay, well which one of your scriptures then are you going to choose to uh to be the one that kind of uh interprets all the other passages. you know, which one's going to be your anchor passage that that you decide is the most clear, the most uh thorough, and so therefore i it requires you to slant every other passage that you read according to the shadow that that particular uh passage casts. I think that was three or four metaphors in that particular. So the careful patience that that will take will come up in a few shows. But today we'll take some Not so careful, impatience. Uh to to finish working through chapter fourteen. And there were some points that we talked about in between the shows that Jonathan's like, man, I wish we had a chance to get to that and get and get to these other points. So what were some of those things? Uh the um uh on the second chapter about saving faith, chapter 14, uh he's talking about by this faith Uh we yield obedience to the commands of God, we tremble at the threatenings of God, and we embrace the promises of God for this life and that which is to come. I found myself uh uh wishing that there was some um word adjective thrown in there that uh that recognizes that that saving faith is is a moment of joy. A boulder dash. the individual. You know, I don't join Christianity. I was looking for some kind of life, you know, was also heavy. Obedience and trembling at threatenings and and and not to say that Okay, I'm of the opinion that obedience sometimes can, you know, just be a real uh you just gotta be faithful and there's not a whole lot of uh you know, excitement in the midst of a lot of obedience. You know, I recognize that this that's the case. I recognize from Isaiah uh the last chapter uh how import it is for us to tremble at the word of God and not take his word lightly to you know for there to be a you know, a a deep sense of holiness and and uh um letting the word of god uh uh uh shape and mold us Uh in in uh taking up. Okay. Okay, read it differently. So it's your fault? It's my fault. I probably just read it too heavy. Okay. Okay. Show me how you're supposed to be able to do that. Just the tone. You're going to show you the tone and it'll be good. Absolutely. All right, let me do this. Go ahead. So we're going to talk about, you know, uh uh what should I pick up? Well I just suppose this is uh section two, right? Okay. So I tried this face A Christian believes to be true whatsoever is revealed in the Word. For the authority of God Himself speaking there. That's not joy. That's like a weird. And acts differently upon that which Each particular passage thereof contains yielding obedience to the commands, trembling at the threatenings, and embracing the promises of God for this. That did work, that ending part. That was pretty good. See yeah, yeah, yeah. Joy at the end of the day is something that happens when you're uh when you're down by six points with ten seconds left on the clock in a football game and uh and you know, third down, fourth down. And you bet the over. And and you go for it and you win the game. You know, that's that's joy. It's not it's not some kind of lighthearted woohoo we're just happy go lucky. You know joy is something that that rises from your gut when you when everything was was horrible. And now everything's not. Everything has changed. Everything's been transformed. And so I was looking for for some kind of a robust manly joy uh at that point of the uh of the confession. I don't know if Troy can pull that pull that off. Which mic is here? Amazing how I'm not saying anything for the whole rest of the show. I gotta say, I I mean I agree with you. I I don't I don't know how you'd put it in there. I don't think well, I mean you could easily just add that word and joyfully embracing the promise of God in this life Um, this is a this is a doctrinal statement. Yeah. And they are going to talk about assurance, and an assurance is joy and a knowing as I do the Westminster Assembly Um joy was not something they were lacking in. I think it would be portrayed very differently even uh even in you know their faces and things like that than it would be today. We aren't talking about charismatics that would be cartwheeling down in their joy. There may be a somber, uh even a sober feeling in their worship that was joyful. Yeah, that was very serious. There might have been tears. and not uh smiles in there. But I I think what they're trying to get at is at least fair enough that even when there's not happiness and glee and uh that that we're just uh we're obeying the commands. We're continuing. This is part of our saving faith, of our sanctification, the continuation of things is doing what we know is right. Um I I would commend, not to you, because I know you know it, but uh to everybody who's listening, this has been a big thing in reform circles. John Piper has been has been the guy who has been really pushing this because he's he's concerned about the same thing. And many of us reform guys are concerned about this, is that we don't We don't look joyful enough. The frozen chosen problem. Yeah, we are the frozen chosen. And you know we've got all our doctrinal ducks in a row, or at least we think we do. Um we're sometimes being proved that we don't. But uh we think we do, and we've got it all, and everybody else is wrong, and We're happy with that. Now that is not a fair uh sure representation of us, but that's a a fair representation of what people think about these guys for something. Calvin, you know, Calvin had these people killed and he lived in rigid law Which is just not him at all, by the way. And reform guys are are fun and joyful and And if we do say so ourselves, I'm pretty fun. As soon as you have to tell people you're not going to be able to do it. I'm fun. Come on. Come have fun with that. These these are the guys. And Piper's ministry I mean the whole the whole thing is the first question of the catechism, um, which is, you know, how what is the chief end of man? And his and the answer in the catechism is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. And his thing is he's saying yes, and it's our glorifying him that is enjoying him. We enjoy him and by enjoying him we're glorified and we're satisfied totally in him. If you haven't listened to him or read any of his things, you've got to get that because uh he puts I guess wings on Reformation theology. He he gives it he he shows that it is very joyful, which it's sad that others of us have shown it's not. That's bad. I felt like uh, you know, i in uh the the majority of the shows, you know, that we've had uh here that uh that what's come through, you know, in you is a major um appreciation and rejoicing in the grace of God that um that There's several friends of mine that I have that are that come from that direction, uh that come from a Calvinist direction, uh in whom I perceive a rejoicing uh in the context of grace that is uncommon, you know, and that uh that uh that is very attractive. And so um so anyways I Uh I I don't know that it's that it's everywhere in Calvinism, but I know I but I do I was gonna say this, I have uh and this is probably true by anybody that comes out of any church, wherever it is, if you come out of the Catholic church, you know, you feel like there's no joy. So you came out of it. You come out of Calvinism, you know. So I've got friends that came out of Calvinism, you know, they got their testimony and and they found joy when they were set free from, you know, tulip or whatever it was. And uh the reality is that I'm sure Uh as weird as it might seem, there's to me there's plenty of people that left Pentecostalism or Charismaticism and uh found joy when they left it, you know, as well. And so I think it's Fair to say that there are Calvinists that are very not joy-filled and don't which is break from them. Where that caricature phrase comes from, you know, the frozen chosen, right? They're like Stepford wives. They they're like not really there. They they're vacant. But I think that's true of that. And there's some truth in it, right? of people. Probably not a lot of truth in that about charismatics. They have a very different perspective on things. Well the problem that I've always run into is charismatics that are that are faking like they're joyful. Yes, I agree. And so I've I've feel like I've worked very diligently in my congregation to define it in such a way that no nobody is gonna try to come up to me and fake it, you know, that that we don't nurture, you know, an inappropriate atmosphere, you know, that leans in that direction. So Definitely there's different sides of the roads to fall off and we don't want to do so on either. I think Calvinists should be the most joyful. Because it's the grace of God. It's a gift. It's a free gift. We understand how bad it really is. How bad we really are that we're completely depraved. At least if you follow Westminster, you're a hundred percent depraved and you can't do anything And so at le at least everybody else's perspective was, well, I d I did something. Even if it's point zero zero zero one percent or whatever, and I and I feel good about myself, we we're just saying, My gosh, we didn't have a chance. There's nothing and he saved us. So we should be like the greatest, most happy it is. Right? Ecclesiastes says that he who increases knowledge increases sorrow. And so to the extent that Calvinists endeavor to be as honest with themselves as possible about how bad things really are The reality is that there's going to be an increase of sorrow, which I feel like we begin to see like in Isaiah. Isaiah and Jeremiah, they spend all this time prophesying all this horror and and terror that's coming on the nation. And then for the last couple of chapters, they break into this this revelation of joy and restoration and in heaven that's going to come one day that I feel like You have to break through to that. Otherwise you're stuck in all the the sorrow of how bad things are, because things are really bad. You know, and the more honest we are about how things are, the worse things really are. And so praise God that his grace abounds that much more because we need it to. And we need that breakthrough to recognize that somehow everything's gonna be okay in the end, despite how bad things really are. Uh Dr. Chase Broadhurst, senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist. I'm Froy Skinner, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. This chapter 14, I think, ends on a very upswing. You know, if we if we understand it properly, you know, this faith is different in degrees, weak or strong. Uh may often and in many ways uh it can be assailed and weakened, but it gets the victory, growing up in many to the attainment of full assurance. through Christ, who is both the author and finisher of our faith. You can almost hear like an Alleluia chorus coming in. Oh that's a very positive section to the chapter, right? They don't use the word joy. But certainly that's a joyful statement. You might have them ups and down describing come from behind victory. But you're gonna win. Because Jesus is the author and finished of your faith. I mean that's a powerfully joyful thing. In reality that's happened a time and a time and again in this confession for me. Where I'm like, okay, well it needs to be more of that. And sure enough, you know, either at the end of the chapter or like the you know, the next couple of chapters it it ends up showing up, you know, and and so they're their thoroughness ends up uh showing itself to be true. You must like that section three, I'm guessing, 'cause it's so many uh like quotes. Straight from scripture, right? Growing up in many to the attainment of full assurance. That's like Hebrews six, eleven and twelve, uh the author and finisher of our faith. Yeah, that's the thing. to the attainment of a full assurance. What what would you say is the uh like the definition of that phrase Hebrew six. We desire that every one of you Uh do show the same diligence that you that you're working towards us to the full assurance of hope unto the end. That you not be slothful but followers of them through faith and patience inherit the promises. So I mean there it's an assurance that well of what's coming. I mean it's just exactly what you were just talking about, this expressed joy of of future hope. The point being that there's some people that are saved but they're they're not completely confident that that it really worked for 'em Yeah. They gotta keep pressing in and they gotta keep uh s you know, getting in the word and being obedient and as they continue to do so then then what happens is they're the the assurance even though they've already they're already assured in God's eyes salvation. Their assurance is yeah, their salvation is assured. It's just they're not confident about it yet. Yeah. Yeah. This is a this is a challenge of pastors. I'm guessing that you have a difficulty with this. Every week we preach to a church that has believers and unbelievers, I'm guessing, in it, and I have to both convict them so that they relook at their heart and make sure they're really saved and give them assurance. Yeah. So some I'm giving deep assurance to. No guilt in life, no fear in the guy. And then I gotta say, but look at yourself, you know. Test yourself to make sure, you know, che you should be looking at your heart 'cause just cause you walk an aisle, I mean this is the biggest heresy I think ever to afflict the church that you walked an aisle and you said a sinner's prayer and now you're saved. Right. Like there's no sinner's prayer mentioned in scripture. There's no walking an aisle mentioned. It's There was no aisle there in uh in Acts chapter two. I don't think so. No. When he said repent and be baptized, three thousand got saved that day, man. That's a full aisle. That's a big island. Everybody raise your hand. Was that bigger than Gilligan's Isle? Your eyes closed. Just too far. Well, you mentioned it, so let's go there. I read the first half of chapter fifteen, repentance unto life, and that those first three sections are basically saying that tied to faith in Jesus is repentance. The Christian must hate his sin and turn from it, but that this effort does not save the person from the consequences of their sin. I mean, that's a very uh tight um paraphrase of the of those three sections. Um Any fodder for discussion there? Yeah, the question that I have is um w when we talk about cause of pardon, um God in Christ, uh has set up I don't know if you want to call it a formula, but but it's a it's a test for for confirming uh those who uh are uh putting their faith in him in it's that they would confess with their mouth that Jesus is Lord uh yeah no God sorry. That they would confess with their mouth Jesus as Lord and believe in their heart that God raised them from the dead. So there's the belief and then there's the repentance. You know, Christ your Lord, I've I've sinned, I need to repent. Right? So the message is ours, repentance. uh uh wherever we go preaching the gospel, repent and believe, repent and believe. And so it would appear to me that that that is simply uh what the Lord requires of us. And so um so in that sense, if if that's what the Lord requires of us and somebody comes and they they're they they're like, you know what I believe and uh and I choose to repent, then we can expect that God's going to pardon them. So I don't know if that's that's what they mean by cause of the pardon. Certainly they they haven't earned God's um you know God's not up there saying, wow, that guy's so incredible. I have to pardon them. But God is up there saying, okay, this this guy is doing what I've asked of him. And uh so yes, I will pardon him because cause you know that's uh that that you know that's what I've uh I've required. And so Yeah, I think I I I think I agree with you and with them, which I'm not sure is a fair thing 'cause maybe I'm hearing somebody differently. Sure. Um but th I think they're simply saying it's the repentance itself is not meritorious. Yeah. That it doesn't hold weight with God like Okay, now I will save you. Like he was waiting for this. Right. You don't get any righteousness because of this. Yes, you have to repent. Yes, you have to have faith. I mean, the the confession is full of that. Repentance of faith is huge. It's vital to your salvation. Um of course we get back to that same situation. How does faith and repentance come about? And that's really their intricate distinctions, right? It comes about, as we've said many times, because the spirit works in their life. preemptively, beforehand. Um but and that we can just move that away because we've talked about that a whole lot. But at least where we're at, repentance and faith are necessary. I mean they they're necessary for salvation. They're not necessary for regeneration. as righteousness. You know, there there's a sense accredited to him. God saw the faith, believed God. So God saw that that Abraham believed and he said, you know what? I'm going to credit that as righteousness. Right? And uh I don't know if that's uh th that's not meritorious. It's not like Abraham was so righteous that God had to say, wow. He's making it to heaven. Look at how incredible he is. But that it's it again just appears that that the Lord credits righteousness to those who come to him the way that he said to come to him, which is by faith. And so when Abraham did that, came to him by faith, not by works, God said, I'm gonna call that righteousness. And I can under uh We we'll have a little bit of a discussion probably if we go into the New Testament how Paul is trying to do that versus how James is trying to explain this whole crediting of righteousness. Faith without works is dead. Right. Um but certainly in the Old Testament the righteousness idea doesn't mean that they are uh necessarily perfect or anything like that. They simply have done right. Righteousness simply means right. They did right. And certainly people can do right. Does that mean that their right isn't tainted with great wrong at the same time? I wouldn't think so. I think it is. I think even their righteousness is filthy. to some degree, and that he's not getting he's not getting credit as in meritorious for salvation because of that. I think that's what Paul will argue a bit. Yeah. Alright, let me read this next section. I'm not sure if we'll have a whole lot of time to talk about the the last half of chapter fifteen, but As there is no sin so small, but it deserves damnation, so there is no sin so great that it uh can bring damnation upon those who truly repent. Men ought not to content themselves with a general repentance, but it is every man's duty to endeavor to repent of his particular sins particularly. So basically, no sin is so small it doesn't demand a savior. No sin is so large that it is a quote unquote mortal sin for those who really and truly repent. And this repentance should be as much as possible for particular sins and not merely some sort of catch-all repentance like I'm generally sorry. But we need to think about the specific things about in our lives about which we're sorry. I mean we in agreement on that in this room? I know there are people outside of this room that would disagree. Well I think you hit on the key part. Right, which the Roman Catholics would disagree with. And this is what they're fighting. This is uh this Westminster is about fighting Roman Catholicism. So what are the mortal sins according to Catholicism? Oh I don't know. Uh are there seven of them? Suicide or something? Yeah, suicide's one of them. Uh right. I I well they're up in Roman Catholic Church, but I cannot remember anymore. There's two different lists. There's a list of, you know, like are those the seven deadly sins? Like no. Yeah, I think I think there's there's deadly sins and there's venial sins and there's and there's mortal sins. Right. Yeah, so I need I need like a a cue card, you know, so they're arguing against yeah, the the the confession here is arguing against that saying no, that's So in Christ you have life no matter what you've done, no matter how bad. Yeah. As long as you repent. Except it is true that blasphemy against the Holy Spirit is an unpardonable sin. And I don't know if they deal with that later on, but they uh that one would kinda come up in this context. Yeah, that I don't think they do deal with the that would be a great enough sin that You can't recover. Exactly. That's why they don't really have to do that. Exactly. So I think they would They would argue blasphemy of the Holy Spirit is is obvious because it's basically saying that you're not a Christian, that's what it really means. Right. So That's how I understand it anyway. Sure. But the very last section says every man is bound to make private confession of his sins to God, praying for the pardon thereof, upon which and for the forsaking of them he shall find mercy. So he that scandalized this boy these old words his brother or the church of Christ ought to be willing by a private or public confession and sorrow for his sin to declare his repentance to those that are offended, who are thereupon to be reconciled to him and in love to receive him. So basically Christians should confess their sins and ask for forgiveness of God, and also confess their sins and ask for forgiveness of the people they've hurt by their sins, kind of like that T V show My Name is Row. Uh How did we pull that one in there? So Yeah yeah, you're gonna have to explain that one Well I'm not sure. He did a whole bunch of bad things to people in his life, and so he seeks these people out that he hurt. And each episode is about his encounter with a different person. But the point is we need to confess to God and we need to go to the people and confess to them. And again, this is probably speaking against the Roman Catholic idea of you you confess to your priest and you're absolved of your sins if you do the the Hail Mary's or the whatevers Uh you pay your penance. And you don't ever have to go to the person and confront them and say, Jonathan, I know I've hurt you, please forgive me. Which is one of the most redemptive parts of confession, you know. How how could Uh it it's just so inappropriate that that a church institution would uh would uh uh forget the value of looking somebody in the eye, you know, and apologizing. There's there's so much dignity that is restored and shame that is dealt with in that context that that if you don't get the chance to do so, you're hurting yourself, you know. You and I are very much on the same page on that one. Let's look him in the eye, man. Yeah. Now it's it's It only happened a couple of times in the shows that we've done, I don't know, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen shows now on on on the Westminster Confession. And there's been a couple of times. This is one and I think I can think of one other time when I thought, ooh Maybe we should have a Roman Catholic on the panel because we're gonna agree here on these things. Roman Catholic will be Oh you Protestant heretics I would love that. I've got I've got a good friend, so I'll bring him in. In in five or ten seconds, any final words? Um no sir. No Jonathan can't say anything in five or ten seconds. Are you kidding me? All right. Broadhurst is the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Froy Skinner. You've been listening to the Faith Debate, the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMB. Again, I encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com. Keywordface takes you to the face to bait page where you find a seven-day-a-week blog. links to the audio vault and uh other cool things. Jonathan has a blog that I think he updated back in like two thousand three so you can check that out. Anyway, till next week. Thanks for listening. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients from the first Phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?