Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P has in your preferred plumber. Plumbing plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMG brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week again by Jonathan Swipe. Senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel and Dave Grieber. Okay, fine. He's a lawyer. But he's a nice guy. Yeah. He's he's not one of them. Yeah. Dave Grieber is more important than be him being a this, you know, lawyer. He's the author of the Lost Commandment. Have we missed what did Jesus really want? Okay, you do some sort of really good kind of law, right? You save people, you rescue people. I I do my best. Okay. So we can like you I hope so. Okay. You know, I told my dad at one point that I wanted to be a lawyer and he kinda poo-pooed it like it was like it was a bad idea and I kinda, you know, wish I could go back and maybe do it all over again, you know, because okay, sure, maybe there's some negative parts of it, but there's also some skills that you learn in terms of uh learning how to present your case and uh you know grapple with truth and such that uh I feel like are very, very valuable. There's s sever several prominent theologians who had law training. We were Tertullian, yeah. Yeah. Several. I knew I didn't like those guys for real shit. Right, right, right. Now I understand. That's right, right, right. Go back to the apostles. We don't need all those other guys. Actually Paul was a laureate too. A Pharisee of the Pharisees, trained in the law by Gamaliel himself. Okay. Yeah, so there you have it. Apostle Paul. Yeah. It's a beautiful thing. Talking about what John wrote. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was cute. That was kind of off the wall. But that was kinda cute in a you know Troy Skinner kind of way. Thank you. I'm not sure I'm scarred now. Jonathan thinks I'm kinda cute. Okay, so anyway. Um this is gonna probably be the final in a series of four shows so I would encourage you to go online to WFMD. com. You can listen to the podcast of the first three shows. It'll kind of properly set up for what we're going to talk about in this show. We try to make every show stand on its own, but sometimes there are pieces or kind of drawing threads and connections to other shows it might be harder, but we're gonna do our best not to have it be the case. Without re explaining the whole darn thing, um with Dave's book, The Lost Commandment, uh subtitled, Have We Missed What Jesus Really Wants He's talking about when Jesus, uh, in the context of the the Last Supper is saying, Now I give you this new command, you know, love uh one another as I have loved you, and by this people will know that uh you know, that that you're one of my guys, you know. Kind of thing. That was a lo that was a the new living translation. So anyway, so that's what we're talking about. We well we've already talked about what was new about it and you know, in the context and and and we've talked about how how could it be lost? Like how is where's the church gone awry? We've talked about those sorts of things. And we've started to talk a few different times on probably just about every one of the first three shows that we've done together you know, about okay, what exactly is the new commandment? What's being commanded here? What is and what's the example that Jesus you know, the new part is okay, it's Jesus' example But what is it that he's fulfilling that we're now commanded to do? What what does that look like? What is that? We've touched on it's forgiveness, it's what are some of the things we've touched on already? Uh Well, we touched on forgiveness. We touched a little bit on obedience and uh we've mentioned humility, relationship, mission. We talked a lot about uh about the mission part already. It seems to me that, you know, if we wanted to try to put it in a nutshell, and that maybe that's what I'm going to try to we can try to do over the next couple of minutes, go and put it in a nutshell. One way maybe we could put it in a nutshell is, you know, what was the example that Jesus left us? And it was one of obedience. Yeah. It was perfect obedience to the Father. So in the simplest terms, if we're going to love like Jesus, all we got to do is figure out what the Father is telling us to do throughout all of Scripture and go do that, and that would be loving Like Jesus. Is that is that too simple? Well, it's not necessarily too simple, but it needs some elaboration. Um hence a book. So in John fifteen ten, Jesus said, If you obey my commands, you will remain in my love just as I have obeyed my father's commands and remain in his love. Uh so clearly a meet obedience is an important um aspect of of loving Christ. Um Christ said elsewhere, if you if you love me, you'll obey my commands. Uh but the elaboration i is a there's a couple things that need to be said. One is that uh whether we fall short of perfect obedience or not, Jesus loves us in any case. In fact he loves us before we even believed in him. He he first loved us. Um the second thing is that obedience is in any significant measure is not possible except by the grace of God and through the Holy Spirit lit uh working through us. Um and and the third thing is that we're not talking about perfection here. We're not talking about God's love being conditional here. You know, oh, you made a mistake, I don't love you. Straighten up and I will love you. Um God wants us to to obey uh His Son uh just as we parents would like our children to obey us. But but if our kids make a mistake, it doesn't mean we don't love them. Um we love them in any case. Yeah, you know, I've through the years I found myself coming back to that again and again where Jesus says, if you love me, you obey my commands. Where uh John says in in uh in his epistles, he says he says, This is love to obey God's commands, to obey his commands. And uh You know, the d the difference between that and what Paul's arguing against, that we're no longer under the law, but we now live by the Spirit You know, so what's the difference between living under the law and having to obey the commands and obeying Christ's commands to love him? Like what's the what's the difference there? Well I think that the difference is that the um that Christ on the cross paid the price for our sins and for all the times and all the ways that we would ever fall short of his glory. So there's not uh there's not a a need to um to have some kind of secondary sacrifice or atonement for when we fall short. Uh in old in the Old Testament law there was a in once a year uh when there would were sacrifices for sin and once a year when there would be a day of atonement. Um but Christ, our sacrifice, covered all of our sins all at once so that so that we are uh eternally uh with the Father, not not just uh conditioned on uh you know a sacrifice for our falling short for our sin. And another important distinction between those two is, you know the the heart to view on what the commands are. If you look at the as the commands as this burdensome, onerous, I have to do this but and I'm going to do this because it's going to make God happy. is different than Jesus saying, you know, uh my yoke is meat and my burden is light. And it's the same commands, the same it's the same burden. You still have the same standard of righteousness that we're commanded to try to live up to, but It's it's one it's born out of freedom. You're free to uh to be obedient and you you want to and to be and you want to and you're free to because you recognize that you can trust God that God gave you those commands. He tells you to worship only him. He tells you to, you know, recognize and and honor the Sabbath day. He tells you to honor your parents. He tells you not to steal, not not to cheat on your wife, not to kill people, you know, he tells you know, he tells you to do all those sorts of things. Because that's what's best for us. And then you recognize that, Oh, I want to do those things. God knows best you know, this old T V show from the fifties and sixties, right? Father knows best? You know, the father knows best. You know, so yeah, I want to do those. It's not it it is a a uh a yoke that is easy and a burden that is light. And so it's this it's the same thing, it's just the way you approach them, it seems to me. Out out of out of gratitude we obey. Not not because we Fear and also uh with a new power to obey through the Holy Spirit, which is new with Christ's coming Yeah, it's not like Thomas Jefferson, you know, that says that it's just all about being good moral people. We're not talking about just being good moral people. We're talking about a whole different level where we love like Christ loved. You know, it's not just about being more, but it's about, you know, a whole different level of spiritual activity and uh uh sacrifice and laying down our lives for one another and um caring for those that that Christ cared for, you know, even if it's uh sacrificial on our part. It's a whole different level. And Chr Christ's obedience you know, Christ said without the Father I could do nothing. So Christ's obedience to the Father was in the context of his relationship with the Father. And so our obedience to Christ is in the context of our relationship with the Father and with the Son. Which I feel like is a major distinction between you know, again, just being moral. You know, when when you get into this in your book, you're you're def defining something that that is uniquely Christian. You know, a Buddhist can't do it A Muslim can't do it. This is something that that comes out as we are filled with Christ, then we love as he's loved us. And so so it's uh it's not possible outside of that. Right. Which is part of the reason why it's so unique. And we've talked about, you know, the way that we love or or to put it in certain churches context to love on one another. Um, you know, we're we're gonna forgive, we're gonna be there to counsel, we're gonna be there to be a shoulder to cry on, we're gonna you know, those sorts of things. But also Part of loving would be speaking the truth with boldness and clarity would be rebuking someone in love for the error of their ways, right? I mean we don't want to lose sight, we don't want to have this soft, you know, all lollipop and sugarcane uh kind of view of what love means. But they're there exactly. I I think that we need to both speak the truth and do it lovingly. I mean there was something about Jesus that that enabled him to do this. When he saw the woman at the well, the Samaritan woman at the well. And here's a woman who's been likely shunned by her society. She she's a woman of sort of uh questionable morality and she comes to the well. She would not have expected even to speak to a man uh at all, let alone to a Jew like Jesus. And and yet Jesus is able to speak to her softly enough that that although he tells her that she has been with several men, yet she doesn't uh run away from him and she she ends up going to tell the entire town that he's there instead of running away feeling condemned and belittled. So he spoke the truth, but he did it in a way that didn't repel her. Uh and that's the that is the the the uh the way that Jesus would do it and the way we're supposed to do it. But sometimes I mean, Jesus tells Peter, get behind me, Satan. Doesn't sound very loving to me, but it was. You know, so the the tone can be sharp. It doesn't have to be all Mamsie Pamsy. Is that a word? Yeah, I think and I think uh I would I would say yeah, and that's a certainly an unusual circumstance. We don't um I haven't run into having to direct Satan to get behind any of um anybody when I was talking to a friend. I I you don't do the show with Jonathan often. But I th Some sometimes stating the truth clearly is perceived as sharp or judgmental. But Um I think that we need to be clear. I think we need to be careful of our attitude when we say it so that so that um clear is not any sharper than it needs to be. It you know, John says Jesus came from the Father full of grace and truth, that we have seen seen his glory, the glory of the one and only. Seems to me that that's what glory is all about when when you don't just have grace. Grace is a nice thing and I know a lot of people that are all about grace, grace, grace. But at the end of the day it kind of becomes sloppy. I know some people that are all about truth, truth, truth, and you know they're really good at it But at the end of the day it's a little bit harsh. You know, but when you put those two things together and you see somebody that's really good at that, there's something that's really special about that. And Christ was the ultimate You know, uh balance of those things and and that's part of what we're getting at here. Are either one of you familiar with Todd Friel or Neil Bells? No, no, I'm not he does his own radio show. It's a nationally syndicated kind of a show. He's he he he uh he's very talented, very good. I'm uh I'm an admirer of the video. Is that the radio? radio guy. Yeah. Yeah. You were telling me about this guy. He's he's good. Anyway, I w recently uh heard him talking about this distinction between, you know love and Honest and goodness, Christian love. And he says Christian love comes in truth. You know, we have this too many quote unquote Christians, even Christian pastors. Yeah. Or quote unquote Christian pastors. you know, are all about well we gotta love and Jesus said he did not come to condemn the world and all that sort of came to save it. You know, okay, yeah, that's true, but it's in the words of Todd for real. Came to save From what? Yeah. From his coming judgment. Let's be hon hey, you guys are sinners. You're going to hell unless you trust in Jesus. Right. You gotta speak that truth. You can't shy away from that truth because well that might not be loving or the world might not perceive it as loving. And then uh the George Barner group and the Gallup people are going to say that Christians aren't very loving because they're always talking about, you know, people are going to hell. Well, if it's true You know, if you're a blind man head heading toward his c toward the cliff, you're not gonna walk up next to the blind man and he's like ten feet away and you just keep walking towards say, Oh, how you doing? Tell me your life story. Ah the guy falls off the edge of the cliff. Oh, I didn't get to him quick enough. You know? Too bad. Yeah, y so uh And that illustration I didn't say it as well, but I stole that illustration from Todd Friel. That's an example that he uses. Yeah, he stole it from somebody else. Probably. So I want to uh I want to make sure that we're you know we're clear in what the lost commandment is. It's it's not supposed to be this trite, soft, marshmallowy, you know, Easter candy filled kind of thing. It's uh it's it's the real deal. Yeah, it's the it you you notice that Jesus varied his tone depending on who he talked to. You know, if he's talking to a woman who's sitting in the sand with drawing with her finger who's was almost gonna get stoned, he's he's soft. He's the Samaritan woman he's soft. If he's talking to the Pharisees who um really should have known better and who had questionable motives and weren't really looking at the truth, he was very, very blunt. Uh you know, you whitewash tombs, you know. Um he was more than blunt. With his disciples he he tended to be firm and uh and at times, you know, like, How long do I have to put up with you kind of a thing? You know, and yet that was loving. He's he he tended to be most firm and most sharp with those that were in leadership positions that were influencing other people. You are a teacher of Israel and you do not know. Yeah, those are the ones that he was had a li little less patience for if we want to use that kind of language. I don't know. You you get into a section before you get into the section. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930, WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. The one who's about to ask a question or make a comment is Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And Dave Griever is the author of The Lost Commandment, Have We Missed With Jesus. really wants. Okay. You get into a question in the context, I think it's of forgiveness of uh what it means to be a peace maker. And uh and you actually th this is something that I think is pretty um rich heritage coming out of uh is it the Grace Brethren background or is it is it the Quaker background? What what what's the background that that really gets into that in Uh what's your experience with some of that? Yeah, my experience isn't out of uh out of the Grace Brethren background. The Grace Brethren um church is very concerned about peace and and the Brethren Church uh as well. Um my background is uh partly the way God made me and also I'm a court appointed mediator of in both uh D domestic cases which are divorce cases and also civil notes. But but why is that so important to love? I mean, you're just a lawyer, right? You're just helping to to solve problems, right? I mean what what's love got to do with it? There I got Tina Turner again. Well, um as a Christian it's a big deal because the It's very much on the heart of God that we not be separated by disagreements, that we attempt to resolve our our disagreements. We meaning people in the church? We meaning Christians and and there's a general concern about um humanity humanity living in peace with one another. Um the um but um so And they're very pointed statements in Scripture exhorting us to not let our disputes fester, but to go whether we're the ones who have been offended, you know, which is sort of Matthew eighteen, or or whether we become aware that we have offended other people, which is, I guess, Matthew six. Yeah. The bottom line is we're supposed to go to the other person and talk to them with a view toward expressing what the problem is. Um um the as appropriate, uh asking for forgiveness, repenting, asking for forgiveness, and putting it behind you and so that so that you won't be separated by the dispute. That's very much at the heart of of of God. So in the book, you know, what I when I talk about peacemakers, what I mean there is actually and this is m my use of the f of the word, uh I mean someone who intervenes in the dispute of two other people, which is a very Yeah, can it's a very delicate. Proverbs says says a man who meddles in a quarrel not his own is like somebody takes a dog by the ears. And that's all it says. And I think what it means is you're gonna get bit. I I think that there's ca it's uh cautious. Peacemakers for they'll be called sons of God. So there's a time and a place. But doesn't that mean that you go like hang out with peaceful people? I mean blessed other peacemakers, right? And you just kinda be peaceful. I th I think it I think it means that you you act like Jesus and you be willing to put yourself into the fray for the sake of peace. Um And um there are times when that's appropriate and there are times when it's not appropriate. Right. But if you you know, if you're aware of a situation in which people are at odds, if you have some relationship to to either one of them There's a way to quietly encourage them to come together uh in ways that they may not have been able to do this. And I've found myself in this role naturally, quite apart from being a lawyer. And I think that clearly that's important and it's you know part of uh God's provision to keep you know humanity alive and not killing each other and his his common grace and those sorts of things for for all of us. But the uh I don't want us to lose sight in my opinion that the Jesus is the Prince of Peace. But what does he mean by that? He doesn't mean there aren't going to be wars. I mean he talks about in the last days there's going to be wars, rumors of wars, all that sort of thing. Ultimately Jesus is the peacemaker between God and fallen man. Right. So that's the ultimate reconcilation. And that's the ministry of reconciliation at the end of the day that we're called to. Primarily that's the ministry of reconciliation, but then it overflows you're saying in your book to Helping to resolve conflict. that we would be one just as Jesus and the Father are one. And it's around actually this commandment that I talk about in my book that if we if we could if we could get on the same page that were to love others as Christ has loved us That focal point should be a unifying focal point and should bring greater. that the problem is that they don't do it according to righteousness. And then the Beatitudes, Christ says, Blessed are the peacemakers, they'll be called the sons of God. And then the very next beatitude, he says, Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake and he seems to recognize that if you're gonna step into a situation to help bring peace, then at some level you gotta help the people to deal with what was right and what was wrong. So that they can acknowledge the problem so they can ac uh acknowledge fault that that's necessary and once you step into that this in in fact you you tell a story in the book about somebody that ended up losing a relationship with his father or grandfather because he stepped in to help resolve something with his father. That's right. And as a result of it, he his relationship with his grandfather was never quite the same. But he was doing something you're saying that was loving and appropriate at some level. We might you know, maybe he wasn't perfect at it, but but that there is something of a of a call to us to be willing to to press into those areas of conflict. Right. But to do it according to righteousness, not do it according to just this, you know, hey, can't we all just get along? No, it's it's very important that the that the the the sin, if you will, that caused the split be dealt with. If you look in Matthew eighteen, it says if you know, if your brother sinned against you, go to him just between the two of you. I'm not going to get this exactly right. And show him his fault. And so th there there has to be a scares you then you want him over. And if he doesn't then you but but the if you bring w one or more witnesses with you and then you tell it to the church. But the f but it's what you're saying, Jonathan, that you have to You have to get to the cause of the of the rift and deal with it um honestly and openly and then forgive it. But you can't pretend it didn't happen in the world. You know, I mean the the the more I think about that that particular conflict, the more it's clear to me that there is no way to solve that conflict outside of the Arabs becoming Christian and the Jews becoming Christian so that they admit the truth about sin. I mean outside of that it's just never gonna happen. So you've got a Jewish nation and you've got, you know, the Muslim should ultimately be our prayer. Yeah Right. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Yeah, we pray for the peace of Jerusal it's it's a unique conflict. Um we got a couple of minutes left. Uh you've got a story about a broken jaw. Yeah. This is we're talking about peacemaking. This is a s uh this is a story about forgiveness where I illustrate in the book um uh You got the broken jaw I got the broken jaw, yeah. What what happened was that um I illustrate the story of of the importance of forgiveness and of the steps that we follow to to go about resolving a dispute. The steps being that we go to the person, that we show them the problem, that um uh that there is a confession of fault, repentance and and forgiveness and that that process heals relationships. And what happened to me was that Um I I'm a karate student. I was uh taking my black belt test as an adult at age 45. Um Uh I mean nothing to worry about. And uh in the in the course of the black belt test uh what what happened was that a m a much uh younger black belt um who uh became um I I think he was afraid of me actually even though he's younger he he did a jump back jumping spin prodigy and he and he hit me with the he with the heel of his foot on on my jaw and it broke my jaw in two places. So that ended my hurt. Um It it did it did hurt. It didn't knock me out. Uh it did hurt, but not as much as you would think. Uh but but um What I had to decide was how I was going to f to react to this and and I decided that what I needed to do was to forgive this person as Jesus had forgiven me. Well in the moment I was you know in the moment, frankly, I was really angry. Um I didn't uh I was frustrated because I couldn't complete the test. But It's just a jaw. But I couldn't complete the test. Um but uh as the Holy Spirit softened my heart, he enabled me. Over a period of how long? Well it was it was within a c a couple of hours. Wow. Um that uh but I had to go get operated on and have my job put together and wired shut and it was some time before I could get together with this guy. But I I met with him uh I I Uh he told me he had done it on purpose. That was made up the stakes a little bit. But um but I told him that I forgived him because Jesus had forgiven me. You told him that. And what was his response? And well, and then I told him that I've uh wanted only blessing for him and that I wanted to get together with him again and I bought him lunch and gave him a book and the Bible and you did it on purpose. How about that? That's pretty bold to admit Yeah. Yeah, I'm thinking a couple of years ago Jonathan broke his nose. If only it had been his jaw, his mouth could have been wired shut. That's right, that's right. But as it was, my nose was broken, so you know, I couldn't smell. I used no. That's true. That's true. Even if your nose is broken, you can still smell very rich. Anyway, here's Jonathan Sweitzer, the smelly pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm sorry, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel And uh Dave Grieber is the author of the La uh The Lost Commandment. Uh the first and last, perhaps commandment too, I don't know. The Lost Commandment, have we missed what Jesus Really Wants? I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Again, I encourage you to visit online wfmd. com, keyword faith, jonathonsweitzer. org, and Dave Grieber Dot com Dave Grieber's last name is G-R-E-B-E-R. Again, the book is the Lost Commandment. Thanks so much for listening. Until Next week. Happy New Year. And by the way, this show is not my birthday, but it's the show closest to my birthday, so Happy birthday to you. That's about enough of that. We gotta go. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing, that's with a pea, as in your preferred plumber. Pulmin Plumbing, how can we make you smile?