Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumbing plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Dave Brieber, the author of The Lost Commandment. Have we missed what Jesus Really Wants? And Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. Our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating. How if we make you smile, I encourage you to visit us online. WFMD. com keyword faith. Go to the audio box. You can listen to this show. Um I don't know, give us a couple of days to put up on the podcast and you can Listen to it over and over, share it with friends, you know. You can have a listening party. Use it as a lullaby to go to sleep at night, all sorts of cool things. Yeah, yeah. Well I don't know. Dave's voice is kinda soothing. He'll he'll be able to you know help you go to sleep. John is gonna keep you up with nightmares, I'm sure. If you're listening last week you kind of caught the introduction of what's this all about and if you missed it and you're having a hard time catching up then go check out the audio belt and listen to last week's show on podcast. But uh Dave's book, The Lost Commandment, uh he started writing it about uh five years ago And uh it just got finally published and put out and you can go buy it now uh on Amazon uh or other places I guess. Everywhere. Available to store near you. Um and Uh you're now in what your your fourth or fifth printings like you know New York Times bestseller. No? Not yet. Okay. Well Yeah, way not yet. Anyway. Dave lives in Frederick And goes to a a local church and he's not the pastor of the church, but obviously he's a pretty thoughtful lay person and Yes. What does that mean on the speaking staff? It means they let me get up and preach on Sundays. Oh that's dangerous, huh? Yes, it is. Okay. But they don't pay them for it. Oh. Right. Right. Phone is for them. Didn't expect it. Hence the reason why I wrote the book. Hey, ten bucks is ten bucks. That's right. So he's sitting um In in I don't think a pews at your church, but he's sitting in the uh uh in the congregation and listening to a sermon about love or something and and it hits him that, you know, wait a minute, this thing about, you know, Jesus tells his disciples to love each other like he loved them. And he calls it a new command. Yeah, I give you this new commandment. What does that mean, this new commandment? So he starts plowing through his Bible, trying to make sense of it, and it was gnawing at him, so he did a bunch of research. Couldn't find any materials to help him navigate through what this whole new canal was all about. So since it seems like Nobody in two thousand years of Christian history has written a book about this. He thought, okay. Well I don't know if you thought, somebody thought and convinced me. Probably kicking and screaming. You should write a book about this. And so now he has. Again, it's called The Lost Commandment. And I think you should have called it Raiders of the Lost Commandment. It would be a new telling us. At the end of last week's show we were talking about uh George Barna uh his the Barna Group research talking about uh how Christians don't maybe love each other or at least you you taking the connection of his research and s and seeing that as evidence that Christians don't love each other. Like the Barner group has research that shows that half Christians don't like to share the gospel with with other people or aren't there I think you said forty seven percent of Christians only s consider sharing the gospel as an important part of what it means to be a Christian. So now a couple of things I want to ask 'cause I now I've pretty familiar with George Barn. I think his research is is is pretty good. He's he's the best at what he does for sure. Uh but I'm not sure how George and his Barner group folks define Christian. And I'm not saying this devil's advocate, I don't know how they define Christian, how f stern they are. Because an awful lot of people claim to be Christian, and that might be the fifty-three percent that don't share the gospel. The forty seven percent that do might actually be the authentic real deal. I mean, do you have any sense of that? I I think that in the statistics he uh used the label that people use to describe themselves. So I think according to his research something like eighty-five or ninety percent of of Americans describe themselves as Christians. And for the sake of this survey, I believe that he um stuck with that Description. Well then the fact that forty-seven percent say they do shocks me. Yeah. In fact that seems to be of Barna's material. That seems to to have been uh some of what's been most important about it. Barna for years did all this this stuff about how you could grow the church and all these statistics. But then towards the end he started to ask the question, well, maybe I could survey people and find out whether or not they're really acting like Christians. Maybe the problem why the church isn't growing It's because people really are acting like Christians. And so, you know, he began to to get a little bit more spec specific, like asking these kind of questions. You had a couple others that That were really interesting. What were those? Yeah, I d I did. Uh d let me just point out though, I I um I misspoke when I was said I was talking about the Barna study uh because I cited both Barna and Gallup. And and these these uh these are actually Gallup figures from a two thousand three survey. Uh the survey is called How Are American Christians Living Their Faith? Um it's available on the on the web. Sorry George, I gave you a plug you didn't deserve. So we talked about the sort of the evangelism thing. Um another way in which uh American attitude suggests that this commandment is lost is that only fifty five percent of Christians say that this statement God's grace enables me to forgive people who have hurt me, applies completely to them. So for my Fifty five percent. So forty five percent of the Christians do not think that God's grace enables them uh to forgive people who have hurt them. Wow, so there's forty five percent of people that walk around as Christians out there that are willing to not forgive somebody in their life. Meaning like to hold unforgiveness towards that person. That is pretty significant. That that's yes, I I think so too. And then the Troy, are you one of those? I need to know man after all these years. Only with regards to you, my friend. Love means I don't have to say I'm sorry. We that was that was from last week But there are other examples in s in in the New Testament where that is more is explicitly stated that you need to forgive others because by the standard, you know, you treat others if you don't forgive others you won't be forgiven. So that might not be does that really tie into what you're talking about with this lost commandment from Jesus? What does forgiveness have to do with love? I think that forgiveness is one aspect of love. Um Yeah, I mean come on, if somebody doesn't forgive me, I'm not going to feel loved Right. When you th when you think that, you know, got for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son to die for us, I mean the whole point God's love was expressed in giving Jesus to die on the cross so that forgiveness would be possible. For forgiveness is you know totally linked into love. And I think God now expects us, those two of us who have accepted that forgiveness. to in turn forgive others. So what about this is the big question. I'm gonna go for the for the big hairy question about forgiveness. If Hitler would have asked for forgiveness, should you forgive him? What about Madoff? If Madoff asks for forgiveness, is he worthy of forgiveness? I mean I mean surely there's some people out there that are just beyond forgiveness, right? I mean, you would agree with that? No, I wouldn't agree with that. Um I think that um If Jesus can forgive the very people who nailed him to the cross and look down from the cross on the soldiers who nailed his feet and hands to the cross and say Father forgive them for they know not what they do. That that if he can tell the Apostle Peter that we're supposed to forgive seventy times seven. Um if if that is the kind of forgiveness that the Lord has forgiveness. Right? Madoff. He he destroyed thousands of people's lives. And Hitler destroyed hundreds of thousands of people's lives. I mean I know I know Jesus millions. You know, supposed to be the son of God, okay, it's a big deal, but it's just one guy at the end of the day. Well, at the end of the day he was distinctly not just one guy. He was he was uh so let me ask you day I guess you've got a list of some of those sorts of stats and I know that Jonathan was gonna have you kinda run through some of those. Are there any other big key stats from either Gallup or Barna that Yeah, it seemed like you have one or two. While we're kind of on that subject, because we'll forget to come back to it. So a couple that we want to share. God calls me to be involved in the lives of the poor and suffering completely applies to them. Only forty-seven percent? Only forty-four percent. Right. So although Jesus What are the rest of them doing? Just hanging out with their nice rich friends? Well I think the question is what are the rest of us doing Because I think that there's a temptation that we all have to say, well, you know, we're we're in the other half. Well come on, I too's got a problem with this, but certainly not me. Okay. Well w his wife's good at it. Um the uh and better at it than I am, that's for sure. Yeah, yeah. My wife's good at it too. So that so the outcome of all of these um attitudes that result in uh unloving conduct is that Christians have a pretty bad reputation. Um Whereas Jesus said, right after giving this commandment at John 1334, Jesus said, In this way all men will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. In this way, I would put parenthetically. It's not in the first. Um the i y you have to ask the question, is that how we're known? Are we known as a loving people? Um and the answer seems to be no. Um the Bar and this is a Barna group survey said that uh few Christian adults have a have positive views of Christians. Only a small percentage of non-Christians quote strongly believe that the labels respect, love, hope, and trust describe Christianity. So you have you know, you have a um a broad cross-section of society concluding that Christians are unloving, and as a result we're seeing uh an exodus from the church, uh particularly in the in the young dumb uh younger generations. You have books being written like uh Dave Kinneman's book, who's with Barna, called Unchristian we're reflecting their additional surveys about what people think about Christians and they don't think too much of us generally. Okay, I got I got two thoughts about this. One is that um I find that uh your approach to grappling with this question that that moves in on saying, okay, well let's clearly define what it means to love like Jesus, what the Bible says to to to to love like Jesus and uh let's let's do a good job at that. Let's teach it well. Let's teach it, you know, not just at a shallow level but but at a deep level. Uh and on on that sense I'm I'm really pleased with with the nature of your approach to it. You're not just saying we need to have different kinds of churches, but you're saying the message of what we're teaching in terms of how people become disciples is very important. The second thing though is something that I I have to be honest, I I really personally have struggled with. I feel like There is a well we're told in the in Thessalonians that that for people who don't love the truth, God is going to send them a powerful delusion that will lead them astray and show the You know, make it absolutely clear that they were not lovers of the truth. And and when I look at Hollywood, I look at uh the news media, the obvious biases that are out there, I look at uh the music industry, you know, what what could be defined as culture in the United States for the last sixty to seventy years, I get the sense that there has been a concerted effort uh in all of those uh avenues to paint Christians out as being narrow minded, mean, unloving, this kind of thing. And in at some level I feel like Okay, well maybe we're just b become that way because the world keeps telling us that that's the way that we are. You know, like like how how much is it true that that that maybe there's a silent majority out there that don't fit any of these statistics, but because people in the world have been so um so conditioned to think Christian bad, evil, crusade, uh witch witch hunt, um uh uh uh uncomfortable with with anything about sex, you know, sexually repressed, you know, uh uh trying to always, you know, make people do things. That because the world is trying to paint us with that, that at the end of the day The world thinks that's the way that we that we really are when possibly we're really not that way. So you're wondering whether it's a PR problem. Absolutely. Um well let me put it this way. Uh certainly the the enemy uh of our souls is in the business of deception and has been from the beginning is number one uh that's that's why Christ was killed at the end of the day because Christ had a PR problem. You know? The PR problem is is i uh l let me say this. I don't I I on the surface maybe you could say it's a PR problem, but but what I'm really saying is not it's a PR problem But that it's a sin problem. That when people have rejected the message of the gospel and embraced something other, then they're living in a certain deception that even if they see somebody that's loving, i. e. Jesus Christ they would they would still mislabel it and hate it at some level. Which Christ said, if they hated me they're gonna hate you. And so my point is not that it's a PR problem, but that that possibly there's a genuine issue that even if we start doing everything in your book Which, you know, I was telling you beforehand, I'm I I'm gonna buy a bunch of copies and I'm gonna pass it out to to every pastor and congregation that I can 'cause I feel like it's quality. It's a message that's that's absolutely necessary and seems to embody the message of discipleship, what what it means to follow Christ very effectively, especially in this uh current uh cultural environment that we're in. But all that being the case I mean we could do all those things right and the world is not going to love us, at least not according to Christ, because Christ said if they hated me, they're gonna they're gonna hate you. No students above his master. We can't love better than Christ loved. Right. And if they hated him, then At some level we at you know, we should expect that that's going to be the case. So what do you say to that? Well you said several things. Um for one Um your point that that Christians are unfairly portrayed in the media at times, uh caricatured, um, I think that they're that you're right. Okay. I think that they're um we are unfairly portrayed um at times. Um though not all the time. And I would agree that it's not a time. Uh you made the point that uh these negative messages may actually influence uh the church negatively. Um but a culture of uh this negativity toward Christians may influence. Yeah yeah that we almost turn into being like man pleasers. We're just trying to please people because they think there's certain things about us so we're so we stop really being the church. Yeah. Well and and the scripture that came to mind as you said that was um in Romans twelve, we're we're told to um offer our bodies as living sacrifices holy and pleasing to God and to um not conform any longer to the pattern of this world, but to be transformed by the renewing of our mind and then we'll be able to test and approve what God's will is, His good, pleasing and perfect will. So there is a need to be vigilant about um not uh being wrongly influenced by the world's perceptions of us or of uh of right and wrong. Um but I think that the problem is i is a deep problem because I think that there is uh unfortunately too much truth underlying this. That that cr that we could be more loving and should be more loving and I think that if we were um living more according to the commandment that I'm talking about, then then Jesus' words would would come true. That that we would be known as his disciples by our love. We're n and I I think it would be difficult for us to say, and I and this is saddens me because I am the church, I am in the church, so are you. But it but I don't think that we're known for our love. And I think that that's what we're supposed to be known for. Like for example, this is what I feel like happens. Um we we've talked uh on the uh shows that we've the show that we already had you on, and maybe it might have been today a little bit about the fact that there's a whole portion of the body of Christ. that uh that has denied the divinity of Jesus Christ and divide d denied uh the miracles of the the Old and New Testaments. And uh they're of the opinion that what it means to love is some of the things that you talk in your book about in your book, but there's a whole section of what you talking about in your book, uh having to do with mission, uh even having to do with humility and uh towards God. uh in terms of obeying his commands that that that they would totally reject because it assumes that Jesus Christ is the only way, the truth, and life. And the difficulty that I have is that that portion of the body of Christ, I'm just reading a book by uh John Meachum, uh the editor of Newsweek magazine called American gospel and he argues persuasively that the inheritors of the Jeffersonian type religion that we found in the Founding Fathers, the the the Washington, George Washington type of vision, the deism, uh is is is most naturally uh uh found today in the context of what we would call liberal Christianity. People that are not so concerned about whether Jesus was really the Son of God, but they're all about good works. And so those people would say, if I come with a message where I'm going to preach the gospel and say Jesus is the only way while I'm giving food to somebody that somehow I'm not being loving. And so then bam, I get s I get I get stamped with the or if I'm willing to to uh to draw a line having to do with righteousness, uh whether it's about uh sex outside of marriage or homosexuality or for that matter, you know, something like gambling or you know, even lying or whatever it is. If I if I might actually draw an issue about obeying God's commands, you know, whatever those commands are, then I'd become judgmental and no longer loving. And uh and so uh at the end of the day it can feel like we're damned if we do and we're damned if we don't. That there's no way to to look loving because because they have so again, there's a PR problem, but it's a But it's it's it's beyond just a PR problem. It's a um it it's a sin problem, it's a it's a perception problem that that, you know, we can't get past the fact that the world has defined love as being tolerant. And tolerance means that I can never say that Buddhism is wrong. that that Islam is not the way to uh to salvation, that that um uh that even Judaism for that matter is uh is is going to miss salvation uh in eternal life. And uh and that being the case, it's like how do we get past that? Well Th the the big question underlying all of that is the is the way that we regard the Bible. And uh what was one of the striking things about Jefferson and and uh Thomas Jefferson founded the University of Virginia, which is my alma mater, but One of the striking things about Jefferson's approach to the Bible was that he actually uh managed to feel comfortable physically cutting out exact portions of his Bible. And while they don't cut things out, they just interpret it. It was an important aspect of Christ's love that he affirmed the the importance and the di and the uh inerrancy uh of the Bible. Uh he was the word made flesh and he dwelt among us. He uh repeatedly affirmed the uh the the importance of the Old Testament scriptures. So that was an aspect of his love that that is included in the Lost Commandment, in my view. And you actually spend s whole sections of the book dealing with what does it mean to be uh submitted to God's commands and what he calls us to do. You you don't in any way write those off. No. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Dave Grieber is the author of The Lost Commandment. Have we missed what Jesus Really Wants? I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Uh it occurs to me if we get ourselves into some trouble, uh and I'm speaking as as a Christian now, or a panel of nothing but uh Christians, evangelical conservative Christians, if you want to put a uh a a steeper label on it. So the collective we. We get ourselves in trouble, I think, when we start what was the word that Jonathan phrase, I turned a phrase Jonathan a moment ago. It says something about do we have a hard time looking like we're loving or or or Or having to see us that we're we're actually engaged in love. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, and I think we get ourselves in trouble and we worry about that Yeah. We shouldn't worry about whether the g world perceives what we're doing as loving. We need to worry about you know Loving. I want to ask you a question about that one. Let me let you finish. were recognizing that what he was doing was loving. He just went about the business of loving. Okay, but but I would agree with you. We we shouldn't worry about it. But I think it's also true that Christ never denied the fact that that there were many that uh that saw his love and totally rejected it. Right. My point being is that is that we don't worry about it, but for us to to be naive to the fact that there are many who will who will actively uh uh pervert what we're trying to do and actively uh I don't know if perverts the right word, but but they will actively try to make it look like something else. Um uh we don't worry about it, but it's true it's gonna happen and we need to be aware of it, otherwise we're gonna we're gonna get hurt and wonder, you know, wow, what in the world happened? Well, we need to not be naive about it. That's going on out in the world and and we need to address it. Yeah, and if those who are are in Christ are going to expect those outside of Christ to truly recognize, you know what love truly, truly at at its absolute best and utmost is, they're not going to. So we're we're expecting some them to recognize something that they can't And it occurs to me, uh I don't want to be nitpicky about the title, but I'm wondering, you know, Lost Commandment maybe isn't exactly what we're talking about. It's more of a forgotten commandment or an ignored commandment. In fact that's how you describe it in the book pretty effectively. Well I think I think that something that is lost in plain sight is as lost as anything that is you know out of your house. I mean a library book that is misshelved uh and is can be as lost as though that library book were left um by someone in a distant city. If you can't find it, if you don't use it, if you don't access it, if you don't know it's there. then to you it's lost. Now um there may be some for whom this is not lost and I don't mean to suggest that everybody has missed it, but I'm here to confess that I'm one of them and I'm here to report and if you start to watch you'll see You're going to be hard-pressed to find a sermon or a book uh that centers its teaching on this. You will find no problem uh locating sermons and books that center their teaching on on the Golden Rule. Now if we were to do an archive search on sermons preached at Crossroads Valley Chapel, would this be true? Uh I d I went through uh first John at one point and I specifically remember uh falling on this particular passage and I also preached through John one time. And uh John uh hits these issues with a with a precision and a piercing piercing piercing to the hearts of issues that I felt like uh warranted uh spending some time on them and it's part of the reason I think I'm so excited about the book because it it puts the focus back where it needs to be. If I'm just loving people how I want to be loved Well, you know, I'd like people to give me money and I'd like people to never give me a hard time about how what I do, you know, uh, you know, to act like I'm not sinful. I'd like people to think that I'm the greatest in the world and if we all walked around like that loving people how I you know, uh want others to do things to me. The bottom line is that it would be a pretty ugly world at the end of the day. We need a standard. And obviously your senior pastor, our Dallas Green, hasn't taken great offense to this, uh, because he's endorsing your book. Yes. No he's not, but he could have been taken back like we don't have Wait a minute. Yeah, I I preach about this. Yeah. Don't I? Like, well, let me give let me give you a brief example. You know, my my publisher, Kriegel uh gave me seven years worth of their publications on sermon outlines. Two outlines uh it was 104 outlines per year, seven years, whatever that adds up to. Each of these books has a scripture index and I went through them one by one looking for John thirteen thirty-four, John fifteen twelve. Not one, not one single reference. Not one. That's right. We have such a big listening audience that they probably gonna hear that that's the case and uh they'll be changing that. We're gonna wrap up this episode. I would like to if we can uh get back again for next week's show. By the way, happy new year. Oh a little bit delayed, but uh yeah. Happy New Year. I should have said a Um uh earlier in the show. But happy New Year. New Year. Yes. But uh I do wanna be a good one. I wanna talk about Jonathan brought up in this show about you know def Which is really the meat of what the book's about. Exactly. That's the whole point. Commandment. I'm Troy Skinner, thanking our sponsor, Putman Putin and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online, WFMB. com, keyword faith. Thanks for listening. God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumbing. Pull and plumbing, how can we make you smile?