Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work Call Putman Plumbing, that's with a P, as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, encouraging you to visit us online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith. Um by the way, I want to let everybody know, because this is important, I have gotten back into the habit of Monday through Friday updating the Faith Debate page. That had fallen into disrepair for a while, but I don't do it on Saturday and Sunday because somebody's got to take a break. I mean you gotta have a Sabbath. And I couldn't decide if it was Saturday or Saturday or Sunday, so I took them both. So you'll you'll be right either way. All right. So we uh we started something new if that's precisely what we're talking about today. What exactly do you do on the Sabbath? What do you do on the Sabbath? Yeah But before we get into that, a few weeks ago we started this uh this thing with the the word of the week. Oh yeah. And this week's the word of the week is jerk. Oh it is? Jerk. Yeah. What is it's a biblical term? What does jerk mean? I'm I'm uh I'm currently running my uh my computer concordance to see what I'm saying. You want to know what jerk means? Jerk means you're some idiot from Kansas calling yourself a Baptist Christian who wants to come harass families who have lost a military loved one. Oh yeah yeah. That's the definition of a jerk. Also known as Antichrist. That church. Absolutely. Spirit of Antichrist for sure. Absolutely. They do in the name of Christ. Unbelievable. The fact that they carry the name Christian just So did you find yourself wanting to go out there and invite them on the show? I have invited them on the show, by the way. I know. But like since they were in town. And we came within a hair's breadth of actually having them on the show and then they conveniently had a scheduling conflict. Man. They were like, not Troy Skinner, no, please. I was gonna cast their spirit into a herd of pigs and send them to Cascading down a hill to their death. Your loving for one another. Hm. It's unbelievable. So it just goes to show you know, the Bible teaches and we'll get into the Sabbath thing really quick here, but the Bible teaches that we are to follow the way Following the way of Christ, you can call yourself a Christian, but you are not in fact a Christian. In fact, I think that's breaking one of the commandments. Do not take my name in vain. And they're doing Their message is polar opposite to the gospel message, polar opposite to the way of Christ. It it's so I certainly find myself intrigued. Like I'd like to I I'd like to really try to pin them down as to how they feel like this is Christ like, you know, like what is the mentality? Uh mostly because I I expect that what I would find would be a uh an an immature mentality. I I I just have this expectation that that as they would talk it'd be like, Wow those guys are uh a lot less uh uh thoughtful or you know whatever You know, I just kind of expect that that's okay. I'm just surprised that they, you know, so much credit. The reason I'm bringing this up, like why would why would I care to bring this up? Because on the past, uh in the past, on this show, you know, we've taken issue with some of the uh Those people who have a position of prominence or uh or have a public mouthpiece or something like that that uh repres that they somehow represent Islam. Yeah. They are Muslims or high profile Muslims. I don't hold myself up as a particularly good Christian necessarily or, you know, a likable Christian or whatever. I mean that's between me and God I guess. But I do we do have a weekly forum here on which It's pretty well known that the participants on this show are Christian and if we don't speak out against others who are claiming Christ that do not represent Christ then we are making the same mistake that we are claiming that those Muslims were making by not denouncing the the people that were re you know, claiming to be True Islam. Sure. Kind of thing. So I uh for the record the Westboro uh bath uh uh I'm not you know what, I'm trying to train myself The Westboro Group. I'm not gonna call them Westbro Westboro Baptist Church anymore. They are the Westboro Group because they are no Baptist like I know. and they're no church like I would ever want to belong to. So that Westboro group, they're anti Christ. All right. Flatly. So anyway, now I wonder what day they celebrate the Sabbath. And when they do. Yes. What exactly do they do? Do they do? You know? So um What do you believe, because you guys are much more hardcore about the Sabbath than Jonathan is. Sure. So Robert, what do you and your congregation believe should be done or not done on Can You Drive? Where do we start? Yes, we can drive. Okay. Yeah. Um that question will vary. with who you talk to. Sure. Um just like in any denomination, um, you have those that are on the right and then those that are on the left. And uh and for some people, um, you know, uh what you know, for some people th they take it very very literally they very strict, don't do this, don't do that. For some Adventist families, they prepare their meals on Friday, the preparation day. And they follow a lot, you know, more closely to that. Um, you will find some Adventists um that will uh go out on Sabbath and actually go to a restaurant. So you will find a full spectrum of Sabbath observance within Adventism. Um what's considered the should What is the what does the church teach that sh you should do? Yeah. Um basically um we look at it um in s kind of three ways. Um one and and ultimately it is an opportunity to worship um and give homage to our Creator. Uh so it is a time as Adventists see it, it is a time that God set apart, you know, back in creation and then, you know, reiterated in the Ten Commandments and throughout. Um and from my perspective, again in the New Testament, um, but it is a time that God has set apart to spend with his people, with his creation. So more than anything else The Sabbath for Seventh day Adventist is a time to spend with God and uh and to be able to put y uh you know, work aside or any any secular pursuits um perhaps like um a school, uh sports, um anything that might distract you from from um from from God, putting those things aside and uh and and spending that time with God. The second thing is spending time with other uh Christian believers. um to gather together, you know, n not neglecting the assembly of the saints, you know, coming together with other believers to lift one another up. um, you know, to enjoy one another's company and then the third thing that's important for Seventh day Adventists is is time with the family. This is a time where Um the father can say no to work, uh no to sports, uh no to T V and spend that twenty-four hour period with their wife, with their children and and have that that um that bonding. What percentage do you think of your congregation uh comes either close to that ideal? Or is at least somehow motivated to pursue that ideal versus they'll watch a college football game on Saturday or or they're a a high school age kid and they play high school football on Friday night or you know how how many compromise versus those that are relatively uncompromising on maybe sixty percent are uncompromising and and taking to a sports game is not a f family thing being with your family watching your son play? Sure, and and that is where you you get into these gray areas that some people would say yes. Like for let me give you a perfect example. I mean obviously it's not quality time or maybe it is. I mean it depends on the point. Right. Sure. Uh l let me give you a personal example for my personal life. Um something that I find uh uh fun to do and kind of relaxing for me. And it's a time f that I can kind of just get away. Mowing the lawn. Mowing the lawn. I knew you were gonna read my mind. It's mowing the lawn. And and and to mow the lawn for me isn't a distraction from spending time with God because during that time I get to to to pray and have that interaction with Him. For other people it's a burden And so I would say that if it is a burden for you, if it's distracting you away from that godly connection, then it's probably something you shouldn't partake of on Sabbath. Um, you know, another thing that that I love to do is is ride my bike and and you know, go through the um, you know, down the streets and it's just a solitary moment for me, you know, to just be on my bike um in that time in prayer with God. Um for other people it it's not. It's it's a burden. It it's too distracting. And then of course spending time with family, um, taking, you know, the wife and the kids out for a hike, um, or um you know, spending time with other Christian believers. Um we do have Bible studies that take place, small group Bible studies that take place on Sabbath. Um there's uh youth activities that take place on Sabbath and then uh i it it's kind of interesting because in the Adventist community you may meet at church. have a Bible study and and then you you um you you celebrate or kind of have a a closing of the Sabbath and it leads into activities where you know you bust out skate night or you have maybe movie night with the kids or it leads into game night or something like that. So is that very different than your at least general approach with Crossroads Eye Chapel in your congregation. You guys try to do fellowship things on Sunday and spend time with the family. Uh You know, if not on Sunday, in your case it's hard 'cause you're a pastor, you're working on Sunday, but generally on Sunday they're gonna spend family time and they're gonna maybe chill out and and not do things that are a burden and and maybe f avoid mowing the lawn if they feel like that's work and I mean sounds like uh similarities, right? Yeah, very similar. Uh I think I've tended to at crossroads uh encourage people to pick a day to make sure that they get a Sabbath. And so there's some in my congregation that uh Saturday seems to work better for them. There's some uh that do uh Sunday and you know, so there there's a little bit of a back and forth. There's others that because of their work schedule, you know, they they do like a Thursday or something. No but but in terms of what they're doing on that day Certainly it's the case that it's You're just not focusing on it as much or an inten or as intensely as maybe Frederick Frederick Seventh day of Venice is, right? You're it's not It's not a core principle that that kinda helps define what your church is about. Maybe in defining it as a twenty four hour period. No well I I would say that that it's been very important to me. I I use the phrase that I'm not interested in being a burnt out church. I'm not interested in people that come to our church and are involved with whatever activities and they end up feeling burnt out in any way. And so Uh i I feel like it's been very important to me. Like in any kind of a discipleship setting I'm always asking people, hey, are you getting a Sabbath? You get you're getting at least one day a week. You know, and so for me it's a you know, again, a sanctification, a discipleship issue. Are you or are you not getting one day a week off where you're getting time with your family, getting time with your kids and just doing nothing? Or or doing those things that just, you know, really relax. Okay, that might help me to to to bridge into the next thing. What happens on the Sabbath? You worship God. spend time with family, fellowship with other, you know, believers, uh do things that uh you know I'll tend to putts around my yard and uh garden a little bit here, you know, cut well some branches here. Why Does that not happen on Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday? And I mean, shouldn't we worship God all the time and try to fellowship every day and and spend time with family every day and I certainly believe that there is an element of worship throughout the week and that our lives need to testify of that worship whether we're in their closure. Because you don't work, you don't do all the other things. The point is on on Monday I'm working as well. On Monday I've I I've got a ton of things to do and there's all these other activities that I give permission to uh to be important. But on the Sabbath, only family, only God, only rest. You know, those are the three things that are that are options that particular day. So that's what sets the day apart for me. Sure. And that's what sets it apart for us as well. And the only difference I think that I'm I'm picking up on even from last week is that Seventh day Adventists define it as a twenty four hour period from sunset Friday to sunset um Saturday night. I try to do a twenty four hour period too, interestingly. Now uh the reason I'm I'm trying to figure that because part of this is I'm trying to figure out my position as well. Yeah. Because you know, I'm I'm I'm always hopefully learning and growing and whatever. And I'm trying to, you know, m if you were listening last week you heard me talk about um the Sabbath being even bigger than a twenty four hour day, like it's an everyday ongoing kind of a thing. So if that's the case, then what separates that one day other than you consciously identify that this day's different. Yeah. How is it different? Yeah. I really couldn't tell you other than This day is different. Well what are you going to do today on that day that's different? Well I'm going to worship God. Well you don't worship the other day? Well I do. Yeah. I'm going to spend time with my family. Oh you don't do that the other six days? Well I do. Oh okay. So what's different? Sure. It's kind of like to me like uh like any uh any of the other like spiritual disciplines. It should be God honoring. It should be right, it should be good work. Sure. And there's no reason to stop in fact the New Testament message is, you know, you do good work even on the Sabbath. You heal somebody on the Sabbath. If your ox falls into into the the the the ditch you're gonna help it get out. Sure. But that was a New Testament. That was Old Testament too. Jesus was just reminding them that w that it was Old Testament. He's not opening the day up to work. Let me explain it. So if you're a doctor and you're seventh day advanced, can you work in the hospital or whatever or treat a patient on the Sabbath? Interestingly enough, this question does come up And the the um what we teach is that as a doctor or a nurse or as uh uh you know, uh a police Um, men if if if if they have to work for for good. And and G Christ said, you know, it is lawful to do good on Sabbath. That if they have to work on the Sabbath for Seventh-day Adventist doctors or nurses or, you know, physical therapists or whatever that the money that they make on that day is given to God as an offering. So in other words, they're not keeping that to themselves. So it's not like they're working, but they're serving. But I'd like to exp kind of explain it like this. We have other spiritual disciplines in Scripture, like for instance, fasting, and there's all different kinds of degrees of fasting. You know, we're not gonna fast, you know, and only drink water for ever or every day of the week. That's something that, you know, you do for a day, maybe two days. So w the the what does fasting do? Well fasting helps you to focus on God Creator and and and strengthen that covenant relationship with him. So with the Sabbath, it is a weekly opportunity for us to do the same thing as we would with any of the other spiritual disciplines like fasting or prayer. You know, because Paul says, you know, pray without ceasing. You know, but what does that mean? Does that mean I always have to be praying? Well, yeah, but it doesn't always take the same form, you know, as kneeling down and humbly coming before the throne of God and, you know, in in in your closet, you know, taking that time to pray. So the day Is that significant in that you're saying we're setting this day apart to focus and build our covenant relationship with Christ, our Creator, and worship him. And and no distractions, no um, you know, outside um pursuits, secular pursuits that may distract us from that building that covenant relationship. Yeah, I I I hear you and actually Might seem surprising. I agree with you. The point is that principle, that idea, shouldn't be limited to just one seventh of our week. Mm-hmm. You know, all of our work should be good work, God honoring work. And I understand and I use the doctor because that would be the easy one. Sure. Sorry, I can't save your life today. It's the Sabbath. Nobody's gonna I mean which was taking place in the New Testament with the Pharisees is gonna read it. So but then it becomes a a uh Like a sliding scale? Okay, so if you're a cop, you also can work. Or if you're a nurse, you also can work. Well, what if you are an advertising person who specializes in helping somebody to grow their business and provide for their family and build the local economy. Isn't that good work? Scar, I can't help you grow the economy today, it's the Sabbath. Yeah Sorry, I can't help you provide for your family today. It's the Sabbath. I mean, at what point is it okay to draw the line and say, sorry, that work's not good enough? But you know those lines. Yeah, and I don't know that it's an issue. Christ came across somebody, he needed to be healed, he healed him. You know, the guy's ox fell in the pit, you know, okay, just tell him to get the ox out, you know. It's not a punch in punch out. uh, you know, okay, let's go let's go find good to do today, you know, and and we're gonna we're gonna seek out as many bulls and pits as possible, you know, today and we're and you know, we're we're we're gonna go over to the hospital and we're gonna heal as many people as we can. You know, th there's definitely a difference between work and you just see somebody that had an instant crisis and you're just gonna help 'em out and it's not work to help 'em out. In other words, No the spirit of the law, the spirit of what Christ was talking about there has to do with work versus just being a Nice guy. They their their offices are closed. If there's an emergency, then they they go in and and help that. Mm-hmm. You know, Seventh day Venice, uh Jewish people, you know, uh Seventh day down. Sundown to sundown. You know, but when you talk to somebody else, they're typically talking about Sunday. Like, how many hours in in a given week? 168. 168. How many hours do you sleep at night? I don't know. Eight ish. So twenty-four minus eight is what? Sixteen. I I think the Sabbath is simply a tithe of your time. You're saying I'm gonna give one tenth of my awake time uh one one tenth of of of my week You know, the other eight hours of the Sabbath you're sleeping. But you're giving sixteen hours of wake time every week to only resting, being with the Lord and family, and that's it. And and that makes total sense to me. All our other resources, there's a sense that we give a tithe of it to the Lord. Why not give a tithe of your time? Well here's you know, I'm talking about this big picture spiritualization, I get myself in trouble with that, but at the same time, you know, I've recognized that there are practical principles in place and if we want to experience God's best You know, we we pay attention to what God would have us do and say, I'm gonna try to do that because that's God's best. Mm-hmm. And the way God in his word has outlined how the Sabbath should be observed, you know, it's whether it's Saturday, Sunday, Thursday, I don't care, it's It's sunset to sunset. And I'm thinking, okay, what would be the practical benefit of that? You know, I think there's a lot to be said for it gets to be depending on the time of the year, six o'clock, seven o'clock, eight o'clock, nine o'clock at night the sun goes down and you're still awake for a little while before you go to bed. But if your Sabbath has started for those couple of hours You start to kind of get into a spiritual groove. You start to pray and meditate, right? And you get into a place where you're communing with God in a different way, uh a more concentrated way than you do the rest of the week And then you go to bed at night and you awake and you are spiritually ready to worship. So then you go off to your church service and you're there. Mm-hmm. And I think there's a benefit to that rather than saying, Oh, my Sabbath is going to begin when I wake up at the crack of dawn. Oh, but now I've got to get the kids fed, whatever, and rush around. So my Sabbath has my Sabbath will start at nine o'clock or ten o'clock or eleven o'clock. Whenever my church service begins, that's when it And so I think we end up having to go from zero to sixty on worshiping God and being present and available to the Lord. Yeah. Snap of a finger, but when you do the sunset the sunset thing, that problem goes away. So that's a there's a principle there. I wouldn't I wouldn't want to be ironclad and legalistic about it, but boy, if you want to have God's best, it's certainly something to think about. Let me say this. Yep. Um, just real quick. I I grew up a seventh day Adventist. My family was Seventh day Adventist and I grew up in the Seventh-day Adventist home. I will say that I wasn't always a Christian growing up. until I accepted Christ into my life. And that happened um obviously it's happened several times you know and and it kinda now it kinda happens every day it seems like but you know when I was twelve I was baptized Um and uh and later when I was eighteen I rededicated my life to to to Christ again. Um and I will say that the significance of the Sabbath really never hit home to me until I went to college. And at college, man, when I was having to work going to school and I was having a study when that Friday evening came and I was able to say I have permission. to put all this aside. And and that was the first time in my life that I can look back and really remember experiencing the joy of Sabbath rest. And then and and and that was the first time in my life, my c my college days, where I got to just rest and then's when it started to come alive for me. Yeah. Yeah, I'd agree with you on that. I don't know why. Is there something about you know going away and and uh or college, something about you know you're finally taking responsibility for your life, your parents aren't there, you know, watching over you. You feel the pressure, pressure, pressure, you know, you're trying to pay your way through college or whatever it is, you got jobs, you got all these other things, and then realizing, man, I just can't go twenty-four-seven. I g I gotta manage my time You know, wisely. I tell my young people who don't appreciate the Sabbath or maybe don't understand the rest of Sabbath, I tell 'em, you just wait till you get to college or you just wait till you start working, you just wait until you have the kids And and the week it's so overwhelming that you're just busting at the seams and then you get that day. where you get to say I get to rest, I get to sleep in, or I get to, you know, spend it with my family. I get to go to church, spend it with my friends, then you understand the genius of what God um instituted. I don't know if Jonathan knows this. Jonathan knows an awful lot about me, particularly my, you know, spiritual background and stuff, but I don't know if he knows this. But uh a church that I belonged to uh when I was younger uh was a Friday sunset to Saturday sunset, Sabbath keeping church. Mm-hmm. Okay. And belonged to that church for about, I don't know, probably three years. And so I had the experience that you're talking about. Yeah. You know, where and and and it was pretty uh kinda kind of a legalistic kind of a thing. Uh but certainly What what triggered this this thought was you said you have that excuse or that, you know, the permission. Permission. Yeah. I have permission to to take this rest, permission not to work or whatever. And that was kind of freeing and liberating at some level. Mm-hmm. And it was also kind of cool that you did feel like I'm not worldly. Mm-hmm. I'm doing something that is counter cultural. I'm doing something that is not the way of the world. I'm doing something that sets me and my faith apart. I will say though, and uh I think you would agree, and I would you know caution anybody who's uh you know a member of your congregation, the Sabbath is not the thing. Exactly. Christ Is the sin. And you and you start to worship the Sabbath as opposed to worship your Lord and Savior. That becomes a problem. That was a problem in the church that I belonged to. The Sabbath became an idol. There were some other things too, but that was one of the idols. Everything can do that. Sure. Sure. Reading the Bible can almost turn into and idle, you know, well I have to do this, I have to do this and you lose all the life in it, you know? Prayer time. I have to pray. I have to pray. Okay. I'm gonna go pray. Okay, I'm praying. You know, there there's uh Just about anything can lose its life once it's turned into a worship the work as opposed to the Lord of of of the work. But uh yeah, I mean the Bible clearly says that the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. And and as we're told in the Old Testament, it is a delight. It is something that that we should take joy in. And it's on that note that we will wrap up this week's show. Enjoy the Sunday Sabbath. And and for some of you enjoy the next Friday night for work we have. Anyway, Jonathan Swift, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Robert Quintana, who is the senior pastor at Frederick Seventh day Adventist Church. Um I am Troy Skinner. This has been the Faith Adbid. I encourage you to go online, WFMD. com, keyword faith, go to the Audio Bulk and uh download this show on podcast. Give it a couple of days or Webmaster have it up there for you. Until next week A little bit less than one hundred and sixty-eight hours away. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to bringing up the city. Providing top of the line quality work. Call Footman Plumbing, that's with a pea, as in your preferred plumber. Plum and plumbing, how can we make you smile?