Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumbing plumbing, how can we make you smile? Pleased God the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost for the manifestation of the glory of his eternal power, wisdom, and goodness in the beginning. To create or make of nothing the world and all things therein, whether visible or invisible, in the space of six days, and all very good. After God had made all other creatures, he created man, male and female, with reasonable and immortal souls, endued with knowledge, righteousness, and true holiness after his own image. having the law of God written in their hearts and power to fulfill it, and yet under a possibility of transgressing, being left to the liberty of their own will, which was subject unto change. Besides this, the law written in their hearts, they received a command Not to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, which while they kept, they were happy in their communion with God and had dominion. over the creatures. And there you have chapter four of the Westminster Confession of Faith, titled Of Creation, a short chapter. I'll address two parts, and that's the subject matter of today's Faith Debate Show brought to us by Futman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. Welcome to the show. On the panel again this week we have Jonathan Spicer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Doctor Jas Broadhurst, who is the senior pastor of Pooh. Baptist Church and the most impressive most impressive part whoops I was fading down my mic there. Hope you've heard that. Jonathan's weiter Dr. J Rogers to be guest. Uh the uh most impressive part about the whole thing I just did there from memory. Wow. Yeah that was impressive you wasn't looking at all. I d I didn't read that or anything. Yes. Yeah. He's actually memorized the entire Westminster Confession and all of Shakespeare's works. This guy's incredible. Now if you've uh been following along on the show for the last several weeks, we've had this same panel together as we're diving through the Westminster Confession of Faith a chapter at a time. And I'm thinking it's possible that on this chapter we might uh get through it relatively quickly. Uh it's only two sections of not gonna happen. But uh Jace is the naysayer. Jace is convinced that uh That's weird. I hear like a weird noise in the room. There's something in my headphones, like another show going on. Funny. I think it's Radio Free Russia. Jamming our signal. I thought that there's something wrong with our country, that we were going the wrong direction, and that's proof that that's the case So the Russians are spies anyways, right? So So part one basically is saying that God made everything out of nothing, including the space in which to put it. He is the first cause, the unmoved mover, the eternal and unlimited creator. You guys don't have any disagreements on this first part probably, do you? Or do you? I'm sure Jonathan disagrees with the whole Father, Son, and Holy Ghost or something like that, right? Uh no, that is biblical language. Alright, I'm happy with that. I'm gonna go ahead and do it. Alright, so where's the non-biblical stuff? Because it's gotta be packed full, right? Part two is God created man and woman in his holy image to reign over creation, but he left open the possibility for sin. What I mean that's the that's a paraphrase. Generally we would agree with that. So I guess any disag I'm a I'm speaking for the panel now. But uh if there's any disagreement it's gonna be over word choice or y using biblical versus non biblical language. Well I'm gonna ask you, Jace, about the space of six days. I think you draw an issue with that more than I do. You might find it. Because you are an old testament literature uh phenom And uh you have reasons to uh appeal for consideration of how the word presents itself to us. I believe is the way that you say it. In fact, I think it's worded brilliantly just by saying exactly what the Bible says in the space of six days without giving any major commentary. on what that means to say. In their world at this time when they're writing, this would have been the standard view. All the people here would have certainly agreed that we are talking about six actual twenty-four hour days and that you could probably date this to somewhere about six thousand years ago when this happened. In fact, one of the men here at this particular uh signing when the when they're doing this. Obviously it's over several years this confession is being written, but um one of the men who is there most often, John Lightfoot is well known as the guy who has come up with the chronology that exists in most uh old Schofield King James Bibles. Um and in fact he, along with Archbishop Usher, those people who know their history Usher is known for this. And they would have said approximately I I can't remember the exact uh days, but it's like four thousand one hundred and twenty-six uh days and Lightfoot even gave a time of the day and the exact day, October sixteenth, I believe, when God created man. And I may have my dates too. Please don't anybody uh Google 'em and find out if I'm right. But it's pretty close to it's that kind of accuracy on this. So they would have argued for exactly six days. So they and I might have a little bit of disagreement on that particular thing. You wouldn't go that far, would you? Well October sixteenth, six thousand years ago, it took X number of I mean, you wouldn't be that exact, right? Um you're a six you're a twenty four hour day guy right. I haven't spent enough time digging through the chronologies and working through uh their correlations with history uh enough to feel like I'm I'm confident that there aren't places in the genealogies where people were left out, you know, and so maybe they went from grandfather to grandson or something like that. I'm I'm not completely convinced that that things like that might not have happened in the genealogies. I think I think what we have is accurate that that those people lived and and died and and you know, certain people were born in between. Uh and so I don't know that I'm as committed to being able to go back precisely to the day of creation. Um I just haven't spent enough time probably thinking about it. Nevertheless, um I tend in the direction of believing that those were six literal days. But because of the doctors, the good doctors uh um uh discussion, I'm very open to the idea that the because chapter one of Genesis presents itself to us in a poetic form, that there's reason for us to to treat it uh with the uh anticipation of hy hyperbole and metaphor that other portions of scripture in the old testament that come to us as uh poetry would also tend to elicit that kind of interpretive response from us. And so I I'm I'm very open to that being a possibility. Um and I think that it's accurate to scripture to approach it from that kind of a direction. Wow. And I I thought actually, because I know both of you, you know, uh reasonably well now at this stage they have a sense of where you and I didn't see think there would be a whole lot of fodder for discussion in this chapter. So So you were right. So the pink shirt and all the time I've ever been right. Yes, yeah. And he's wearing a pink shirt in a in a in a purple tie so he might be wrong in that sense. But he is right in the other sense. Well I I want to make sure that I clarify because I don't want somebody to misunderstand what uh the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel means. When he says he thinks it's possible that you know the Bible, when it goes to the genealogies, might have left out a generation going from like the grandfather to the grandson, you're not saying that there was some sort of error in that omission. Right. I'm not completely convinced that the writers of scripture um you know would have felt that it's absolutely necessary to to to include all the all the various uh generations and and it's just uh something that I haven't thought enough about. I I've I've thought as much about it like I I think I could uh I could quote to you from Adam through, say, Abraham, you know, down through Jacob and his sons. Like I I know all the people that are in there. I think it's it it's very worthwhile to study them out, but uh whether or not it's possible like going again through all those genealogies that you know, a generation or two was left out. You know, that could be forty years or a hundred years depending on which part of the genealogies. It could even be hundreds of years depending on which gene which part of the genealogies you're dealing with. So I'm open to that. All right. So anything more to say on chapter four? Yeah, I would say well, we haven't gotten to the second section of that section. But the first section, even in the space of six days, I I would bring out that I think most confessionalists of today are willing to consider this as a larger than six literal twenty-four hour days. Um you know, Machin and and and all of your good reformers for the last couple hundred years have all been willing to to go a little bit further to question as to whether what they were saying is i is six literal and uh basically they come down to this Both science and the Bible are a hundred percent accurate. The question is how do we interpret them? And so if science is making huge strides and showing us that it's millions and millions of years at least they're not so black and white and so hooked into their um their understanding that they're not willing to go, you know Let's at least consider that we might be understanding the Bible wrong. That we might not get what it is they're saying, that Moses, when he was writing this, might have had a different agenda. So they're willing to ask those questions today and I I hear that's exactly what Jonathan's saying. We're at least willing to consider some of the thoughts that we're going to do. Yeah, I'm uh I think I'm probably m uh I'm I have a very big uh check in my spirit and and concern that we would let we would let science drive our perspective of scripture in any way whatsoever. But when when we spoke about this issue previously, I think it was about a year and a half ago on the show, um you were talking about approaching scripture the way that scripture presents itself to us. By genre, yes. By genre. And because there's a poem that is that is chapter one of Genesis similar to Psalms, similar to to most of Job, similar to to much of of the prophets. Um I feel like I can approach scripture, not saying to myself that science has convinced me that I need to re-look at Scripture. But but saying that that the genre of Scripture, the way Scripture presents itself to me, if I'm being honest with the way that Scripture is presenting itself to me that that's motivation enough for me to consider whether or not it's a literal seven days or whether or not, you know, the sevens like like we see 'em in Revelation, you know, or like we we we see sevens in other places, you know, the seven pillars of wisdom. uh you know, in uh in uh uh Proverbs, you know, are those just just literary devices, you know, or uh, you know, is is it what what is God meaning by those sevens? And so I I'm very uncomfortable saying that science And what we see in science means that we have to reinterpret scripture. And I'm not sure that's quite what you're saying, but I just want to make sure that I'm that that I'm putting up an uh uh what I feel like is an important and effective uh guard against anybody being of the impression that we're saying that science drives our perspective of scripture because I feel like there's all kinds of a perniciousness that has uh been uh been wielded against scripture in the name of science, you know uh uh uh Perniciousness would be a good word of the week, by the way. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Super califragilistic XPL. Yeah. I I guess I'm just concerned with the the use of the phrase science driving our exegesis. I would consider there to be two areas of revelation. God reveals himself in two major ways. One of those is natural revelation, general revelation, what's out there. That's science. Sure. That's just people who are using their minds that God has given them with common grace coming up with things. When they say things, I want to listen to them, whether they're saved or not Because God has in has given to them. I mean they were all created in the image of God. So I'm going to learn from them and I'm going to learn from the Bible. Both of them hundred percent right. That flower that is growing there is c screaming out creator. God is awesome. It's screaming out. That's what my Bible is screaming out. If I take it to its nth degree, I'm going to find Jesus in these things. My question is, how do I interpret that flower? The average person's walking by it and seeing it and go, okay, a flower, who cares? Right? And same thing with scripture. Both of these things reveal God in a particular way. Obviously special revelation reveals Jesus in a more special and saving way. But both of them are completely accurate. So if I'm interpreting something from the Bible and I'm getting my uh you know, what what I've basically grown up believing for twenty-five years or something, and then scientist comes up and says, Yeah, but did you know this? then that that doesn't drive my exegesis, but it goes, huh, I wonder I wonder if I thought about this correctly. And it sends me back to the word and then it sends me back to science. And they have to be in dialogue with each other. See see I'm I'm comfortable d with that And the way that you're describing it. The problem that that I feel like I run into when I when I uh uh when I talk to people that that feel like they've you know, there there's certain scientific truths, quote unquote, uh is that the modern interpretation of science literally has been changed. Like like uh Webster's itself changed the definition of science in their dictionary, mid-1900s, from where it used to be uh the process of of coming up uh of observing nature, coming up with a theory to how it was developed, and then uh going to test your theory to see if you can come up with results. to now the definition is finding natural causes to natural phenomenon And that automatically rules out any supernatural involvement. And so the definition of science has changed. Like back in the early eighteen hundreds and even the the seventeen hundreds uh I think that that many theologians were right where where you're at in describing that and I think uh the the best of the reformers all the way through have been where you're at on this. The problem is that that the the scientific establishment has changed significantly and so they they come to us and say well while science has proven to us certain things when that's just not the case. There's all kinds of myth that has been purported in the name of science, in the name of finding a naturalistic reason for for uh you know natural phenomenon when we know that God created the w the the the the world out of nothing. There is no natural explanation for that. There is no natural explanation for uh Mary giving birth to a son She w she you know, he's born of a virgin. There's no naturalistic explanation for Christ healing the more man born blind or for uh for the uh the the waters separating in the Red Sea. These things uh go beyond natural explanations and so science automatically rules those out. And so I just feel like in this day and age because science is defined that way that we must very carefully define our terms. So that's my appeal is that that that uh we be take care to do that. And I think you're in agreement with that. I think I from what I r remember of what you said on that long I kinda lost you when you said something like Uh all the reformers are in the same place as me and I was just you know feeling so good about that. So but from there on um I think I think I got what you said. Well, the one feeling good about himself right now is Dr. Jason Broadhurst, senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, and uh Jonathan Sweitzer's one who made him feel so good. He's senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. Did you feel good when I complimented you on your pink shirt or not? Okay, good. Whenever I'm nearly I'm 100% tonight. Absolutely. Alright, so this the second section of chapter four, uh I I read it a w like ten, fifteen minutes ago now, so but generally it's talking about God creates man and woman in his image to reign over creation, and he left open the possibility for sin. Um and that there's you know there's human f there's liberty and human free will. You know, I'm gonna take issue with the word righteousness, that that when he created man they were endued with righteousness. I'll tell you the reason why The word uh Zedek uh is the word for a righteous man, and righteousness shows up nowhere in Genesis chapter one through ten. It doesn't show up until we find Noah. And uh in the context is Noah doing what is right when surrounded by wickedness. And I feel like the definition of righteousness is a definition that that almost can't be applied to to a man or a woman that has not had the opportunity to be tested by wickedness. Uh and hence the reason why why we didn't see the word show up until we we God found a righteous man in a wicked environment and from from there on out uh Christ is is the righteous one that we're looking for, the the righteous servant of of Isaiah. And I feel like the uh scriptural idea of righteousness uh must be traced to Noah and in fact Melchizedek, the king of righteousness, uh who would have been, you know, within a few hundred years of that same time frame, in fact, very possibly could have been a contemporary of Noah, that that that's where the idea of righteousness comes from. I think the idea that the uh divines are going for when they write this is the idea of sinlessness, right? Would you be happier if they went with endued with knowledge, sinlessness and true holiness? Would that be more in in line with what you're comfortable with? Yeah, because yeah, righteousness I don't think you can be called righteous until you you choose to do what's right when surround uh when surrounded by wickedness. And maybe Enoch would have been that, but the Bible doesn't say it about him But it does say it about Noah, and so we need to take our definition of righteousness from the time of Noah on. Interesting hair split because normally you would almost think that, you know, sinless and righteous kinda go together, but obviously I mean now that I'm thinking about it, Abraham is His faith is accounted to him as righteousness, but Abraham was not sinless, so they they aren't synonyms. There is some distinction between the words of the fact and now the gospel is it's been revealed in the gospel of righteousness but that is by faith from first to last. And it seems like Paul's returning us back to Abraham and the lineage of faith that came down through Noah, down through uh Eber and all those guys, down through uh to uh to Abraham and so Again, I feel like the idea is somebody who still believes in what in in God and follows God, even though he's surrounded by a lot of hopelessness. brought on by the sin and sinfulness. And so again I'm uncomfortable with that word. So you can't do the right thing unless there's a wrong thing, is what you're saying? Because there's no definition of right? No, I'm saying that I'm saying that the the term righteousness Yeah is not used to the I understand all that point. All I'm saying is uh that's that's obvious. Yeah. When we when we talk in technical terms, we've had this I mean it seems like this is gonna come up on every single show. Yeah, good. I mean We have to use technical terms in order to discuss things. If we talk only the way the Bible talks, then we're going to be completely hindered. We we have a new world that we live in that's way outside of that, sixteen hundred years later, two thousand years now. Sure. We talk in terms That we don't have to use the Bible's language on things. Sure. That should be allowed. I would hope that you would just grant us to be able to use some terminology that the Bible doesn't use to explain biblical things. Yeah, and I do all the time. I'm just saying that that when we come back down to uh to the definition of what we believe, just like the Westminster Confession does in the very first uh section, that that all issues of of of doctrine are ultimately decided by the language of the originals or the closest to the originals that we have. That that we don't go back to the King James Version We don't go back to the NIV. We go back to the original and and and the Westminster Confession itself recognizes that everything else cannot be the final ultimate authority for those things, but that the scriptures have to be that And so that's all I'm saying is that is that if we're gonna make our appeal, let's make our ultimate appeal to to the scriptures and as much as we can, just like the Westminster Confession. argues that we c we should. I mean you're not in agreement with that? Well I agree with what you're saying now. I just have no idea how that was relevant to the whole I mean not using the word righteousness because the word righteousness wasn't used before that. Righteousness means doing right I mean let's just keep it simple. Show me where in scripture it says that we were created righteous. Well what I'm saying is did Adam do anything wrong? Nowhere in scripture does it say that Adam was created righteous. So I'd rather say that Scripture says. Scripture says that Adam was created and it was good and that in being good that uh that we can expect that they that that they had not sinned because we're told their first sin in the eating of the apple. Right? And so so I'm I'm comfortable with with any of that 'cause scripture says it abundantly clearly. You'd be okay? He was doing right. I I'd be c I'd be more comfortable. I'd I'd be more comfortable that up until the time that they ate the apple, they were obedient. Okay. I don't know how to have a discussion. I mean we're gonna get stuck on every single term that they use. I mean he's he's just saying that that they were they were right. He's saying the same thing you were. You just don't like the way that they say things and I I mean that it's it's four hundred years ago. I anyway, so we agree that they were right. They were holy. They were doing I'm happy to uh I can see that this exasperates you and I apologize for the show we've done. I uh I wish I was not so exasperating. I I I'm confident that I exasperate many people. I don't know why you keep me on the show. Why would anybody listen to such an exasperating individual? Nevertheless, all that being the case. You will continue to go on, yes. Yes, all that being the case, why is it that the Bible Does not use that term previous to that, and is it possible that there's something unique about Noah that the Bible wants us to understand about the idea of righteousness? that if we catch it will help us to understand Christ, the righteous servant of God that comes to to make things right. That that that that to to restore all things back to right. I mean I guess you could even say that the problem is in the garden there was no wrong. So having a word to define right as opposed to wrong would have would have not computed because there is no wrong. There was th there's only one thing he said, don't do this, don't eat of the tree in the middle of the garden. Well yes, the knowledge of good and evil. So I mean this is this is the changeover to where evil is understood. Yes. But we are trying I mean Noah is not the only one we're trying to get back to rightness with. In fact, if we talk about Paul and we talk about the New Testament, Noah is almost irrelevant to the getting back to Right? What we're getting back to is Abraham, as you said, surely. But mostly Adam. Sure, but also to lots of other people And the baptisms talking about the whole world was baptized. There's an the there's a connection to righteousness and righteousness by faith that the New Testament makes that I think that I feel like is illuminated, is is is broadened by the recognition that that Noah is the first Zedekim ever. And shortly after Noah shows up, we have a king of Zedek, Melchazedek, the king of righteousness, that is in the land of Salem, King of Salem, and we see we see righteousness and peace tied together throughout all scripture, throughout all the rest of Scripture. Previous to that we saw things went wrong and that God was angry that there was so much violence on the earth. And so it seems to me like Like the Lord in his revelation to mankind recognized when he started over with Noah that that he needed to be abundantly clear with mankind. that there is righteousness and there is wickedness. And so he begins uh to use the term. And I'm not saying that somehow God didn't know ahead of time that he was going to do that. It just happens that that whatever revelation was given pre-Noah uh apparently what we have in the Word of God, what has come down to us did not carry the term righteousness in it. And and that was about fifteen hundred years, if not more, if we follow the genealogies where where that term d did not appear to be used in the uh the the society of man. That's a long time where they didn't have that terminology. And so I'm just saying that that that I think it's valuable, you know, kinda like uh Sherlock Holmes. You pay attention to the little details, they end up being a bigger deal than than you might think. And something happened there with Noah that that God From there on out, very eff a and it happened to be in the context of his promise to never again flood the earth. I mean there's certain things that that are connected with the Noaic covenant and one of those is that it was established with the first ever Zedek on the face of the planet. According to God. Okay. I just I think that is value in understanding it. With uh totally ignoring the Adamic Covenant And the importance of that and this whole that Noah is a new Adam and that Abraham is a new Adam and that Israel is a new Adam and Did Adam do what was right in the face of wrong? W No, that's that's what we started this conversation with. Right. But can can you be righteous? Can you do right? Can I do right? I even if it's not in the face of wrong? I mean the fact is Adam was doing fine. He did fine until he didn't. So he's he was right. So So I mean if you're calling him Anyway, I there's obviously more important things in here I think than argument about writing. Again, I'm going to go to the next one. Dr. Jace Broadhurst, senior pastor of uh Homeless Cave in the Wrong Church. Foolsville Baptist Church. And then Crossroads LA Chapel, Senior Pastor, Jonathan Sweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening to the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us at Putman Plug-in-Heating. How can we make you smile? If there are any uh important loose ends from chapter four that you'd like to talk about next week, we can try to tackle those. Otherwise, we'll be jumping into chapter five next week. phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile