Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumbing plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to the Threaded Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMG. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating. How Can we make you smile? I'm like Batman without Robin or Robin without Batman, something along those lines. You know? We've done shows before that didn't have Jonathan Schweitzer uh on the panel. We did a s uh a bunch of shows once a couple of years ago when he was running for school board. We couldn't have him on the show. Uh but but we haven't had him on kind of in an unscheduled manner. I think what happened, Jonathan, since we last did the show together, celebrated a birthday. Oh, he's getting old now. Yeah. And I think that Jonathan I think that Jonathan's just, you know, Alzheimer's is set in and he happens. You know, although no offense to anyone whose family is struggling with the hor that horrible disease. Uh I know how hard that is. Uh we've had family members deal with uh dementia and Uh it's it's not easy, so I didn't mean to uh to offend, by the way. All right, so you recognize the other voice after these uh last few weeks of shows, Jace Broadhurst, Dr. Jace Broadhurst, the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. And it's just he and I today and we're gonna spend the next twenty-five minutes talking about Jonathan Sweitzer behind his back. Yes, this is by chance. Finally you get a word in Ezra. No, we tease. We tease. Jonathan Jonathan knows that's true about himself. He's passionate and he's got an opinion about and a pretty well informed opinion. Uh about just about everything and he gets going like a freight train down the tracks and it's hard to stop him and you don't want to stop him because it's fun to listen to. It makes it very enjoyable indeed. And Jace is a little more m more measured in his approach and a little more well, you know, if you want to go crazy, I'll just sit back. That's fine. But now today you get to go crazy. Oh boy. Speaking of ranting Arabia, I want to get your opinion. Okay. Um I'm gonna get myself in probably a little bit of trouble here, a little hot water around the station, but I was thinking about how can I market the faith debate show a little bit better. How can we get the word out more that there's this little show on Sunday mornings on WFMD? And one thing I thought about was to do a look up maybe once a week commentary. You know, sixty to ninety seconds that would be you know like a faith debate moment. You know, Troy Skinner has this week's faith debate moment. We'd come up with a better name than that, I'm sure, you know. On the Faith Front with Troy Skinner. Very nice. Something like that. Yeah, and then I'd come in with a you know, with a after that powerful intro with this wimpy little voice. And and I would have something to say about what's going on in the world. And it would it would have something to do with with faith 'cause it's about it's to help promote the faith debate show. Makes sense. And you know, I don't apologize for what my faith is. I'd have to be true to myself. I'm going to do a commentary. It's going to have to be my commentary. So it's going to have a a Christian bent on it, right? I don't think I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Why would I? It's my idea. So uh so I I approached, you know, the powers that be and said, Hey, I've got this idea And they're like, Oh yeah, you know, that sounds kind of interesting, maybe. I said, well let me give you an example. That'll really win you over. So I made a couple of examples. And I think I scared them away. Uh-huh. So I want to see if this would scare you away. All right. So let's see if I can get this to play. Oh, which one of these uh I should have checked this before the show started because I don't know where this is going to come up. Hold on a second now. I think if it comes up right about here. Shame on us. Shame on any of us who claim to be conservative and then express glee and make jokes about the dissolution of a marriage. Shame on us, especially if we claim to be Christian. Former Vice President Al Gore and his wife Tipper are reportedly separating. Serves them right, you say. That's what Al gets for exaggerating the truth about the internet, love story, and global warming. That's what they get for being dirty, rotten, self-aggrandizing liberals. That's what they get, that's what they get. Shame on us If we stand on family values, we stand on them for conservatives and liberals alike. If we stand on the sanctity of marriage, we stand on it for our political friends. and our political enemies. If we stand on authenticity and oppose to hypocrisy, we stand on it also for ourselves Yes, Al Gore is a policy woman with ideas and ideals that are misguided, flat wrong even. Well, separating from his wife is misguided and wrong too. But Al and Tipper don't need our ridicule. They need our prayer Our kids don't need to see us poke fun at a failed marriage. They need our example. And if we call ourselves Christ followers, then the Lord's Church doesn't need our self-righteous arrogance. It needs us to fulfill our role and be salt and light. even to, especially to the lost. So that was one example of of what I now does that Does that frighten you in any way? Well that wouldn't scare me away, no, but uh I don't run a radio station after all. I'm a passer and so I I like I like it. Now so I was asking as a pastor, I mean would you think that's okay? You think that you think 'cause you can speak to you're a Christian. You're a leader in the Christian community. So as a leader in the Christian community, does having that sort of thing out there uh As a Christian, putting that sort of commentary out there, does that make you cringe at all or makes you feel, no, that's it's okay, or more than okay, ask what Christians should be doing. Like what's your reaction to that sort of thing? Well I think I think it's certainly okay. Um Christians should be i when you m when you say that's what Christians should be doing as in political commentary or ethical commentary on the radio, obviously most of us can't do that, but certainly I think we should have opinions We should be involved in in the marketplace, we should be involved in the economic place, we should be involved I mean, all of these different fronts, politics being one of them, we should have opinions on these things, we should be well informed. And we should take the stuff from a Christian slant. Uh there is no other slant for Christians. So I think what you're doing is excellent. I'm of course you're gonna say have an opinion. You're one of those opinionated Christians. That's true, I am. I closed minded, narrow is the way. What's the matter with you people? Right. Yeah, good call. That that's me. And there are many problems with us, but uh sure that's the one. this commentary. But you can tell by the way that this is dated because the story is old now. Uh a as of the recording, as it I'm still lobbying by the way, so as a as we record this show It's possible the commentary will have started by now and now they'll hear this and they'll yank it off the air because they'll be mad that I'm doing this. But uh uh that one, if there was an issue from station manager, might have been That's pretty overtly Christian. You talked about you need to pray and if we're a Christian we're g we need to behave this way and I'm wondering if that could have been the problem with that one. But if they had if they didn't have a problem with that one, they might have had a problem with this next one. So I mentioned I gave them two examples. And I I want to get your opinion on this one as well. Hold on. The UN is missing a huge opportunity. The United Nations Population Fund is teamed up with the Center for Reproductive Rights and Amnesty International to host briefings for the Convention Against Torture and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. That's right, the UNPF and CRR along with AI are briefing the CAT and ICE S C R. No kidding. No wonder the mainline news isn't really talking about it. I don't think they have the necessary scrabble boards in their newsrooms to keep track of the alphabet soup. But here's the bottom line. The briefings focus on reproductive rights violations, such as, quote, denial of reproductive health care services including abortion and post-abortion care. These human rights monitoring bodies want to recognize abortion as a human right. We can be sure they're talking about the rights of the adult woman and not the small unborn girl or boy. Perhaps the babies in their mommies' bellies are to be viewed as subhuman extraterrestrial mud people or something. But here's the opportunity being missed by the UN. What if the UN took the Christian view that these unborn babies are humans? Then what the UN and the other groups could be saying is that we all had the right in Euro to have our brains sucked out And we don't want to deprive the unborn of today of this right, do we? Just because we missed out doesn't mean they should. Now we just have to find out how these little ones can give voice to their preference and let us know. Then we can add it to our list of questions to the expected mother Oh, what's the due date? Are you having a boy or a girl? Have you learned if your baby wants his or her brain sucked out? So That might have been over the top for somebody. I don't know. What do you think? I'm sure that's over the top for many people, yes. I enjoyed it personally. I I laughed quite a few times Uh what does it say when you wrote something not you, me. You, right. When a person writes something, they give voice to it, they listen back and they laugh at it. What does that say? I don't know what that says. I amuse myself. That's right. So it's true though. Come on. That's what it is. I'm with ya. Now I will say though, because I've ranted and railed about this on the show uh in the past, uh about once or twice a year I forget the name of the group, but there's a a pro life group that goes out on the streets, a busy street corner or whatever and holds up signs. Mm-hmm uh and they're pretty graphic and uh disturbing images of of uh what abortion really is and I've always felt like that was not productive to the argument, to the cause of pro-life, that it's so the image imagery is so v violent and vile that people just shut it out and and and they and they turn your argument into a caricature because the only way that they can grapple with the issue. And I've always felt like they'd be better to s soften that just a little bit. Now have I violated my own sensibilities with this? Ha I don't know. I I've I've struggled with that question for a long time. Um, you know, the Operation Rescue and some of the things that they've done, especially these very violent signs. I I'm I'm torn. It just depends on who I'm talking to. I mean there is a there is shock, there's value to shocking people and letting them know what is really happening out there. And Uh and yet our culture doesn't think there is, and so perhaps in order to meet them at their place we need to soften it and have a a better conversation some other way. I I I don't know the answers to that. I don't think you've blown anything by having this on though. This is great. Yeah. Well I think that the the difference for me is it's words. And words in a lot of ways are more powerful Uh but but th they don't there's a different I don't know, there's a different standard almost, uh a measure of of standard uh of of offensiveness. You could show me a picture that's gonna just shock me, or I could use a word to describe that picture that would still be shocking but not shock me. Oh sure. Yeah, this this week I'm doing something very strange in my sermon. I'm actually s showing a couple minute clip up front, which is basically the world's atrocities Wow. Like a heretical church there showing videos. Oh, you've just redeemed yourself, by the way Any church that talks a Habakkuk is it okay church? Even if they put video in there. But we had to go through lots of different clips because the images were so powerful that we ha we couldn't find the right images because we didn't want to say too much with the images. Whereas if I just said this person shot this person in the head, that doesn't have quite the same power as watching it happen for real. And so you're right. I mean these these pictures just stick in our heads forever and we've got to be careful with our children and things like that too. Yeah, yeah. And you know, we're kidding ourselves if we don't think that there's some shocking language in the Bible itself. Well that's very true. Implications in the Psalms. He's Dr. Jaith Broadhurst, Senior Pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate Sands. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel this week. Uh speaking of Poolsville, uh Baptist Church, you've got an event coming up in uh I don't it's sometime in October. I forget the date. You will remember the I will remember the date, yes. October first through third. We're having A conference on eschatology. Doesn't that sound exciting? Aren't you all writing? That was the word of the week a couple of months ago. Was it? Okay. Eschatology. If you're interested in things like uh what's going to happen in the end, you know, um is there going to be lightning and thunder and c you know uh melting or floods or Grasshoppers come up or helicopters and Russia's gonna attack and gog and magog and all those things that you've heard about but you have no idea is left behind, correct? Um I know you've all read that that series. It's one of the most popular series out there, even among non-Christians, interestingly. Um if you want to know what's ha happening in the end of times, this is what we're gonna talk about. We've got three Scholars in the area of the Book of Revelation and New Testament eschatology and Old Testament um bringing from all different places, three different universities, uh all PhDs in the subject and coming in and speak on this and it's gonna be excellent. And it's cheap as can be. I mean most conferences are two or three hundred dollars to go for a couple of days. This one's thirty five bucks I mean we're just trying to cover our basic electric bills and that includes dinner and it includes dinner that's right. For one of the nights, that's right. So it it's pay for dinner, get the conference for free. That's right, yeah. It's a it's a pretty darn good deal and these guys are excellent. And they're very they're good speakers. They're not just academics, which is why we picked them And they care they have a heart for people as well. So Yeah, I'll be interested to see the kind of turnout and interest you get on this because you know there's the movie uh 2012, right? Right. Uh and th there's the fascination that's been going on for years with Nostradamus. Yeah. And you know, people are into the whole um Ouija board and um Uh what are some of the other tarot cards and the horoscopes? People want to try to anticipate what's coming in the future. That's right. They they want to know uh what's going to happen. But do they really want to know? Or at least do they want to know what, you know, s could be grounded in Scripture if they care at all about the Bible. What does the Bible say about those sorts of things? this conference will help them to figure that out. That's exactly the plan. So if you care about such things, you'll be there on October first, second and third. If you don't care about those things, then stop talking about it. You know come up with some good answers. Come and hear that. Keep yourself educated. For once in your life. Alright, guess who just walked in the door? Woohoo hoo. Hold on, let me turn your microphone on and explain yourself. Well, the bottom line is that uh I have just had too much of you guys listening. So understandable in my opinion We were just saying the same thing for you. We got the first fifteen minutes without that. So we uh we as if you've been listening to the last number of weeks, you've heard us talking about the uh Westminster Confession of Faith in order. I think we're up to chapter Eight. I think we've covered the first seven chapters so far. The next show will be eight. I hang on to stuff. Uh oh. I you know, I'm a pack rat when it comes to audio files. I I save audio forever. My my wife thinks I'm crazy. But every once in a while it comes in handy to have that piece of audio. The question is do you like save them on like eight tracks or do you save you know what kind of audio do you save? Right, right. So stuff that used to be on cassette Or real to real. Yeah. Had had to be ha had to be burned to C D and now what's on C D had to be converted into MP three forms. And if you're Prince you refuse to put anything out on MP three now, you only put things out on C D because you're fighting the beast. Well the problem though is uh well it's a potential problem. I'm concerned about in ten years, if my C D player breaks Will they be able to buy a new one? Will they still exist? So I'll have this entire library of CDs and nothing to play them on. It's like My record albums. Yes. I suppose if I really, really tried hard on eBay or something, I could probably find a record player, but don't always be retro people out there. I want to be able to say, hey Jace uh he'll he'll say something to me, right? And I'll say, Oh, I've got a piece of audio that's perfect for that. Right. Do you happen to have an eight track player? Why why, yes I do. Right here. And then I'm gonna say, I knew you were a geek. That will be proof. So here's something I hung on to. It's not an audio file file, it's a news story. And I figured that we would have gotten to it by now. But here it is, months later we haven't gotten to it. But I gotta bring it up. Because people who listen to WFMD care. about Glenn Beck. Uh oh, Glennbeck. We care about Glennbeck. Yeah. And Glennbeck, you know, has been a little more forthright about some duct tape to keep my head together. Yeah. He's very entertaining, very funny. I Yeah, sky is falling all the time with Glenn Beck, and so you know you gotta be a little bit uh take it with a grain of salt once in a while, I'm sure. But but he's been quite a bit more out front with his faith. I don't know if you know Jace, I think he's a Mormon fellow. He's he's a Mormon He became a Mormon he wasn't a lifelong Mormon. He became a Mormon, I don't know, ten years ago. Well he's a Mormon convert. And uh he he used to kind of sidestep, wouldn't talk about it a whole lot, but now he's pretty much out there with it. Yep, I'm a Mormon Got a problem with it? He big time supported Romney when he was running and he felt like Mormonism shouldn't have been an issue. Right. Right, right, right. Thank you. Right, totally. Anyway, so this is going back to uh I guess March of this year. So I'm gonna read this story. I want to get your guys' uh uh take on this, all right? Last week, six months ago, Glenn Beck called or whatever, Glenn Beck called on Christians to leave their churches if they hear preaching about social or economic justice. They were code words for communism and Nazism. This week the remarks prompted outrage from several Christian bloggers, according to a New York Times story. And then they quote the story, I guess. The Reverend Jim Wallace, who leads the liberal Christian anti-poverty group Sojourners, in Washington. called on Christians to leave Glen Beck. Now first of all, the liberal Christian anti-poverty group Sojourners, what are the odds they're ever going to say anything good about Glenn Beck? But anyway. What he has uh what he has said attacks the very heart of our Christian faith, and Christians should no longer watch his show. I guess a forgetting he has. I guess you can still listen. Can't watch the TV show, but you can listen to the radio show. Uh Mr. Wallace wrote wrote on his blog God's Politics, his show should now be in the same category as Howard Stern. What say you, Pastors? Um please, you know, I've already been speaking for fifteen. Go ahead. How does he change the subject so it easily? Hail geschickt with a little bit of a breath at the end of it. It's a uh w with a shirt like that I feel like you should have something to say first about Jim Wallace or about uh all these guys that are set at Glendak. So you're up first. Oh how how how nice. Yeah, I um I'm a pastor. I don't know a whole lot about this stuff, so I um Oh That's bunk. I have a degree in government and politics and I s don't follow the stuff at all, interestingly. So I can certainly communicate about social gospel and how I feel about it. I want to hear about that. I can tell you all I want. Let me give you this next paragraph because this is really where I'd like to hear uh if you agree with the the the this the slant on this story. In attacking churches that espouse social justice m and I'm not sure that's what Glennbeck was doing, in all fairness. Mr Beck is talking on uh is taking on most mainline Protestant, Roman Catholic, black and Hispanic congregations in the country, not to mention plenty of evangelical churches and even his own, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Now, I don't know, I'm reading this it's and you're hearing it, so it's maybe different to the eye. But what strikes you as wrong with that paragraph? Which which one of the half a dozen things that occurs to me might occur to you as wrong with that paragraph I'm trying to read your mind right now. In attacking churches that espouse social justice, I think that's wrong right there, because I don't think that's what Glenn Beck was doing, all right? But if he were doing that actually I think he was doing that. If he were taking on if he was taking on uh the uh uh the idea of social justice that in doing so, Mr. Beck is taking on most mainline Protestant is he? Taking on most mainline Protestant churches? I would say no. Definitely the main mainline most well, I don't know. Yeah, probably the mainline for the most part don't tend to be so evangelical. Okay, so then that's generally how you'd call the definition the difference between the mainline means the original churches And and for the most part, like like PCA, the Presbyterian uh Church of America, right, they broke off of PC USA and so PC USA Is mainline. They're the ones that kind of went in a liberal direction. Okay. And uh and so there's a sense that all the main lines went in a liberal direction, late eighteen hundreds, early nineteen hundreds And so then a bunch of conservatives broke off of the main lines to be evangelical because they wanted to stay biblical and uh Okay, maybe I can maybe I can I can be okay with that one then. But he goes on now to say on most mainline Protestant, Roman Catholic, black, and Hispanic congregations in the country. Now I didn't realize, but apparently the church is divided into a variety of denominations. We have any am I I'm right on that one, right? Not to mention plenty of evangelical churches. I guess that's the difference between mainline Protestant and event that's the split there. Mainline Protestant versus Evangelical? Yes. Okay. And even his own, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. By the way, here's what Glenn Beck said on his show. I beg you, look for the word social justice or economic justice on your church website. If you find it, run as fast as you can. Social justice and economic justice, they are code words. Are they? Are they code words? I have to admit, for me, yeah, they very much are. If if I'm If I'm looking at a church or I hear about a church and social justice shows up on their front page or uh is a major part of that or social gospel in any way, that that makes me a little bit concerned because I think they have an emphasis. There's nothing wrong with social justice, I I mean the Bible's full of justice. Justice, a great thing. But it has become kind of a technical term now. And it usually implies a very liberal uh church that's not going to preach the gospel, it's going to preach doing good things. And that's a little scary to me. Social justi justice is a term that really comes out of a uh out of a sociological scientific orientation And it's uh the the the the code word basically it says that society has wronged certain people And so the problem is not sin that is in you or sin that is in me, but the problem is the society as a whole. So we need social justice, we need societal justice as opposed to The Bible talked about justice where if you murder somebody, then we bring you to justice means that we bring you to terms with what you've done wrong. The idea of social justice is this idea that that it's just the whole institution that's wrong. It's the whole society. And the problem with that orientation is that nobody's at fault. just the big society. And so we have to throw out what society is, which basically means anything that has been rooted in a Judeo-Christian uh background and foundation. We need to throw a anything out that has to do with society. And we have to start all over again and build from scratch with this idea that that mankind is basically good and uh with this idea that somehow Uh if left to their own devices, mankind would actually end up doing good things, not bad things. I'm concerned if somebody here is a a pastor Jonathan Schweitzer, perhaps, or Dr. Jace Broadhurst, perhaps. On a Sunday, get up before the congregation and talk about the importance of taking care of the poor and providing for the widows and worrying about the orphans that that could be understood as my pastor's talking about social justice, economic justice. I need to flee my church. Well, but I don't think that's I don't think that's an issue because if your pastor is using the phrase social justice and economic justice, then it's then it is true that he's not approaching the idea of justice or the poor It's most likely that he's not approaching those things from a biblical direction, but he's cherry-picking certain biblical verses, taking them out of context to say that all that Christ ever taught was that we should take care of the poor. Instead of recognizing that Christ also taught that we needed to stop lying, stop cheating, stop uh committing adultery, sexual immorality, we've got to get away from idolatry. So Christ added to all of his taking care of the poor this uh this emphasis on um on uh taking care of our hearts and making sure that that we're focused on what's right and wrong. So the issue is um having to do with social justice is that if they're using the term social justice then it's likely that they're approaching it from that from a uh uh Marxist direction. But if they're just talking about what the Bible says about taking care of the poor and the sick and the hurting the outcast, man, please let them do it. 'cause it's very different. See now, Jace, I don't know how he did it. He comes in at the last moment on the show and he'll build the last word. Of course he does. And he should. He's good. You're good. He's Jonathan Smitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, joined this week again by Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor at uh Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for a sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Encourage you to visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith. And you can listen to this show on podcast, go to the audio belt, and check it out. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Footman Plumbing. That's with a P has in your preferred plumber. Popin plumbing, how can we make you smile