Welcome to the Frederick Base Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator Croy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chaplain. And uh Dr. Jaith Rodhurst, uh senior pro uh pastor at Foolsville Baptist. Oh, you know that's what happened. It already has That's right. That's we're gonna get close to home here in a minute. Anyway, Doug mentioned Footman, flowing, and heating, how can we make you smile? But I'm smiling right now. Now I have. Yes. And I want to encourage you to visit us online. Wfmd. com KeywordFaith. Brings you to the faith debate page where you can find a I don't know if I want to call it a blog exactly. You know, this show, we can't take phone calls, it's only a half hour long, you know, we recorded uh answers. No way to incorporate your thoughts. So your chance to participate in the faith debate is to send me emails and I post the emails. As long as they're not overly offensive. I post the emails, come what may on the website. So l lot of stuff. And if they're a really good email, we'll we'll talk about it on the show. And a lot of stuff that's come on my way and that I've been posting up on the site has been political in nature, go figure. I don't know what the interest is in politics. Recently or like always? No, well there's always been some a smattering, but I gotta say that lately it's been almost all political. Which makes one wonder. Is Glenn Beck onto something? Uh uh. Or is Glenn Beck on something? Glenn Beck. Those are the only two options, huh? Those are the options. All I know is he needs duct tape because his head's about to explode. So Now, uh I'm not exactly sure when this show's gonna air in uh in in in timing based on the the big event that happened uh in D C. The what do they call that thing? What was it called? Uh the Restoring America rally, is that what he called it? Something along those lines. Restoring America's honor. Restoring honor, that's what it was. And Somewhere between uh seventy-six thousand and six hundred thousand people were there. That's the way it always is. You never know how many people are really there. Can you imagine these count those guys already Unbelievable that we can't get that right. But anyway. What I think is funny by the way, as a quick aside, people start comparing it to other crowds. How do you know there were half a million people there ten years ago? You don't know. You're comparing a made up number to a made up number. All we know is there's lots of flesh down there. And you know, the crowd that was there was and I you know, I'm gonna get mail. I know I'm gonna get mail so forgive me up front. But you know the crowd looked Mormon It looked Mormon? It did. How did you tell that? Why because of the large families, there's so many families? Well the stereotypical Mormon is kind of a middle, upper middle class well-dressed white person. Right? Yes. That's what you think of the Mormons. Yeah. That's who was there. Yeah. It was they were all white people. I mean it wasn't all white people. Just like all Mormons aren't white people. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All the conservative sites have spent time like all week after the event trying to prove that it was not just all white people. So how many uh how many Mormons are there in the United States? They were all in Washington, DC. Five hundred thousand. Yeah, yeah, between seventy and five hundred thousand. So Glennbeck uh you know, everybody doubted what his motives were going in. Actually probably a lot of people still doubt his motives now. I've heard some rumors that they think he's gonna run for president, which will never happen. Right. So so people are crazy. No, he put it back. Yeah, yeah. Except he said Glennbeck said and I quote, I don't think people want would want me for that. No. And that scares me because when he puts it like that, it i it's it sounds to me like a woman saying, uh, I don't know, I don't think I'm very beautiful. She's dying for you to say you're telling people. So I don't know. That was a little bit yeah. So people thought it'd be political. And he had Sarah Palin uh speak and so people, but really it she didn't do anything that was particularly political. That's right, she was told not to. You know, so and she did what she was told. That's right. She was obedient. Boy, there's a joke there that I'm gonna stay away from. Oh well anyway. But he ends the whole rally with I don't know, not the most hellfire and brimstone sermon you've ever heard in your life, but basically a sermon from Glenn Beck about what America needs. Yes. America needs God. Yes. Problem is Who's God? What God? Who is this God of which Glenn Beck speaks? And is that really what America needs? You guys are both Christian pastors on the Protestant side of the fence. You must have an opinion on this Certainly I do. I know Jonathan. I'm sure Jonathan does. And the opinion that I have is that I can't figure out for the life of me whether this is good for the United States. And the reason why is that at the end of the day he did not preach Christ He's not lifting up the name of Jesus Christ. And I have given my life to one principle, and that is that Christ in him crucified risen from the dead, that has brought salvation to all mankind, that that that he, that that is the mystery of all the ages, is Christ in us the hope of glory. And and Beck is up there doing something, and this is why I'm so conflicted about it, that the Founding Fathers did again and again and again, that Abe Lincoln did. And uh and we magnify him for it, and he referred to a God. whose whose name will not be stated at this time, that is above all other gods, that is the creator God. uh that is the God to whom we must pray and the God who holds the rise and fall of nations in his hands. Now all of that fits a Judeo-Christian God. In fact Beck was quick to say that he thinks that we need to return to the Judeo-Christian God. But he decidedly left out of his entire discussion any discussion about Christ whatsoever. And his entire um uh appeal uh left Christ out of it. And so did the founding fathers. In fact, after they uh they uh uh penned the Constitution of the United States and they had their Constitutional Convention. They came out of it and some pastors read it and went to them and said said, You guys left God out of it. And uh and apparently Ben Franklin or or George Washington and one of them looked at 'em and said, You know what? We totally forgot I I don't remember that in my history books, but yeah, okay. uh you know where where that's found anyways i it's not in the bible. I understand. Anyways, uh historically this this is the way you know it played out. And so again I have to ask myself then is it possible that the religion of our founding fathers, for all of its Judeo-Christian foundations, is not necessarily the best thing for the gospel. Or, and this is the this is why I'm so conflicted, or is it possible that the the religion of our founding fathers that that uh uh recognize the God above all our other gods, Creator God that that holds the r the the nations in his hands and and uh and gives us certain inalienable rights, that this God and a a magnification of that Reality creates a environment that is more conducive to the gospel, that is good for the gospel, that is good for the preaching of the gospel. And therefore is a good thing at the end of the day. I don't know. I'm a little bit split. I'm just not sure that that Glenn Beck for one for being a Mormon and two for magnifying a God that that is decidedly not named as Jesus Christ is not possibly leading us slightly astray. Any chance you could help Jonathan out here, Jake? Well no probably not. I I find myself torn in the same way. I I I I've always thought that religious people are much more difficult to give the gospel to than people who are just who just know where their what their status is. So for me, Mormonism is incredibly dangerous, for instance, and so is just uh just theism in general. Just a blanket theism is very dangerous. As much as as much as we agree on so many of the things and we'd agree on all all the political parts and and all these other things, I just feel like If they think we're kind of on the same page, m then there's there's nothing I I can't give them the ultimate truth. I I I feel like I've lost that. So where Jesus is not I I feel like we failed something. So well we're I'm gonna get mail again because uh we've had, you know, Mormons uh on this show before and we've talked about some of these things, but it in fairness there's not a Mormon in the room so I I'd be interested to hear what they would have to say. say and t to what we're saying, what I'm about to say, but I don't think Jonathan you should be surprised that you didn't get, you know, the gospel truth from Glenn Beck because as a Mormon he doesn't have the gospel truth. Right, exactly. Why would you expect him to give the gospel truth if he doesn't have it? Right. Right. At the end of the day I feel like uh Glenbeck is uh similar to um Russ Limbaugh and uh Ann Coulter and their faith, uh, that he he's more committed to it at an ideological level than he is committed to it on a personal level. He's more committed to it in a cultural way, that the foundation of our society should be Judeo-Christian values And so they're committed to it on those levels. And yes, we should pray and we should encourage prayer, but uh don't look to me to be the one, you know, to to to be really you know serious and sincere about it. It's let me put it this way, it's decidedly not a Puritan religion that they're promoting. It's much more civic than that. It's all the stuff of God without having God. to Christians. He says if y would you be happy with having everything that Jesus supplies for you, all the blessings that he gives. For instance, you you're going into heaven, for instance. Yeah. And y you'd be ha y no tears, no cri you know, no misery, no hurt, no pain, anything like that. But Jesus isn't there. Would you still be okay with that? And I think the answer for many of us would be, well sure. I sadly they'd be like, Yeah, I I mean, I have all the blessings. What's the problem? And that's kind of what we're doing with this whole marriage. You know, give us all the blessings that comes with a God fearing nation. but not God himself. We like the values, we like all the things that he gives us. In fact you he could say that people w people would take heaven, you know, without God. Right. Right. I think that would automatically take heaven without Troy Skinner. Yeah. You know? But here's the thing, Glenn Beck I think really captured what the religion of America is. Yeah, I was joking uh but right before the show about you know what you know what religion was that. What God was he talking about when he said America needs to get back to God and I said he was getting back to the Americanism God. You know, Americanism is like a religion. It's It's it's a it's this it's uh on one level it is, you know, uh Judaism and Buddhism and Hinduism and you know Protestantism and Catholicism, it's all these isms blended together. But tying it all together, the the the the the needle and thread that weaves it all together is pragmatism. So you said America's religion. And it's a very pragmatic thing. Let's pray for God's blessings, these generic blessings And I think that there's something biblical to that though too. You look in Proverbs, all the practical advice. You do these good things, good things will happen. There's blessing in doing good things, even apart from God. And that's common grace. That's God provides this this environment in which the gospel can be proclaimed. And so on that level it's a good thing. But does it make it harder sometimes? Does it create an environment where for you guys as pastors Trying to preach the gospel, proclaim the truth is like plowing pavement? Does it sometimes do that because you're preaching to a religious community of the people? They won't acknowledge that they're lost, so does it cause those problems? I guess it does. Almost like it's almost like it's seeker sensitive Christianity on a on a s uh almost like like on a secular scale, on a on a uh mainstream scale. Good, good. Right? You know, it's uh it's almost like you know uh the seven is seven steps to a better you, you know, seven seven steps to a better United States, right? You know, and and so it's a little bit of a of a mainstreaming of that ideology I think Beck would be happier with a twelve step. Yeah, yeah, but the problem dies into the well because he's a recovering out of that. The problem is that Beck Beck's religion, whatever this is, that he's promoting at this event, I'm not talking about Mormonism, but this American in there that he's promoting. Uh, has has some teeth in it. He's clearly calling for the nation to repent Because he he keeps using language like, you know what, we've been going the wrong direction. We know we've been going the wrong direction. We need to stop And he keeps using that kind of language. Well that's just modern day, you know, repentance. Repentance says, stop going the direction you're going, turn around and go back towards righteousness. And he's clearly using that language, which I don't feel like is language that you have heard in the secret sensitive movement. And so that's where I feel like it's secret sensitive movement with a little bit of teeth in it. You know, and so it's so it's something that is It's interesting, right? In secret sensitive churches they they uh they preach Theoretically, Christ without repentance. Now you have somebody like Glenn Beck who's doing the civic religion that's preaching rejection about Christ. Interesting. They're like an inverse of each other. Yeah. By the way, this is the Project Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel on the show again this week, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Talking about the uh Glenn Beck rally in Washington, DC. See, this is the thing. Ben Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, George Washington, John Adams, all of these guys were uh uh Abe Lincoln for that matter uh referred to a God that was the creator God from whom all of our rights are are drawn from the rights that we have to do. Forever in my life that I can I can't remember a president ever mentioning Jesus Christ. Okay, but at the end of a speech it's God bless America. When is it? And may Jesus Christ our Lord and Savior bless America. I've never heard that. Right, never Never. And in fact, that's precisely the thing, though, is that somehow there's a sense among conservative Bible believing Christians that what Glenn Beck is offering is somehow better than what liberal Christian presidents have offered. You know, and you can plug in whoever you want to. You know, the various presidents that have come down the line that that have have referred to, you know, we need to be more like you know, in fact even our current president has said that we need to be more like Jesus. You know, and and and care for the poor and the hurting and the outcast. And there's something in the in the gut of a conservative Christian that says he's not talking about the you know, in fact there's been a big question, is he a Muslim You know, or is he or is he a Christian? Well that's precisely because his Christianity is so liberal that he could care less whether or not Christ actually rose from the dead What really matters to him is whether or not you and I are acting like Christ acted. Right. Right? And so the doctrine is decidedly not important to him. So all these people that are worried about whether or not he's a Muslim, well it's it's because his religion Doesn't even make that distinction. His liberal Christianity, we've had him on this show. Pastors that said that we should not try to uh witness to Muslims because they've already found a way to God. Let's go find those people that haven't even found a way to God and get to heaven. Well well that's where Obama's religion is. He's uh he's been open about that's where he fits He says it all the time. We need to be more like Christ. We need to do what Christ did and care for the poor. He his language is so obvious. And so somehow what Glenn Beck is representing is similar to what the Founding Fathers were representing and totally different from what our current present is representing. And that's the reason why it's such an enigma You know, and why it's so irritating to try to figure out because the people in our congregations, you know, the ones that are more conservative, are inclined to be like, Yes, go blem gem What's his name again? Glenn Black Black Gary. That's exactly right. So so anyways, that's the distinction. It's like it's a little bit confusing, you know, because It seems to stand for all these conservative, you know, repentance and righteousness and I would be really concerned that Unitarianism would win the day. Yeah, if I didn't know what the gospel is and that, you know, gu Christ won at the cross, it is finished, and that, you know, h victory is his or just it's just playing it out. right now. If I didn't really believe that, I'd be nervous that Unitarianism, the whole unity movement would would win the day. But I know as a Christian that that's not how it works out. So the thing that I think this helps us to r the remind is uh Ecclesiastes, you know, which is kind of an enigmatic a book of the Bible. People struggle. I used that word a couple times. Do we need to find that word? Enigma, meaning it's hard to Puzzling. Yeah, puzzling. Puzzling. Yes. I think that our situation what we're talking about in this country Ecclesiastes speaks to it. He's talking about all of these things. Look, if we do this, we can totally this we can have the riches, we can have the good life, we can have, you know, a long life, we can have whatever. But in the end it's all vanity. It all means nothing. It's worthless. It means nothing. Outside the context of God, the real God, the ultimate authority, the the ultimate truth, the absolute personal God of the Bible. Without that everything's vain. And so we're trying to live as Americans without this absolute personal God in our lives, and we're chasing after good things, they're absolutely good things, because the Bible says they're good things. So even as a Christian, you have to say they're good things, but they come up short without the absolute personal God as a part of it. So we wonder why is America so dissatisfied? We're always yearning. We're always you know, why do we have Hollywood? Why do we have these the porn addictions and divorce rates near, you know, forty, fifty percent? Why do we have these problems? 'Cause it's all vanity. And so we buy into this lie. Let's let's embrace these things that are good, but they're not the ultimate good. They're not the penultimate good. They're they're just Good enough. It's better to be wise than foolish. And basically what we're saying is better to be bet than Sorry, I'm not getting it. Yes. Before we went on the air, Jonathan has you, so good or bad? Thumbs up, thumbs down. And it depends on how you want I would say if you're talking about socially, civically, yeah, for the nation as a whole, is what Glenn Beck's putting out there better than most of the alternatives are being talked about? I'd have to say yes, because he's talking about good, solid biblical principles. Judeo-Christian. Yeah. However In the ultimate sense, what's most important, which is the advance of the kingdom of Christ from a Christian perspective, that's the most important thing, it's bad. Because he's denying Christ by omission. He's not purposely saying, Christians, you got it wrong. Christ is bad. But he's he's he's not putting it out there and so the absence of it I think is is a poke in the eye. You know, so I stand where George Whitfield stood way back when. I would be sending letters to Ben Franklin uh hoping to convince him of uh uh of the divinity of Christ and of the the ascendancy of Christ And Ben Franklin would would be writing back and I I I feel like I get to do the same thing with with Glenbeck. I like what Glenn Beck is doing, but I feel like as a Christian that I need to spend my time attempting to win him over to to a proper understanding of who Jesus Christ really is at the end of the day. Mormons right now are hating this show Hating this show. Yeah, yeah. We need to get him on again. We've had him on a couple times. Yeah, we have to have a good a good Mormon on. We've had uh Paul Smith on the show a few times and we can have Paul on again or have somebody else on. So is he isn't he currently running for office right now? Uh well yeah, but by the time we would have him on the air again. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He passed. He would have served his term. We'll record it today, but it'll air when his term is over. So um Jason's has been mostly quiet. I'm not sure if he doesn't have a lot that he wants to share or if he's just being safe and you know, or Both of those are pretty active. I I've added my two cents where I felt that I could. Uh it's funny I have a political science degree, but I feel like I'm completely inadequate to talk about these Alright, well Jonathan with all of his passion. Jonathan's never inadequate to talk about anything, though. All of Jonathan's passion and all the things you were saying. 'Cause I'm convinced we don't have to be an elitist to have an opinion. Right. I gotta answer. I'm I'm American in that sense. Even you can have an opinion about politics that I think is important and valuable to listen to. Even ignorant decisions are worthy of being aired on for other people to hear about. I just Uh the essence of talk radio isn't the essence of life television. I feel like I know what I'm talking about before I go out and say too many people are publishing books out there and throwing stuff out. They haven't even thought about it. all of our learning and education doesn't better prepare us to speak about. That yes it's good to to have a good education and share of those things, but at the end of the day it's Christ and him crucified and and Lord may we not know anything other than that. And that doesn't really require great study to know deeply. The average man, any b any anybody in your congregation can step up. And communicate that with clarity and that would be good for everybody in in the congregation. I've got to ask you though, we got a couple minutes left. Yes. And you know, you were going off at the handle there for a second. I want to make sure. Are you advocating for some sort of American, you know, theocracy? With Christ in the center of it? Is that what you think would be the ideal? This is precisely the problem that the religious right has had for so many years that at the end of the day we get labeled uh for trying to do what the Puritans did. And the Puritans attempted to set up a city that was 100% based upon uh the laws of God. In fact, Calvin attempted to the to do the same thing in Geneva. And uh at least in the United States, there's a general sense among Christians and everybody that the Puritan uh uh experiment was a failure. That that it is not the best way to set up a government, a civil government, where everybody has to be required by law in order to vote a Christian And that's why within a generation in uh up there in uh uh New England they said that, okay, well, you could be a half a Christian, meaning if your parents were a Christian, then you could still be a citizen to vote. And then, you know, a generation later they had to totally do away with that because at the end of the day, some kind of a of a religious test for holding office uh is too coercive. It's too manipulative. We need people to make their decision about what who they're going to worship and why without any of those extra constraints. You know, without either the uh the the Spanish Inquisition or just the sense that if I do this, people will elect me. There's got to be a sense that people are making their decision for Christ freely. And so that that's why we we're generally of the opinion that it's better to have a secular government that has a uh uh no obligation among those that are ruling to be Christian or to be a certain religion. While at the same time then we're free to elect those people that we feel like would be best, you know, make the best decisions. Precisely because it leaves people free to make a decision based on conscience, based on where they're really in their heart before God. And and I I guess I'm a little bit split at the end of the day. I mean that's the American experiment. That's what we believe is the best thing. And yet at the end of the day it certainly produced a huge number of cults and uh produced an environment where a lot of people in the United States are just Unwilling to hear any presentation of the gospel. I must be missing a nuance, but it almost sounds like the last couple of minutes you argued against what you're saying in the first couple of minutes No, what I'm saying the first couple minutes is arguing that that's what Glenn Beck is doing. He's leading us back to the original Americanism. But that what's happening now i i is that you didn't like that. Right. I'm saying I'm saying that I'm not sure if I like that or not. I'm saying that that original Americanism is something that that is a little bit of an enigma, a little bit uh hard for me to get my head around. If I was back then, would I have pushed for the name Jesus Christ to be in the Constitution. I think I very likely would have. And in that sense, uh then maybe I would have would could be accused of being a theonomist. But I think we need to set up the law of God, you know, and the law of God alone here in the United States. And uh maybe like Jace, I'm not quite enough of a political scientist to to know where I stand on all that. I'm I'm I'm not sure. Smartest man in the room over the last, I don't know, three or four minutes, Jace Broadhurst. He's the pastor of Fruzville Baptist Church. Didn't say anything Well played. There is wisdom. I believe Proverbs says a lot. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapels. Never has uh a fear of being quiet. Yes, because through the foolishness of preaching the gospel goes forth. So I know I'm a fool. This is a faith debate. Thanks for listening. God bless.