Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumbing plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, your weekly dose of truth. Cause the truth It matters, baby! Clash by the year, down the freedom. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Path across Roselli Chapel, and Robert Quintana Who's uh now got his own show. Uh uh. Kind of horn in on our back of the woods here. Yeah. Anchor Point there Sunday morning, seven thirty to eight o'clock and uh guest uh these last couple of weeks, again this week and probably next week too. And then if we haven't scared him away by then, we'll call him friend. We don't have a very high standard, do we? No You know, we're Christians after all. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I hear you. I hear you. I hear you. So, you know, we're really creative around here We know we bring Robert on, he's with the Frederick Seventh Day Adventist Church Seventh Day Adventist Church and we say, I don't know, what should we talk about? Maybe we'll talk about the Seventh day in their name So we've been talking about that and um word of the week last week was just talking about the seventh day for about twenty one days now. Yeah. And uh this week's word of the week is sanctification. Yes Basically the the the uh Well who Jonathan did justification last week he's very gracious of you do sanctification. No, you first. Okay, no sanctification, I'll be first. Sanctification is the process by which the Lord uh He leads us by his Spirit into being more like Christ, where he uh he teaches us to love one another and to love our neighbor and to love God more fully, more completely, more consistently. And uh it's a process that he works in us by his grace uh as we just continue to uh be his people and stay in the word and and uh uh be obedient. Amen. And I would agree with that a hundred percent. I would just throw in there the the the the the part the Holy Spirit takes in that, right? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. It's in the the baptism of the Holy Spirit working in the body. And in justification we're declared Righteous and sanctification we become more righteous and then in glorification we you know we're not only declared and becoming but the becoming is like a completed thing kind of thing. That's the Christian process. So there's your word of the day, sanctification. Go amaze your friends and neighbors. So now we're talking about the Sabbath and, you know, what day it should be on and why and all that sort of stuff and and and s Justification and sanctification came up in the context of that conversation, which is why they became words of of the week. We give homework on the show notes. You realize we're losing people's every reason. Each day this week you need to find at least one opportunity where you use sanctification in a In a conversation. Honey, this home needs to be sanctified. Okay, for the record that would be an unwise use of the word sanctification. Unless you're saying that you will be the one you clean it yourself. Robert bought his wife a vacuum cleaner for Mother's. Uh oh, oh, oh. So now we're talking about the Sabbath and Jonathan keeps you know picking on Robert at like right at the end of the show. I know, I did it again, again. Yeah, again And he's not planning it. I mean and he just deviated. And he's counting on, you know, you forgetting what the heck he was talking about one week ago. But But would you like to respond to what no one remembers Jonathan saying last week? No, definitely, definitely. Um I I would like to say in in the whole context of s of sanctification. that I I don't I don't think that and I think I might have mentioned this last week that the standard prices set before us is so high. that we need his sacrifice to cover us because I don't know that we will ever be able to reach that. And and and having said that, we're just inherently Sinful. And the wages of sin, and we've all fallen short of the glory of God, the wages of sin is death. So even if we were to live out a perfect life Something has to be done about the sin that we've already committed and the sin that we were born with. Yeah. And that's Jesus Christ comes in. Yeah. Yeah. Um so preach your faith. Amen, right? Can I get a name there? Yeah, yeah. Tone in your voice. Reminds me of a church I pastored in Atlanta Preach off, brother. I'm just being slain in the spirit. So anyway, go ahead And uh don't mind me. And if I remember correctly, last week we ended with uh, you know, w is the Sabbath important, is it not? And I I think th one thing that we need to keep in mind is that um unlike uh humans who judge the outside. God says he looks at the inside. And so it it's hard for anyone to sit in judgment and say because you Don't do this or because you do do that or you know, because you act a certain way or talk a certain way, you know, you're you're any better of a Christian than I am, you know. I so putting making sure that we have that clear. Now we ask the question, okay, why do Seventh day Adventists uh believe that the Sabbath is important? You know? Um One, I guess we would say that it's part of the ten, and so if we are valuing the other nine, that we should value the n the fourth as well, you know. Um, it it's not as though it's, you know, something that well, I guess it's debatable, uh, you know, w which is the Sabbath day or, you know, w which day should we worship on. But if if we were to look through scripture and we were to get to the conclusion that Sabbath is the seventh day, then you know, it's just to me it just seems like the natural progression in the Christian walk to say, All right, that means I need to start worshiping on on status. So that's that's the first reason why we think it's important. The Ten Commandments. Right. There's the first. There's like seven there's seventy three. Oh no no nothing. That was Luther. My bad, my bad. No. So anyway. So I'm and um I've mentioned in the last couple of shows that eventually we'd get around to, you know, me sharing what the heck I think about all this, like that matters Uh but it's interesting. I always love when this happens because I agree with certain elements and disagree with certain elements of what both of you have been saying over the last couple of weeks. I'm not uh I agree with Jonathan when he says that we shouldn't be getting hung up on certain things. And I'm not sure if you would give the same reason, but I think that there is uh uh I uh I believe there's a freedom in Christ. Amen. You are set free in Christ. You're not bound by the dictates of the law anymore. You should want to uh abide by the law. So you're motivated to obedience, but you're not uh you're not uh you're not it's nothing you're not required But uh Christ fulfilled all of the requirement. So I kind of agree with where Jonathan is kind of coming from, but I don't think I could go so far as as to um I I want to be careful how I characterize it. I don't think that Jonathan's saying, oh, the Sabbath doesn't mean anything at all ever. But he's he's willing to um discount it a little bit more uh the importance of it a little bit more th than I think I'd be comfortable saying. And then when Robert's uh talking about I would agree a hundred percent that if the uh if the conviction of the heart is that the Sabbath needs to be observed on the seventh day then the Christian should be motivated to observe the Sabbath on the seventh day. And it all does come down to what does the Bible have to say about it. And I think that's where I would end up disagreeing is I'm not so sure that I would agree that it's Ironclad a hundred percent clear from scripture. Not not s not customs over the last two thousand years, but from scripture. I think an argument can be made that the Sabbath doesn't need to be sundown Friday, sundown Saturday, in uh the world now. Sure. Uh and part of the reason I say that, I mean I have uh I get myself in trouble uh when I talk about the Sabbath uh in certain circles. So I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna potentially be stepping in it here. But I see the Sabb Jesus in the New Testament talks about he didn't come to abolish the law. Correct. In fact, there's an even higher standard for the Christian in obeying the law. Not only can't you murder somebody, but you can't harbor hatred. for them. You can't think anything ill towards your neighbor or it's as though you've murdered them in your heart. So there's a higher coveted over of you know you've already committed adultery. So I kind of apply that mentality to all of the different commandments, including the Sabbath. So if in the Old Testament the requirement is to abide by the Sabbath, sundown to sundown, Friday to Saturday What is the true intent of that law? And to me, I think in terms of going back to creation, because it's you know it's a creation ordinance, really. I mean on the seventh day God rested. Mm-hmm. And then in the Ten Commandments you learn that it's the fourth command. Sure. Um but then in the New Test Testament you hear uh Paul writing about You know, don't make it all about a day. You know, don't make your faith about what day you celebrate this festival. I it that's not what's important. And I don't think that he's saying that None of the days are important. Mm-hmm. I think what he's saying is all the days are important. Sure. And I think because Christ has is now I believe that Christ now rules. He is the Messianic King who is ruling right now. He will come again in glory and fully consummate that reign, but he is ruling right now in a already not yet kind of attention. Sure. So if we're all if we're already sharing in in that in some way, then that Sabbath rest from creation finds its perfection in Christ. With and it's not to last for a day or a twenty-four hour period, but it's to last forever. Mm-hmm. God rested on the seventh day. Did God rest for twenty-four hours? God entered into a rest that is from is everlasting from that point forward. I think that that's what the Krishna is called to. We are called into a rest with God. Sure. To be still and know that He is God, to enter into The rest that comes with assurance and confidence of faith in God and knowing that you've been saved from yourself and your own sins and your own sinful nature And you enter into a Sabbath that is now forever. Sure. But now there's the one day a week that kind of symbolizes and represents that at some point. But to Jonathan's point, I guess, I would say that yet the symbols aren't really what's so important anymore However, there is something really important to be said for the Christian setting itself apart from culture and the society around it and standing for something and being people say, you know, there's something different about those guys. And if one of those things is different is that one day a week you're taking rest. And I think that the Sabbath is an interesting one. Maybe all of the ten community. I haven't thought about this all the way through. But the Sabbath for sure Could be considered natural law. Because when you rest your fields, they're more productive long term. When you rest your body, you're more productive and healthy long term. There's a natural element involved with that. it's recognizing it for one twenty-four hour period, week in and week out, there's a ceremonial aspect of that. And then that being the something that that along with circumcision being something that really set apart the Jewish people as a nation, there's something civic. about that. You know, and then of course if it's part of the Ten Commandments, there's something moral about that. So I think the Sabbath kind of maybe is a blend of all the different aspects of God's law coming together. So I think of it as being bigger than a day. So that's I don't know if that uh I just want to be clear that my wife and I are very religious about taking a Sabbath. So I want to make sure that sure certainly I'm minimizing, you know, that I don't think it's all that important. But my but my my saying that I don't think it's all that important is is simply to emphasize that whether you do it on Saturday or Sunday to me is is is is very unimportant. So you would be okay with on Wednesday if you chose Wednesday. I I I think the choices are Sunday or Saturday. I think unfortunately because the way our society has chosen to reject blue laws And uh uh and and that was a big part of the Sabbath. This is what frustrates me the most. This this is why I really get upset about the Sabbath. When there is no Sabbath that everybody in the society celebrates together, in which case it'd be a civil uh institution then what happens is the poorest people in our midst have to work on the day uh you know, eight, seven days a week. They end up not getting any day off. And so they don't have a chance along with all the rest of society to just relax and let their hair down and rest together and instead they have to work on Sunday morning. They gotta work all day long and and it's the poorest in our midst that that ends up being a problem for. And that's where where uh the the heart of the Sabbath in the prophets is not related to to part of it's related to a rest in the Lord But the m but but it's most sharp when Isaiah goes after the pro the the uh the Sabbath when he's saying that you're requiring your servant and your animals to work on the Sabbath and you get a day off and they don't. And it's injust because they never they never get any rest. And so the point is is that it ends up being this oppressive regime where certain people have to work every day of the week and the rest of us get to take time off. And it seems to me that um that all that being the case, that the Sabbath is very important. The choices are Saturday or Sunday, and for other people that can't do either one of those days My my recommendation is find a day and take a whole day, call it your Sabbath, and take the day off. If if our society's too oppressive to let you do it Take a day off and and God will bless you for it, and you'll find that the rest of the six days you've got the strength that you need to press through and persevere and get a lot done. But Robert's conviction is that Friday night s to Saturday night, that is Sabbath as defined by the Bible and Correct. If that's r Roberts and those like Robert who If that's their heart conviction, they need to have that be their Sabbath. Sure. If somebody else is a good idea, they should be free to demand that. If somebody else doesn't have that heart conviction, Jonathan's saying, well, they can pick some other day But you wouldn't be comfortable with that because you think that's disagreeing with scripture. Correct. Yeah. Unfortunately the poorest in our midst don't feel like they have the right or the authority to speak to their boss and say, you know what? I want this day off. And a and actually Adventism being strong about that particular issue can probably help them to approach their boss. I I have members of my church who approach me Um I mean I'll have several throughout the year that'll approach me that will have work issues and I'll I'll type them a letter, you know, saying, you know They're a member in good and regular standing at our church and we observe the Sabbath as a day of rest and you know please don't add any um you know and and usually they they honor it which which is really great. But they're reason To to approach the authorities in their life to do that. Sure, exactly. But the reason why Seventh day Adventists see it more than just entering into a rest, w whichever day that is is because Adventists um see the Sabbath, um w well let me back up here real quick If first if we were to back up to the book of Genesis, right, where it was originally given. Okay? And and if I may, let me just read it in in Genesis uh chapter two. Um Genesis chapter two. And then there's two things that I'd like to point out from that text. Okay. Alright. Um chapter two, verse two says, and on the seventh day God ended his work, which he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had done. Now, the the word rested, rested from his work. Was God tired? You know, I mean I guess that can be another show. But verse three is very important because it says The answer by the way is no. Yeah. Then God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it. In other words, he set it apart. He made that twenty four hour period sacred. He made that that twenty four hour period sacred To be a favor though, read read like day five day four, day five, day six. Read those passes. Do those passes. Do you have Then God made uh then God made two great lights, the greater light uh to rule the day and the lesser light to rule the night. He made the stars also God set them in the firmament of the heavens to give light on the earth and to rule over the day and over the night and to divide the light into the darkness and God saw that it was good. So the evening and the morning were the fourth day. Okay. And that is basically how he goes about. Correct. And the evening in the morning is the sixth day. Correct. So he doesn't say evening in the morning on the seventh day. The seventh day has no evening morning, which is why I believe it's to represent a period that's not just twenty four hours. It's a it's an epoch of time. It goes on. God never go at the end of twenty four hours God stopped Rusting? Well, no, this is what it says. It says then God saw everything that he had made, and indeed it was very good, so that evening and the morning were the sixth day. So we ended the sixth day. Thus the heavens and the earth and all the hosts of them, now chapter two, verse one, were finished. And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had done, and then that's the verse that I was reading. A verse three, then God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it because in it he rested from all his work which God had created and made So the the two points that I wanted to make from this, which are arguments that I hear um pretty regularly from my Sun Sunday keeping friends, is one, um You know, the the the Sabbath was part of the old covenant. We're now living under the new covenant. And and to that I would say, uh w wait a second. The Sabbath was given before any of the covenants. In other words, the covenants came into existence because sin entered the world. And so here God is giving the Sabbath day. before sin even entered the world. And so he established that from the very beginning. And then the second point that I'd like to make that oftentimes is used an argument for like Sunday worship, um, is that it was given to the Jews. Right? The Sabbath was given to the Jews. Which I would say, okay, wait a second. Here we see that God gave the Sabbath to mankind. Not to the Jews. The Jews weren't around for hundreds and hundreds of people. Right. And I and I actually agree with you. I guess the the point of distinction I'm making between your view and mine is that I'm not seeing that as As that important in the New Testament. Well I'm not seeing it as needing to as needing to be based on that text as needing to be understood as a as what we would define as a day, a twenty-four hour cycle. Okay. Because it does not follow the pattern of each and every other day in the evening and morning. Evening and morning Day one, evening and morning, evening and morning. There's all these evenings and mornings, but then you get to day seven, there's no evening and morning. Yeah. So to me, I think that's a striking difference. Sure. So do I could you understand that as another 24-hour day? Sure. I think that you could. But does the text require us to I don't think so. And then when you put that in context, the bigger biblical picture and what is everything pointing to? Everything's pointing to Christ. You know, Jesus in Luke 24 says the Old Testament testify of me Sure. So I think a good practice for any Christian when you're reading the Old Testament is what does this passage tell me about Christ? Sure. But like you said a couple weeks ago, that that j you can't base the theology based on the omission. of of a certain um word or or phrase or whatever. Just because the Sabbath isn't mentioned all that often in the New Testament, well doesn't make a good argument that it's not valid. But my point is every day should be a Sabbath to the Christian. That's my point. It's a much larger obligation that the Christians should be motivated toward. Just like not only don't kill people, sure. But don't hate people either. Okay, so let me ask you in practice do you try to take a day for rest each w each week? Yes. Oh you do? Okay, interesting. 'Cause 'cause I'm so I'm so even though just like in practice I don't try to kill anybody. But see, and if you're not going to still choose one day to to physically rest from work, even though spiritually every day you're living in the Sabbath rest that is Christ. Right. And so all I'm saying is that there's a distinction there that that practically you're saying physically you're gonna take a day of rest while at the same time spiritually you're gonna live in the rest that is Christ. the everyday obligation that the Christian carries. So it's, you know, I think there's a pattern that's been set up. But there's a weekly reminder. I mean you're you're actually resting on that day. You're you're actually doing the the Well that's nothing we I don't know if we have time. Yeah. Uh because I do want to spend some time. We've only got a couple a couple minutes left. Maybe we next week's show. I want us to spend a a solid amount of time on What does it mean to observe the Sabbath? See and and I would just say, to give people something to chew on, maybe for the next week, is that from a seventh day Adventist perspective the Sabbath, as we define it from Friday you know sunset to Saturday sunset, that that seventh day is a memorial um in honor of our Creator. So it it is a celebration of our Creator. And and maybe uh how much time do we have left? I'm not sure Uh about two minutes. Okay. So so let me just share you know in in the in the big scheme of things, why this is important for Seventh-day Adventists nearing the end of time Because in the book of Revelation, chapter 14, verse 12, it says, Here is the patience of the saints. Here are those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. Now, prior to that in verse six chapters that's fourteen. And I just read twelve. But let me read six now because At the end of time we're given th this message where where three angels are gonna go, you know, around now I don't think they're they're literal angels. I think that's symbolic. But here we have it in verse six it says, Then I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel, to preach to those who dwell on the earth, to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come, and worship Him who made heaven and earth, sea and the springs of water. So this passage in Revelation is almost word for word to what we see in the fourth commandment in Exodus and resembling what we see in in Genesis. So the issue for us is the issue of worshiping worshiping who it is identifying who we're worshiping. We are worshiping the creator of the universe, the creator of the universe. And in that revelation passage, I mean I I think that that should be understood as it's worship that goes on forever without end. Right? And to to be I'm still connecting that idea back back to Genesis. Mm-hmm. You know, God enters into His perfect rest. And we'll define maybe that later. Because Hebrews talks about entering into that rest. And there's a passage in scripture in the book of Hebrews that I'd I'd like to share. Good. Let's get into it. Now uh uh Frank's gonna be mad at me, but I cheated and I bought us an a an extra minute. Yeah. Yeah. So Um is there any is there any loose end on this that we wanted to take thirty seconds of tie out before next week we dive into what does it mean to or do we feel pretty settled now that we're all We all kind of understand each other's we've triangulated each other. We understand where we're coming from, we feel good? Yeah. All right. Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh Robert Quintana is the senior pastor at Frederick Seventh Day Adventist. And I keep giving you all these free plugs. He's got a new show. I don't know if you call it a show. I don't know what to call it. What do you call it? Is that what it is? Well they take his m they take his his sermon message and they pare it down to fit the time constraints of of of the time that they have on on the air. And they present it uh in edited form, but basically it doesn't sound edited. They do a great job. It sounds like a full message. uh wish that I would deliver a a twenty six and a half but that airs on Sunday morning. Mine do mine just love for me to talk about. Yeah. Yeah. Not What is that? Why don't people want to hear Anyway, uh that show airs from seven thirty to eight o'clock. I would encourage you to lay uh he doesn't take this uh uh uh maybe as a compliment. I mean it as a compliment. He is the Joel Olstein of Frederick. Oh. Okay, there you go. He's got to look like a little bit. I'm not as tall as that. I'm sure that if we had Joel on this show that you and he he would have a lot of dis disagreements theologically, you know. But uh but anyway, he's just a happy guy. I'm a happy guy. Yeah, you don't think I'm a happy guy? You're a happy guy. It's a nice tie you have on. You're a big pastor. See, that's the way it goes. Anyway, thanks for listening. Thanks for being on the show, you guys. Check us out online, wfmb. com keyword faith. Go to the audio vault, listen to the show on podcast. Encourage you to do that over and over again. I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Povin plumbings, how can we make you smile