Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Povin plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Appreciate you listening this morning. Faith Debate is a show where the truth matters, baby. And we're gonna talk about Uh we're gonna try to make heads and tales of what we think the truth is about a very difficult subject today. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you for being on the panel again today with me. Yeah, you got your spiritual mojo back today, apparently. Ch Todd Westfall is the senior Rowan. There you have it. Shalom Allah. El Shaddai Congregation, a messianic Jewish uh group in Frederick. And um last week We w we started our conversation talking uh well, we started talking about glee on Fox. But then we then we started talking about moving on. About end times. All right. And last week we introduced a word of the week. Last week's word of the week was Roe, that's right. Which means Shepherd. Shepherd. This week's word of the week is eschatology. Eschatological. Eschatology. Or eschatological. We could go with that too, right? So eschatology has things pertaining to having to do with the end times. It's you know, it has to do it's a theological term. So today we're talking about Eschatology, things that are eschatological. Yeah, and you have to smile when you say that. What's the eschatological significance of that? Yes, yes. So if somebody says eschatology, I know what that means So end times. End times biblically speaking is, you know, the All those exactly those are all end time things. If you've read the Left Behind series or seen the Left Behind movies. You know, you people talk about the rapture and you know the church getting you know disappearing from the earth one day. You know, those are all kind of end times ideas. Are they biblical or not? You know, those are the kinds of things that uh that we're addressing. We're not going to get to all of that today. That's too much to t to bite off. But last week we were talking about the role of the nation of Israel, the geopolitical nation state of Israel and its role in end times. And the big question is whether or not they are they have a role in God's purposes as we see in Scripture all the way up to the end times as a geopolitical nation. or if all of the references to them in the Old Testament are now to be understood as referring to the church. Would you say that's right? Yeah, except I'd want to be careful uh because I think it's uh uh I'm sensitive to it because I'm concerned about my view uh of how this ought to be understood. Could be misunderstood m by what you just said. I would um want to say that we shouldn't say that things in the Old Testament are merely pointing to Jesus. Yeah. There are other things they're pointing to too. And there's definitely a role, uh, in in the Bible for the nation of Israel. I mean there's no denying that fact. Oh, there's this nation Israel and there's a role for them, you know? So there's no denying that, but I'm saying that ultimately, or penultimately, you know, it's it's everything is fulfilled in, is pointing to you know, th the the person and work of Jesus Christ. To which I think we're all in agreement. Nevertheless, that means for you what? Well, I want to back up 'cause good what we and go go with the cliffhanger. If you're listening last week, we ended with a cliffhanger and I wanted to point out that, you know, the Old Testament, the Bible, the the biblical narrative doesn't begin with the the story of Abraham. Right. Correct. Right? Yeah. Doesn't even begin with the fall of man. It begins with it begins with creation. Hovering over the waters. Right. It begins with God and and um his most miraculous act. Sure. You know, I would say the second most miraculous act is the uh resurrection and ascension of Jesus Christ. But the most miraculous act m for my money in the Bible is God created everything out of nothing. Yeah. Including the space in which to put it. I mean that's a pretty spectacular miracle. So that's where we start. It's a big bang. Right? And everything is Is everything's great and hunky dory and then you know Adam and Eve they kind of you know decide to do things their own way. Snake. Right. Yeah, and then there's this curse. Yeah. Right. And ever since then, you know, we've been living with the consequences of that curse. Yeah. That's where the Bible starts. Starts with that story. Sure. So in that context Yeah, there's this curse, you know, work's gonna be hard for the man and the woman's gonna, you know, uh have desires for her husband. I understand to mean that she's gonna desire to have her husband's place, that she's gonna not appreciate his leadership uh in the family dynamic and that sort of thing. Childbearing's gonna be painful, you know, those sorts of things. We have a tendency to think of all these negative things. Right. But there's also an incredible promise. And that is that the serpent is going to have his head crushed. Right? He will bruise the heel, but he the that heel's going to crush that serpent. Right? Yeah. And the one that cr who is it that crushes the s the the head of the serpent? Christ. Yeshua. Well the seed of the woman. So by my understanding, the whole rest of the Bible is explaining to us who that seed of the woman is and how God in his providence and care and making all these covenants, all these covenants of promise, are promises for provision of the seed of the woman. Okay, so how is anything that we've been saying different from that? I'm saying that the whole Bible isn't wrapped up in Israel and what's important for Israel and to Israel, they were an important piece and an important incredibly important part of redemptive historical history. Right. But they're that. They're a part of redemptive historical history. The story is so much larger and bigger than that that predates the be the inauguration and beginning of that nation. Okay, but once again I think we're in full agreement with that. So how's that different from what we're saying? So the I'm saying that everything is pointing to Jesus. Yeah. Ultimately. Yeah. Amen. Period. And that's all and that's all that is going to really matter. I'm in full agreement. And we and Israel has As a nation state has played its role. Okay, and that's where we diverge. That's where we would be. Right. And my question has been and you know continues to be Why should we think differently? If the whole point of the Old Testament is that it's pointing to the Lord and Savior Jesus and the fulfillment of those covenant promises in Jesus, everything's about Jesus, centered on Jesus, revolves around Jesus, why do we feel Like we need to interject that back into the story any more than we would interject anything else from the old test. What's interesting, I almost feel like this is similar to Catholicism's emphasis on the Virgin Mary. Why does she matter? Well she matters just because she birthed him. And we're told that all generations will call her blessed. You know, so whether You're you go as far as the Catholics and you say we need to pray to the Virgin Mary, you know, who is an eternal virgin and was conceived immaculately and and uh you know is something of a co-redemptor, which I feel like is is not biblical theology. If y you know, ev whether you go that far or whether you just you know, recognize, you know what? The Virgin Mary played a role that was vital, you know, to the purposes of God and at the end of the day when Christ was hanging on the cross It was very important to him to make sure that she was taken care of. And all I'm saying is that Israel as the original people of God were given the impression that God does the exact same thing for them. And I agree. And I that he's going to take care of them just like Mary was taken care of by John until the end of her life That in the same way until the end of human existence, God is going to take care of Israel in a special way Such that they're still a nation, they still have an identity, and that one day, as it says in Romans eleven, that all Israel will be saved, that they have a special role in history that will remain as a nation, just like Mary had a special role so much that he s gave his most beloved disciples. that God not only will but has already the finished work of the cross provided that special uh provision for his the people of Israel. They already have that covering, that protection, that promise is fulfilled in Christ. There's no need for any additional promise or future fulfillment of that. They already have it, just like the Gentiles now. also have it because they think they can be, according to the Bible using biblical language, they can be grafted into that. That promise remains, but it's still the original tree. It's not like that tree has disappeared and will come back. The tree is still there. It's all right. What is the original tree? The original tree are the chosen people of God, the elect of God. that were typified in the Old Testament by the nation to be an example unto the world. Sure to be a light to the world, yeah. Right, but now but now who's to be an example unto the world and who's a light unto the world but the Christian Both. But a believing Jew is a Christian. Well well you're you're kind of contradicting yourself a little, Troy, because you just said the Gentiles have been engrafted into Israel. Right, who's engrafted into who? Is the church is engrafted in by their faith in the Messiah of Israel? On the cross it said in three languages, King of the Jews. See but we're I I hear what you're saying, but I'm not I don't think I'm contradicting because I'm using the words differently. When I say Israel Right. And I'm talking about the geopolitical nation state of Israel that is different than the people of Israel. But right, but again, it's hard to to tether those two things separately apart. in in the covenants and the things that God has established with Israel as a nation, with Israel as a people, and with Israel as a geographic land. Yeah, yeah. In fact I'm I'm glad for you to split that particular hair because I feel like that hair was split pervasively in the Old Testament When the people of God did not live under the government of God, then they came under the judgment of God, all through the Old Testament. And I'm of the opinion that that's still true today for the nation of Israel. If the nation of Israel, if the Jewish people, who I'm of the opinion are still hold a special place in his uh historical purposes uh i and in his heart because of the covenant because they're like Mary as it were that he's gonna take care of them, he's gonna he he's promised them certain things, that if that's the case, then Then it's not like they're just blessed and that's it, but he treats them just like they he's always treated them. If they reject him and they reject his purposes, then they come under judgment just like they ever did. You know, that that that's always been the case. And and of course God's also doing that currently with the church, but I I don't I don't see a problem with God doing Both of those things at the same time. I believe that the church, and this, you know, makes me semantics, but uh when I think of the church, I think of the church as all believers from all time, including the Old Testament saints. They all make up the body of Christ. They all make up the body of believers who are saved through Christ. So they're all his church. They're all the bride of Christ. I'm comfortable saying that, but Uh Ephesians is very clear that at once you and I, and Todd by the way, Rowway Westfall uh is a uh Gentile, raised a Methodist. Um we're estranged from God. Go ahead. That was never the case for the nation of Israel. They were never estranged from the covenants of promise throughout generation after generation. But you and I Right. Whether they're a nation state or not, they're still not. But you and I have in our pro our our heritage, our forefathers and our great great grandfathers, you know, going back generations all the way back to uh, you know, to to probably the time uh of Noah our our ancestors did not live under the covenants of promise except for Noah's promise and the Adamic covenant and the Noahic covenant, you know, the covenant with Noah, the covenant with Adam. You know, we we lived under those, but we have not lived under any of the other blessing and covenants of God up until Christ came. But in Christ, all those things are yes and amen. I'm saying that the that Israel was never not a part of those. And and so again that's part of what makes them unique. That's what that's what Paul says when he says they have an irrevocable call. They've been, you know, they've been given over to disobedience. for a period of time, we're told till the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled, you know, but then they'll be brought back to repentance and that God seems to it there in Romans give the impression then that there's a I sometimes get the impression that you know anybody who would want and I'm not saying you're saying this about me by the way, but anybody who would would say, well, you know You know, Israel's role was fulfilled in uh in the uh in the first coming of Christ and therefore we don't need to be looking for any future fulfillment or You know, nothing has to happen with a nation state of Israel before Jesus can come again, whatever. But that could sometimes be taken as oh well you're just a Jew hating anti Semite, you know there's no I would never think that or say that. No, but but that that that can be sometimes the concern. It's important to say that. Again, there are those that do have that view for the sake of replacement theology. Uh they're they're much more strong in their view by saying God is done with Israel. Right. And now it's only the church. And if Israel is or the Jewish people are going to have anything, they're going to have to come to the Lord to be part of anything that God is doing. And I'm saying that God has still has a plan for Israel, uh, and even that the new covenant, as Jeremiah said in Jeremiah thirty-one He made a covenant. The new covenant that we look at as the church was made with Israel. Jeremiah said, A new covenant I will make with Israel. So even the new covenant of the coming Messiah, the Christ, was made as Jeremiah spoke in, and he was persecuted for it. I mean he was the weeping prophet because of his Speaking of this new Messiah, this new covenant. But when you talk about, you know, Israel, what are we talking about? Are we talking about the Northern Kingdom? Is Judah considered part of Israel? Well this is precisely what that what I was saying last week. Is it just one of the of the tribes in Ezekiel thirty-seven? What we're told is that he's he's gonna bring them all back to the land He says he there's there's a myriad of prophecies that says, I will return you to the land, Ezekiel thirty-seven being a a key one. Isaiah forty nine. And in that passage he says I'm gonna take ju I'm gonna take the uh uh David, which represents Judah, the tribe of Judah, and I'm gonna take Joseph and I'm gonna bind them together, uh which represents the northern tribes. And so That's precisely the point that that the prophecies seem to give this impression he's gonna pull them all back together. Right. So if the if the idea is that God's gonna pull all of his people together, why can't we understand Israel as the church? If Israel can be a person, because that's the in it's an individual's name, Jacob is named Israel in the Old Testament. If Israel can be a person It can also be a tribe, it can also be the northern half of a kingdom, it can also be an entire kingdom. Why can't we the entire people of God? Sure, and that's what Paul said. Right. A Jew is one who's one inwardly. The circumcision of the heart, he says it earlier in Romans. But what he's talking about here is an understanding, uh a messianic Jewish understanding of the Messiah Um let's give another example. In Acts, the wrestling that went on when Gentiles started flooding into the kingdom, the question wasn't Um, you know, you know, what was the question? Well what are we gonna do with all these Gentiles? Do they have to be circumcised? Do they have to do all of the things that God commanded Israel to do? And the answer was no, because God had made that covenant with Israel. They are still to walk out that covenant. But what did they decide? Well don't eat You know, meet sacrifice to idols, don't you know, commit fornication, adultery, you know, all of the things that came out in Acts fifteen for Gentiles to do. But then he says later on, because I know they will go and they will learn of Moses. They will understand exactly why the Messiah came and how he came. So they would be discipled. Yeah, it seems to me like Like God makes promises to Israel as a nation in the Old Testament. And as you study the context, it's clear w if he's referring to Um uh you know, the whole nation or is just re or oftentimes Israel does refer to the northern ten tribes and Judah refers to the to the southern ten tribes. But if you're paying attention in the context Southern sorry, T tribes, yeah. Judah and Benjamin. If you're paying attention. Very good. Troy. You get an A for the day. Eschatology. End times. That's the word for the day. which part of uh w which Israel he's referring to. But it's also very clear, I feel like, in the Old Testament, when he's referring to the Gentiles. And the fact that he's going to rule over the Gentiles and He's going to bring the Gentiles, you know, to Jerusalem to worship. And the fact of the matter is that he has done that. Christians all over the world, you know, it's not like it's a uh uh uh a uh requirement or a law, but we we all make our uh pilgrimages to Israel You know, to to learn about what happened and how God did it and to s to to study the land. And it seems to me like like s it's not that hard to tell. Which Israeli is talking about when he's talking about it. And yet here we are talking about it. Todd Westfall. All right. Okay. I see the promises that you guys are talking about as promises to Israel, as promises to Abraham. Mm-hmm. Alright, and those promises find their fulfillment ultimately in Christ. Abraham, uh two generations later, uh ends up being, you know, the the the birther of what we now would call the nation of Israel, I guess. And they end up being a picture of Christ. So God sets things up so that they have you know, they have the the uh the priests are set up and Christ is the perfect priest. They end up having a king and Christ is the perfect king. You know, they have all of the they have the they have the the law and Christ is the perfect fulfillment of the law. You have all these things that are so the promises to Abraham The people that follow two generations later in the individual Jacob who then births the nation of Israel then typify what is to come in Christ, and once Christ comes and fulfills what's typified That role, it seems to me, would have played itself out. Not that the d that the the um people of Israel, the I hate to say Jews because it makes it seem like I'm living with Judah. It's hard to find the right language here. The Israelites sound too old. Yeah, okay, the the not that the Hebrews, the Jews, the Israelites don't still have a role. It's not like God has thrown them away. I don't see that anything has changed. God made a promise to Abraham. That promise to Abraham is that the world will be blessed in the same uh because of the same reason that God Abraham's being blessed through faith. Sure. His faith is accounted to him as righteousness. So then this nation set apart to be an example and a light unto the world is set up. And we have examples like Rahab, for example, who is not a Hebrew. But was grafted in, if you will, in the Old Testament as part of the nation of Israel. Sure. So the the the nation of Israel representing the people of Israel Has people joining it who then are also identified with the people of Israel and hence therefore also called Israelites It's the same deal in the New Testament. There's just a heck of a lot more Gentiles grafted in now. Right. And so the people of Israel are still the people of Israel. Okay. And it feels like again we're all in agreement with that. I feel like uh it's diminishing actually Um Christ. Yeah. Yeah, well this is interesting because at the end of the day, um Calvinists uh feel like you're diminishing the sovereignty and the glory of God if you give human h uh give us any human free will whatsoever, any uh any choice in the in in salvation. And uh hyper Calvinists would hyper Calvinists No, well well I I think they would agree with me that they are passionate to make sure that God gets the glory that He deserves. But they don't minimize human uh uh responsibility and and to impassion it to magnify the glory of God. Well I think I think they would agree with that. And my point is is that is that I feel like the same thing's true here. Uh I don't see any um uh conflict with recognizing that God is going to do something unique with Gog and Magog. in the end times. That God's going to do something unique with uh with uh with Temen and and uh people that He's gonna bring in for Armageddon for the for the great final battle. That God's gonna do something unique, say with uh uh uh w with the way that he interacts with China, with the way that he interacts with with uh people down in Africa, that he that that God interacts with each group of people on the face of the earth unique. And all I'm saying is that the uniqueness of his relationship with Israel means that in history They're going to continue to play a unique role. And so there's a historical thing that he's doing there where gaga may guy is gonna be one thing. But I'm gonna agree that the peop People will play an important role, but not necessarily the nation state. Any more than I believe that a modern day nation state called Babylon will play a role in end times. Just because the same word is used, I think it's representing something different. Babylon in the Old Testament maybe is pointing to the idea of how Babylon is used in the New Testament. Well I definitely would say that that that the Israel the contemporary Israel that we're talking about is definitely different in its governmental structure and everything that it's doing now. Yeah. Well absolutely. One of the most secular humanist governments on the planet. Absolutely. And that's why they need the Lord. That's why they need the gospel. That's why people that we know are there preaching the gospel in Hebrew and holding up Isaiah 53 and say, who's he talking about here? You know, uh he's talking about your Messiah. But It plays a role because God said in the end times all of the earth is the the the nations are gonna come against Israel in the great battle. There's gotta be an Israel and a nation for that to take place. Mm well, do you think it's gonna take place in the Middle East? Maybe. I don't know that it has to. I mean think about this. See this is the thing, all of your maybes the language happened to be playing out historically. Israel is a nation again. And it does seem that the the the Middle East is the is the focus of all of the major, you know, whether it's atheism in the UN, like you're saying, Israel itself being very atheist or in in in Islam it seems like everything's focused on you know what's going on there. Maybe that's that's why We lean in that direction. We're historically um uh stuck because there's so much going on in that part of the world right now. What happens if somehow, twenty years from now, the nation state of Israel ceases to exist Mahmoud Abdimajad, you know, follows through on his threat and he he turns modern day Israel into a crater, you know, and the and the uh waters of the Mediterranean Sea sweep over it and now it's just the It's the um west bank of the Middle East where the Mediterranean meets Iraq or something or Jordan or whatever. I mean, what happens then? Well I believe it in what you're talking about, God that would be the time where we would see God intervene and the Messiah return. Which brings us to the end times. What do we believe about the end times? Right, exactly. Because at this stage of the ball game, Israel is a nation, a nation state that is returned and they've come from all nations of the world. And that's never happened anywhere else in history. The language that was very unique. There's the sense that even though they've returned to the land that they have not returned to the Lord and so we're all anticipating what's yet to happen. Where are we? And in eschatology, and that's the big question. Well we have to wrap up the show here in a second. I'm gonna say that I'm gonna completely concede that God has a special plan and purpose and role. for even modern day nation state Israel. Okay. Just like God has a special plan and role for every existing modern day. Yeah. But would you also concede that that his role his uh his design for them that we're given some uh clarity about that particular design in scripture. Whereas that's not necessarily the case. I think that my read particularly what Paul writes in Romans, you know, uh about his brethren Jews. Yeah, you know. Um I don't think there's any denying that God has a special place in his heart for the Jewish people. I don't know that I that I would necessarily need to extend that to uh a Jewish nation state. I think maybe that's where there's maybe kind of where the divide is. And that might be a reasonably good place for us to pause and there's a lot of Orthodox Jews that agree with you, and that's why many of them fought against Israel becoming its own state in nineteen forty eight. The Orthodox Jews are smart individuals. Anyway, Jonathan Swife, your senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, thank you very much for being on the show again. Todd Westfall The senior Rowet at uh probably putting too much emphasis on that road. No, you're hitting it right. I'm trying anyway. You know, I'm man of white showing off the letters and wheel of fortune. Yeah, yeah, you don't want to see that. Anyway, uh I'm Troy Skinner. This has been the Frederick Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMB. Thanks for listening. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Work Call Putmint Plumbing that's with a pea as in your preferred plumber. Put in plumbing, how can we make you smile