Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plum and plumbing, how can we make you smile? Frederick Faith Debate, I'm Troy Skinner and uh I've been pilted by a cap. What kind of cap would this uh be called? Uh I don't know, an Irish what sort of Irish does it say with a you know, it's like a golf cap. I know. It's a uh sixty five percent That's right. And apparently the stock the spot clean only. And of course, you know, Halima's got a uh it's a very Philadelphia kind of a hat, right? And uh yeah, there you go. What's it called? What's it called? Vero Fodero. See my my my my sister in Christ, she knows the the Federo. It's Federo. I I don't know what it's called. I just call it fli uh flip to the side. That's it. And Vera's wearing a hat. And Vera's wearing a hat. What what kind is that? What do you call it? No name, no name. No name. Yeah, we all decided we're having a bad hair today day today. I looked over at Troy and realized that that he he was too, so I threw on my hat just for the helmet of uh salvation. Oh so spiritual. Anyway Anyway, Jonathan Swife, your senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week, third week in a row. Third week in a row. Tima Harrison and Vera Bagley with Angel Link Transportation and We Are One Body Ministries. The last two weeks we talked specifically about the the two ministries that you guys are involved with and we'll still probably be touching on some of those, but we're gonna maybe talk a little more generally. And in between shows, between last week and this week's show We're talking about, you know, in case you've missed the last couple of weeks' show, I don't want to force you to go online and listen to the to the podcast. Go online and listen to the podcast. If you g if y you know, if you can at avo at all avoid the pain. You know, we don't want you to have to do that. Listening to the show once is plenty. Uh but we are one body ministries is a traveling Bible study. Uh and you go around and and you facilitate Bible studies and train people up so that they can maybe continue the Bible studies uh after you move on to other locations, that sort of thing. Interesting concept. Yeah. Why is there a need for this? And then uh after the show was over, Jonathan you know was talking about you know, George Barno with J Barnard Research was talking about this and that and doesn't mean this backlash against the mega churches and I want to steal all the thunder. Can you kind of recall that? Uh that that basically argued that the church is not living up to its uh its mission from Christ to build disciples and that that what was gonna happen was that uh I'm forgetting the name of the book. One of them was called Pagan Um and there then there was a another one called Unchurched. I think Unchurched was was uh was Barnes. And uh and the gist of the book was that that we're seeing this major backlash. of people rejecting the mega churches because they were going to mega churches that had these great ministries and, you know, this really hot pulpit and uh, you know, great music ministry and dramas and You know, flash, flash, and you know, it felt really good, but that at the end of the day they felt like they got lost and that they weren't a part of a community of believers and so they're They're going back home and they're starting Bible studies in homes. They're calling it the home church movement, saying that, you know, that that's the way it was in the New Testament Uh in fact in the New Testament you f you find the phrase in the temple and from house to house. They seem to do both. You know, and so at some level there should be both. But unfortunately there there seems to be this backlash. And Barna, who for so many years has had his finger on the pulse of the Church of the United States uh just a couple of years back was basically arguing that we're gonna see a ton of movement in that direction. You put that together with with the the technological revolution that's happened since two thousand. I mean we all have cell phones, we're all on the internet, Facebook is a networking tool, you know, blogs, all these kinds of things. We we're in a w the the environment has changed and so the move towards people doing their own thing small But they've got all the resources of the internet, you know. They they they've got Bibles, they got Bible studies, you know, they got all these things they can tap into so they can look professional in a small group. and really do a good job and so there seems to be movement in that direction. And it's interesting because on the one hand it feels like well it's a good thing You know, the the smaller, really relational, connected bodies of believers, that's a good thing. And yeah, there's a New Testament perhaps model there for but you know In the New Testament there's also I mean the churches in Asia, for example, were tied together by letters from Paul or letters from John or there was still like this superchurch Yeah. Right. So the first question somebody would ask you is, okay, so you're ready to get back together with the Catholic Church and submit to the Pope? Well I'm not going to submit to the Pope. Okay. There's all these rubber. There's these doctrinal things that we've we've split over. But now it's not going to be doctrinal things Okay. Practical things, technological things. We're not going to split over um believers only baptism versus infant baptism. We're not going to split over uh the body and blood of Christ are literally present versus it's merely a symbol or a sign. We're not we're not gonna split over the Pope is infallible or not. You know, we're not gonna split over those sorts of things. We're gonna split over um well it's a lot easier just to do church via my thumbs texting back and forth. You know, I I did church for an hour today. I texted a hundred people's my favorite Bible verses. That was church. And it was spiritual. And I got a lot out of it. And you know, one of the concerns really is Yeah, right. The problem there, Troy, is that you have never tried that. It's not what we get out of it. True. Right? So this is precisely the difficulty. Those guys in my church that text They do it so often that you can't even imagine how connected. I mean there's really a deep sense of being connected when people are texting back and forth throughout the day. wherever two or more gathered. They're not gathered. They're on their phones texting back and forth. That's not gathered? No. That's not connecting, you know Praying for you, here's a verse for you. I don't want to overstate it too much, but think about it. You know, in in first John. First John. Right? John write or for we we I believe that John wrote first John. Two thousand years ago. John, the apostle John, he talks about you know the testimony of uh of their witness of Christ. Yeah. They saw him, they heard him, they listened to him, right? Yeah, but they can they see him on their cell phone, touched him. They can't touch. But they can do everything else. Alright, so would you like to have a marriage where you and your wife never actually see or touch one another? You just text back and forth? Would you like to have a virtual marriage? I wouldn't. That is not a relationship. It's a virtual relationship. It has to start somewhere. I mean people are getting married over the internet. They're meeting their mates now over the internet. So I mean it's taken off. It sure can have its place and it can start there, but it certainly can't end there. And my point is it can't start somewhere else and go there. That's not the ideal. It's a tool that can use to get us where we want to be, but the ideal is we're together. Ideal is precisely shoulders to cry on Show me Agree with me, otherwise I'm gonna go over here and cry on Helena's shoulder. That would be nice. Which I could do because she's here. Yes. I think you should do that. And then they can like God gave us bodies for a reason. Yes, yes. We're not these disembodied thumbs floating through the universe. Show me the point in point in history at which the church was ideal The point in history uh is when Christ returns. When cr yes. Yes, and then we will all be caught up to be with him in heaven. He's not gonna attack you Forever. He's gonna actually physically show up. He does kind of text. But it's not the ideal. Well, in a sense though, he he tabernacles within us, and so we do have his presence and he so it is a f uh it's a physical, real, spiritual anyway. Physical? Hmm. I don't know, I gotta think about that how to slice that one. For example, when Paul wrote a letter and they passed it around to everybody and he could not be with them, but he said I'm with you in spirit Uh is is there a spiritual transaction that's going on between Paul and the churches that was reading that were reading his letter? Right, but then they called together they came together and the letters were read to them as a body and it it His letters didn't replace personal interaction. And that would be my fear with the direction that our society is going. And if the church buys into that, my fear would be that the church would end up being all of these individuals having their own individual spiritual experience Helena, wouldn't this have a surprising debate and I'm enjoying it because I'm gonna I I've got a couple thoughts, but go ahead, Helena, you first. No, but you know It it's not about buying into it, but it's just to start to get 'em, you know. It's like the bait come on, you know, w this is what it's here for. And then you can bring 'em together, you know, the but it's it's not I don't believe that the ten the technology is what keeps you current. You know, people have to relate to something. Absolutely. You want to be relevant? Absolutely. There's two things though that I want to make the point. One And I don't want us to get bogged onto this unless Jonathan or Bara wanna come after me on it. But I do believe that we gotta be careful because oftentimes what it takes to get 'em is what it takes to keep 'em. So you gotta so if you start there you might you might end up there whether you want to stay there and this has always been the church's fear with fellowship of Christian athletes or something like that. They get caught by going to Fellowship Christian athletes and then when they show up in the church it's like well this isn't quite what Fellowship Christian athletes was. That was all athletes, but here I got a bunch of people that aren't athletes. But the thing I'm I gotta deal with them too. The thing I'm reacting to is the You know, what Jonathan was saying about the Barner, George Barner research group stuff, saying that it it's his opinion that maybe the direction the church is going is the church is going to explode into these splinters that are going to be so Fine. It's an ask. Let me ask you is there global warming or is there not? Yes. Yes. But but what has it been? I think your opinion, if I know you well, it's a cycle. It comes and it goes. It comes and it goes. I know where you where where you stand on that and we've talked often enough. Well, I think the same thing is true has always been true about the church. There's been times in history where the church has come together and the unity was so strong that it was uh overbearing even And so poof things broke out. And then people come back together, you know, and then they break break out. And so the so I think we're gonna we we we've had a mega church Period of time that that has been a swing and I I think we're just going to experience another swing. And and until Christ retor returns We're going to keep getting a swing. You know, it'll be a swing towards charismatic churches, and then a swing back to more uh more more uh you know, strict churches, and then a s and then a swing back to to uh we'll probably even see a swing back to mo monasteries. Are are you saying that uh Christians are a bunch of swingers? What are you saying? I'm saying that we've been swinging for a long time. By the way, you you asked me I'm not sure why you chose Constantine, uh if that was when the church was at its ideal, because I would say that the era of Constantine is when the church fell off the tracks. Well that's precisely why I brought it up because Some people are of the opinion that that was that was a major high watermark for the church. The church had conquered the the uh Roman Empire and had finally won so that Constantine, the very emperor of the Empire, would have to say, these guys are are the the best religion for the entire nation. I mean, it was pretty incredible time. The Diocletian who was emperor right before that for ten years, vile, ugly persecution And Constantine comes in, I'm sure for at least five five years plus, everybody was like, Woohoo, you know, look what God did. This is the triumph of the kingdom of God. And then people, you know, and us hindsight is twenty twenty You know, we're just, you know, happen to think that we're seeing hindsight 2020 uh forward. Did I say that right? Foresight, you know. Uh but the point is is that is that the new technologies are not going to go away People connect. People connect lit listen on on a cell phone, people are talking back and forth all day long. I'll have a conversation with somebody over the over the course of a couple hours that it is as if I sit in the off in the same office where they work and I walk by every couple of hours and say, hey, what about blah blah blah? And they'll be like, well, blah, blah, blah. And then I'll blow on and finish what I'm doing and then you know, and then they'll walk by my office and they'll say something. Facebook is the same kind of thing. It is so ubiquitous that where it used to be that you work with a certain group of people and then you you fellowship with another group of people and then you've got your family in a different place That's not the case anymore. Everybody is able to be connected all the time and so they're able to communicate. And so there's actually more togetherness, not less as a result of that. And all I'm saying is that I think these things are not going to go away and that in the process of adapting we're going to see some swings. Yeah, but my concern would be, and you guys feel free to jump into our argument here anytime Ladies. Does that make me the more progressive one and you the reactionary today? A couple weeks ago I called you traditional. I gotta retract that. difference does it make? If it's Facebook, if it's texting, as long as we all get the knowledge. I mean about the church? I mean we're all mini churches. Uh meal that's comprise uh an important part of the meal is Ezekiel bread or Big Mac and fries It's food, the person's hungry, let's give them something to eat. But these relationships that are virtual, they're texting, Facebook oriented kind of relationships, yeah you're connected and there's a relationship there. We're more connected and more relational at some point but they're empty calories. Who's to say they're empty calories? I think they're meaning meaningful relationships with some of these folks. Meaningful. Constant interaction all day long Welcome to the new age of technology. See this the thing. I would say that uh you've got you got people that you consider your closest friends. You've got people that you consider friends, you got s people that you consider acquaintances, you got people that you consider, you know, co-workers, you know, but but you wouldn't necessarily call 'em a a friend. You've got different kinds of people in your life, right? The reality is that the people that are your closest friends, um, the the quality of your interaction with those people is what makes them the closest friend. And according to Proverbs, the pleasantness of one's friendship springs from their earnest counsel. You know, when you're when you're in a trouble, you know, like like the The snow happened. And it was very interesting. All of my brothers and sisters in Christ were far enough away that there's no way that they could have come and helped me to dig out. And I I couldn't have gotten to them to help them either. And and Proverbs says, better a neighbor nearby than a brother far away. Right? And so all of a sudden I knew my neighbors super well for a couple of days 'cause we're all digging each other out and we're talking, you know, and it we just couldn't go anywhere. We were stuck. And and and my point is is that is that we have different levels of relationships It doesn't mean that I'm less of a neighbor. It doesn't mean that I'm less of a good uh acquaintance to somebody, but the quality of the friendship springs from their earnest counsel, from them being there for you when you need help. And the reality is that somebody could be there for you to have a shoulder to cry on via uh via Skype from I I've got a friend uh that's over in Germany. My wife's been connecting with her. We Uh we were their their youth pastor back in Chicago and has been connecting with her and literally having a cry on your shoulder kind of a conversation for the last uh couple of weeks that that I'm just like, wow, is that incredible? And they see each other on Skype and they talk and they cry. So you're gonna tell me that United Airlines got it wrong? Remember that commercial back in I think it was the nineteen eighties probably. Might have been the nineties. I think it was the eighties though. You know what I'm talking about? There's a commercial where The the CEO or whatever steps up and says, I just got a phone call from our longest client. And he's not doing business with anymore. He doesn't feel like he knows us. And then the the United Airlines part is he then gives airline tickets to his entire staff and says We're all gonna go out and see our clients in person, face to face. And he holds up his ticket and says, and I'm gonna lead the way. I'm gonna go meet with that longtime client who just canceled his business with us. You know how you got it wrong? We don't need to do that? That's not important anymore? I'm saying that that the connection is the key and that sometimes that connection requires face to face and sometimes it does not. I'm I'm saying that that that the way that the technology is going, that we're gonna we're gonna be surprised by how often that does not. I'll say this, though, that the best relationships will always have a face-to-face element to them. I I think we're agreeing probably. We're maybe disagreeing on a matter of emphasis. By the way, Jonathan Pweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross House Valley Chapel. Uh, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate, and this week We're joined by Vera Bagley and uh Halima Harrison with Angel Wings Transportation and We Are One Body Ministries. And uh this week it's Three against one. They're all ganging up on me. My fear would be that we would end up settling for something less. We would end up filling our lives and become so busy with these less than ideal relationships. These interpersonal strong relationships and settle for Facebook, settle for textbooks. But see that's when we rely only on ourselves. Like for instance when bef uh when I first got saved I started uh just uh bar watching T V, t watching the televangelists and then Holy Spirit spoke to me, Okay, it's time for you to go to church. So You know, and then I evolved into going to church and and what we're saying is that, you know, the connection can be made initially, you know, to be that shoulder to cry on maybe I'm not in I'm from Philadelphia, so I have a lot of people on Facebook from Philadelphia. I can't go to Philadelphia right away, but you have a crisis. I can be there for you virtually. And then you know, as the connection is made, as we are one body does the traveling we can come to you, you know, uh and and maybe give you that face to face time. And we're not saying to totally, you know, remove the face to face But it's just at least the uh option to have in order to facilitate what God wants us to do, you know, to be there for each other. It's just another option. Just like a telephone. My wife has her kids at home. And when she's got her kids at home and she wants to go meet with another lady, she's got to get in the car, get all the kids in the car, and go meet with this other lady and then spend time and then get all her kids back in the car and then come home. It's It's a lot of work. It's a lot of it's a lot of difficulty to get back and forth. And uh in everybody around town. I mean everybody that's got kids, that's why they call 'em soccer moms, because you got to get in the car and go drive here and get in the car and go drive there Kids can't go to everything that they do unless they're driven. They have to be driven. That's the only way to get there. Well, technology has created this environment where all you know Soccer mom uh crazy and and the soccer mom backlash is the the text messaging, Facebook Now all these soccer moms can be on Facebook and they can connect with one another. They can be like, ah, I gotta go see you, you know, or or you know, this is what I'm doing now, you know, what are you doing now? And and and there's that sense of sharing their lives with one another while they're Buzzing all over town trying to keep up. And the point is is that is that for a lot of people their relationships have improved because they can connect in those kinds of ways. Maybe in some s specific situations you could make that up, but on the whole, in general, that something's lost. When there's not the personal touch, the personal face to face touch. Something is lost. I mean, we are one body. We're trying to do both. I mean you have to think about Writing people personal letters. When is the last time you actually sat down and wrote someone a personal letter is you know, it was longer than two sentences. ha probably haven't done that. So I don't even email more than two sentences. Well it it's evolved. I'll write, you know, a half a dozen to a dozen lines in a thank you note to somebody. Does that count? You are in the minority. That's the problem So you might need to eat. Do you have a Facebook page? We gotta get him a Facebook page. I don't have a Facebook page actually. No. I Then how can you meet the people with the other thing? Does your wife? Hmm? Does your wife she doesn't? My daughter does. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I don't. Yeah. All of my guy friends, I kid you not, have have kicked and screamed about not having a Facebook page. And I've watched them one after another. They finally realize they have to. I think that my point would be if if I'm gonna have a uh I'll probably someday have either a Facebook page or something like it. And for the longest time I was maintaining pretty actively the faith debate page and that was kind of like my Facebook page in a sense. That's where I would put post things and people could email me and I would post their things and whatever, that sort of thing. So Some of that was taking place. I'm not doing that anymore, so there is maybe a void there that I'll have to think about addressing, honestly. But the point in doing that would be to meet them where they are and then minister in such a way that you bring them to where they should be and where we where we as a relationship need to be. I'd my concern is that we would settle for the Facebook relationship. And say, well well it's just as good. You know, again I find myself it's better. Yeah. And it's not better. Go ahead. Yeah, I agree with John what he said earlier, you know, some relationships require face to face I mean Vera is my bosom buddy. I need to see her at certain times. But there's certain times in which tech Texting or if we're working on the businesses, you know, I'm the talker. I love to call her. Well if we're working on the business, we can text or email each other. But it it really is a discernment of of the relationship the person if I hadn't went to high school with you twenty years ago and I find you on Facebook, well god you know, golly, I just made a connection with you. You know, and you start there and evolve it, but you know, intimate relationship with friends. I agree with you, Troy, and you have to have the face to face. But sometimes you just you know, I mean w We're agreeing with you what we're disagreeing where. It seems like you're just saying, forget Facebook at all, you know we don't need it. I'm I'm not saying forget it, but I am saying if If we're going to settle for that, then forget it. I'd rather not have Facebook at all than have people settle for both. Because the best relationship certain relationships uh require the face-to-face. And he went on to s to describe really, because I was going to ask you a follow-up question, but I don't need to now, to describe what those certain relationships are. The intimate relationships. Well guess what? What are the best kind of relationships? Intimate relationships. So if we don't have intimate relationships, we will forget what true, godly relationship really is. And the definition of an intimate relationship, I think is where you bear your heart to the individual so that they know what you're really going through, what you're really thinking, and you allow them into the innermost part where they can counsel with you about the most important parts of your life And from my experience, amazingly, that can happen through technology I agree because you know I had uh one of the responses I had from my daily dishes. Someone just put a notification on my page and said, Haleima, you don't you won't realize how much you just saved me from myself just by having a word of God to go out. Now I don't know what she went through. I don't know what was but I know there was a seed that was planet. And you know, and in that I was able to follow up with her, you know, and just say, hey, is everything okay with her? And though I may not have been there face to face with her, that still was like me reaching my hand out to her and touching her through a time that she may have been going through. And it was through the technology. You know, like for example, shouldn't it be that you and I uh would would all go to church with our neighbors instead of all going to different churches and uh you know if we're trying to get to the ideal. Man, we started settling for broken relationships and not connecting with our neighbors a long time ago. I mean we're so far from the ideal that I feel like I feel like for us to pitch our fork here to draw a line and say this far and no further, you know, is uh You know, like G. K. Chesterton said, his goal, his his calling life was to was to stand athwart progress and yell, Stop! Stop! You know, well well I agree, we need to do that. That's the conservative impulse. It's a godly impulse, you know, that that all this progress is destroying our relationships, but at the same time, the reality is that is that we gotta we gotta adapt to the way that things are somehow. We gotta we gotta participate in where people are right now. And I'm not going to say that we should pitch our fork in one particular place and that one and only particular place and live and die there. Sure, sure. I think we pitch our fork in all the places it needs to be pitched. And live and die in all of those places. And if we've surrendered too much ground in the past, shame on us for that. We need to correct those problems too. Anyway, we're out of time. So we're gonna end with the three of them being wrong, me being right. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Faith Debate. Uh Halima Harrison, Vera Bagley, Jonathan Sweitzer with Angel Wings Transportation, we are one body ministries and crossroads valley chapel. Uh in that order if you match up the names with the organizations. Thanks for listening. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P, as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?