This is the Current Face Debate on Freddiex News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumming Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? I'm proud to once again introduce Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossers Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, to talk about this. They whom God has accepted in his beloved, eventually called and sanctified by his spirit, can neither totally nor finally fall away from the state of grace, but shall Certainly persevere therein to the end and be eternally saved. This perseverance of the saints depends not upon their own free will, but upon the immutability of the decree of election flowing from the free and unchangeable love of God the Father upon the efficacy and of the merit and intercession of Jesus Christ, the abiding of the Spirit and the seed of God within them, and the nature of the covenant of grace. From all which arises also the certainty and infallibility thereof. Nevertheless they may, through the temptations of Satan and of the world Now the prevalence of corruption remaining in them, and the neglect of the means of their preservation, fall into grievous sins, and for a time continue therein, whereby they incur God's displeasure. And grieve his Holy Spirit, come to be deprived of some measure of their graces and comforts, have their hearts hardened and their consciences wounded, hurt And scandalize others and bring temporal judgment upon themselves. What in the heck does that all mean? Is that even English? Once saved always saves, right? It's unbelievable how f how it changes over time. But that's pretty much what it's saying. This is a chapter seventeen of the Westminster Confession of Faith, uh of the perseverance of the saints. Which basically is saying A Christian can do nothing to lose his salvation, because salvation is not up to the person anyway, but rather it's up to God still the Christian can commit horrible sins which will bring bad things, discipline as a consequence. So I'm anticipating we'll have some disagreement on the panel this week. Whoa, you are one prognosticator. I just amazing your powers. All of a sudden feel like you are prophetic. Although you know he no Nostradamus gets all this, you know, credit of the w what's he said lately? Yeah, he hasn't really given any good predictions lately. Nothing lately from that guy. Very good point. Uh so anyway. All right, so once saved, always saved. The Saints persevered to the bitter end What say you, Jonathan Schweitzer? Uh no. What say you, Dr. Jes Broadhurst? Well, I would certainly say yes. Um I we knew that that was going to come to that. Yes and no, of course. And I mean really it's based on uh what we've been talking about for the first whatever how many chapters we've been doing here, sixteen. The same topic will keep coming up. So from the logical argument of it, which is probably why not where we're going to go because we spent so much time with that If we're totally depraved, and it is to if, I'm saying, as the Westminster would say, not as Jonathan would say, or we're radically depraved, as I as I kind of planted it a little bit. And we cannot come to Christ and we will not want to. We have no desire whatsoever to come to Him and He has to breathe life into us in order for us to even repent and have faith in Him to begin with. If all of those are the case then it would be crazy logically to say that we could give all that up since we didn't do anything to gain it to begin with. So the logical argument at least flows. Now I understand why you wouldn't agree with the logical arc I mean or you'd agree with the logic probably, but it's not relevant because none of the premises to begin with are right for you. Right, right. I would disagree with some of the premises. But if the premises are right for Westminster, then it only makes sense that you couldn't give up your salvation or somebody else could God is the one who is sovereign holding you his hand and he's the one who pulled you out of that to begin with. So I think we probably agree on the logic. Now we gotta deal with the premises. Absolutely. Which we've been dealing with for the last sixteen shows, of course. So why do you say no? Uh the reason why I say no is because um well number one, premise number one uh is not that only a certain number of people are going to be saved that was decided from before the creation of the world, but that all those who will accept the message of the preaching of the gospel of Christ, all those that will respond. Faith comes by hearing, hearing by the Word of God, all those that hear and respond, that they are choosing to respond to the grace of Christ. uh the the the grace of God through Christ Jesus. And so that being the case, there is a role that the individual plays in choosing to follow Christ. And in the same sense, uh then they can choose to walk away, but that Christ, once they've come that that Christ will not allow height nor depth nor things present or things to come or any powers to separate them from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus. And so So in as much as it is is uh God's responsibility, uh God will not let us down and will not fail. And so uh as long as we continue to trust in his grace, then it is true that we will be saved. If however we choose to walk away, we choose to turn our back on the Lord, then at that point uh the Lord is not obligated uh to um keep us in his purposes we can uh we can walk away just like the Jews did as uh they were his elected people in Romans. So he says, I lay down my life for my sheep, my sheep, very specific. These were the ones who gave to me, I pray for them, I pray not for the world, I'm not praying for them, but only for those who have given who've been given to me. So this group of people, which is what you kind of premised it with, that you didn't agree that he died only for those that he chose. I I think those verses argue for that. But then we get into the the eternal security part of it. First Peter, right, with the um um the incorruptible, undefiled, undef un uh unfading, reserved in heaven. That uh the ones that he holds, not spoiling, not faith kept in heaven for you, who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that's ready to be revealed in the last time. If God is the one shielding them, but apparently for you, that shield is only good for outside threats. So if you inside the shield want to reject God, then you can. Is that I'm just stating what I think you said. Yes. Right? So nobody else can get in, can snatch you out of the hand. Yes. But you can reject God once you're inside. Yeah. Okay. That's what I'm saying. And I'm saying that based off of Romans eleven. Where uh verse twenty-one it says, If God did not spare the natural branches, he will not spare you either. Verse 20 said, They were broken off because of unbelief. You stand by faith, don't be arrogant but be afraid. And so my point is that is that somehow we have to take the passage that you just read. Which is absolutely one hundred percent true that Christ said, I have lost none of those that you have given to me. Mm-hmm. Meaning he ha he has done his job and he has not been uh negligent or unfaithful or or weak uh in following through with uh with his responsibility to come and to win all those whose hearts were turned towards God, who were in in the place to to receive the message of the gospel. As many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God. And I'm saying that we have to balance that off against the fact that that Paul is saying that many Jews were broken off of the tree of God's salvation precisely because they chose to not believe. And I'm saying that the same thing could happen just even where it says in Hebrews that uh that it's impossible for those who've once been enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, who have shared in the Holy Spirit, who have tasted the goodness of the Word of God and the powers of the coming age, if they fall away. to be brought back to repentance because to their loss they're crucifying the Son of God all over again, subjecting him to public disgrace. There seems to be this this additional perspective that the Word of God says that one We can't be lost. Once we're in, we're in. Right. But that we can walk away. So then what do you do with First John chapter 2? Where John says they went out from us. Who went out from us were never really a part of us to begin with. And that's how he explains that. So what do you do with that passage? Yeah, I would say that um that this is precisely what makes it so difficult. And what about that it would appear that there are passages that seem to contradict one another. And I'm of the opinion that they don't, and that all the passages must be embraced fully. And so clearly it's true that the Jews that chose to not believe were not of God and they were broken off because of their unbelief. Okay, well so you're making a connection from old covenant to new covenant. Do you see any distinctions between the old and the new covenant? I mean we're talking about the old Jews being cut off. Now we're talking about people under Christ. Which I hope is a little different even for you. I think I'm not the one that's making that distinction. that's making the distinction between the old and the new covenant. Paul is saying Paul is saying they were broken off because of unbelief. You stand by faith, you being Christians. Paul Paul is drawing the connection between the old covenant and the new covenant. And so I'm saying in this sense, Paul seems to feel like there's a continuity. And if that's the case then I'd like to stand with Paul on that. Well, but Romans continues in other places, right? I mean who shall separate us? And it's not just Yeah. And that's actually before it's Romans eight. And it's anybody. It it's not it it goes through all of creation. It doesn't say all of creation except for you yourself. Yeah. It includes Everything. We know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him, who've been called according to his purpose, and I think that's key, who love him, it seems to me. In fact, uh Paul says this uh uh Uh in Ephesians he says you also were included in Christ when? When you believed. Having believed you were sealed. The the the moment of belief, the including in Christ, has to do with the choosing to believe. So Christ lost none of those that chose to believe in him. And so so what I'm saying is that is that those passages have to be held in the fullness of what they mean, and uh in whatever our theological construct must be, then we have to Uh we have to make allowances for all those. And so like the the one in John, uh where it says that they that they went out from us and it showed that they were not among us, well the same language is used also for those uh that where where Jesus says to the Jews who were his elect ones, and this is the key word I think that that that connects us with our beliefs about uh uh eternal calling and and uh predestination that the elect ones he looked at him he said that you are not of the Father in heaven, but you're of your father the devil. And so apparently people that are in the covenant, that are the covenant people of God, whether it's Old Testament or New Testament, according to Paul can choose to walk away from that. No question. Okay. So now we need it we need some definitions of covenant because i for New Testament covenant, the covenant people of God are the church. Right? So now we have to define what we mean by church. Are we talking about the visible church or the invisible church that those people can walk away? For because you mentioned the Hebrews passages, and we can just deal with all of them probably in one fell swoop, probably just for sake of time. But these warnings, are they for Christians or are they for the church? Now I could define church as those people who are gods. But I can also define it as you and I know, as we look out on our congregations, I'm guessing we also give them, uh, every once in a while, at least in your church, you say You know, if there's anybody here who doesn't know Jesus, now is your time, you know, to come forth. Because you're you're not stupid. I mean we all aren't not naive. We know there are people out there that are playing games. So these Hebrews warning passages might be might be talking about the future, saying, Hey look, look I I know there are people here that are just look Nice. And so the covenant people that God is speaking of here are those people within the church that are looking good, the Jews in the Old Testament, that looked good, but they weren't all of him. They're not all Israel who are Israel. Right. So I I I see this covenant idea that you're talking about as as as the church. And within the church we've got these two different groups of people. Some that are Christians and some that aren't Christians. And those who are Christians will stay strong, will and I wouldn't even call it perseverance. Um I would probably change a little bit to preservation, that God will hold them tight. Philippians 1 6, he's faithful to perfect us to complete what is he's begun in this till the day. I mean, he's going to be the one who's faithful, not me. If it was up to me and my persevering, then truly I wouldn't be able to do it. But since he brought me there to begin with, and you agree with that even, that that he's the one who saved us, then why would he let go of us? Why is it up to the same thing? I'm saying he would let go of us in the same sense that he let go of Adam and Eve and Cain and Abel back in the day, or uh any anyone else down through the ages. that he is not a God that is out to manipulate and control, but he is a God who requires us to choose him and to choose him fully and one hundred percent. And so if Uh if we are in Christ and then Those aren't the only two distinctions though. I just want to make sure that our hearers understand it's not just a manipulating and controlling God versus those who let him choose. Right. I don't think I've ever been arguing for manipulating God. At the end of the day I I would have to say that that I feel like the God that is described by Calvinism is a God that um that is not willing to let people uh make their own decisions. He's making the decisions for them and that at the end of the day, uh it is a uh a God who uh who has made us robots. Wow. Maybe actually that's that's been a distinction that that that I've made from the beginning. If he decided for us whether or not we're gonna be saved And we didn't we didn't have a choice in the matter, then he's the decider. Then we are simply what he made us. There was no choice. There's no there's no joy in that. There's no uh there there's no um ownership. I am what he made me and it's just the way it is. So I might as well sit in my pew and do a bunch of nothing. You know, that's that's why the frozen chosen is so often applied in that context because because we didn't have to do anything. He did it for us. And uh there's a little bit of a spoiledness in that that is uh that that I that I feel like it breeds. that that also leads to arrogance. The point is is that we chose Christ exactly as arrogance in this case. I mean I I uh have you I uh I just wondering, have you read the Institutes, even just John Calvin's on on what it means? And of course Calvin is not even the guy we call it Calvinism, he's not even the guy who came up with this stuff, of course. Um even in large form Protestant Reformation, uh Martin Luther wrote far more on this, but it's never about arrogance. In fact, we Most Calvinists would argue the other side of things. There's arrogance because you can pat yourself on the back and say, You did something. We can just say, Thank you, God, for your grace in this. There's no you know, it's it's It's not conditional. That's the the you, right? The unconditional election. It's not based on anything I did. It's only his grace. And so there's great joy in this in just sitting under a sovereign God. Um the whole question of free will, maybe we just need to do a whole show on free will, what even that means. uh per uh speak it with any authority on what he said. I do know that Calvin Luther, um Augustine for that matter, all of these spoke from the highest levels of authority in the uh in the nations where they uh where they were uh involved. They they they spoke from the heights of power. And my sense is that when when we say that they're pastors? I mean by that then Because Martin Luther was on the run and had a had a you know bullet pa pasted on it. Uh a target on it. Oh wait wait wait wait wait wait. Luther was backed by the German nobles with great power and great authority. That is the reason he was able to Stand against Rome. That's because he had them on his side. He would have been as a monk, a knight, to hide from everybody. So what do you mean by authority? The German nobles came to his side and backed him up. The same thing happened in Geneva. Not all of Germany. Okay, well not all of Germany, but enough of them that they were in political place. He was in a major power play. That had major political ramifications. Am I right? Had major political ramifications. Same thing with Calvin, same with Augustine. And their political ramifications are that if we do not provide a uh a religious system that makes allowances, it's the same problem for that the Puritans had, for people to be for the children to be saved into something meaning that somehow we have to develop a theology that says that they were chosen from before the creation of the world because then then they're in something And there's no sense that the next generation is going to somehow lose the faith in Germany will go from being Lutheran, you know, to to being something else. The point is that they had to develop uh they they had to to to maintain the culture In in the in the way that in Augustine was the same thing. He had to maintain the culture. In Rome, he was speaking from the highest heights of power. Wait a second. I think maybe we need to back up because I think your history is just wrong I I'm Yeah, I'm in fabulous disagreement about speaking about that. in a small area. Did he not become the leader? Later, yes. Not when he's beginning these things. Calvin was was dismissed from his pastorate. And he went to the leader of what I mean a nothing place in the world history of things. Geneva was a nothing place? Yes At the time it became huge over time. All these things became big. And he was powerful enough that he was able to to uh to powerful enough how? He couldn't even he couldn't even sway the execution of Cervetus He was he was able to uh to cause the uh the killing of Anabaptists because they would not be Calvinists. What do you mean he was able to cause this? I think we're mixing this religion and politics together. There are two different things. had reason to to to be influenced by the creation of a society that would be a theocracy. And that was precisely what where where I feel like they were trying to manipulate and control and that Calvinism uh control things in order to make a political statement somewhere? I'd say at the end of the day he's influenced that in ways that that maybe he never intended, but that he ended up he ended up believing a doctrine then. I don't understand. That wasn't his motivation. A Calvinist is a lot more inclined to think that we're doing things that are sinful uh uh whether we want to or not than uh than as anybody else. A Calvinist is is very aware of the fact that our sins drive us in our our uh our wrong ideas are are still there, you know? Yes. We still have to be sanctified. That was as much the case for Augustine and Luther and Calvin as anybody else. And that's what I'm saying is that for all of their great intentions, they were they ended up writing doctrine that influenced whole nations having to be reproduced. And that in each of those cases it ended up being a failure. Wait a minute. It ended up producing just as much persecution, religious persecution, as Rome ever did. So now you're arguing what they stated ended up somewhere that was wrong. I thought originally you were arguing they were motivated, that is, they read the Bible through these lenses. that enabled them to come up with this new weird doctrine. I am saying that. Whew. I I mean I've just I've read so many biographies of Calvin and Luther and not that many of Augustine, I gotta admit, but as a small bishop and And Hippo Africa I I just I don't see any core of the doctrine is the only guys. This is the history of of of most of theology. I mean most people followed Augustine. Once saved, always saved. Alright. God has has has decided from before the creation of the world who will and who will not. Right. And all I know is that is that all of the people that were not of that orientation never ended up being influential in the power centers of the world. All those people that fraught against those things And unfortunately, uh their uh ideas along with them, including Pelagius and including um who's the other guy? What years? Uh who's against Arg yeah, who and who is against Calvin? Armenia. Those guys came from the the the backwaters And we're going head to head with people that were at the power centers of the world at the time. And in fact, they came about half a generation after those guys. Uh uh Pelagius was not Augustine's contemporary he was about a generation be uh after him. Right. And that that what they were fighting against, what bothered them was that those theologies, the Augustinian and the Calvinist theologies had produced a control orientation that they felt like was not biblical. And I'm saying that I see in scripture that it's not biblical the control that comes in the context of saying once saved, always saved, that I see more freedom in there than I think that you see. See I just see a as I think I I see a much larger God than the one that you see. So yeah. Which is precisely what I feel like is is that your God is a smaller God, a God that has to control, a God that is not uh is not willing to let people choose for him. Almost like he's insecure, so he's gotta make the decision for it. basic premise of what original sin is that when Adam made the fall that we all became sinful. So we all choose what is in our greatest desire, and unfortunately our greatest desire now is our self. It's not God. We don't choose God naturally. That's that's the point. So it's not a good thing. But I don't see that you say that. and he was he was letting us to ourselves, then the problem is that everybody would go the wrong direction. No, no, no. I'm not talking about deism. I'm not talking about a God that leads us to ourselves. I'm talking about a God that comes that leads us By what? Just by sending words. Spirit filled empowered. No, no, not saying words. No. By sending a Holy Spirit empowered? Holy Spirit filled the same powered prophet. That preaches the word of God with power and authority. It's not just the words. Right. The words are the same thing. If you want to minimize it to just the words, then I will be bothered. goes with those words. Yeah, that's the power. I mean you would even say it's the spirit and the word of God that changes us. That influences us. Yes. In a big way, yes. I'm still here. Hello. Yeah, how's it going? Remember me? Yeah. I'm here to introduce and wrap up the show apparently this week. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator, not a whole lot of moderating or hosting going on today. Jonathan Sweitz is senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and uh Dr. Jace Broadhurst who's the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church in Poolsville. And um I have like uh sixty seconds. I don't know if you're gonna have time really to respond as fully as you're gonna want to, I'm sure, but it occurs to me that If somebody was going to be persuaded, like, wow, yeah, these guys in the power structures, they're the ones that were talking about this God who's going to, you know, make sure that the that have a doctrine that once saved, always saved. But think about the the the example of the blending of church and state throughout history would be Roman Catholicism. Yeah. And Roman Catholics believe you can lose your salvation by committing mortal sins. And not and then dying before you have a chance to confess them. Well this is precisely also at the highest even higher levels of authority than Luther or Calvin, certainly. Well Augustine wasn't. Augustine was right at the center of the R. He was never a Pope. Uh nevertheless his teachings were certainly uh very pervasive in the Catholic mindset. Rather they became pervasive in the Catholic mindset. Anyway. Well certainly he was uh he w he rose to the highest levels. Yeah, but he rose to very high and very influential levels. You know, the city of God is is uh is very influential. And I'm saying that it's influential pr precisely because um But these guys I mean I have like thirty seconds, but these guys were uh bright. They were educated. They went away to school. They you know that they're gonna end up being in positions of some authority and influence because not everybody had those sorts of opportunities. So if you if anybody who was who who was in t uh educated and intelligent in writing and none of the writers in the wrong. The New Testament ended up being uh uh they all ended up being killed for the gospel. And uh I feel like their orientation breeds a uh a uh a perspective of God that is more open than what I see in Calvinism and Lutheranism. And Augustine for that matter. Well, that's gonna probably have to put a wrap on our show. This is the Faith Debate. I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossers Valley Chapel, Dr. Jace Broadhurst Senior Pastor of Pools Baptist Church. Thank you for being on the show. Next week, Chapter 18. Isn't this fun? Yeah. Thanks for listening. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Povin plumbing, how can we make you smile