Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P, as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing. How can we make you smile? Welcome to Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner with Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and uh former Frederick City Alderman and C Paul Smith. And I'm gonna jump right in 'Cause I'm hopping. I'm hopping today, baby. First of all I gotta say I've got, you know, uh a former city official here and I gotta say when I moved to this uh this spare city nine years ago, I really enjoyed it Not so much anymore. Traffic in Frederick, I I'm like I sound like the everybody let's talk about tra it's horrible. It has impacted the quality of life in this city immeasurably. How are you talking about traffic in Frederick uh you know proper or are you talking about traffic to and from Frederick? No, I'm talking about in Frederick Proper. You get outside of Frederick, you're fine. I moved my office up here from Rockville. So I it took me about uh five minutes to come over here. Instead of an hour and twenty minutes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So the traffic problem, uh, according to Offerman Smith is move a to and work in the city. So I got That's the dream. My kids are in the high school right now, so I don't plan on going anywhere, but when they're out of high school, I can't say goodbye to Frederick soon enough. Seriously. This place is impossible to live in, but enough about that. That's not what we're here to talk today. And it's gonna be a problem. I'm not alone. Other peop this is gonna be a place that people will avoid. It's got a reputation. You drive around, you go to places like DC and Baltimore where they should have traffic. They're gigantic cities, okay? Yeah. They should have traffic problems You tell them where you're from? Oh traffic, yeah, boy your traffic up there's bad. Maybe that's because Bob Miller every morning is talking about the big ugly. Maybe it's all in our minds. It is not holding on. I'm telling you, you get away from Frederick City and the traffic opens up. Yeah, yeah. Like the parting of the Red Sea. There are things we can do. This is from Thursday, January 7th edition of the Gazette. New mayor tweaking business at City Hall is the uh headline. It's a below the fold front page story. Prayer before meetings among notable trademarks of new administration. Article written by Erica L. Green, staff writer for the Gazette. Trading in the masks that adorned the office walls of his predecessor for tidy holiday decor isn't the only way that Frederick Mayor Randy McClement is putting his touch on City Hall in the New Year, by the way, very clever, Erica. His changes since he took office in early December range from how the Mayor and Alderman will conduct workshops to how residents can offer input. And then goes on to talk about being more transparent and blah, blah, blah. The most notable change to date will come during the first public meeting of the new administration. McClellan's plan is to order an invocation at the beginning. Invocation is a part of public meeting procedures in the city's charter, but was traded in for a moment of silence. in 2006 after former Alderman C. Paul Smith, Republican, caused a stir when he offered a prayer invoking the name of Jesus Christ during the previous administration's first invocation. Hey John We should see if we can get uh Alderman and C. Paul Smith to come on the show and talk about that. Oh, I think we should. So before I go any further, why don't you refresh our memories from back in two thousand and six? What exactly happened if you can kind of give us a synopsis? Well, uh actually it was the night of the first meeting and uh I happened to run across the mayor in the hallway upstairs and he asked if I would offer an invocation. I said I'd be glad to. And I said, I uh you know I I intend to pray in the name of Jesus Christ. And he said, Well that that's okay. So I did It was a 45-second prayer. Basically, I just thanked our Father in Heaven for blessings and asked his help with our the business we conducted and then prayed in the name of Jesus Christ. And then all sorts of things happen. It was a big story. Practically a cuss word. As we were discussing before the show, a lot of people really like the non I guess non denominational, non I don't know, the bland prayer that doesn't offend anybody, but but uh I I mean I did defend this at subsequent meetings and and uh if you're gonna ask someone to pray I mean pr prayer is communicating with God and and uh if I'm gonna pray that's the way I will. Otherwise I'm basically just saying words people want me to say and it kind of becomes the opposite of prayer. Hmm. So so here's the rest of the story. McClellan said that the invocation would always be in line with guidelines adopted in two thousand two under the Jennifer Darty administration, which stated that Invocation should turn to page A fourteen. By the way, if you're reading along at home, don't go to page A fourteen because you can see I have witnesses in the studio. A big advertisement on Page A fourteen. You actually have to go to page uh A ten. Uh-huh. Note to the editors at uh the Gazette. Kind of missed that one. So did they print the guidelines there? So here we go. It will reflect the pluralism of our community and should not be used to exclude persons, use forms and vocabulary that allow persons of different different faiths to give assent to what is said and use universal inclusive terms for deity rather than particular proper names for divine manifestations. End quote. This is the rule. That's the policy? Yeah, these prayers must reflect the pluralism of the community. They cannot be used to exclude persons, use forms and vocabulary that allow persons of different faiths to give assent to what is said. And this is the part that I think is the really important part that we're going to end up talking a lot about, and use universal inclusive terms for deity rather than rather than not like in addition to, but rather than particular proper names for divine manifestations. Additionally, the guidelines call for outside organizations to conduct the opening prayer and the invocation is to be no longer than two minutes. Well we discussed that very issue then. Someone confronted me saying, well, Mr. Smith, you violated the state, you you know, this is the city's resolution or guidelines. And I said, yes I did And those guidelines are unconstitutional, you can't dictate how someone prays. Once you do that, you are establishing a particular brand of religion. And furthermore If we are a society that tolerates diversity, why is it that we don't let people pray the way they want and just accept them for that? It doesn't mean the government endorses their religion. It is the very ep epitome of how you are a diverse and tolerab tolerable citizen. Okay, so so y so would you feel comfortable inviting uh uh uh say the the imam Hendi to pray in the name of Allah at the beginning of one of those meetings. They represent part of the city. Yes or no? Uh w well is is this is he tied to some terrorism approach? Uh Imam Hendy is the current chaplain down at Georgetown University and he's the Imam over the uh f the the Frederick Islamic Society no it's the Islamic Society of Frederick. I'll tell you I I would have no objection unless unless this person is tied with with some desire to do something against the United States, uh and and and I don't I'm sorry I don't know, but I uh whether it's Jewish, uh Muslim or whatever faith I I think we oughta embrace them all. Doesn't mean we're adopting any one religion. So so you would feel comfortable then with a Muslim praying in the name of Allah. And uh what about a um uh pagan praying in the name of the mother earth. Yeah, sure let him. Yeah? You say go for it? I You what are you going to do? You'll notice I've stepped into the questioning position. That's right. You start asking weak questions No, actually I've just I've just come off of reading John Meaton's book, American Gospel, and in it he argues that there has always been an American religion. Always. but that it it's a it's a very deist religion that that fits what you just described, that the founding fathers uh would not tend to pray in the name of Jesus, but they would tend to pray in the name of the the divine sovereign who reigns over all, who endowed us with inalienable rights. They would uh they would uh recognize that that divine power ha has given some kind of special divine destiny to America to be a city on a hill, but that that from the beginning there was a sense that it was frowned upon, and he argues somewhat persuasively for me. And you know you yeah, I mean most of you guys that listen to the show know where I'm coming from. You know, I tend to become from a very conservative direction, you know. I personally uh am gonna pray in the name of Jesus every chance that I get get the opportunity to do so. But he's arguing that that for example, when Martin Luther King went out to the streets uh uh and do uh in the name of God and religion argued that that civil rights was this moral thing that needed to be uh resolved in our nation, this this wrong that needed to be resolved that that was okay because because Martin Luther King's uh uh references to to God were decidedly non sectarian. But they they appealed to the to the great God and he stayed away from just Jesus Christ. But then when Jerry Falwell stepped into the public square to argue against abortion but did it in the name of Jesus Christ as opposed to the great God who is above all that Jerry Falwell ended up being sectarian whereas Martin Luther King did not. Well let me interesting argument. Very clearly his conclusion is totally divorced from what the Supreme Court has ruled on this. There is no established religion, either this one that he implicitly is arguing for, Mr. Mecham, or or anything else. It's just You know, it it it just doesn't nail it down. And there's a little bit difference in when you're going to be advocating for so some sort of social justice or social change or whatever. That's not that's outside the context of a prayer. that we're talking about here. But anyway, let me I want to finish uh some of the key points in this story. So the mayor said that the invocation simply served as a serves as a non-denominational request to a higher power to guide the new administration to make good decisions. The uh this is a quote by the way. There will be some controversy about this decision, but there will also be controversy if I cut jobs, he said Cutting jobs, offending God, all the same in the grand scheme of the case. Now I gotta say this, he thinks there's gonna be some controversy. We're talking about it, so I guess that gives some credence to the point that there's controversy. But the minimal amount of controversy that comes with this decision is nothing compared to the point is if if uh if he had taken a a stronger, more uh evangelical Christian approach to the issue, then there'd be huge controversy over that. Relatively I think what you'll find that there are a number of people that will uh I didn't know that part until you read it. I didn't know he was going to try to enforce that unconstitutional regulation. And I think there'll be a number of people that say that's kind of a wimpy decision. And that's it's just an atrocious decision to dictate to people how they're going to pray. I mean they have they have two prayers there. They said, you can give this prayer if you want. They had seven words you c or phrases you could use to begin a prayer and seven or six to end it. It's just really atrocious. So Alderman, uh former Alderman C. Paul Smith, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross and Joy Chapel, on the show again this week on Troy Skinny Releasing to the Faith Debate. And um continue with the story because uh it it's pr This I'm reading this out of the paper, which I almost never do on this show. I don't usually read things out of the paper, but in this case I think that this story reads out of the paper in a really nice format for us to respond and react to. So the mayor's admits that the decision to reinstate prayer public meetings is probably one of the most controversial changes he foresees during his four-year tenure But assures that it is one that works toward the community-oriented goal of the administration. And this is a quote, there's a step to being transparent and this is an added step. We want to build partnerships with the community and the faith-based community is a part of our community. A Clement invited Pastor, uh Reverend Kenneth Dunnington of Calvary United Methodist Church in Frederick to lead the first invocation. Do either one of you know Um Kenneth Dunnington from Calvary United Methodist. I do. You do? You might want to see if we can get him to come on the show. I mean I I don't know him super well, but I've I've met him on several occasions. Uh fine gentleman They ought to call this regulation the official religion of the city of Frederick, Maryland. And what I'm trying to what I'm trying to piece through in my own understanding of the Founding Fathers is exactly what is it that that that their faith was. I think most of us agree that that uh even John Adams, who was the strongest in in establishing his faith, that that the mo that he was very Unitarian. in his orientation, uh decidedly nonpartisan, though that that meant something different at the time. But that that Ben Franklin, uh uh Thomas Jefferson, possibly George Washington though that those guys would not feel comfortable in a conservative Christian church in the uh in the late you know, the new millennium. Uh that they they would not feel comfortable coming to a congregation that was that was uh as as sh I don't know what's the word um sectarian I guess at the end of the day. Yeah, I think they would. If it's true that we can make the case that the founding fathers were all deist, which would be an overstatement. Let's just say we could prove that every single one of the founding fathers were deist. Well let's deal with the four that I was talking about. That's not whatever. We're the top guys. That's still not the same as then having established deism as the approach we should take. They can't they didn't try to enforce deism. But my point is this, is that they definitely had had this orientation that they wanted the public square to be public. That didn't mean to scrub it of all religious orientation, but it did mean that from the beginning those guys frowned upon trying to bring Jesus Christ into into into the picture. In fact at one point somebody tried to get an amendment, one of the first amendments, to put Jesus Christ in into uh the uh the Constitution and it they they weren't able to do so. It was frowned upon. You know, they were like, you know, if if th they they made phrases like this If God is so insecure that he feels like he has to be in this document, which we believe that he was at the forefront of guiding anyways then uh then that god is too small a god. Like they actually said those kinds of things. Well actually the point of view back then and and this issue was hotly debated then and it was they were really on top of it w because Freedom from freedom of religion in Maryland was important and in Virginia too at that time. Yeah, but they just married they j and and of course the Catholics were in Maryland and and they knew that They just they just did not want the church to be involved in establishing any one religion. And their approach was, you've got the Church of England, you've got the Catholic Church that basically runs France and different countries, and they said, no, we're not going that direction. And whatever someone was and would say they wanted to tolerate it. I think they had it pretty right. And I think we have we've just gone so far away uh we don't understand where they were. And by the way, if you look at the development of the constitutional law, the constitutional scholars will tell you that the First Amendment area it's you almost want to call it convoluted There is is so much uh opinion, so many diverse opinions, it's hard to really understand at all. It has become very, very confused. And to make it clear, I mean Jonathan Somebody who's not really clear on what uh they just tuned in three minutes ago and they're not clear on uh maybe the tack that uh uh Alderman uh Smith was uh taking and maybe the tack that I'm taking as well. We're not uh uh uh I'm gonna speak for you, Paul, but it's okay. So far, so good. We're not advocating, and I don't think you are either, Jonathan, that we would want to have Uh a law passed that says you have to have an invocation before a city meeting that in that must invoke the name of Jesus Christ. Okay. Absolutely not. That would be terrible. Uh I think what I'm hearing Paul saying I would agree is you don't want to have a law that says you can't pray in the name of Jesus Christ. We're not saying you must But they're saying you must not. And the fact that the word must isn't there at all is the part that I think is disturbing. When the when the Supreme Court ruled that you can't have school prayer at the beginning of football games and graduations, one of the impacts was a basketball team and I had a c I know a coach, uh Dennis Dove, who coached young women at uh at TJ High School. They couldn't have a prayer, they couldn't have a school led They couldn't have a school led prayer, but the but the people in our county were told not to have prayers. They've since backed off that. If you have a chance. Not to have prayers. at your games. Now if if a child uh uh a a student there wants to have a prayer, well they can they can you know pray wherever they are. And people tend to sometimes go too far. Yeah, yeah, there definitely seems to be a back and forth on that. And I feel like the schools have driven this orientation against there being any kind of uh prayer in the public. locations like somehow uh some child is gonna be wounded for life because he saw that kind of prayer. You know, when glisten is is uh is pushing a uh uh a set of books that has pornography built into i into the storyline that are in many libraries across the United States and yet they're afraid that God is gonna somehow, you know, uh scar them for life. So you you guys uh when I when I went to elementary school we began uh school with saying the Lord's Prayer. This was in Montgomery County and I think it was nineteen fifty nine. I was in fifth grade when I think that was when Madeline O'Mare um Murray, whatever name. Murray O'Hare, yeah. Challenge the law and won, and so we stopped saying the Lord's Prayer. And this was just, you know, county schools So I remember that very well and and I I guess I understand it. It's um you know it's i I have mixed feelings because when you do allow prayers you get all All these issues. Well that ties into the next section of the story actually. So the mayor says that you know they're gonna reach out to as many people as possible in various Frederick Faiths and and reaching out to the aldermen as well. asking them to suggest volunteers to give the invit uh invocation. Uh Alderman Kelly Russell, Democrat, says she wanted to keep I'm only mentioning parties because the story mentions the party. I'm not trying to be silly or funny uh said she wants to keep a moment of silence instead of using the invocation. Uh Alderman Karen Lewis, young Democrat, said that she was okay with the invocation decision, but that a moment of silence should be part of the rotation. So We're kind of talking about okay, if we can't have the prayers i is a moment of silence better? Just as bad? Worse? You know, in some respects it's really good. I I'll tell you what I was doing during the moment of silence. I was praying. And You know, sometimes there are pressures in there when you pray and and and I i if you've I don't know if you're a pretty courageous guy, Jonathan, but but sometimes you go into situations and you you don't feel comfortable sometimes as comfortable as you do in others praying and and uh and then you get people saying speaking to be heard so there are some advantages of just having a moment of silence What do you think? You think silence is better, worse, the same, no difference? Yeah, I guess I guess my sense is is uh I'm coming out where Paul's coming out that if you're gonna invite somebody to pray then uh you gotta let 'em pray as they will. And if you're gonna invite uh that kind of a theme then to have uh for those that uh are less religious a moment of silence to fit their religious perspective on occasion, uh, I think that would be equally uh American, that that would fit in with what it means to not have an established religion. I don't like the idea of always doing th any one of those. Like you're saying, if you always have to pray this non sectarian prayer, then you have established a religion that is that is a this non sectarian deist type religion. And the establishment of that kind of religion is as much against the establishment clause as any other religion would be. And if all you ever had was a was a moment of silence, then then that in and of itself it establishes uh a certain kind of religion that that is not reflective of freedom to to uh you know practice your religion or pray as you would. You know it was refreshing uh Shortly after nine eleven when Congress was out there on the steps of the Capitol singing God Bless America, which in essence was a prayer. It is, but it's not in the name of Jesus Christ. That's true. That's true. But but my point there is, you know, sometimes th there there are most of us believe in God, most of the people in Congress and I mean the president's, you know, always ends up saying God bless America and and good. I'm glad he does. But there are times when maybe you want to and um and it's okay. Yeah. Now do we have to be careful uh uh uh as as you know of those who would advocate for praying in the name of Jesus Christ, do we have to be careful about a a backlash reaction against us advocating uh for such a stance like uh There go those guys again, closed-minded. I mean why can't they be inclusive like everybody else? Why do they have to s insist that we, you know, do things their way? Don't you worry about that? Let me mention this. I am right now the um the um what do they call it the chaplain for the Catocton Mountain District of the Boy Scouts. So about twice a year we'll go to meetings and I'll be asked to say a prayer. And I do pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Uh but I but I and and that's okay because everybody there believes in God. But there are pr there are some Jews there, there are I'm sure there are other religions, and by doing that I don't mean to be offensive, and I think they They understand that the same way. Although I will tell you you go to Boy Scout camps and you you do hear the kind of non denominational prayers many times, but But I would hope that we would be at the ideal that we're speaking of, that if you're going to have prayer, you've got to allow someone to pray from his heart the way he really feels and and we just learn to understand and not be critical. I feel like the way that it's played out in in uh the late nineteen hundreds here into the new millennium is that people in general want there to be no prayer because that would be uh religious in and of itself and so they want to scrub Freedom from religion. Freedom from religion. You know, they want to scrub it from the public square. And that is clearly not what the founders were doing and or what they seemed to mean by it. Uh but there but I do get a sense the more that I read that that some of the founding fathers uh that they would have accepted you, Paul, praying in the name of Jesus Christ, but but they kind of would have, you know, given each other a look like, you know, and rolled their eyes and been like, okay, well, you know, he he feels like he has to pray in in a sectarian way, but th that's okay, we're not gonna stop him Uh but but that there was a little bit of a uh um you know just a kind of a frowning upon it, which is different from making a law that says that you can't do it. And I think that's precisely what we're saying. You know, if some people want to frown on it, let 'em frown. You know, if they if they want to think that Paul's doing something sectarian that is somehow un-American, let 'em think that, but don't make a law saying that he can't do it. 'Cause he he should be free to do it. You know, you mentioned earlier, should we make a law that makes you pray in the name of Jesus Christ? And I didn't know. To me, one of the most fundamental principles uh or or doctrines of of religion is free agency that that God does not want to compel us. Anytime our worship is compelled, it's not worship. You c you You know, you can't make a person love someone else. And uh so you've got to allow them to kind of feel their own way. Now uh it could be the risk of, you know, giving into some sort of formula. I mean the the Bible does say that, you know, uh ask for these things in my name and they'll be given to you this sort of thing. But are we Are we told that we have to specifically say the words Jesus Christ during our prayer for it to be an acceptable prayer? Is that a is that uh an appropriate view? for a New Testament believing person to to hold to. It seems like what the New Testament, what we find is Jesus Christ says that from here on out anything that you ask for in my name it will be done for you. And so the reason that we ask in the name of Jesus Christ is because He's the one that has given us access to the Father through his blood that was shed on the cross, through his resurrection. And so by praying in his name we are well, that that that's the cardinal doctrine of Christianity. That you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved, you and your household, that that if you confess his name, you know, you will be saved. And so, um I I guess I do feel like if it's if it's going to be a Christian prayer then it would be in the name of Jesus Christ. Well implicit command, right? But it's like implicit in the teaching of the New Testament. I mean if you were if you were in the Um I don't know. I'd go so far as to say that that we're you know we're supposed to pray in the name of Jesus If you were in the military and were in a situation where you had to pray a certain way and could not pray in the name of Jesus Christ, I would not condemn the Christian who who didn't pray in the name of Jesus because he was told he couldn't. I don't think that hurts him at all. I think he probably feels terrible as I would. Sure. But You know, I I think God is brought to the right. No, no, no. Let's take uh who's the most recent? Um Rick Warren. Is that Obama's inauguration? And if he would have chosen to pray in the not in the name of Jesus Christ, I don't think that we could say that it was a sin, but I think he would have been called a coward by a lot of people, you know, in the Christian world You know, and so so there's a difference there. Like for example, Billy Graham all through the years always prayed in the name of Jesus Christ. He didn't hesitate, you know, to to emphasize Jesus Christ, but he had the sense that he always did it in a way that somehow was less uh judgmental or you know sectarian. Well then I guess Billy Graham won't ever accept an invitation to come pray in Frederick City before a city meeting. Anyway Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, thank you as always. My friend, uh Alderman C. Paul Smith. Thank you. It's a pleasure to see you again. I'm Troy Skinner. You've been listening to the Faith Debate. Thank you so much. Have a great week ahead. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. With a pea as in your preferred plumber. Pumin plumbing, how can we make you smile