Good work. are only such as God has commanded in His holy Word. And not such as without the warrant thereof. are devised by men, out of blind zeal or upon any pretense of good intention. These good works done in obedience to God's commandments are the fruits and evidences of a true and lively faith. And by them believers manifest their thankfulness, strengthen their assurance, edify their brethren, adorn the profession of the gospel. Stop the mouths of the adversaries and glorify God, whose workmanship they are created in Christ Jesus thereunto. that having their fruit unto holiness they may have the end eternal life. Their ability to do good works is not at all of themselves, but wholly from the Spirit of Christ. And that they may be enabled thereunto, beside the graces they have already received, there is required an actual influence of the same Holy Spirit to work in them to will and to do of his good pleasure Yet are they not hereupon to grow negligent, as if they were not bound to perform any duty unless upon a special motion of the Spirit, but they ought to be diligent in stirring up the grace of God that is in them. If you haven't s steeped into your Bible lately, you might think, hey, is he reading the Bible on the radio? Right, you might think that. Mm-hmm. That's not the Bible. That's the Westminster Confession of Faith. And there's at least one person on this panel today that's gonna say, You bet your britches that's not the Bible. Huh? You got it well. So yeah. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. On the panel this week, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? That's really what the face debate's all about too. Joy. That's right. That's right. Well we're gonna make you smile by talking about the truth, right? That's right. Can you handle the truth? Truth. Truth matters, baby. Alright, so I just read the first uh three sections of chapter sixteen of the Westminster Confession of Faith. And so In very short, here's how I understand those three sections together. God decides what is good and right. Doing these things is evidence. Am I in the right chapter? Yes. Yes. Just want to make sure I it it's getting a little punch drunk. You're doing well. Doing these things is evidence of a true and living faith. Not that they're doing these uh these things that is uh their duty to do in and of themselves, but by the Holy Spirit. So that's kind of the gist of those three sections. Alright, as has become customary on the these episodes of the Faith Today Show Jonathan, what say you? You know, I spent all my time trying to convince my oldest son to stop trying to be first all the time and now here I've ended up being first. Obviously the the the cause of his trying to be first is that he's just Chip off the old block and I'm gonna have to admit that uh I gotta change. Uh the you know, it's interesting. I Uh uh I didn't think that I had all that much in disagreement with this. Um certainly what it says I'm in agreement with, but But there's there's something missing I feel like. And I addressed it, you know, ahead of time and I'm I I guess I'm feeling like it's a bigger uh miss than I'd thought. So maybe it's gonna come up later on. But um Paul goes to great lengths to describe how he did works not by faith in the Spirit of God previously. You know, that that he did great works. In fact, he lists them. You know, I was a Pharisee of the Pharisees. I was, you know, zealous for you know for this and for that. You know, and it was zeal without knowledge. But it was doing good works. And he spends all this time saying that the Old Testament law and following the Old Testament law is not sufficient for saving faith, meaning that there could be a whole Group of people, we'll call them the Israelites, that were following the Old Testament law and doing good works, but not doing it by faith. And s and and so can we say that you know that they were evil works that they were doing? Well there's certainly a whole slew of them that were doing evil works. But there were those that were trying to do good works, but they were doing it They were doing it wrong and not by faith. And uh anyways, I feel like Ben Franklin's a good example, you know, of somebody who Certainly in this nation we uh we magnify him for some good works that he did, but it's abundantly clear that he never confessed Christ as the Savior. Um, you know, in fact he openly, you know, uh talked about that. Um Abe Lincoln would be another example of a guy that we magnify for his good works, the good things that he did. But at the end of the day, uh he, you know, did not choose Christ. And so, anyways, if that's the case and these guys have done good things at all, we can say that any of those things that they have done are good. You know, maybe that's not a biblical definition of g of good works. Um I knew that uh this is just an aside, but I I knew that Ben Franklin uh uh was very open about not being a Christian. He you know, he's famously quoted as saying Well I don't know if it's a true quote attribution or not, but he didn't want to go see George Whitfield or hear George Whitfield preach because he's afraid he'd be converted. Because Woodfield is such a powerful preacher. Although he used to go and listen to him all the time. You know, he thought he was such a great rhetoric. But the point is, you know, he didn't he didn't want that Christian thing. You know what I mean? But I Abraham Lincoln Really? I've read some stuff on Lincoln that has called greatly into question. Yeah. Um, but it seemed most of the stuff that I've read has left it Like, well, you know, here he seems to, but here he's definitely not. And so yeah, I I've heard many of the same things. That's your point. In the early years of our nation Thomas Jefferson. There are some pastors that preached liberty according to Thomas Jefferson's approach to liberty, you know, under law, you know, from their pulpits, thinking that that was, you know, this great righteous thing, 'cause, you know, Jefferson You know, what's good for Jefferson is good for me, you know, and and uh that's clearly what the Bible talks about, you know, and and again obviously they were wrong because Jefferson cut uh so much out of his Bibles. All the supernatural. Yeah. He took out of his Bibles. In fact that's that was Ben Franklin's issue at the end of the day too, whether or not Christ was divine. He certainly considered him to have done good works. So, all that being the case, I think we come down to a definition of good works and whether or not a person can do good works outside of being a believer. Meaning if they do a good work but they're not doing it to the glory of God, then does that automatically make it uh not good work? Yeah, I I think what we're dealing with. Yeah. And I think we're gonna get to answering this at the end of this same chapter. In the confession. Yeah, section seven, I think. But I think it's fair to say up front, for for people who are listening to this, I'm guessing the audience is is considerably wide, Christians, non-Christians, everything. It it would be good to at least say up front, yes, there are people who do good things. I mean it's obvious when that Boy Scout helped for grandmother across the street, that was a good work. He did a good work. We don't we don't need to hide that and say that you know he's th that that was an evil work. He was wicked and he was doing it. Well he only did it because he wanted a merit badge. Right. But did he do it by the Holy Spirit when he did it? Well so that would be the question. The way that we're discussing it here, they would say obviously the Holy Spirit is not letting is not helping him do it. But there's a sense in which of course If God is sovereign, I mean nothing is done outside of his purview and every good perfect gift comes from above. That's right. So i it's Well this is what we call common grace. Yes. And so all people can do good things by the power of the Spirit, in that, you know, he gives reign to the just and the unjust. This is common grace. So we all have consciences in us. These can become seriously flawed. In fact, Romans, I think, speaks about that, the flawing of that in r in chapter one and And so we don't want to trust our conscience necessarily, but there is something in each one of us that tells us what is good and what is bad. What Westminster is going to say, I think, the assembly is going to talk about, is that is not good in the in the ultimate sense Um that is that it's not glorifying to God because these people are wicked. Again, back to where we were, they are hostile to God. So if they're hostile and dead in their trespasses and sins, then they cannot or will not please God. We did all that stuff. So if if if they're hostile, then they're not glorifying God. And so they are technically wicked, they're enemies of God. And according to Psalms, um whatever verse whatever Uh a god is angry with the wicked every day. I wanted to be like you and just quote the verse right off the top of my head, but It's also a catechism question. A little you know skinny. It's not a we don't brag about it too often, but every once in a while it it might merit mention, I think, is one of those times. So you in case you're wondering, how does this show come to be? You know, we get together, we put the a panel together, and we do a series of shows actually in a city. And so we are now at the what will probably be the last show of this day. And it's been a long day. And we're a little punchy. And when that happens you have a pastor who knows the Bible a as well as any pastor in the area for my money. Both of these pastors know their Bible as well as any pastor in the area for my money. You'll have a pastor like that say, you know, m some whatever verse whatever when he's that part of the thing. Are you apologizing for the two passages? I'm just explaining. Let's be honest here. Just just so we can be in good company. Paul did it all over the place. Right? He said Where the prophet Isaiah says somewhere. I mean that's he does it, so I'm okay. That's right, because Paul also grew old. It's like going to the refrigerator. Why am I standing here? I thought I was hungry, I'm not sure. So anyway, but common grace might be important to talk about uh what what that's all about. As I understand it, as as it's been taught to me. You know, common grace exists. It's God's Uh it's not really grace unto the general masses per se. I mean it's provided to the masses, but its purpose is for his people. It's th there's a common grace so that society can function, so that there will be a world in which the church can navigate and and live and and it it won't be nothing but utter evil at every corner so that the Christian before their brought to a place where they will repent. You know, they ha they've been able to live out their life. Otherwise there was nothing but utter evil, we w we would all be dead by now. Yeah, you know I'm thinking about uh Hamirabi's Cob code. I'm your Robbie's code. Uh early. Uh J one times low. In fact that this arose in Babylon which ended up being you know, uh at the fall of Jerusalem ended up being like the world ruler, and so it was the world according to Babylon for a period of time, you know, and then Uh and then Meadow Persia, you know, and Cyrus worshipped, you know, a one one god above all other gods, and that's where he gets Zoroastrianism, though it wasn't obviously pure, and then uh the Greeks, you know, and there was a certain amount of uh uh good that seems to be there uh in in the ancient Greek thought, though it was mixed again with a lot of evil and then Romans That again, when God raises these these groups up, He allows there to be a certain amount of good built into them so that they can survive for a period of time. And uh that would be common grace. I would just, of course, like I've done a bunch of times, make the caveat that uh I don't see anywhere in scripture that that means the Holy Spirit. is uh working with those people that uh are not yet believers. It seems that the Holy Spirit scripturally comes after they've chosen to believe. But besides all that, I'm, you know uh common grace is uh seems to produce good works. And so I i is that in disagreement with this? I don't think so, because I think this is gonna make that exception that kind of you were helping with the very back end at the end of this. Yeah. Which we'll get to in a second. Yeah, you want to read that Yeah, well let me uh sure. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crosshose Valley Chapel, is the one who wants me to read. He likes when I read. Uh I do too. Doctor James Broadhurst is a senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church and I don't want to read too well 'cause it'll be like a lullaby, right? It'll be uh a bedtime story. In just a moment. Yeah, pretty Th there's a section that bridges what we're about to talk to, and I don't know that there's a whole lot of fodder here, although I've said that before and surprise. But these are s and this is a long section of me reading, so bear with me. Hang in there with me, my friends They who in their obedience attain to the greatest height which is possibly in this life are so far from being able to superarrogate and to do more than God requires, as they fall short of much which in duty they are bound to do We cannot, by our best works, merit pardon of sin, or eternal life at the hand of God by reason of the great disproportion that is between them and the glory to come, and the infinite distance that is between us and God, whom by them we can neither profit nor satisfy by the depth of our our former sins. But that we have done all we can, we have done but our duty. and are unprofitable servants, and because as they are good, they proceed from his spirit, and as they are wrought by us, they are defiled and mixed with so much weakness and imperfection that they cannot endure the severity of God's judgment. And now section six, the last section I'm going to read right here. Notwithstanding the persons of believers being accepted through Christ Their good works also are accepted in Him, not as though they were in this life wholly unblamable and unreprovable in God's sight, but that He, looking upon them in His Son, is pleased to accept and reward that which is sincere, although accompanied with many weaknesses and imperfections. So basically even the best of Christians still fall short of God's standards. Even the best of our good works are spoiled by our sinfulness. And yet the Christian and his imperfect works are accepted by God due to his grace available through Jesus Christ. That's kind of a synopsis of the channel. So basically what that's saying is that when I'm with my five year old son and he's swinging about trying to hit a baseball, then I'm pitching to him. and he misses or he hits it poorly, I'm not gonna sit there like, You good for nothing, you know, you're never gonna be but I'm gonna be like, Yeah, good swing, buddy Yeah, way to go, man, you're super strong, way to go, buddy, and so I'm I'm accepting his best efforts Because I'm anticipating his growth, you know, and that that he's gonna keep growing as he continues to go after it. And uh, you know, so And that's the case for your sons. That the Lord does that for his sons. Right. But the section right before that is is talking about those who aren't the sun, right? Right. And so when they swing and miss, Yes right, swing and miss, baby. Loser. No, God's not doing that. Oh, oh, oh. Talk about falling into major stereotypes without. But that's what the accuser does, right? Yes. That's yeah. You know, the accuser also known as Satan. Yes. Uh that's what he does, right? Yeah. So without a doubt. You guys have anything that you want or you want to jump right into that last section and see if it ties us all together nicely or not. I think it's worthy of saying that the a or emphasizing at least for those people who are just turning this on that the accusations aren't any good for the children of God. I mean, they can make the same a accusations Satan can make the same accusations against us, but I mean this is this is the beauty of the gospel, I think. that there is there is no accuser. He he can't he can say all he wants, but we can just say, hey, we we have an advocate. So I just I had to emphasize the gospel a little bit there just for a second. He must be a pastor. Yeah. Um No guilt. So there's a couple of those passages that we're saying where Paul says that um that I fill up in my flesh that which was lacking uh in your faith, uh that um in my sufferings for you Um that he's rejoicing in the sufferings and he fills up that which is lacking of the afflictions of Christ. He fills that up. in his own flesh for uh the sake of Christ's body. What's your verse where you where you at? Uh this is Colossians one twenty-four. Are you connecting this to the superarrogate idea? This idea that that can can we Do more than God requires? Do do enough that somehow it's you know, helping God out, you know, or something. In um I don't think I don't think that Paul's saying that. I I don't I don't know that Paul's quite saying that, but he's saying something that is unusual And he's he's claiming that that he needs to fill something up that is lacking in regard to Christ's afflictions. And um that being the case, you know, basically he's he's what he's saying is that all of us, you know, have uh duties in Christ to do. that that Christ is still working through his body in the earth. And so Paul's filling up that part of of doing what Christ is doing in his body on the earth. And I and I guess that's that's the point is that if we're doing the you know, is there a sense that that uh that our good deeds earn for us a crown? in heaven, you know, and and if they earn for us a crown then then uh can we work for those things, you know, with I I seem it seems like the y I'm just remembering the crown passage now, so I'll you know, do my little uh search and uh see if I can find the passage. But you know, there's a sense that that we are um you know, pursuing uh that that the doing of our good works we do yes because we're thankful. Uh no we don't do them because we're trying to earn God's grace, but but yes we do do them because there's a sense that we're gonna get a reward. for those things that are done well on the final day. In fact we're told that that we'll we'll receive a reward or everyone will stand before the judgment seat of God. Even the believer will stand and have to give an account, right? Right And uh for for what they did, even while they're in the body, in the body of Christ, in the body of believers, they still have to give an account for what they've done and what they've said. But even if they've done everything superabundantly well It still can't outdo what their obligation to do was, right? You never thank a man for doing his job kind of idea. I mean no matter what we do, it was At best what we're obligated to do and in all likelihood falls even far short of what we're obligated to do, right? So there's I'm not sure if if we were having a different sideways conversation, we were talking past each other. Well that well that's the thing is I'm not sure what I'm saying. Like I'm grappling with this idea in a fresh way right now. So Uh I don't know where I'll follow up fall out, but uh but I am saying that there seems to be passages that give the impression where else but the Frederick Faith debate. Do you find pastors Thinking out loud about yeah, I haven't really thought about this before. Let's let's figure this out on the radio with, you know. Claire out. That's right. Better to leave the impression that we're perfect. You know. Put us up on a pedestal somewhere. Sorry, interrupted. Go ahead. Yeah, and so um You know, it can you even find your point? I'm sorry. Do you mind uh Colossus 124 and that was where you started it off thinking about maybe this might help your thinking Yeah. Um I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body, that is the church. this idea that Paul is filling up what is lacking in Christ's sufferings. As if Christ's sufferings somehow lacked something, like it didn't completely do its job. Exactly. Which is, I think, not fair to the text. I think what what he's saying here, and I I've done a little bit of work on this, so I can say something a little bit at least. Sure. Um this word, this lacking thing according to your computer there is um Husterema. And this grief word shows up grief to everyone in fact. It shows up again in Philippians and it's talking about Epaphroditus who nearly died, risking his life to complete what was lacking. in the service to him. And what was lacking for Epaphrod or for Paul was these these gifts that hadn't made it to him. Um and so Epaphrodis makes this perilous journey and stuff like that and fills up what's lacking completes Get gets what it is needed. He's the he's the feet of Paul. Because Paul can't do it. I think what if I'm following Colossians, the argument of Colossians throughout here, that We're filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions. That is, we're the feet of Christ. We're it's not that the cross didn't accomplish what it what it said it was going to accomplish. It's that people don't know about it yet. And so we suffer in order to show Christ's suffering. So we are filling up what is lacking. What is lacking is no one sees the cross. They can't see it. So we're supposed to suffer. I think that was one of Colossians' main in fact I think it's Paul's main point. I think it's one of the New Testament's main points. So we're to suffer um as Christ suffered. We're we're to take beatings now and to show Christ beautiful throughout all of that. So I don't I don't think it's that the c cross was actually lacking in what it did. It seems to be the impression that that the lack has to do with what happens when the body is bearing one another's burdens Right, and so what's lacking in the afflictions of Christ is that is that at this stage of the ball game you might have a need. And as me being the brother in Christ, then I can meet that need on behalf of Christ, so I'm filling up what is lacking as it were you know, in the afflictions of Christ meaning here in the moment I can be Christ. Uh a r a an extension of his body. So it's so it's not It's not talking about uh you know, he says regard to Christ's afflictions. What is that word affliction? Right? I mean, is lacking not uh the best way to understand that? Well, I think it's a fine word as long as you understand it. I mean, what was lacking in Christ's afflictions is is the future suffering of all who like Paul will experience this this great affliction for the sake of the gospel. And so again again I I I do feel like this is still a a um a it it doesn't change or repudiate what the Westminster Confession is saying. But but and probably it'll get to this later on when it gets to ecclesiology or whatever about the church and you know the role of the church with one another. But but there is a sense that uh like that word afflictions uh in the Greek has to do with pressure, you know, the pressure that Christ bears. Again, it's that burden. uh the that we're bearing one another's burdens. There is the sense that there's that our good works can have a role to do those kinds of things with one another. Though I guess it still fits within the context of saying, like the confession says, and this brings us back around, we're still just doing what we're supposed to do. We're still unworthy servants. We're not we're not somehow doing more than what Christ has asked us to do. We're just doing what He's asked us to do, and that is that we be the body of Christ and that we bear each other's burdens. And so in that sense, um I'm agreeing with the uh confession. At the end of the day. We said that it would all tie together at the end and that the confession would interpret the confession, so let's read the end. Uh section seven here of uh chapter sixteen. Works done by unregenerate men, although for the matter of them they may be things which God commands, and of good use both to themselves and others, yet because they proceed not from a heart purified by faith, nor are done in a right manner according to the word, nor to a right end, to the glory of God. They are therefore sinful, and cannot please God or make a man meet to receive grace from God, and yet their neglect of them is more sinful and displeasing unto God. So a Christ uh a uh even the best deeds of a non Christian uh fail to satisfy the standards of God. They cannot, apart from Christ, please God, yet God's displeasure increases all the more when non believers fail to do what is right. Um does that help to put the whole rest of the chapter in perspective, do you think? I th I think it does, but Yeah. Again they they say they're therefore sinful and cannot please God and I guess um Without faith it is impossible to please God. So I guess in that sense I I'm in agreement that that as long as faith in God is missing God's not pleased even when the boy scout helps the woman across the street. Please that if you do something nice, Jonathan, to Jace, which I know is unimaginable, but if Jonathan does something nice to Jace, how is but you're not a Christian? You're not, you know, Jace. As nice as it was if you're not a Christian, if you're damned, how how can God possibly be pleased? Knowing that you're not choosing him, you're turning you're choosing to reject him, you're choosing to be isolated from him for all eternity. It can't possibly be happy with that because that's a bigger overarching issue, right? If your if your children are horrifyingly bad to you and disown you and want nothing to do with you and they're mean to you and they have and they and it pretend you don't exist And yet they help an old lady across the street. Well, you're not all of a sudden pleased with your y your child and their and their response to it. Scripture says whatever you do Um due to the glory of God. And the Greek for whatever there is is whatever. I mean it's pretty obvious. I mean it's whatever you're doing. So if you're not doing it to the glory of God, then you're sinning. So even someone who does a good thing, in our terminology, the way we would look at it, he's saying, yeah, but y you did it from poor motivation. You didn't do it to glorify me, you did it for Whatever, just for goodness sake, and that's not enough. That's just moralism, it's just doing right things. There should be a song about that. Be good for goodness' sake. Or something like that. Anyway, got the last word again. Dr. Jace Frohurst. Yeah. Thanks, Jonathan. Senior pastor at Broad at uh Poozle Baptist Church. Have a coke and a smile. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor at uh Crossroad Valley Chapel. I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Public and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks for listening. Until next time, God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P has in your preferred plumbing. Hummer. Pum and plumbings, how can we make you smile?