Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plum and plumbing, how can we make you smile? Whom God hath predestinated unto life, and those only he is pleased in his appointed time effectually to call. By his word and spirit, out of that state of sin and death in which they are by nature to grace and salvation by Jesus Christ Enlightening their minds spiritually and savingly to understand the things of God, taking away their heart of stone, and giving unto them a heart of flesh, renewing their wills, and by his almighty power determining them to that which is good, and effectually drawing them to Jesus Christ, yet so as they come most freely, being made willing by his grace. That is the first section of Chapter 10 of the Westminster Confession of Faith of Effectual Calling. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Along with Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, we are tackling the Westminster Confession of Faith. Last week we were talking about the chapter on free will when we got into talking a little bit about effectual calling as it turns out. We wanted to pick up our conversation this week where we left off last week and The Westminster Divines anticipated uh the the the direction of our conversation with five singers that uh that are great harmony. They do a little uh choreographed dance move. Yeah, they had a little bit of a uh of a Gregorian chant as a part of it as well, no less. Wearing like le matching leisure suits. I'm liking that. That could work. I like Hilgeschichta. I just want to say the word again. Well then say it right for crying out loud. Say it again for me. Hail's Geschichta. Hail's Geschichta. That was closer. That was like ninety-nine percent there. That was good. I'm reading the uh the biography of Albert Schweitzer. Right? And uh of course he uh he defines at the beginning of the of the biography where a s what a Schweitzer is, where where Schweitzer comes from. And so I'm kind of identifying as a Schweitzer, you know, with uh Albert, my uh great forerunner, for father. So there you have it. Albert, just call me Al. Again, I don't want to forget we are days away now. Al Gesangte. Sorry, I had to say it. At the end of this week there is a conference taking place at Poolsville Baptist Church. I'll make sure I mention that so I don't forget uh this Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. Yep. Uh October 1st, 2nd, and 3rd at Poolsville Baptist Church What's it called? What's the seven hours? Glorious Rain. Glorious Rain. We're talking about the millennium, we're talking about tribulation. Basically we're we're trying to say Jesus rains, but we're doing it through eschatology. No, being summer like it is, I can't wait for the rain to come in. It's just so dry. I thought it was a good thing. So if you're going to put it into the glorious rain, R. E. I G N that he rained. Is he gonna play the song he reigned? So anyway, everybody's invited, not just your congregation, right? No, my congregation will actually be sending um brochures. Uh sense sent several thousand brochures out to pastors and churches. So we're hoping that uh many denominations from different ideas even will come and hear at least what these guys have to say and then, you know, we're not asking them to necessarily believe it, but wrestle. I mean kinda like what we do here. We don't have to agree with each other, but we wrestle with the ideas and we believe them and we'll be able to do that. So show up early or seating or It's only thirty-five bucks, that's uh three days of the conference. It also includes a dinner, so it's like you know paying for dinner and getting the conference for free would be one way of looking at it. That's a good way of looking at it. God will if the creeks don't rise, I will be there. Alright, so chapter uh ten, part one is basically saying that God has determined in advance who will be saved, and these are the people he calls to understanding and willingness to obey God and trust in Jesus. That's kind of where we left off last week's show. We were talking about exactly that issue. So uh Jonathan was making some pretty salient points. Yeah, I agree. And Jace was kind of on the cusp of responding for it. That was like the first time that Jace felt like I've actually made salion points, so that's kind of cool. Yeah that might be one of the few times Yeah, that would have to happen a few other times. So I know an entire week has gone by, but as best as you can recall what Jonathan had to say last week, uh how how would you like to commend him for where he's right? What you were what you're going for was that predestination and election were different things. And I was trying to say, well, but they're basically used interchangeably. And you're saying, well perhaps but At least in the way that you're going to say this, both of them are corporate in nature. Okay. And so so the participation in what they speak to, the corporate thing that they're speaking to, is dependent upon the individual choosing So in the sense that God would look through the channels of time, see what they believed, and then choose them based on such a thing. No, again you're you're you're going to an idea that that's the same thing. That part of system theology again approaches Scripture from uh from a different direction that Scripture comes from. What I'm saying is that is that in this passage in Ephesians, Paul is speaking to the Gentiles. And he wants to assure the Gentile believers, the in Ephesus, that that uh that God has not somehow come up with this last minute plan to bring Gentiles into his great purposes, but he is assuring the Gentiles that from before the creation of the world it was always God's plan, it was his predestiny for mankind. All Jews and all Gentiles to be adopted as God's sons, to be holy and blameless in his sight. It was God's predestination that all this would be the case. And that the predestination had to do with being in Christ, that Christ was the focus of being able to make that uh that that predestined state available to all. We're predestined to adoption. Predestination always deals with adoption in Scripture. We're predestined to the adoption. The adoption why? Because we were fallen in sin away from God. We are predestined to be brought back to the Lord to be adopted back into his family. Hold on a second, because you're going too fast. Predestination always has to do with adoption. Where Where are you coming up with that idea? Only uh in your definition of predestination, I guess. 'Cause the election in the Old Testament doesn't refer to adoption. That refers to Israel. Yes. And they aren't adopted. They are his. Yes. So we're the ones who are grafted in, that is the Gentiles. So when you use the word predestination, you're using it very distinct. Election is that a group of people that are the people of God. acting as his people in history. Alright? Our predestination has to do with our eternal state before God. But election has to do with that group of people that has responded in faith to the message of God to repent. And so we've responded and said, you know what, God, I am miserably failure as a human being, I need your grace. And when when having believed, we're included in Christ. And when we're included in Christ, then we are marked with the seal of the Holy Spirit. That's the point at which the Holy Spirit uh arrives. So that's choosing. I'm still getting grabbing. Were chosen on the basis of having believed. He came into that which was his own, but his own did not receive him. But as many as received him to them gave he the power to become the sons of God. No problem. That's the problem. The power is in the context of receiving the message and and and accepting it, believing the message. Yeah. Yeah. Um because now for me I go back to Oh yeah, and I'm gonna find it back because you and I are gonna keep talking about this when we're not on the air because I I learned a lot from you. But for me, the the last little part just I I think Romans nine blows it away, but we've already talked about that on like three occasions on the show. Yeah, and I'd love to go back to Romans nine. But to do Romans nine we have to do Romans eight. And to do Romans eight, we really have to do Romans one through seven. That's right. But you can call me Al'cause the S. Yes, I can. Now, those who are who are active in in in the church might have heard this phrase theology before. They they talk about the vis some people in certain circles they talk about the visible church and the invisible church. Yeah. You know, the visible church being what we see. People that claim to be Christian people that show up on Sundays, maybe they give money to the church. They're you know they they look like they're part of the church. And then the invisible church being those who God really knows their heart and those who are truly His. There are there are pretenders uh, you know, there's there's terrors mixed in with that wheat, right, kind of thing. So as you're I'm trying to understand in a more of a modern sensibility You're saying that the elect would be the visible church, but the chosen would be the invisible church? No, I I feel like I I feel like correlating it to that would would not quite be what I'm trying to get at. What I'm saying is that when Israel left Egypt Israel was the elect of God, and that there were Egyptians that left Egypt at the same time and that chose the election uh that Israel had for them. Some were elected to destruction. That would be Pharaoh. But there were individuals that chose to leave the election to destruction and choose life with the people of God. And that the same thing is true now. That all those that that choose Christ and leave the world by by believing the message of repentance, uh that all those that choose that choose to be a part of those that are elected to glory, that are elected to be used by God on this earth for the for the purposes of God. And to reap the eternal reward that God has for them. Calvinism doesn't dec disagree with that at all, so that's that's why I'm we're a hundred percent in agreement. I mean there is a choice that is made. This is a relevant choice. It's just a question of whether faith precedes regeneration or regeneration precedes faith. That's you're saying faith precedes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm saying that faith doesn't precede grace Grace precedes faith. God sent a messenger. Grace comes first, and then faith comes, and then regeneration comes. But so y but then the grace would come to everyone in the general call. That's what the grace that you would mean. The messenger comes to many people. So you would say God is gracious to all. Yes. In that sense. Not just common grace. Yes. But gracious in an effectual way, but some aren't effectually sa I mean Some aren't saved, so it's not a bad kind of trigger. His his his grace is very effectual. The trigger is do you believe? And once it once the trigger goes, the the grace is completely effectual. But if the grace precedes that's what you were saying The grace is not a good idea. We can't get bogged down on systematic theology terms. They're called technical terms. We've got to deal with them in order to have discussion. But this is but this is precisely my my concern. When we get into a discussion about effectual grace, I don't feel like that's a discussion uh that that the way that the term effectual grace is defined in systematic theology by Calvinists. I don't feel like like like scripture bears up the idea of effectual grace. Okay, let me let me change the terminology then. That is a grace that results in someone being converted or being justified, if we want to be really specific here, conversion is bigger than justification. Sure. So a grace that ends in that place. That isn't effective that that grace that ends in salvation only does so if the person believes. Yeah, I agree with that too. That's not what we were talking about though. Yeah, I'm I'm with ya. Let me see if this helps us to get uh uh some some some traction. So much fun. And maybe it maybe it'll change maybe it'll change the slant just enough 'cause they're uh chapter ten, the very next section uh section two is basically talking about this. Yeah it is. So you guys started to drink in from one to two, which is where they dream. Sure, go for it. So it says the effectual call is of God's free and special grace alone Not from anything at all foreseen in man who is altogether passive therein, until being quickened and renewed by the Holy Spirit He is thereby enabled to answer this call and to embrace the grace offered and conveyed in it. By the way, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jess Broadhurst, senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. And so part two there is saying that God's determination of who is saved is totally up to God and has absolutely nothing to do even with what the person will do in the future. Right. Yeah, and again, there's a couple of things. Holy Spirit, nowhere in scripture are we giving the the impression that the Holy Spirit is interacting with an unsaved person. uh at least not the way that scripture used the the uh name holy spirit. And the other thing is that um I wouldn't use the term effectual call, Chase. I think I would use that God has given a genuine call. He's absolutely serious that those who respond will be saved. And so so it's genuine and it's sincere one hundred percent. And and his grace will only be effective. for those who choose it. For those who reject it. In fact, it's similar to the idea that that the very same word of God that blesses the righteous The very same thing that blesses the righteous is the thing that curses the wicked. That that the the the call of God when it comes to an individual and he says yes, it means blessing. When it comes to another individual and he says no, it means cursing. I agree. And the question is preceding that one though. Because I'm 100% there is a general call that goes out to the world. The effective call is only for those who hear and respond. The question is what makes them respond. That's That's the basic part before that. So um you were talking about the Holy Spirit and and I was thinking about because we we did the Ephesians 2 part. Yeah. Um the God being rich in mercy, and you said the Holy Spirit never shows up in doing anything. But what if I just use the word God? Would that be sufficient enough? Because God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive. So that's we're dead and he makes us alive. Well the thing is that that particular passage doesn't disagree with what I've been saying. Yeah, I know, because that's uh well, I know that's what you think, but okay. Yeah, right. So that's but there's God quickening, right? So at least the Holy Spirit. God quickens at the point that we hear the word of God as dead people. Yes. In fact in fact let's go back to that dead that dead thing because When God sent Isaiah to preach to the nation of Israel, uh in Jeremiah, he said, they will be ever hearing, but never perceiving. Ever see no, ever hearing but never understanding, ever seeing but never perceiving. Right? The point is that they had gone so far that they could not hear the message of the gospel. The message of repentance that that that Isaiah was bringing to them. Right? That gives me the impression that previous to that time that was not the case. That previous to that time there were people that when when the when they were told to repent, like Jonah and Nineveh, they he goes and he preaches to them, and their ears were not deaf. And their eyes were not completely blinded. Well, the question is, what does Scripture tell us blinds the eye and deafens the ears? Scripture tells us again and again that when the Word of God comes to you and you reject it, your heart is hardened. Word of God comes to you, reject it, your heart is hardened. And so that this comes back to what I feel like is the the the Creation itself is proclaiming the gospel, the good news of the Lord, his divine qualities, and the preaching of the gospel and direct revelation when it comes to an individual, when an individual says in his heart Well, it's the same thing that Jesus says, you're already clean because of the words I have spoken to you. If uh when he sent out his disciples, it's the same idea when he sent out his disciples, he said, Find a house of peace. And stay at that person's house. He doesn't say find a person who believes your message and stay at his house. He says find a person of peace and stay at his house. I'm of the opinion that if I sit with a person that will continue to let me preach the gospel in its fullness, you know, not pulling any punches, and and doesn't reject it that eventually that person's gonna come around. But if the person gets up and says, Man, would you quit? You're bothering me, you're bugging me, get out of here. And he becomes not a person he he he rejects me and doesn't choose peace with the message of God Then at that point he's hardening his heart. And that in fact by rejecting the message he hardens his heart and God also hardens his heart. So if you if someone is sitting under your preaching for long enough, you are persuaded I I'm assuming this isn't a general it's a general rule is what you're saying. You're persuaded that they will come to Christ. I'm saying that if an if an individual the the distinction is not i is is it has to do with the preaching and the response of the individual. If the per individual keeps coming back He keeps hearing, he he doesn't reject it, that there's something that's happening in his heart and he's saying yes to it and that that the the saying yes to it is precisely where it says in Proverbs, the heart of the wise inclines to the right, the heart of the fool inclines to the left. That that that dynamic is happening at all the time. You know, that wisdom cries aloud on the streets, but the woman folly also cries aloud on the streets. And so the question is Which one are we listening to in all of our lives? Everywhere that we go, God is proclaiming His righteousness and His divine qualities all throughout all of society, and that those people that that, you know, no, I I I want what's right. I want what's right. So people that you've seen accepting and accepting for thirty or forty years that fall away from the faith How I mean, is it because they were having a battle inside of rejection all that time? Is that how you would argue that? Because they seem to be able to do that. Okay. One of the issues here at the uh with the effectual calling is it it becomes a s a sovereignty issue, which is why the the Calvinists will will debate debate this so strenuously. An analogy occurs to me. Um if if I'll direct this to Jonathan because he's the one who's disagreeing with uh with with this part of the confession. Um you're a A master dog trainer. Okay. And you have your own personal dog that you've trained since its puphood. Okay. You know? Yeah. And you're gonna do this demonstration for all your friends and family and neighbors and whatever and and show them what a wonderful dog trainer you are. And you're gonna have a Fido over there on the other side of the yard and you're gonna say, Fido And Fido's gonna perk up and look at ya. Come. And Fido wanders off in a different direction. Yeah, yeah. How good of a trainer are you? How much authority do you really have in this situation? How powerful are you as Right, that becomes a question. If God turns to us, Fido, and says, Come, we just wander away. Do you see the weakness in your in your illustration? It makes God look rather We are not dogs You know? It's a neat little illustration, but we're all sheep. Yeah, yeah, which w which is which is true. Like sheep we've gone astray. You're right. You're right. Nevertheless, when we're dealing with humanity and free will, we're dealing with a completely different nature than a dog. We're dealing with a human nature. And and um there are those who could be completely trained upright. that choose unforgiveness, that choose bitterness, that choose as a result of of unforgiveness and bitterness, that choose um uh to uh doubt and to reject the the uh promises of God in Scripture and instead choose to embrace later in their life um pleasure and follow And wickedness and again that's their choice. Wouldn't you be falling prey to an argument that human free will, our own free will, is powerful enough to resist God? Which would make our free will more powerful than God, more sovereign than God, right? So how do you overcome that? Because that's the problem uh with giving up the effectual calling is you're you feel like you would feel like you're giving up the sovereignty of God. Obviously you don't believe that. I've known you too long to know you don't believe that. So but how do you wrestle through that to say, no, no, God's still sovereign, but how? How do you answer that? But yeah I'm Yeah. Yeah, I'm not of the opinion that his grace is irresistible. Well maybe we should go that that for when we get to the irresistible grace chapter. Sure, there's something good in three and four. Three and four are good ones. The first one, three, here's this is comforting. Elect infants dying in infancy are regenerated and saved by Christ through the Spirit. who works when and where and how he pleases, so also are the other elect persons who are incapable of being outwardly called by the ministry of the Word. And I'm going to go ahead and read the last part of this chapter. Others not elected, although they may be called by the ministry of the Word, and may have some common operations of the Spirit, yet they never truly come unto Christ, and therefore cannot be saved. Much less can men not professing the Christian religion be saved in any other way whatsoever be they never ever so dil uh never so diligent is that a typo uh to frame their lives according to the light of nature and the laws of that religion they do profess. And to assert and maintain that they may is very pernicious and to be detested. So we're saying here that those chosen by God unto salvation are saved, even if they should die in infancy. That's pretty comforting. Or if they're unable to receive the Word of God. Maybe they're mentally disabled and handicapped in some way, right? Others who might receive the Word of God and even appear to respond to it will not be saved if God hasn't chosen them for salvation. And those who clearly reject the Christian message cannot be saved no matter how moral a life they live. And that's what three and four is. in regard to infants and have said that infants who die that yeah infants who die all go to heaven. Um and this this seems to limit that, uh uh which I think is a smart move. Um I don't know what the answer is, but in this case I'll be arguing with Jonathan at least to in PC USA has gone. PCA. No PC U. P C A as well. Yeah. I'm not sure. Yeah. Just happened to be elect. Right. Just happened to be elect, right? Yeah. And so here I'm I'm saying for abortion, actually. Let's kill 'em all. They're all elect. Well, I've heard that argument, unfortunately. Yeah. Uh nobody's actually done it to my knowledge, but the argument certainly is. That's all I got to say about that. You'll always have that to say at least. Yes. Um but yes, the the I have no clue what I was talking about before. Uh you know, this this this I feel like goes back to what I was talking about earlier about election. Election is a is an idea that has to do with With the continuity of God's people in history, right? And circumcision is the issue of election in the Old Testament. The issue of election in the New Testament is baptism, hence the reason why many churches want to baptize infants, because if your infants are baptized, then they're a part of the elect. They're brought into the covenant of God uh with with the group of people that are the elect. And so therefore they're in the state of grace. The visible church is what they mean. And this is precisely what what Paul is speaking to in Romans, that you can be a part of the elect, the visible church, but not be saved. Because at the end of the day, you might be circumcised in the flesh, or you might even be baptized in the flesh as a child, but your heart is not. Circumcised to the left. You're defining visible church as elect. So that that at least is helping me. That's that's giving me a lot. Because I would define invisible church as the elect. That's that's our big difference, I think, and the Westminster's big difference with you. So the visible church, the church that everyone sees, are not the elect. They're just what everybody sees. The elect are the invisible, the chosen, the special, the ones that have been called out from even Even the visible, even what is there. Let me jump in. We're gonna pause there. We're gonna pick this up because I uh man, I hate when we have these pauses. Wow, it was only five seconds, but I got it. Yeah. Woo! He's Dr. Jace Broadhurst, who's got the last word. Foodville Baptist Church, senior pastor. Jonathan's wife, who didn't get the last word, senior pastor of Crosswell Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Stu. Actually I'm speaking right now so I get the last word. Yeah, of course. This is the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online. Wfmb. com keyword faith. Till next week. Thanks for listening. God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Pum and plumbings, how can we make you smile?