Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P has in your preferred plumber. Plumb and plumbing, how can we make you smile? The distance between God and The creature is so great that although reasonable creatures do owe obedience unto him as the Creator, yet they could never have any fruition of him as their blessedness and reward but by some voluntary condescension on God's part. Which he has been pleased to express by way of covenant. The first covenant made with man with a covenant of works, wherein life was promised to Adam and in him to his posterity upon condition of perfect and personal obedience. Man by his fall having made himself incapable of life by that covenant, the Lord was pleased to make a second, commonly called the Covenant of Grace, wherein he freely offered We'll get an amen. Requiring of them faith in Him that they may be saved. And promising to give unto all those that are ordained unto eternal life this Holy Spirit to make them willing and able to believe. That's the opening half almost of chapter seven of the Westminster Confession of Faith. The title of the chapter is Of God's Covenant with Man. I'm Troy Skinner joined this week by Jace Broadhurst, Dr. Jace Broadhurst Uh used to that. He got his doctorate earlier this year. Congratulations once again, Jace. Thank you. Uh he's a senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church and Jonathan Switzer senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and your pres president, I think, right? Or some High pollutant guy with one of the ministerial associations. Um you must you uh from now on you actually have to call me most high and exalted. Most high and exalted. Have they heard this show? I can bless. Can I send them tapes? I I bless them with three fingers. Yes. So, uh I just read the start of chapter seven, but the last week on chapter six, right at the end of the trailer, Jonathan said there was something uh he wanted we're talking about the fall of man. And of sin and the punishment thereof. And there was a point that he wanted to to make. Uh so before we get into chapter seven, I wanted to give you a chance if you still wanted to make the point. Remember Kevin Costner's movie, uh the Watchwolves? Yes. Yes. Right? In and uh and he was a long movie. He left the the Civil War and and uh the colonial mess uh that that was that was so went west and in going west he he found himself uh making friends with the Indians and and somehow came to a more pure state as a result of of of being with more primitive people. And this is an idea that that has been raised uh by um th this idea of the the noble savage that comes from Bertrand Russell a uh back in the what is it seventeen hundreds when the uh uh humanist writer that was rejecting God in in in giving this impression that if we were to take a baby that that is pure and undefiled and somehow stick it with primitive peoples that are undefiled by civil civilization, let it be raised, that somehow it would be more pure, that it wouldn't be so uh greedy and wicked and vile. And uh and unfortunately that particular movie is totally made up There's no truth to it what whatsoever. It is a fabrication of of Kevin Costner's mind or whoever uh wrote the book that he styled the movie off of off of. And scripture stands in direct contrast to that, more like the the movie The Lord of the Flies, if you've ever seen that. I was just gonna bring it up where a bunch of my favorite book might be my favorite book where a bunch of these kids uh uh English kids that had been raised real proper and in in a great situation are left to their own devices on this island all by themselves un defiled by by parents and other people and they ended up being really ugly and killing each other and getting involved in all kinds of oppressive and cruel things. And the point is is that is that this is a major issue in in education for that matter today. Does the child start out okay or does the child actually start out needing to be uh trained and and disciplined and helped to see that there is evil that resides in him. And unfortunately the uh our society today is bought into the idea of the noble savage And uh it pervades everything and it and it corrupts our ability even to to know why we're so messed up, you know Well it's a rare thing for me to make a uh a book recommendation on the Face of Date show. I've done it only a handful of times, but I would recommend Lord of the Flies. Jace's book hasn't come out yet. Lord of the Flies is I don't know if the if the author is a Christian or not. I have no idea if he's coming at a f from a distinctly Christian worldview, but if you read it through a Christian lens, I mean it's it's It recognizes that sin is very powerful. Very powerful. Anyway, chapter seven here of the Westminster Confession, part one is basically saying that God is so much greater than humans that man can do nothing that demands any blessing from God. It is totally up to God what he does. You agree with uh with that general sign? Yeah, part one, yeah. Yeah, I'm good with that. Any disagreement with the uh Westminster Divines on that one? No uh no disagreement uh hardly ever with the Westminster Divines for me, big surprise. Uh you might want to define the word covenant though, since this whole chapter is on covenant. Yeah, well okay. Go ahead. Oh, okay. Thanks to my catechizing throughout my life, I know the definition of covenant um from the catechism. I want to personally apologize that you had to go through that note. Let me uh have a word out there to everybody out there that if you have not been catechized, you have not been properly trained in the scriptures and you should so do uh as soon as you can. Uh the Westminster Confession, the Westminster Catechism says actually this is not This is the shorter catechism, the children's catechism. Sacred covenant, I ask my children, what is sacred covenant? The answer is a relationship that God sets up with us and guarantees by his word. So a nice simple way of understanding a covenant is a relationship guaranteed by God. And the and the big uh the big illustration that scripture uses is marriage. Indeed. Yep. God is the the groom and we are the bride. Well in parts two and three, I mean it goes on to talk more about the covenant. You know, God made a holy agreement with Adam and Eve. that required obedience. They disobeyed, bringing the curse of death. Therefore God made a second holy agreement, providing a way out of their dilemma through faith in Jesus Christ. And God gives this faith to those he chooses. Which is interesting, uh, that it would go there. Does do they go later on to talk about the Mosaic Covenant? Cause they they the and would they call the Mosaic Covenant a covenant of works? 'Cause from my understanding of covenants, uh they were always um covenants based on grace and I feel like I would need to study even the Adamic Covenant to ask myself whether or not it's a covenant of works. Because clearly God had had just given them life and given them a garden of paradise. and freely given it to them. And so uh their their being in that garden was not something that they had earned in any way, but it was completely by grace, and they had responsibilities that that I think it's possible could be considered to be responsibilities that were based on um their simply showing gratitude to God for what he had already given to them. Life one another, a a beautiful marriage, and walking with him in the garden every night, I'm I'm a little bit uncomfortable saying that it's a covenant of work. That's providence. I would define grace as uh the necessity of evil in order to have grace. You can't show grace without evil to begin with. That is to give undeserved um favor towards somebody, it has to be undeserved. So there has to be wrong to begin with is all I'm trying to say with all that. As they would define what grace is. I think as Paul would define what grace is. So they would not say the Mosaic Covenant is a is a covenant of works. That would be a wholly dispensational understanding. uh very different than the reformers, the Westminster Confession. They would say that. We've got incredible grace. So in as early as Genesis three fifteen, you know, someone is coming to crush the head of the serpent. Let's talk about undeserved favor. Okay. Do you feel like Adam and Eve had done anything to to deserve the favor that God showed them? They had done everything right. So if that's what you mean, I mean do you do you deserve something to be created? They had done nothing to deserve such an incredible thing. But there's no thing. There's no such thing I I think we're using words again, but there's no such thing as deserve. I mean, what what does deserve mean? I don't even know. At this particular time when all is perfect in perfect communion, deserve and have a lot of people. And I want to use the term grace to describe God, but you're right, grace doesn't show up in that con in in that part of scripture. And so you're willing for there to not be there. So we're actually Uh we're we're both guilty in different situations of doing the same thing. Fascinating. Fascinating. Yeah. Any clear actually. At least half the time, probably more than that reality. Well, I'm surprised that uh Jonathan didn't just light up right away with you know, God gives faith to those he chooses 'Cause now we're getting back into the uh previously. Faith in d to whom he chooses, where's that? Is that in the third one? Well I mean that was my paraphrase, but he's they he's saying that uh in part where is it? He freely offers unto sinners life and salvation by Jesus Christ, requiring uh where is it? Requiring of them faith in him that they may be saved. And so you actually add he gives faith to whom he chooses. I don't think that's actually in this particular uh part of the confession. That would be your he requires of them faith in him that they may be saved. Oh, yeah. So that's that's where I was getting that. So he he gives to those who were ordained unto eternal eternal holy uh eternal life. So we're getting into the predestination thing. Yeah, I I I find nowhere in Scripture the Holy Spirit being told to be interacting with sinful man. It never says it. There's no passage of scripture that I know of that says it. I'd I'd I'd like to be shown one. I I I'm of the opinion that God is working. in sinful man, but that he's doing it through his word, and that the Holy Spirit does not show up until such a time as that man believes. Certainly in the Old Testament nobody is filled with the Holy Spirit unless they had been chosen and anointed by God. And so the Holy Spirit seems to arrive in the man once once he seems to be uh a vessel that God has prepared for the Holy Spirit. In the New Testament, the Holy Spirit only arrives after we have chosen to believe, except for the one place. John? Where where where where uh where Peter goes to Cornelius and uh he's uh but he's already a god fearer. And so they're kind of surprised that before they actually confess Christ, that they're also they're also given the Holy Spirit. But in that context, Peter is surprised and he says, hmm, God must have made them clean because now they have the Holy Spirit And so if I can be shown a place where the Holy Spirit is actually interacting with the man in Scripture, I'd be more comfortable with that. But I I don't see a place where Scripture actually says it, and so I'm uncomfortable saying that that's the case. God is working, but we're told that how God works with sinful man is he sends them the rebuke. He sends them his word. And in sending a man full of the Holy Spirit, whether it's a prophet or whether it's a preacher, Paul or whoever it is, he sends somebody full of the Holy Spirit to to preach the word. But until the time that that person hears the word and responds rightly, and specifically responds rightly, accepting Christ They are not given the Holy Spirit. The Spirit is given to them as a seal, as a deposit, guaranteeing what is to come, having believed they were sealed with the Holy Spirit. And so I'm I I'm not comfortable saying that the spirit is what was in them ahead of time making them able to believe. Jonathan Sweites, the senior pastor of Cross Rivers Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, the senior pastor of Po Poolsville Baptist Church, and Jace Seems to me, if I understand correctly, the the kind of the traditional Calvinist reformed understanding and those are the people that wrote this confession uh would have had a an understanding that the Holy Spirit brought someone to a place of belief. But Jonathan's got more of an Arminian point of view there, right, that's saying I don't know if it's Arminian or not, but I'm saying I'm saying that that scripture Yeah, that's that's the major distinction between Arminianism and Calvinist in the d in the area of this is that regeneration in the Calvinists mind, in the Westminster mind, regeneration precedes faith. And you would say faith precedes regeneration. I'm I no, I wouldn't. I would say that that um Regeneration is a work of the Holy Spirit. That's how it's defined, right? It's making alive. That's how you define regeneration. So we're saying you have to be made alive, regenerated, before you respond in faith. You would say the response comes from the Word, and then you respond, and then the Holy Spirit, in conjunction with or in response to your response to the word then regenerates you after. Well I'd like I'd like to straight the way Scripture says it. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. The word of God always comes by somebody that's been sent and powered by the Holy Spirit And so the the the role that the Holy Spirit plays in that process is by empowering the individual who brings the word. Okay, well you just added all that part. All you read was Faith comes from hearing and hearing comes from the word of God, which I agree with hundreds of. And then it goes on to say to to say and and how can they hear unless someone's been sent, how beautiful on the feet of them are good. By the Word of God. In the gospel, the power of uh in the gospel is revealed the power of God unto salvation. is so where does it say that the Holy Spirit works in somebody ahead of time? Well i I I would say it comes from implication of Romans that someone is dead in trespasses in sin. Which is in Romans. I'm sure you can quote the verses because you got 'em all right at the top of your so it's aware it is in Romans. I I don't know the example. So it comes from implication that in order for someone to uh to have faith in God, who is hostile to God originally according to Romans, enemies. We're enemies with God, Romans chapter one. Yes. In order for that to happen, there has to be a change in heart before they can even respond positively to God to begin with. So if the change of heart has to come f has to come in order to respond positively, how does the change of heart come? It can't come from me because I'm hostile to God. I'm an enemy of God. So it's a logical argument based on the big picture of Romans, which I know For us to get into the details of Romans, we're gonna be in trouble here, but I I guess we could try and walk through Romans one, three, six I don't know if we want to go there because it's because it's a long process, but I would enjoy this type of thing. Oh I know you would. So we'll leave it up to you, Troy. What do you want what do you think we should do here? Well we've in this in this show we've got about ten minutes left. There's no way we're gonna feel satisfied trying to go down that track in ten minutes. There's just no way. Right. And we've been down it up and down it, I guess, for the last few times a little bit here and there. So keep showing up. Nevertheless it's interesting to me that you s that that that you're you're recognizing that that that the assumption that the Holy Spirit has to work in the individual is an implication. It's an argument from from silence. Good and necessary consequences according to our first chapter. Okay. Except for the fact that Again, and this is probably where we disagree. So I want to recognize that we're probably not going to end up disagreeing on this. But scripture says abundantly clearly that faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. And if and if if scripture is so clear about that, then it's unclear to me why we have to add something else happening in the process. Well the reason why I'm uncomfortable with the Holy Spirit w with saying that the Holy Spirit does something ahead of time is because Everywhere that we see the Holy Spirit interacting with mankind, there's almost the sense that well, the part of God that's offended, you know, that that that can be uh that that can be You know, that there's a sense that what's blasphemy of the Holy Spirit when you when you What, blaspheme not Jesus? You can blaspheme Jesus and be forgiven, but you blaspheme the Holy Spirit. There's a very very careful delineation here that it seems like the Spirit of God is specifically given to show those individuals that have chosen Christ and that nowhere does it show any implication of the Holy Spirit doing something in the heart of somebody that has not yet chosen Christ. And and that distinction I feel like is is huge. I feel like, honestly, that it it is an inc incumbent upon uh s somebody that's going to claim that the Holy Spirit has done something in an unregenerate person, somebody that has not yet yet responded in faith, it's incumbent upon you to show me Somewhere definitively that the Holy Spirit's doing that because scripture gives the impression that the Holy Spirit doesn't do that. That's how that's how we're different, because the Holy Spirit's already in us And so so if there's no other place that we're told that the Holy Spirit's done that then that's a massive reading into scripture. The implication is that that the Word of God is preached and that we respond to the thing. I can't let you keep going on that because that's uh to say that something isn't directly uh that's like saying, well, it's not exactly right there in perfect beautiful letters what the Trinity is, and saying, well it's a massive uh whatever you just said about it, that it's uh this is good and necessary consequence. It's it's us thinking about the text in its big picture. Now I'm not willing to even say it just because off the top of my head on a radio show I can't come up with a verse. That tells me that. I'm having to trust you at this point that I have nothing specific. And I'm hoping that in our relationship, you know, ongoing that you'll send me any that you feel like I will probably if I c if I call off something you better believe it'll come out tomorrow. But um and if I have time to stop and think, I probably will, but I sure don't have time to stop and think about it uh sitting right here. But it it's it's un this is this is probably the difference that we started this with just a few weeks ago on was you were you were looking at these minute details in the text, which was very helpful but missing the big picture, I think, of what's going on here in the Old and the New Testament, how someone is breathed life into in Genesis from the very beginning and how Romans is dealing with that concept of what a dead person is and how he is I mean how would you even define the word regeneration? Well breathing life into uh i is very interesting because it says in the beginning was the word and the word was with God, the word was God, in him was life. And so to my mindset, the life that is breathed into us is the message of Christ. That is proclaimed the the gospel is proclaimed by creation itself and it's proclaimed in more precision specifically by by those that are sent with the preaching of the gospel. Christ, who is the Word of God, it's the Word of God that is the life. Well I don't I don't think I disagree with that. Are you saying are you buying regeneration to not include the Holy Spirit though? I'm saying this is a two thousand years of definitions of regeneration. You're de f redefining now. I'm saying that that having believed We were sealed with the Holy Spirit. And I'm saying that my faith came I'm with you on that. I'm saying that my faith came by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. And and and when I believe that that's the point at which Okay, I'm not asking you for a cr a chronological distinction between these things. I'm asking for a logical one. Does something happen to a dead person to be made alive before they can respond? Yes, and that's the word of God. So the word in and of itself magically does its work. No, the word of God spoken by a spirit Well, no, I would say the word of God that does not return void, yes. In and of itself. Without the work of the Holy Spirit in conjunction with the Word of God? I'm saying that that that most often the Word of God is preached. by an anointed spirit-filled individual. It's obviously true that Satan can take the Word of God and manipulate it, and he does it all the time to to confuse us. But when the Word of God is spoken by by an anointed, Holy Spirit-filled man of God, that the Word of God has life. When the Word of God is spoken rightly. And that can happen at times by people that don't even know that they're doing it. But without the Holy Spirit, is what you're saying. I'm saying the Holy Spirit's not doing a work in that person? I'm saying that the word is what brings life. And that the word of God and so of course we're getting into the the the distinction of the Trinity. Is is the Holy Spirit then in the Word? Yeah. Because the word and the Holy Spirit are the same and so is God. Now we're at philosophical questions. What is the word? So therefore if I burn that Bible 'cause it got old, I'm actually destroying Jesus. The other things I think you're going too far on too, so I'm sure I'm figuring out where exactly you are. For me though, you've got to understand what even you're saying seems way out there. Because the history of the church seems Largely to be even a few years. doctrinal. Regeneration? Yeah. I think it's pretty huge. Uh well not just regeneration, but but the place where the Holy Spirit fits in the process that it's pretty huge. I mean you're talking about regeneration. I'm not sure Regeneration means Holy Spirit making alive. Sure. So if that's so key, then why wouldn't the the authors of the Bible, why wouldn't the Holy Spirit have prophesied to us as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit? in their writing scripture have have have written down, by the way, that's how any of us believe is because the Holy Spirit was already working in them ahead of time. Instead of nowhere saying that and always it's in the context of I mean I kid you not, I have looked up the Holy Spirit and I've gone through every and spirit and gone through every single passage that I can find and I cannot find the Holy Spirit interacting with unregenerate man unless it's through a prophet that is filled with the Spirit and is prophesying to those who refuse to believe. That's the only way that the Holy Spirit I see anywhere in Scripture interacting with unregenerate man, and yet you seem to feel like this is a cornerstone of your theology and your doctrine. And if that's the case I do find myself in a very different place. Even using the word unregenerate man, I mean, how does it become regenerate? The word brings life. So yeah, it's it's a total redefinition of everything. So I'm not sure how we can How we can use terminology that has consistently been used in a certain way and then redefine it. So we need to get rid of the word regeneration totally, I think in order to keep discussing. Sorry, you were gonna jump in. I was gonna say you're you're flummoxed. Yeah, I'm flummoxed. Uh and we've got you know a little over a minute left and we're n so we're not gonna finish chapter seven because we only covered the first Three sections of six sections. It covered half of uh of Chapter Seven. But it was such an enjoyable first three sections. Um Well we've got to get another one in, right? Yeah, we'll we'll figure out how we're gonna handle because our hope was to do basically a chapter per show, but we can't do just half the chapter and say, Well that's chapter seven and move on. So we'll figure out some way And maybe we'll get into chapter eight. Maybe we'll finish chapter eight. I'm not sure what next week holds for us, but God does. Uh Dr. Jace Rodhurst the Senior Pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. Thank you again for being on the show. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And um actually I m looked at the clock a little bit wrong. I've got a little more time than I thought I did, so I'm gonna well I've only got like forty more seconds than I thought I did, but here's a part of chapter seven we'll be talking about next week. This covenant of grace is frequently set forth in Scripture by the name of a testament in reference to the death of Jesus Christ the Testator and to the everlasting inheritance with all things belonging to it therein bequeathed. This covenant was differently administered in the time of the law, in the time of the gospel, under the law it was administered by promises, prophecies, sacrifices, circumcision. the Paschal Lamb and other types of ordinances delivered to the people of the Jews, all for signifying Christ to come. And I'm going to end there and thank our sponsor again, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'll read the rest of chapter seven to maybe to start next week's show and then we'll have all sorts of fun with fodder. By the way, the last ten minutes. Probably my my best my favorite ten minutes of the series we've done so far. Exactly. I'm afraid of it now. Thanks so much. God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P has in your performance. Bert plumber. Povin plumbing, how can we make you smile