Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumin' plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to Credit Face Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Todd Westfall, the senior Rowe at El Shaddai Congregation, Frederick. And Faith Debate Show, first time listening to it. Purpose and uh plan behind this show is to make me happy. That's what this show is all about, making The host happy. Oh sorry that's not what it's on the cover. It's about truth. It's about the truth, baby, 'cause the truth matters. Truth matters, baby. Uh so we're allowed to use that term. Is that like mojo if mojo goes too far? Right, right. So good. That was clear. If this is your first time happening fun the Faith Debate Show, where have you been, man? Come on. We've been around for like five and a half years now. Tell your friends, wake the neighbors. Shake the kids. Well don't shake the kids. Go online and listen to all the shows. Yeah, uh most of them are up there. There's got to be a couple hundred shows online, so you know. If you l if you listen to some and you like it, let's know which ones they are. We'll try to do more shows like that if we can. Uh last couple of weeks we've had the same panel together. We've been talking about end times. Uh we've had a couple of words of the week Well we've j we've been trying to talk about end times, but we've we've been caught up uh specifically about the role of Israel in ready to get ended up. You know in the end time it's definitely related Yeah. Right. It definitely affects or infects one's view of end times. Whether or not you and I can relate anything to anything on this particular ship. So our word of the week, we've started this now. Two weeks ago it was Rowe Correct. Yeah. Uh last week it was eschatology or eschatological, which has to do with uh the end times. This week I think word of the week will be rapture. Rapture. It's got nothing to do with a nice feeling when you're eating cake. Rapture. Rapture, I guess. No. Rapture is um in certain Christian theological circles is the belief that Christ, um near the very end of time, will call his church uh th those who are alive on the planet at the time who are believers in Christ will be called to him and will uh for lack of a better way to say it will disappear from the planet and be called up to heaven and then uh life will continue uh for depending on your theological view the most common one is for about seven years uh absent those church believers kind of a thing. So the rapture is this calling up of people. Um for the record I'm not an adherent to the belief in the rapture. I'm not sure where you two stand, but I think you might be rapture guys Yeah, I mean I I I uh I think my debate would be in in talking about when it takes place. Okay. Uh in the context of pre-post or you know, mid or or whatever. Again rapture I once met a pastor who we got into some discussion about theological matters. Imagine me getting into a discussion with theologians. And and he was questioning my credentials, which by the way I have no problem because I don't have any. So that's fine. That's nice. He said, What are your credentials? I said And that was my answer. Absolutely. So I said And I said, Well, I'm not even sure what you mean by that. Like You know, what are your credentials? And he went on to say that and I can't remember all the language he used, but he was a he was a uh uh dispensational uh uh Pre-mill, post-trib, you know. That's a credentials? I didn't realize those were credentials. And I was like, theological state engine. And I was like, Well, I think he was just trying to show that he maybe had credentials 'cause he knew all these big words and at the time I I had to go look 'em all up. Okay, post trim, pre trim, mid trim What does that mean? I don't know. That'll be the word of the week next week and the week after. But uh what are we going to get into? I can't even remember the word of the word of the yeah, what's the so we the calling away of believers. I'm of the opinion I'm of the opinion that um that rapture embodies an idea that that plays out uh in end time scenarios, that there are many end times and that that the uh the playing out of the rapture is that when the time comes where where we're moving from just tribulation where the people of God are among the rest of the population into the time where God pours out his wrath, that at that moment he makes a way for his people to not suffer the wrath the the intense anger and the wrath and the punishment of God, but that in that moment he provides a way of escape that they will not be under the wrath but they'll be able to escape it. And so that's it. To my mind it's an idea that that embodies a principle that God uh that we'll face persecution and tribulation, we'll face a lot of difficulties, but we will not never face the wrath of God. Because we've already faced it through Messiah on the cross. So I guess that would put you kind of like us in the pre trib rapture camps in some sort of fashion. I'm not no, d I'm definitely not pre trib. No, no, no, no. I I'm probably more of a mid trib. Mid trib. Yeah, when the when tribulation turns to wrath. Is that where you are? I'm I'm in caught up actually into the air and I I I believe the air part is just a metaphor. Right. Well uh again I I wouldn't go into Okay. I believe that it's going to all take place and it correlates with the Jewish feasts. Hm. And and how it correlates with the Jewish feasts is when Jesus came the first time He was the Passover lamb. Yeah. He fulfilled Passover. He was the bread of life, the unleavened bread that was celebrated in that feast, and he was The firstborn of the dead, firstborn from the grave, which is the feast of Bikorim, the feast of first fruits from the grave. And I believe that in the Passover because if you had the blood over the land, the blood Covers over death. Right. Death would pass over and in that celebration. And that's when Jesus implemented I'm I'm getting a little bit just to set up my view of the end times because it correlates with the festivals and feasts of the Lord, mm-hmm, which are the feasts that Israel celebrates from uh you know the Vidicom. So you believe his final return is gonna be Well then Pentecost of course was had to do with the pouring out of the Holy Spirit. On Shavuel, correct. Which he told them to go and celebrate in Jerusalem and wait for the promise. Um but in the in the fall feast I believe that his second coming is going to correlate with those. So the seven years of tribulation and the seven seals and the seven trumpets and the seven bowls that are talked about in Revelation all correlate with those fall feasts in my f in my belief. And the the calling away of believers will happen at the end of that seven year period when he fulfills at his return Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement, the Feast of Trumpets, and the Feast of Tabernacles. Yes. When he gathers all the nations around him. So the final seven trumpets are going to be during Yom Kippur, correct? Feast of trumpets. And then the tabernacles, uh Feast of Tabernacles, is that going to be the uh seven trumpeters. The seven trumpets of are during the f the Feast of Trumpets. Yeah. The trumpet, the final trumpet is Yom Kippur, which is the Day of Atonement. Uh, which will be at that time he will come back. Mm the sky will split, Yeshua will come back, he will uh Defend Israel, there's gonna be a culmination, there's so much here to talk about try and no. There's so much Uh that at it at that time all the secular world and the earth is going to be going in a direction, there's going to be all kinds of disarray and there's going to be a false messiah that's arisen and all this is going to be taking place I believe in the land in the Mid East and Israel. Right. And uh believers will be interceding and praying and a great revival is going to be going on. People are going to be coming to faith at the same time this is all going on. At the coming of Messiah, and at the coming of Messiah. Yom Kippur. Yom Kippur, there's going to be an outpouring of the fire of God that is going to call away believers. At the same time there's going to be a fire that consumes the earth and those that are that will be the wrath. Yeah. And so that'll be not quite mid trib, but it'll be right before the end. Kind of a yeah, put like a post trib. Post trib. Yeah, post- by the way, uh I I might get distracted and not do this later, so I'm gonna do it a little bit early. In case you're wondering who you who you're listening to. I'm Troy Skinner, host and moderator of this wonderful show. Award-winning someday. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Can we give ourselves an award and call ourselves the award we have? I think so. I think we should. Todd Westfall is the uh senior roway at uh El Shaddai Congregation. And believe it or not, I actually have conversations with people who listen to the show and will admit it to me. You know, like, oh yeah, I listen to your show. And some of them actually are are pretty theologically minded. Like they you know, they understand some of these terms that sometimes I assume that most people don't understand. Sure, why would you? You know, but So It was so hard for us to learn the terms that we're surprised that other people pick 'em up so easy. Exactly. So I kind of look at it. I grew up a baseball fan. Do you guys grow up a baseball fan? Not really. Well when I grew up But I played I I don't know if this is true anymore 'cause I don't follow the sport quite like it did and I'm not the age I was when I was growing up. Imagine that. So but when I was growing up there were three kinds of baseball fans. Right. Okay. There were the casual baseball fans that oh, my team won? I'm excited. That's cool. Okay, that's me. Right. And then there was the serious baseball fan who would watch almost all the games, hang on every pitch, be really into it. And then there was the stats. Right. Yeah. And then there were the psychos who kept score. Right. Right. Every every out, every strike. Oh, they kept the scorebook for the I mean they were psychos, right? Yeah. And there was a phase of my life when I was one of those psychos. Yeah. As you can imagine that too, I'm sure. So kind of the same thing. This this this show is like baseball Okay. Some people are like, oh that that shows on doesn't annoy me too much, I guess I'll then you got people that are like kind of into it. Like, hey, I appreciate what you guys are talking about. It's pretty interesting. Sometimes I learn a few things, sometimes I forget a few things, you know, whatever. Yeah. Kind of interesting. And there's people who are keeping score. So for those that are keeping score and care about this sort of thing. We need to give them a name. Psychos. So for you psychos out there. Faith psychos. Yeah the faith psychos. Yes. I think uh and if I get this wrong, then you gotta correct me because the scorekeepers are gonna keep track, right? Okay, okay, here we go. So Jonathan would be A uh a premillennial mid uh a mid-tribulation premillennial dispensationalist Probably a millennial. Yeah, probably a millennial. Really? You are so confused. Okay. So you Todd would be you would be premillennial, is that right? Okay, so you would be a post trib premillennial dispensationalist. Is that Fair? Yeah. Okay. How are you cause I I, by the way, um uh would be uh more of a pure a millennial list. Uh that's why you're so bothered that I can believe what I believe and still be what you are. That's what bothers you. That that's bothered you many times in the context of the show. That's why you keep me on 'Cause I bother you. Because I'm close enough to you that you don't like the fact that I believe certain things that I believe. So uh and And people are wondering okay, what does all this mean? So I'm gonna mean go online and get the other shows up. Yeah, well I I think just for the sake of this conversation, it's easier for us to have some labels that we can use a little bit, to use a little bit of jargon and it'll make the conversation flow a little bit. When you say that somebody is premillennial, you hear somebody say, Oh, they're premillennial or I'm pre-millennial, what they mean is they're talking about it all ha all of the the the timing, the pre, the post. So basically there's premillennial, postmillennial, and amillillennial, okay? Those are the three major s schools of theological thought on eschatology end times. Uh it all has to do with the timing of when Christ returns. So those that are pre millennial believe that Christ returns and then the millennium starts. The millennium is a very important for a thousand years. Right. And then you have people that believe that there will be one thousand years of peace with Christ reigning over uh his messianic kingdom for a thousand years and then he returns. So that would be Christ returning after the millennium, so it's post-millennial. And an all millennial, the ah means non or no, which is probably a misnomer for the view, because it's not a belief that there is no millennium, it's just an idea that we're already in the millennium now and that it's not a literal thousands. We're bringing in the reign of Christ. It's the representation of of just a very long time. Yeah. And that the millennium has started and will will continue after the second coming of Christ. Those would be the three main views. So People traditionally who are all millennial don't fall into a pre trib, mid trib, or post trib because they don't have a tendency to think in those terms. So I'm fascinated by you being a mid trip all millennial guy. I'm I'm feeling kind of uh uh multi personality um I'm of the opinion that the kingdom of God is already, but not yet. And the fact that it's already um is that the kingdom of God is coming on the earth and it's like yeast and it's making a difference and it's changing things. And so However long that that's gonna take, it's making, you know, a big difference on the earth now, uh, you know, in significant significant ways. Uh things are improving. around the world even as things are getting worse, that there's uh there's this this principle of of improvement uh on the earth at the same time. And uh by the way, that is an important kind of almost worldview that kind of colors Uh these different people have these different views, colors their understanding of world the Zach, right? People that are premillennial have a tendency to think And this is kind of hitting with a broad brush, so I apologize for kind of oversimplifying it. But generally they're kind of pessimistic about world events, things are getting worse and worse and worse and they're gonna keep getting worse until they get so bad that if they're you know if they have a pre-trib view, Christ is you know, God's gonna call his people out of the world before that ultimate wrath because things got so bad and then the millennium is going to happen after that. So they have kind of a pessimistic view about, yeah, things are getting worse all the time. Uh post millennialists, they believe that the millennium has to be established for a thousand years before Christ will come back. So they have a more optimistic view, like things are gonna get better. They're almost secular hu they have almost a similarity with some of the secular humanists too in Star Trek mentality. I want to make it clear that I'm not post millennial Okay, and I think you may no you're post-trib. Right, okay. I wanted to make sure I because I was just I kept hearing you say it and I couldn't remember what you said earlier when you were kind of labeling each one of us, yeah. It's a lot it's a lot of labeling. Absolutely. So you're premillennial postrib. Correct. Gotcha. So anyway, so but people that are post uh tribulation, they're gonna be very optimistic. Things are getting better all the time. They have to get better because ultimately they're gonna get so good that the millennium will have happened, will have started, it'll go for a thousand years and then Jesus returns. And then kind of this is what sparked this, what Jonathan was saying is You know, as bad as things are, there's hope. As much hope as we have, things are getting bad. It's like there's kind of this both and kind of thing going on that the and the Al Millennials kind of live in a kind of a dualistic kind of view of of what's going on in the world kind of a thing. So anyway, I kinda jumped in there but this is really hard stuff to follow with all the labels. Well this part of the problem is is honestly at the end of the day I'll I uh I don't feel like I don't feel like I understand it all yet. I just don't. And that being the case, there's major parts of the A Millennial that when people talk about A Millennial, I'm like, I'm that But then there's parts about, you know, uh a future reign that's gonna come after, you know, the second return of Christ that I'm like, you know what, I think there's something there too that that uh you know like Zechariah fourteen where it says that uh after the Lord returns and sets his feet on uh on Mount Zion or uh the Mount of Olives rather that uh that people will come up every year to worship the Lord. And so I mean at the end of the day I feel like I I just haven't quite got it figured out yet. I ch I'm trying to. I I meditate on the passages, but I just haven't felt like they've clicked in. I I do have a sense though that at some point, you know, maybe a year from now, maybe a week from now, maybe twenty years from now, that things will begin to to for me solidify where I'll be able to to better identify what I think is is going to happen, how it's going to happen. I know Christ is going to return. You know, there's certain principles that I'm absolutely clear about, you know, in terms of the people of God not facing the wrath of God. That's one, you know, dealing with the rapture like like we were trying to get to But at the end of the day I feel like I don't quite haven't figured out yet. One of the reasons I'm comfortable saying I'm a millennial, uh you know, I don't know if you guys have well you wouldn't because you're still kind of wrestling and you wouldn't be able to answer this question. I don't know if uh Todd is, you know, a little more solid in what his his view is. If you had some moment that you can remember say, you know what? I think I now know what view I have. I have a moment like that when I kinda it just All of a sudden I came to like that's who I am. I feel good about it. And it was almost like Sherlock Holmes, you know, after you've eliminated all the other possibilities, the other possibility no matter how unlikely it is, if the only possibility remaining must be the true Answer to the question. Yep. You know, Paul uh I think in terms of of the millennium as you know, the messianic rule over his kingdom. Yeah, Jesus is ruling over his kingdom for The millennium for the thousand years if whether you take that as a literal or figurative number kind of a thing. So if Jesus is ruling over it then post-millennialism doesn't make any sense. How could Jesus return to to reign over something that he's already been reigning over for a thousand years? That to me that just doesn't work. Like okay So that one doesn't work. Starting off with two, premillennial and all millennial. I'm going to ask you questions in a second, but I'm going to let you get out your testimony. And then premillennial doesn't make sense to me because of the kind of the reverse of that. I believe that Jesus is reigning now already. There's an already not yet tension kind of a thing. And he's reigning now, his millennium must be now. So and this and to say that we have to wait for the millennium means we have to wait for the start of his messianic rule and his kingship. And and I can't I'm not comfortable going there. So what I'm left with is omillennialism, which is There's an already not yet reality going on where yes he's ruling, but there's an overlap in in uh redemptive history. where he's ruling, but at the same time the old age is still there, but then at the second coming the old age is completely wiped out and the messianic rule, the millennium, if if you will, continues Forever. I I the I have a view, uh a symbolic view of of the number of thousand in this particular chip. Right. I got that. So anyway. Yeah. I I think it's important too just for the listeners to know that when when you talk about theology and you listen to these words and things that people say that they hold to, most of us hold on to our views of faith like we hold on to a golf club. We don't want it to fly out of our hands when we swing it, but we don't want to squeeze the life out of it that we lose control of the swing. And I've played golf with Todd and so this is a guy that that he cares much about his golf Theology, the study of theos, the study of God. We're you know, we're finite, he's omnipotent, so there's a process and if we hold too tightly on things that we learn And and don't say, you know, I'm willing to be taught more in Scripture. If you can reveal to me in Scripture things that will change my theology or eschatology, I am willing to go there. And I feel like that's a big part of what this show is about. For Troy and I. We feel like uh at the end of the day we've got things to discuss, you know, things that we hold very firmly to. And even, you know, for that matter, when we talk with people that aren't Christians, you know, the reality is that we're expecting, I feel like Troy and I, to be challenged in our perspective. We're expecting that somebody's gonna say something that will cause us to have to to to seriously think about and reconsider and dig deeper. And I feel like that's that's really the uh the sincere you know, a a big part of the show. Yeah, there's that figure of speech and you gotta pick your h you know, choose your hills to die on kind of a thing. Take that literally. What hill would you literally die on? I'm not gonna die. Yeah. I'm not gonna give I'm not gonna give my life on an end time. But the reason I th that's why the reason I'm saying this, I want to clarify for somebody maybe who isn't really steeped in reading the Bible and and I don't want uh that person to misunderstand and I and I'm pretty sure I can speak for Todd on this. He wasn't saying that we would hold all the tenets of our faith that loosely. There are certain things over which we would die. Absolutely. Jesus was a literal historical figure who actually walked the earth. We hold to that orthodoxies of the faith, those things, those tenets that are lived non-negotiable. He rose again the Virgin. Yeah. All of those things. God is the Creator. The Bible is the Word of God. Those are things that are fundamental and you're going to fight for. But we only know as much as we know because God is designed uh has deigned is the word I was looking for has deigned to reveal it to us. We only know what we know because God has told us. And in some cases, God hasn't told us very clearly what he wants us to know for his own purposes. Absolutely, uh most of what we're talking about, we're having debate and discussion over because What we think we know about it, we learn from very difficult passages in Scripture, the the uh uh apocalyptic language, right? The revelation, which is very hard to figure out how do you understand what It's not prose. It's not even poetry. It's something other. And how do we and if there's no modern day literature, anything like it, so we don't have a frame of context of how to understand that or certain parts of the Old Testament, Daniel or Ezekiel or uh uh Isaiah even, you know, there's parts that you're like, I'm not sure I know how to understand this, but you start to interject, well, I think it probably means this. And somebody once explained to me that, you know, how we understand our theology, it's like a brick wall And you've got things like Jesus actually lived, Jesus actually died, Jesus actually rose again, God is the Creator, those sorts of things. Those are bricks. And you can count on those bricks. You start to build your wall with those bricks and you start to assemble them in a way that makes sense where they all kind of fit together and you get this cohesive worldview, biblical uh understanding, right, with these bricks. But as you're putting the wall together you realize Wait a minute, there's I don't have a brick for this space. I have a brick for a space above it, so I'll put those bricks up there, but I s but you end up having this wall with a bunch of holes in it. Because God hasn't revealed all the bricks. Mm-hmm. So then you read the Bible with the uh and try to figure out, okay, what goes in those holes based on the bricks I know are there? And right thinking, Bible believing, God fearing Christians can come to different decisions on what bricks go in those holes because God hasn't made it clear. So I just I don't want somebody that who's not a Christian to think, oh these Christians just make it up as they go along and they'll change their views. The process of sanctification is the working out of our faith with fear and trembling, uh the working out of our salvation. So if we're going to work and grow, we've got to remain humble and teachable even with those things that we hold and that we know. Uh this the thing is proven to replace those. This is where I think it's been so difficult where where so many uh atheists are from other religions feel like they can't have discussions with Christians because at the end of the day there's certain things that we Christians do hold by faith and so they're like, Well, you know, I can't have a discussion with them because, you know, at the end of the day if the Bible doesn't say it, he doesn't believe it You know, and that's where on the show we've endeavored to say, no, we can have discussions, we can have we we can have interactions with people of totally different faiths and even be challenged in our own faith. But it is true that at the end of the day, we're going to drive back to what does the Bible say in in and how does the Bible say it? And so Uh it's it's a tough thing to do because i you know, yeah there's certain revelation, but uh ep epistemologically, you know, in terms of how we know things, ep epistemology Uh we already had our word of the week. It is true that there's some things that we know. by like you're saying trying to figure it out. I agree. So uh I'll just keep talking and when you guys want to join back in my conversation I'll still be here. I'm sorry I wasn't I wasn't hearing any of that Actually we're gonna we're gonna have to draw a close here. Yep, yep. So whatever your point was, I hope it wasn't too important. It was about epistemology. Oh well nobody knows what that is anyway. I could barely say it. I don't know what you're talking about. That was a fun kind of uh somebody got that out there. They're keeping score in fact. Faith Psychos. All right. Uh thank you, Jonathan Sweites, your senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Todd Westwell, the senior Rowe at El Shaddai Congregation. I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you so much for listening to the Faith Debate. On WFMD, visit us online at WFMD. com. Footman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?