Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. I got something I'd like to read to you now. All those that are justified. God vouchsafes in and for his only Son, Jesus Christ, to make partakers of the grace of adoption by which they are taken into the number and enjoy the liberties and privileges of the children of God. Have his name put upon them. Receive the spirit of adoption. Have access to the throne of grace with boldness. Are enabled to cry, Abba, Father. Are pitied, protected, provided for, and chastened by him as by a father, yet never cast off, but sealed to the day of redemption, and inherit the promises as heirs Of everlasting salvation. That's right. We're talking about the Westminster Confession of Faith, baby. Huh? You say that with such excitement. What's the other phrase you you say? The truth hurts, baby. The truth matters. It might hurt, but the truth matters, baby. Anyway, that's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and the other voice you heard piping up, the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, Dr. Jace Broadhurst, and after a uh short several week uh break from the Westminster Confession, we're back at it. Woo. Yes. Exciting. And glad to be back at it. But before we get into commenting on chapter twelve, there's something else that I I I've got to take like, you know, a minute. of our time. Okay. And do this. To minute you'll never get back and I apologize in advance for that. Alright, here we go. I'm here with Noel Bitterman, CEO and founder of controversial website and Ashley Madison is a good support. Get this. People who are in relationships but looking for a little something on the side. So, no. You mentioned that over three and a half million people have signed up to Ashley. Stop stop How do you explain so many people choosing to use your service? It helps that we've been featured all over the media, from Larry King to Dr. Phil, Ellen DeGeneres to 2020. Why the fascination? Recent studies say that 40% of people have cheated at least once in their life. This is obviously a topic that is personal to over a hundred million Americans. Forty percent. And that's just really those who have admitted to it. People choose Ashley Madison because Anonymous and we guarantee results. Guarantee? That's right. If you don't find what you're looking for on our service, I'll personally give you your money back. No questions asked. Wow, guaranteeing an affair? Share your comments at Ashley. All right. Are you kidding me? That's a real commercial. That is not a parody, a funny thing, a satire Are you kidding me? Yeah, I need some uh head. What is going on? So so this guy's basically banking his entire business website, everything on the fact that people want to have affairs. And they're gonna have them on a regular basis, forty percent of the population. I mean come on, if the stats are on a side, you're in the wrong business, baby. You know, it's it's I it's it's bad enough that that sort of thing goes on. It's bad enough that somebody would figure out how to monetize it, but people monetize all sorts of sinful behavior. Yeah, right. But that's an actual commercial. An actual only exists because obviously there are actual radio stations that will actually play it. So I have to ask, this wasn't aired on this was No Well until just now, no. So uh so what radio stations play this. Is this like a country you know like no country music? Uh no, no, I wouldn't think so. What's the population there? City I mean I don't know I've got to be city people. Well yeah, it's gonna be probably stations that have lots of shock jock type uh me personalities on them. are a little bit loose with their lips anyway. Yeah no no right right in the middle of like a Dr. Lore or something like that. Yeah. Okay maybe not. Unbelievable. As soon as I heard that like oh I've gotta let my pastor friends hear this and share the pain. Yeah, you know, I I almost can't talk about it, you know, it's so frustrating. It's you know, it's just I want to say on a side because we are talking about the Westminster Confession of Faith today. So we're gonna we're gonna get back on track. You are listening to the Faith Debate, the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How? Can we make you smile? Um and by the way, I invite you to go to our website, wfmb. com, keywordfaith. That's where you'll find the faith debate blog. You'll find links to the audio vault there, or you can go straight to the website. the uh website's audio vault and listen to shows like this over and over again. Alright, I read chapter twelve, the Westminster Confession of Faith, at the very beginning of the show. And uh the gist of of chapter twelve, it's it's very short, just one part. Believers in Jesus Christ are adopted into the family of God with all the benefits that go with that, including curing the Father's name. having a personal, intimate relationship with the Father, cared for and disciplined by the Father, never disowned, and an heir forever. You guys in agreement with that? I'm guessing That Jonathan will not like that sealed to the day of redemption part at least. Although we're coming up to that chapter soon. The Bible says that we are sealed until the day of redemption. I like that phrase. So I'm I'm thrilled. I think that's a good thing. Where's my belly? Ding ding ding perseverance. I will say this, if we're talking about adoption, I feel like it would have been wise for them to put in there that uh you know from John where it says as many as received him to them gave he the power to become the sons of God. I I wish there was something in there that that uh had to do with the receiving of Christ. Uh of course the Westminster Confession is decidedly not assertive. You know, it doesn't magnify uh uh the role of the individual in choosing to receive Christ. In fact, uh the Calvinists tend to tend to avoid that. And I I kinda wish there was something in there that would say that uh that when they receive him they're empowered to become the sons of God. Because this is talking about adoption, right? So so they're we receive and he gives us the power to become. The sons of God. And it doesn't say anything in there about that, so I feel like it's something that uh would be valuable to be in there if they're making a statement summarizing what uh the New Testament says about adoption. Okay. All right. I I'm not sure. I I go back to what you said. Calvinists uh don't like to say that we receive Christ. Um we're very fond of saying that we receive Christ. It's an incredibly important thing. to us. The question isn't whether we receive Christ, it's what takes place first, regeneration or the receiving of Christ. So we we certainly would say that. In fact we're I think we're going to get into that. Isn't that like chapter thirteen or fourteen of saving faith? Yeah, and the word receive is in chapter twelve, it talks about receiving the spirit of adoption. Right, but that says that to as many as received him, Christ. To them gave he the power to become the sons of God. And that's uh that's decidedly before the uh arrival on the scene, at least from what I understand, of the ministry of the Holy Spirit. And uh and so uh I feel like it would have been a bit more accurate for them to include that particular passage. I think they didn't include it precisely because the Westminster Confession leans in the direction of thinking that the Holy Spirit did a whole bunch of things in us before we ever got saved in the first place. And uh I'm not of that opinion. I can't find any passages. In fact I asked you a couple of weeks ago, have you found one yet? I think actually didn't that was that was a time before this. I sent you a couple of texts. I don't think I have a bit forgot about it. You know what I could I could uh I could even look it up. Anyways So that's the one thing that that I felt like uh could well I don't know that there's a whole lot more fodder in this short chapter in which we're primarily in agreement on. So why am I going to jump into thirteen? I'll read that while Jonathan looks and checks his email archives and see. If uh he got that. So here's what chapter thirteen is ch the uh chapter twelve, by the way, was of adoption. Chapter thirteen is of sanctification. They who are that's a nice big word. That could be word of the week, by the way. They who are once effectually called and regenerated, having a new heart and new spirit created in them, are further sanctified really and personally. through the virtue of Christ's death and resurrection, by his word and spirit dwelling in them. The dominion of the whole body of sin is destroyed, and the several lusts thereof are more and more weakened and mortified. and they more and more quickened and strengthened in all saving graces, to the practice of true holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord. The sanctification is throughout in the whole man, yet imperfect in this life. There abiding still some remnants of corruption in every part, whence arises a continual and irreconcilable war, the flesh lusting against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. in which war, although the remaining corruption for a time may much prevail, yet through the continual supply of strength from the sanctifying spirit of Christ, the regenerate part does overcome, and so the saints grow in grace, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. So in English, uh after a person becomes saved, the sin in their life will diminish. And they will progress imperfectly and sometimes with great difficulty to increasing levels of holy living, wrestling against sin in all areas of their life. Right. Yeah, again, I don't have much of anything that I'm uncomfortable with in that they uh they added a a word that you don't find in scripture effectually called. And uh it's a unnecessary word and it simply uh fits the uh again the the orientation of the con Westminster confession. My understanding is that uh he calls all of us and that we have the freedom to uh to to accept or reject. And uh many are called but few are chosen. And so this idea of an effectual call that certain people are called and they're incapable of resisting, uh, I feel like is alien uh to scripture and I think Jace would disagree with me on that. Quite strongly. Yeah. It's the big eye and the tool of the irresistible. Yeah. That God's grace is we can't resist it. But this chapter So how do you interpret then the passage where it says, Many are called, but few are chosen? Specifically which refers to the parable of the w of the uh wedding feast where the guy uh through the uh the feast for his son, invited all the people, nobody wanted to come, so invited other people, nobody wanted to come, and then instead he compelled them to come in from the streets. uh and uh told them to dress appropriately and so many came, some addressed appropriately, some did not. And when uh when the father came in And saw the ones not dressed appropriately, he had them thrown out, for there was weeping and gnashing of teeth, and he said, Many are called, but few are chosen. What's your Interpretation of the first time. We would say everyone is called to come to Christ. It's a universal call that should go out. It's what preachers do. When I'm in my congregation, I I call out to everyone. I don't know if Christians are there, non-Christians are there, I don't know if the elect are there, however you want to understand, elect or predestined, but I make a call to everyone. So there is none without excuse. There is none with excuse. So then how effectual are those who are actually saved? I'm following you. It's just i it's just a way to uh put a little bit of more uh clarity, I guess, uh or specificity. And I guess I haven't understood. For lack of a better word, you split a hair about the word call in scripture in the New Testament. And so apparently in some places you're of the opinion that the word call refers to uh something you define as an effectual call in other places the word call does not refer to um uh it refers to something that is more general. How do you tell a general call? How do you Uh how do you determine which is which? Is there is there a different Greek word used or uh not that I'm aware of. I as I said, I didn't really go into this real quickly. Uh I didn't really Delve into that particular question. If you want to give me it, I can probably figure it out pretty quickly. If you can know all the text where called shows up, I can find I I might be able to do it. You've got a Greek, by the way, on your cool computer. I can do that. But no, usually it just means called and then you've got a you have to uh interpret in order to get that. It's not a Greek difference as I recall. Okay. Interesting. There might be or something. Because this ends up being an issue between us is that sometimes I want to split hairs that you think are not worth splitting and other times you'll split hairs. that uh I think are not worth splitting. Well I think splitting hairs in scriptures is pretty relevant. I I I never really disagree with you on that as in looking at it very carefully. I mean this is just basic hermeneutics. You want to look at it carefully. Sure. My big concern over splitting hairs was you're just your complaint constantly about the Westminster Confession not using words that scripture uses. Right. And I'm just like, well they're just trying to explain it. That if they gave you the same words then we could just use the Bible. They're trying to give it a synopsis. Uh we don't want to read the whole Bible, we want to do it in thirty-three chapters. That's the whole point. So that's my o always my concern. Not not Looking deep into the biggest. said Mac users are the Catholics 'cause they just want it kind of easy and kind of given given to you easy, but most Windows users tend to know chapter and verse of all the owner's manuals and how everything works. And so that fits with the Protestants. They want to they want to be able to have to dig in. So anyways, we Protestants tend to like to dig into the Word of God and not just have a uh a s a simplified thing. Though there's been times in history again that I feel like they're worthwhile to have. I I think arguments over words, even in history and things like that, are important. I do I would question whether it's really important for a twenty-eight minute radio show sometimes. Um but I'm talking about Sunday morning of all but the language of text is I mean For my PhD we had to learn you had to know fluently six languages, plus three or four cognate languages. So I can I can do Hebrew and Amorite and Moabite and Edomite. I can I can work with those languages in Greek and German and French and Latin. Um so I think that's important and you can see it throughout my dissertation. It's everywhere. So I don't I don't want to say that splitting hairs isn't important. We need to be concerned about words like call. That's hugely important. Sure. Uh the word draw in the Bible. Very significant to find out what it means for God to draw people. I'm sure it's going to show up more in here, but what does it mean to to for God to draw somebody? to himself. That's the those are the people that Christ died for, as as a Calvinist would say, are those who God has drawn. Well, drawn how? Okay, here's a good place. It says Jesus said to them, It's not the healthy you need to doctor, but the sick. I've not come to call the righteous but sinners. Is that a effectual call or is that a general call? Um he is it well I mean hopefully it will be it will be end up being both to some degree, but he's here to call. Jesus is is putting the kingdom w out there. He's speaking of the kingdom. So he's speaking to everyone. And then the question is who will receive it? And those who receive it so in that sense would be effectually called. Right, but in that sense that word call would be considered a general call. And and you're saying that that based on your understanding of other places in Scripture around the word called, that that the only ones that are going to receive it are those that are effectually called. Is that what you're saying? Yeah, but it's not the word that changes, it's the it's the context that changes. So, you know, the the chain of salvation, those who are called were, and I'm sure you can keep going with all of that, you know, all the way up to glorified in this particular thing. It's obviously showing that these who were called, who might be generally called, are also effectually called because they ended up being glorified. So it's the result of it that that changes the specifics. I mean I don't think there's anything in scripture that talks about an effectual call. It's simply saying, if it worked We call it an effectual call. We're going back on it and saying, look, look it worked. So it was effectual. It did it. This call it got saved. Whereas I'm saying that in scripture that the word call is broad enough to give the impression that uh that if you use scripture to interpret scripture that uh that the sense of call is not something that is uh that the idea of effectual is a part of it but that uh that Rom the Romans passage is the passage that is the unique one and that is worth uh uh understanding what uh what the writer is intending in that passage, which is to confirm to those believers that have been stuck in the the struggle with sin from Romans chapter seven, assure them that they can be overcomers and that that the Lord's going to accomplish And he's not going to let them down that he's going to carry through what he began. And so it's not uh it's not guaranteeing that they won't choose to walk away, but it's guaranteeing that the God that they've chosen to follow is certainly never going to drop uh drop them. And uh and that that the the gist of the passage is designed to encourage, not not to uh lay down a uh doctrine uh for uh what calling is all about. I'm wondering if a passage that might be uh used by a Calvinist to talk about uh again the word a factual call or words a factual call wouldn't be in it But in uh the Gospel of John, chapter boy, I don't know, maybe seven, maybe I don't know, uh where Jesus is quoted saying that uh those who got who the Father gives me, I'm not gonna lose any of them. Right, and that whole idea that f the father gave them to him. Yeah. So he was the one who was kinda driving the bus on that. He was the one who was in control. Yeah. you know, would be evidence that God is the one who's active, God is the one who makes it happen. And if he's gonna make it happen then he's gotta be able he's gotta be able to make it happen. And if he is able to make it happen and actually does make Get halfin' He's the one who's affecting the change. He's the one who is effectually making that that happen. Is that I don't know. I don't want to argue the point too far because I'm not sure how much I know about it. But Well yeah. Uh using the logic of John seventeen, the high priestly prayer is what you're talking about. Se seventeen, okay. So I was close. I says I left a one on the right. That he has guarded them and not one will One will be let go. Yeah, and that's the logic of it if if he's the one that's guarding the I mean, we're kinda jumping ahead in our own. And that's going to be beautiful. It's like seventeen or something like that. By the way, you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. That's uh the person pointing out that we've jumped way ahead is Dr. Jake Broadhurst, the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church Jonathan Sweitz, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, is also one. Well, I mean, we can we can maybe jump ahead into another chapter here in a second and get and get to these points, but Any is there any point of disagreement on what the Westminster Confession says about sanctification? The idea that the Christian, once they become a believer, is going to in a general sense, have an increasingly holy life. They're gonna have moments where that may be some really dramatic moments where they they fall completely off the wagon, but In a general sense, over the course of time, as they live out their lives, they're going to become increasingly holy and getting closer and closer to a level of perfection that they will never attain this side of heaven. But uh but that they are pursuing that and they are making progress. You guys disagree with that? No. I don't I mean I don't think you do, right? No, I don't I don't disagree with it at all. So we're not disagreeing on sanctification at all. Yeah, I found myself as I was reading through, thinking to myself, you know what, t people are different places of sanctification. And so I appreciated in the third chapter there where they uh where they talked about the fact that they uh that the saints increasingly overcome. So the regenerative part does overcome and there's a sense of prevailing that we're not just stuck in the battle, but there's there's an increasing sense of victory, you know, that uh yet imperfect in this life. I think it's uh it's a good phrase for that. We would you uh I'm thinking about your background. Um would you agree that we will never reach perfection? Yeah, you know I was grappling with that in terms of, you know, l things that uh who is it, Wesley Um that got into that and uh you know, Finney that got into it. Charles Finney. Um I uh at the end of the day I think it's unlikely that I'll ever get there. Me on the other hand. You're sounding like John Wesley now, because Wesley's He never claimed to have attained perfection, but he did hold out the the idea that it was possible for others. Obviously Paul doesn't quite consider himself to have attained all that and uh and so uh I don't know that there's anywhere in scripture that that it absolutely tells us that that we will never attain that this side of heaven or the return of Christ. But Um first thing I'm I'm slow to uh Who says he has no sin is a liar and the truth is not in him? That's a that's a pretty good text that says no you're not gonna make it with you on that, yeah. I think it is true that that some people can attain to levels of that that are very uncommon. you know, in that uh that in uh that relatively they would seem almost to be uh without uh sin whatsoever. But again, I think you're right. Yeah, I think maturity is something that the Bible is calling us to throughout. I mean Hebrews James, I mean we're constantly being told to do things. And I that's I love the fact that they put this in here with all of our conversation about election and regeneration and these things and and the specific monergism of all of that. Sure. Now we have a chapter that's completely synergistic. Which is enjoyable. It's very man-centered, let's just say. says Holy Spirit and I work together to mortify sin. And we need to be doing that. And this is what a Christian's life is supposed to be about, is the mortification of sin. You're going to be or you've already preached on that just recently. So this is uh I just I love the fact that sanctification in here, the synergism and monergism God works and God and man works, in case you don't like those are new words for the day, right? Monolog Monergism is the di idea that God alone is working monog So w so Calvinists would say that that God works in salvation, and what we mean by that is justification. He alone justifies. But in salvation across the board, both God and man works, because salvation is not limited to your justification, it includes your sanctification and your glorification all the way through. So I I work with I cooperate with the Holy Spirit and Him working in me to make sure that I do the right thing. And sometimes I cooperate, sometimes I ignore it. But that's uh that's the synergy of this. So God we are working together in our salvation. Just not our justification. Yeah, you and I just disagree about uh the role of the individual in justification. Right. Cool. But we've been getting it. Okay, we don't have any. Yeah. All right. Well we actually covered Uh two chapters in one show. It's the first time that's ever happened. It might be the last. I'm not sure. You know what? Let's also give Jace the last word or something. There it was. That was it Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, while graciously trying to give Jace the last word which he'd already grabbed for himself. Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner, and this is the Faith Debate on Freddy's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putney Plumbing Heating. How can we make you smile? And I'm going to give you a little prelude, a little taste of what's coming up next week Chapter fourteen of saving faith. And I'm going to bring the music up so I have some musical company. This sh this always sounds better with the music underneath, I've I've I've found as I listen back to these shows. The grace of faith whereby the elect are enabled to believe to the saving of their souls is the work of the Spirit of Christ in their hearts, and is ordinarily wrought by the ministry of the Word. By which also and by the administration of the sacraments and prayer it is increased and strengthened. By this faith a Christian believes to be true whatsoever is revealed in the Word, for the authority of God Himself speaking therein and acts differently upon that which each particular passage thereof contains, yielding obedience to the commands, trembling at the threatenings and embracing the promises of God for this life and that which is to come, but the principal acts of saving faith are accepting, receiving, and resting upon Christ alone for justification, sanctification, and eternal life by virtue of the covenant. of grace. This faith is different in degrees, weak or strong, may often and may in many ways assailed and weakened, but gets the victory, growing up in many to the attainment of a full assurance through Christ, who is both the author and finisher of our faith. Have a great week. Thanks for listening. God bless.