Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Well then plumbing, how can we make you smile? Welcome to the Faith Debate. Yes, I have faith and I'm willing to debate. So is Jonathan Schweitzer, good friend, and senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, co-founder of The Faith Debate. And if this is your first time listening to the show, where have you been, man? Well let me tell you, here's what the show is all about. I believe, Jonathan believes, and we believe that you should believe that there is such a thing as truth And we go about the business of trying to define and determine exactly what that truth is. But we do it expecting whoever it is that comes on the show with us to try to you know disagree with us that maybe maybe there will be people that think that our truth is wrong, but we want to hash it out publicly and see how that plays out. Now if you are somebody who could articulate the point of view that there is no such thing as truth, give me a call, we'll put you on the show and we'll have that debate. Or if you think that the truth, uh, from the perspective that Troy comes from or I comes from is wrong. then uh give him a call. Yeah if you're see. Yeah. If you're a wrong section, then uh yeah, give us a call. Or Facebook us. Do you Facebook? Facebook is I'm thinking about doing that. Uh yeah, I I I do, uh but only because it's a great way to put pictures up there. And everybody comes and comments on my pictures and I kinda feel special for a little bit And I'll look at some of their pictures, but I but that's all I use it for. It's like a picture th thing for me. I'm thinking about it but my concern about doing it is It's my personality. If I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna wanna do it right. And my fear is that to do it right it's gonna be really good. It's a social thing. Can you be wrong about a social thing? No, but as far you know, it's gonna have to I want it to look good, I want it to be updated regularly, I wanna give people gonna come to the Facebook, you want 'em to to have a reason to come, right? Uh I don't think so. You do that for your website. Yeah but facebook is just a social thing. However you are socially That's all it is. Right, see? See? But your wife might. What are you trying to do to me, man? All right. Socializing. Last week we had a former alderman, Frederick City Alderman, C. Paul Smith, on the show talking about the uh reinstitution of the invocation before city meetings. A reinstitution. It's almost like a revival Yeah, now it's interesting that we have an invocation now before city meetings, but you're not allowed to invoke the name of Jesus Christ at the invocation. Or I guess you are as long as you invoke all the other names right along with it, but you can't have a prayer that would be recognized by those who are hearing it as something that is that's a Christian prayer. Yes. Yes, this is interesting. So if you're if you're new to the story, uh this is from the uh Frederick News Post from a a couple of weeks back. This is the uh January eighteenth. Almost like you have to be the American m melting pot of religions. in order to pray this prayer. You're not allowed to be a specific religion, but you've got to be the great melting pot all in one prayer at one time. Which is, I think, diametrically opposed to what the Christian religion is Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So how do you be that in America? That's the big question. And we'll be talking about that, but Jonathan, I know you have an attention span that's you know got some challenges. So it does. I'm gonna refresh your memory on the story. Okay, thank you. This is for you. Yes. Not for anybody listening. I'm sorry, what are we talking about? Mayor Randy McClemmett, you know him, right? Yes, Mayor. Yeah Ms. Clement. Uh began the first public meeting of 2010 with something that had been noticeably absent from city hall meetings in recent years, a prayer. A prayer. Does prayer have a prayer? Yeah. What had been a moment of silence during the previous term uh a former mayor, Jeff Holtzinger, was filled with a word of prayer Thursday from McClendon A word of prayer. That's such a spiritual phrase. It was filled with a word of prayer. Sorry, keep going. I'm willing to bet you there was more than one word. Right. Words of prayer. Yeah, but that's not as spiritual. Okay. Okay. Uh this is a quote from the mayor. We're a community and we have many facets in our community. If we're not including the faith-based community, we're not being completely transparent. I think the mayor likes saying the word community. Uh McClement said an invitation was extended to all religious groups to offer a prayer at the start of meetings. The invocation could also take the form of a moment of silence or reading. He said. You know, and which, you know, p I don't know, maybe it's about half of 'em out there uh that would tend to be in that particular ministerium. And so uh they did Extend the invitation. Yeah, well it's good to know 'cause that'll lead to a nice follow-up question that I have. Okay. So, um in case you're wondering, who is the mayor's pastor? Well no it's well it's the Reverend Kenneth Dunnington of Calvary United Methodist pastor. That's interesting. He offered an interfaith prayer. That's appropriate. There's nothing wrong with that. Bring your own pastor in. Yeah, I think that's cool. That's one of the perks of being the mayor. You don't want uh Reverend Dunnington delivering the prayer? Vote for somebody else. Okay. So so Anyway, so he offered, uh Reverend Kenneth Dunnington of Calvary United Methodist Church offered an inner faith prayer, mentioning the name of God in all three of the world monotheistic religions. Now this article in the Frederic News Post doesn't say what those are, but I'm going to guess that it's God, which would be like the Generic Jewish name, yeah. I'm assuming. Yeah. Allah should be the Muslim Islam. Wait, God God is the Jewish name I bet he would he use like Yahweh or Jehovah. Well n well actually if he knows what he's doing, he wouldn't have used that because you're if you're Jewish, you're not actually supposed to say that name You're you're just supposed you it's a name you're not supposed to say. Right. So I don't know which one he would have used, but God seems too generic. Okay. Well he used something to represent and I'm guessing Allah and I'm guessing Jesus Christ. Okay. That's a linguistic ton twister, to say the least. And that was making fun of the mayor for saying community too much. The logical Sounds like instant karma if I believe in such a so so it all three of them and we don't know what that was. They didn't tell us what that was. No, and let me just finish so you get the background story. Prior at the beginning of public meetings came under scrutiny at the beginning of Holtzinger's term, former mayor C. Paul Smith, who was on last week's show and we're Alderman, not Mayor. Former Alderman, C. Paul Smith. Uh who was on the show last week and we hope to have him on the show. He's fired up. He was. I almost gave him a couple of Amen. Yeah. He was criticized, uh, Paul Smith was for invoking the name of Jesus during his prayer at the first meeting of the previous board. So he prayed at that meeting and he told us it was like a forty five second prayer and he invoked at the end of it, he said in the name of Jesus. Right. Just like Rick Warren did at Obama's inauguration, just like Billy Graham did at all the other inaugurations that he ever did. In fact I think Franklin Graham did one as well, didn't he? Did he do one recently? I don't know. So anyways, yes. Well I'm sure he's given some prayers. Whether he gave them at an Obama thing or not, I couldn't tell you. So so you so the question is So, well, see, Paul Smith talked about he was on last week, he talked about during this moment of silence, he was praying to himself, so there was still prayer taking place in the meeting, just wasn't uttered Audibly where anybody could hear it. Okay. So now I want to ask you. You mentioned you got this invitation to share with others, and I guess you're included, right? You're also invited to accept. Yes. So if you were to accept and they tell you, all right, if you pray, it has to be an inclusive prayer. It can't be like a specifically Christian prayer. You you have if you're gonna say Jesus, you have to say Allah, you have to say Buddha, I don't know what you have to say. But it has to be something that's broader or just generic and don't say Jesus and don't say anything at all. You accept that invitation? For the record, I haven't yet accepted that invitation. Um, if I if I had to and I was required to, would I um I find myself Um of two minds about it. One, I find myself in the great tradition of George Washington, Lincoln, and those others who who prayed very moving prayers calling on a sovereign God who alone is responsible for judging the nations and and who will judge us according to his standards of righteousness um that that were prayed without referring to Jesus Christ. And uh so I guess I feel pretty confident that a prayer could be prayed in the name of God, the God most high, the God who redeems all men. uh the God who uh uh makes a way for us to be in relationship with him. You know that there's ways to to pray without invoking the name of Jesus that would um uh that that would keep me from being sin insincere. And I guess that's the issue is is can I pray sincerely, you know, doing something like that. And I guess I feel like I could But then on the other side is the question, would I then be ashamed of Jesus Christ? Jesus said, if you're ashamed of me before men, I too will be ashamed of you before my Father. And so it would seem to seem to be uh clear that Jesus is saying, look, if if you're not gonna be willing in your moment uh in your twelve m seconds of fame If you're not going to be willing in that moment to uh to identify me, then why should I, you know, be willing to uh I'm smiling as I'm staring at Jonathan now, because you're sounding more like a politician than a pastor right now. Well this might be. But then on the other hand, well I might be that. I haven't responded to it. We're capturing Jonathan in the moment of rust rustling through and thinking out loud. See how boring that is? You wonder what I do with my spare time, you know. Well this is the rule no longer. You would have to subs your prayer would have to subscribe to these rules, right? Your prayer would have to re this is uh this is the official rule, right? Can we take them one at a time? Sure It would have to quote reflect the pluralism of our community and should not be used to exclude persons. So anything that I say that would exclude a person Well then in that sense I couldn't talk about the issue of righteousness. You know, because there's plenty of pagans out there or or you know, and pagan is an actual religion, uh white witchcraft or whatever you want to call it, you know, worshiping Mother Earth, that for me to use the word righteousness would be an offense to them because they don't believe in an absolute right or wrong. So that would leave out the issue of righteousness. You know, and and redemption for that matter, because redemption is an idea that somehow we're fallen, whereas there's plenty of religions that are of the opinion that that that we're good and that we haven't fallen So I don't know how uh, you know, uh I mean are they say w would they allow me to pray Lincoln's prayers? Or or w George Washington's prayers? It doesn't specifically address Lincoln's prayers here, so I'm gonna have to take a pass. But I And the last sentence here is it would have to use universal inclusive terms for deity. rather than particular proper names for divine manifestations. Now I want to say on that second point, the one that you were just commenting on, that uh you'd have to deliver a prayer that uh different faiths would give assent to what is said. Yeah I think a a conservative, fundamental Christian believer would not give a cent to a prayer that uses generic names for God, doesn't specifically name the proper name of Jesus Christ, and kind of has this vanilla I I think they would have a hard time giving a sense. So aren't they violating their own rights? Okay, so then let me argue with you about that. Let me debate you on that. If the founding fathers, Lincoln, Jefferson, George Washington, prayed in the prayers that we have. uh from them, at least the ones that I've read, do not invoke the name of Jesus Christ. If that's the case, uh then wasn't our nation then founded in the context of people not offering prayers in the name of Jesus Christ? Would it be un-American then for for me to be offended by somebody who prays a prayer not in the name of Jesus Christ? presidents and and dignitaries that have prayed over the years prayed the way they did because they chose to pray that way, not because there was some rule telling them they couldn't pray some other way. Right? Well this goes back to my what I was saying last week. Uh I think the Founding Fathers frowned upon uh people praying in the name of Jesus Christ in public locations, but they would never have outlawed it. And so I'm of the opinion that they should not outlaw it. They should not say, you know, if they invite somebody to pray, this is what we were talking about last week, I think they should be free to pray according to their conscience. By the way, you invited me, I'll pray according to my conscience. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. He's a lot smarter than I am, but I'm right on this issue. So what if he should disagree with me at any point, side with me So No no that's the way it always goes. You think I'm smarter but you think you're always right, you know. Figure that one out Well, you know, I have a little involvement on choosing the topic, so I choose topic Oh I yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Who cares about the ones I don't care about? So you're only smart if you talk about things that I like. Let me throw this out there. As a Christian, I'm a Christian, in case you know you're new to the show and you're not sure where I'm coming from. I am I would describe myself as a conservative, evangelical, you know, Protestant Christian Jonathan would too. Yes I would. Uh that's not to say that we don't have our differences, we do, and we hash those out sometimes uh on the show. Maybe today'll be one of those days. I don't know. And usually I'm right though. Yeah, okay. Well when you agree with me, that's true. And usually you agree with me, so that's it's fair enough. No, you actually gave me something there. I'm gonna I I think I'm gonna use that against you for like as long as I possibly can Two or three shows at least, baby? Yeah, Jonathan Smarter, but I'm better with a nice tie by the way. So let me change this just a little bit because you know it's interesting a couple of times now the reference point has been, you know, our founding fathers or what our Constitution says or Lincoln did this or whatever. Right. Let's let's not worry about the American context. Let's look at a broader Okay, but that is precisely where I'm trying to go. How would the writers of the New Testament feel about this? The human writers. Paul Frey a a nebulous I feel like at the end of the day, from a Christian perspective, meaning a a conservative Christian perspective that would follow the teachings of Paul and follow the teachings of Christ uh very closely that that for those of us that are like that that there is an inherent flaw in uh in the Constitution of the United States. And the inherent flaw is that it that it does that in the name of not setting up uh or or establishing one religion that they actually ended up creating this this acceptable public religion uh de facto. Like they didn't mean to do it But they ended up doing it. And that the inha the the de facto religion that that they did not actually establish but that kinda was there was that you frowned upon any uh sectarian like using the name of Jesus Christ, you know, or praying in the name of Jesus Christ, or or praying, you know, maybe against the name of Jesus Christ, or praying the name of Allah, you know, that that you would keep it like they were saying, but you would do it uh by your own choice to do so. And I feel like that's inherent in well, the more I study it, the more I get the sense that that was the case. But even you know, uh we haven't even gotten to this yet, but a lot of people disagree with the uh traditional Christian, traditional Jewish, traditional Muslim view, uh that God is to be understood in male terms, you know, masculine terms. Okay. A mother earth, a mother deity, a uh uh feminine divine kind of a thing. So now we have to have prayers that say, oh Holy father mother. You could almost imply somebody could make the argument that that that would be offensive. Right. I d I ps I don't even know that they're that thoughtful about it. See my point is uh here's my position on it. I didn't really have much of of uh I wanted to make sure that uh former alderman uh Paul Smith had a chance to really vent, because he was great last week. Yeah, yeah. And you had a lot of good things to say last week. If you didn't catch the show, look it up on the internet. Yeah, you should definitely do that. Uh but I wanted to uh you know, for the record, where I stand on this. Yeah. I think the government can make whatever rules it wants. It's the government. It's not the church. The government can make rules about the prayer. They can pray however they want. The question then becomes one of conscience for the Christian. And does the Christian participate? with the rule if if you if the rules the government sets up are rules that a Christian can't live with, does the pr Christian take a pass? You know what? Uh I pray in the name of Jesus 'cause that's how I understand the the teaching of Christ in the New Testament, so I'm gonna have to not accept your invitation to pray. Now the the result of that is you'll have nothing but non Christians if all Christians took that stance, you have nothing but non Christians praying in in City Hall. Yeah. Okay, so what Just the other day I'm having this precise discussion with my dad because it's it's a little bit of a um a pulling away you know, a a come away and be separate. It's a separatist orientation. Okay, well if they're not going to let us do it in a way that that we feel like fits with our conscience, then we're just going to pull away. Yeah, not exactly. I would disagree that uh that what's not not being there? But I'm not meaning to go so far as to say that we should be separatists, we should live lives like the Amish or you know, and and could be completely united. Right, right, but this is an issue of Christians are about transforming culture, influencing a transformation of culture. And in the United States that means that you vote. Right. That means that you try to build political coalitions that you can do. Make a stronger case for transforming culture by make taking a stand, a stark stand, and say, you know what, I can't pray that way. Yeah. And to do it publicly? Because to pray square to pray the way you want me to Frederick News Post and say I think every Christian pastor in town should write letters to the editor, should send letters to the mayor and say, We cannot accept your invitation We would love to if we were allowed to pray a prayer. The problem is, from a Christian's perspective, anything offered up that's not in the name of Christ isn't even a prayer. They're mere words that are falling on deaf ears because they're not going to be received by God because we're taught in the New Testament, according to our faith, that our prayers are to be in the name of His Son, who He sacrificed for us. What a slap in the face to my Savior and Lord to not use his name in praying. So I if every Christian in f in the in the Frederick City, Frederick County area would take that stand, that would have impact Not this mealy-mouthed, well, you know, uh we don't want to offend and uh it's better that we at least give some words of encouragement, even if it's not really a Christian prayer kind of thing. All of a s and I don't mean this as a purposeful shot at Unitarianism, but it's it's Unitarianism. It's totally Unitarian. It's not Christian is my point. And if you're a Unitarian Fine, you're a Unitarian, come on the show and I'll try to persuade you not to be a Unitarian. But if you're Unitarian and you pray this prayer, you're being true to your faith, but you're not being true to the scripture. A crypch Christian to praise this way is not being true to scripture and Abraham Lincoln and our founding fathers and what's constitutional and not and all that stuff doesn't matter. What matters is when you stand before God on judgment day and he says, So did you Did you shy away from claiming me as your Lord and Savior or not when you were given a chance to do so? That's what matters. So I think um uh hopefully we can get uh I'm drawing a blank now. Ken what was his name? Kenneth Dunnington. I'm hoping that we could get him to come on the show 'cause I'd love to hear His take, isn't any he could persuade me otherwise? But as far as I'm concerned, I think he had an error in judgment by accepting the mayor's invitation, even though he's the mayor's pastor What an opportunity for him to disciple his own parishioner and say, Mayor, Randy, love you, babe. Can't do that. Yeah, but it's not a problem. That you just made. Yeah. And that is that Ken Dunnington comes from a specifically conservative Christian perspective. And I don't know I don't know one way or the other. Um it'd be interesting to to find out. I'd be here curious to hear what his Biblical argument in support of his decision with the fact that he's specifically willing to go the direction that he went uh leaves me the it leaves me a little bit of the impression that he's not actually uh a person that believes that there's only one way to heaven. The fact that he personally felt like he could pray in the name of uh you know, representing all those religions, uh leaves me leaves I feel like leaves them open. to to the average person that's reading that saying, huh, Ken Dunnington, he's so embracing. Is he Clear on the gospel of Jesus Christ. But whether that's true or not, the fact that he opens up the such speculation where you could start to think that is making my point. Yeah. What's so different about Christianity? It's just like everything else. They're all equal. And f a Christian can't believe that. If they do, they don't understand what Christianity is. They're not all religions are not the same. Well I have plenty of times, not just on this show, sat and talked with pastors who are uh claim to be of the Church of Jesus Christ. They claim to be Christian pastors who who use all of the same language that you and I do. Grace, salvation, savior. in with people that we know for a fact are not Christians. And they define those words in a decidedly non-biblical way. Though they would claim that that you know that they found a way that it's consistent with scripture, but it's clearly not classical Orthodox Christianity. It's something that is that is uh like you know exactly polar opposite. And I've s I've you know I've sat with people like that and literally it took you know took a good two hours just to get down to a definition of a word or two so that he would know what I meant and I would know what he meant. so that we could even have a conversation. We've suffered through those moments on this very show. We really have. Well Jonathan and I, you know, do It we do the best we can to try to find people that can articulate their point of view effectively, particularly when we disagree with them. We want to make sure we have uh somebody who's capable to articulate a a in a contrary point of view from ours. Which is why we had previously had Paul Smith on the show as a Mormon. We've had on Buddhists, we've had on uh you know, uh Jewish rabbis and Muslim imams and and some of these people that are liberal Christians. And then part of that That process of making sure that or at least hoping to make sure that they're going to be capable is we'll talk to them a little bit before they come on the show. And so you'd think you'd get a lot of that hashed out beforehand, but yet we come on the show and sure enough we'll use a word and we'll say, by the way, I want to make sure what do you mean by that word? And we were going to be talking about why cats have tails and we end up talking about why cows moo for a whole half hour because he said moo and we wanted to see go, wait a minute, moo, what do you mean by that? And we end up the show gets derailed because but importantly how you define those words are so vital. Absolutely. Yeah, yeah. I was talking to Episcopalian lady just the other day. Uh and we we had that precise discussion. Lady, what do you mean by that? Yeah. Yeah. Frankly Obama's got an elected official that he just put in that we not do it. sure exactly what she is or he uh but but but the this lady that I was talking to, she shot it's like she was like, What do you do what do you do on the faith debate? Uh why what are you? Uh afraid of that? What what do you think? Come on. Sh put up here. Where where are you coming from? I'll just I'll just for those who weren't sure which voice it was, I was just clarifying. So sure enough, uh the laughing voice that is getting himself in trouble Uh i and and she she looked at me, she said, Really? I mean the same exact words, they define it differently. I said, Yeah, they define it totally differently. She said, You know She said that explains something to me that for years I haven't understood how people could in the name of Jesus Christ support certain things that that seems so clearly unbiblical, you know, and and how could they get to that conclusion? She was like she was like you said in one phrase They use the same words that they define however that you know i in a totally different way. And it it shocked her. And the fact of the matter is, is I feel like that's what this Unitarian thing is trying to do. Allah, God, Jesus Christ, as long as you pray in a way that everybody can agree, then they can all define it however they want to. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Cross House Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Faith Debate. Thanks for listening. My final word is a rallying cry at all you Christian pastors out there Say no. When the mayor wants you to come pray and give an invocation, he won't let you say it in Jesus Christ. Say no! That's so negative, Troy. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Pum and plumbings, how can we make you smile