Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumin' plumbing, how can we make you smile? And there's no red lights. Can you hear me? I can hear you. After all these years I have won the dueling microphones. Woohoo. How do you say surrender in Oh oh I didn't win. I have the mic. I did hear him say just a little bit ago we only have two mics. Uh oh. Did he say that? Coming down here I heard him say we only have two mics. Are you kidding? That's big. I don't know Hey borrow your microphone. All right, hold on. Oh, I can hear myself now. Hello. Hey, I sound good. Good morning, Frederick. So so wait a second, are we still gonna just like go with it? We're gonna have to go with it, yeah. What do we do? You mean like recording as you are? Yeah. Are you recording right now? We are So people are listening to us. Freak out and not know what's going on. Now wait a minute. I gotta figure out which mic's what. Here, I turned this one off because Hello, testing one two. Hello. I'll cast in one two. Alright, this one's you. Okay. That's John. Hi. Welcome. Welcome to the Frederick Faith debate. I'm News Radio, 930 WFMD. He's Jonathan Schweitzer. Uh I'm Troy Skinner, and the other voice that was explained to us is that we only had two mics. The guy who's never on the show knows more about what's going on. He's Robert Quintana from uh Frederick Seventh Day Adventist Church. Um Jonathan Sweitzer, by the way, is from uh Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh they're both senior pastors in their own right. And This is your weekly dose of uh of truth and morning zinc on on WFMD. All right. So here's what we have to do guys. Because we only have the two mics and we're on different sides of the table, this is gonna be really why am I still hearing music in my headphones? Let me just stop that. Okay, so that's all. I'm just hoping that you brushed your teeth this morning. That's what I'm thinking. I I did. And I I'm wearing deodorant as well. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I did I took a shower after I uh ran this morning, so uh we'll be okay. Now you guys are gonna unfortunately be in a situation where you have to share a microphone because you're on the same side of the table and um you know I'm I'm over here with my own microphone. So that worked out nicely for me. Yeah just stay over there. You'd be safer over there. I feel completely confused now about which mic is whose though. This is horrible. I'm gonna have to make a note. I gotta make a note. Alright. Count to like four for me. One. One. Two. Three. Alright. Four. Alright, that's you guys. Okay, now everybody knows who is who. And uh for the record, Troy's wearing a blue tie today. with uh with some sort of pictures in little diamonds, yellow diamonds on it. It's kinda classy looking 'cause it's kinda got, you know, uh tan pants on with it, you know, so it's it's you know, got a real uh noble look about it. I'll tell you, when I grew up uh in Chicago listening to sports radio a lot, I used to be a big fan of of guys like Harry Carey. And one of the things that Harry Curry is always really really good about and people who know him from his television days with WGN TV, the super station, all that sort of stuff. He was a very different broadcaster on radio than he was on T V. Huh. Because they they the mediums the uh each each media kinda expects a medium dis expects a different thing from the ac from the uh announcer. Sure. And he would paint a visual picture on the radio and he would explain the color of the grass and what the uniforms look like and the and the and the fold of the fabric in the uniform. Yeah, and that probably made him very uh light Oh it was it was it was really cool. So that's what Jonathan does for you on this show. He's giving you what my outfit looks like and all that sort of stuff. Uh you are on the family show. a darker green uh khaki uh pant suit thing going on. Though he wore a a uh a jacket that's uh that's kind of got a uh dark uh checker thing on it, but very small checkers, you know, so it so it has a real sense of being classy, you know, higher end kind of thing. And Jonathan is Cuban, so you know, if you can put all that together, you know, you get a feel for uh where he's coming from. And Jonathan's wearing flip flops, uh a thong, and a white feeder t shirt. Yes, and so uh sorry, we forgot to tate and turn the r radio down for your kids in that moment, you know. You didn't need to hear that Anyway, so on this week's show, uh Jonathan, uh you're if you've been listening to the show for any length of time, you m you kinda know who he is, and you might not really know who Robert uh Quintana is Uh unless you've been listening the last couple of weeks, a little bit earlier than this show airs. There's a brand new show that airs on Sunday uh mornings uh from 730 until eight called Anchor Points. And you get a chance to hear uh uh Robert Quintana's message uh from a a previous Saturday because that's one of the things we're gonna be talking about here. Exactly. Oh, because she's on the oh and then yeah, yeah. Yeah, good. Okay. Well so you know around all the way through and you're good to go. Yeah, a little mayo on Paul Monday goes a long way. I don't know. Yeah, I don't just don't know what to say to that. I I See yeah. That's just wrong. That's what that is. Yeah. Totally Rhym's sorry, Paul, please don't hate me. So anyway. Um But y y you do know that if he's with a Seventh-day Adventist church, you should know at least, one thing at least about him and his church. What would that thing be, John? He worships on Monday. Right? Did I get it wrong? You were close. Now it's Thursday. Thursday, that's right. Yeah, let's go out on Friday, Saturday, and have a Sunday. Now, it's actually in the name of the church, of the denomination, Seventh Day Adventist. Seventh day Adventist. So the seventh day would be I guess Friday sundown to Saturday sundown? Correct. Yeah, just kind of like the Jewish Sabbath. Yeah. Now so what does that venice mean? Um Adventists mean that we are awaiting the second coming of Jesus Christ. So we're awaiting his advent Um so we're adventures. By the way, you kind of scroll that was that's our word of the week. Advent. You always do the advent candles because you had the first advent and the second advent is imminent and so we're anticipating that. Eschatology. We're gonna have to get into eschatology, but not yet. Right? I'm actually preaching through Revelation right now, so I'm like that's big on big on my mind these days. Can you tell we had a lot of sugar Leading up to this show, man are we bouncing off the wall. All right, is anybody still listening? So anyway, all right. Now it makes sense 'cause I was going to make the connection. I mean the Old Testament, you know the Jewish people s uh celebrate or or worship God on the seventh day, Friday night into Saturday night. Jesus recognizes the Sabbath on that day. And yet here you are, John, you rebel, doing your worship service and celebrating and s and recognizing the quote unquote Sabbath. On Sunday. Yeah, look at you over there in your blue tie with all of your hypocrisy just eking out of your pores. So what's your problem, bud? Well, apparently around the time of Constantine uh the uh church of the day that uh was a not quite Roman Catholic church of the day leaning in that direction. Church of the day is like soup of the day. Yeah, yeah we're definitely in a strange mood today. Maybe we should like talk about, you know, something else. You know. Poor poor Robert, you know, wondering what what's going on. No, but sure enough, uh the the because Jesus Rose from the dead on the first day of the week, according to the Jewish week, which would be Sunday, it became common for Christians to uh to celebrate uh and or to worship or to have meetings on that particular day. Right? And so in the early years uh leading up to the time of um Constantine, uh they there was an increasing sense that okay, we as Christians will worship on Sunday instead of on the Sabbath. We as uh as Gentile Christians And there seemed to be a sense as the church moved from being more uh centered on Jewish people to being more centered in the Gentile world that the uh Gentiles wanted to worship on Sunday. So sure enough what happened is Constantine decided that there should be no more Jewish people following any of the Old Testament law or following uh that that claim to be Christians or following any of the uh the old uh religious festivals or or any of those things, acting Jewish and claiming to be Christian. And so he made a law that you could no longer worship on the Sabbath because they kinda wanted to out all of those people that were Jews that by that time if you file if you were Jewish and followed any of those things you were automatically labeled as a Judaizer and unfortunately it was a bit of a uh caricature that uh again didn't quite uh speak to the truth. So sure enough there there in fact m most messianic Jews that I know trace anti Semitism to that point uh in the uh church history. You don't agree with Constantine that it should be outlawed, right? I yeah, I I I would take a nuanced approach. Constantine, like all politics, always goes way too far. You know, the immigration debate, either you're anti immigration or pro-immigration, all of which which confuses the issue. The issue is a lot more nuanced than that. And sure enough Constantine politically did the same thing and he outlawed all worship on the Sabbath, which I think was was inappropriate. They the Christians that were Jews There's no reason to not continue uh to to stop them from continuing to worship on Saturday in um and personally I don't think there's any problem with worshiping on Sunday or Saturday. It's Uh it's not necessarily a an important issue. the cultural history, how it kind of evolved that because Jesus rose on a Sunday, people started to gather on Sunday and celebrate on Sunday and that sort of thing. Uh and They were gravitating towards me having their worship on Sunday and their Sabbath being recognized on Sunday. So what's wrong with that, Robert? Why can't we do that? Well, I d I don't know that there's anything wrong with it. I I think that I would fall along with John as well, that there's nothing wrong with meeting on any day of the week. um Monday, Tuesday, you know, throughout the week to to worship, you know, to to get together as believers, to study the Word of God You know, I mean we have uh at times uh Easter weekend, you know, we have services on Sunday morning. Um, you know, we'll have our uh Wednesday night prayer meeting, you know. And so Friday nights, you know, we get together, we worship. So I don't know that there's anything wrong necessarily in the sense of of a group of believers getting together to to worship. Um, I think that you know, we're we're called to worship. Our lives need to be a a life of worship throughout the week. Um so and I can see that though. I mean your your denomination is is set up and has set itself apart and has actually taken an awful lot of heat over the years. Because of a very strong stance. Now I I think my sense is that over the last twenty years or so that the that the the stance hasn't been quite so militant But my my my recollection is that if you go back twenty or thirty years, it was still kinda held that if you don't worship on Saturday. If your Sabbath is not the seventh day, you're not even a Christian church. You can call yourself a Christian church, but you're not even Christian. Sure, and I think that you would see that within Adventism today. I think that, you know, you'll have the the spectrum from from way right to to way left. And I think that, you know, you will still find within the Adventist Church um that segment that says, you know, it it's uh um What's the official position? I personally don't take it that far. Um now Biblically speaking, I guess, you know, the way that I interpret scripture, the day that God has set aside for worship um is Saturday. um or Sabbath. Um so in that in that context that's why we as a church worship on Saturday. I want to ask you a question about that, Jonathan, so don't let me forget, but I want to ask you because what is the is is there an official Seventh-day Adventist position and are you Do you g potentially get yourself in trouble by maybe not being a hundred percent in accord with that, or is the position not quite as firm as as I was thinking it is. No, I think officially the Seventh day Advent I think I do represent the the official stance of the Seventh day Adventist Church. Um, I think that that it is important to Seventh day Adventists, but where I think that the misunderstanding has come Um, as with a lot of our other doctrines and I know that uh you know you guys have spoken like on the air here before, like on health and um health issues, um health laws, things like that, where it becomes a salvation issue. Um, because in and the official stance of our church, as I believe, is that we're saved by grace through faith in Christ Jesus, not of works. So the minute that you start to say that either doing this or not doing this will affect your salvation one way or the other, then you've already crossed that line into salvation by works. And so to uh th I guess that's where the the confusion may come in sometimes and that's why I appreciate this discussion that we're having here today because it gives us an opportunity or gives me an opportunity to say, hey, listen, uh we're not saved because we go to church on Saturday. However, this is how we interpret scripture and this is why we do go to church on Saturday. He's Robert Quintana, the senior pastor at the Frederick Seventh-day Adventist Church. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator, and Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossers Hilly Chapel. Jonathan I mean, it seems to me you could make a pretty strong scriptural argument that the Sabbath is on the seventh day. Friday sundown to Saturday sundown. What's the scriptural argument? Not the practical argument that you gave us before. What's the scriptural argument for having Sabbath be moved to Sunday? Yeah, again, I think there's a reason why I find myself uh uh not deeply concerned about it. Uh One way or the other. Because as I study it out, as I study out, there's only one place in the New Testament where uh where it's dealt with, the Sabbath is dealt with in a doctrinal kind of way. And uh in that's in Colossians where it says that that you're not to let anyone judge you, you know, based on um uh religious festivals or things that you eat or or Sabbath days. And uh it could be argued in that particular context that the Sabbath day that that's referring to is referring to the special Sabbath days and not to the um uh not to the uh uh uh weekly Sabbath days. Nevertheless the principle And by special Sabbath days you're talking about the festivals like the the the the Feast of Tabernacles or Day of Atonement or you know things like that. So there are special Sabbaths where you take an extra day off or even a week off, you know, depending on on uh what uh what uh what festival it was. And the thing is is that um In Acts 15, when they had the council in Jerusalem, where the Judaizers were trying to say that Paul and Barnabas uh must require every b all all of their uh gentile converts to be circumcised. In that context the the Council in Jerusalem made a very powerful statement that okay, we're not going to require them to follow the Old Testament law. We're not going to require them to be circumcised. Just make sure that they avoid idolatry, food offered to idols, make sure that they avoid uh sexual immorality. And uh I I think there was one other thing there, but they they are profoundly silent on the issue of Sabbath. And so so the two places that it's dealt with doctrinally in the New Testament gives us no impression that yes you have to worship on the Sabbath or no you now you can worship on Sunday the first day of the week instead. It's just simply the Bible is is profoundly in the New Testament silent on the issue. We know that Jesus s uh celebrated the Sabbath on Saturday. We know that the apostles Um uh when they went into a new town, often it was on Saturday that they would go the the Sabbath, the Saturday Sabbath that they would go to you know places to uh to preach and to minister. Uh but in terms of being dealt with doctrinally, there's very little in the New Testament except that we're given the impression that the Old Testament, the dictates of the Old Testament law uh are no longer uh in you know uh something imperative. They're they're no longer something that we have to follow. Instead we'd be led by the Spirit and so then we get into discussions in Hebrews about uh about coming into a Sabbath rest that Christ is our Sabbath and so whether or not it's on Sunday The day that Jesus rose, or whether or not it's on Saturday, again to me, uh in a Gentile context, uh I feel is just not a vital issue. So it's kind of like a matter of preference almost, I guess, kind of is what you're saying. And it and Robert, you almost were kind of saying the same thing, but that can't I mean that's not how you it's not how you live out Correct. You must you think you kind of agree with Jonathan, but put a little bit more weight? Correct. Maybe it's not definitive, but it's just a little more weight. No, I I think we do put more weight on on the Sabbath Um the and and what I I guess what I was referring to earlier is just making the distinction that that whether you worship on Sabbath or not. It it's not a matter of salvation per se. Um, you know, 'cause you always ask your you always ask, you know, what do I need to do to be saved? You know? I mean that's a question that a lot of us may ask, you know, well, you know, as Christian um and disciples of Jesus Christ, you know, we believe that you accept Christ into your heart and that by accepting him in into your life, you know, you are uh justified of your sins. You know. Um you're you're justified of the sins that you've committed. And and oftentimes that takes place through baptism. Remind me, we'll make justified next week's word of the week. Yeah, there you go. I like it. And so and so you're justified. And so oftentimes that takes place through the act of baptism. Um, you know, um John the Baptist often would say, you know, repent and be baptized so that your sins may be blotted out. So you're you're being justified of the sins of one's sins. Um and uh earlier we were we we kind of brushed over this um before we started our show um the on sanctification, you know, the the baptism of the Holy Spirit. That'll be Word of the Week in two weeks. In two weeks, right? And so and so as Yeah, and so as Adventists, um, we believe that you're justified, you know, through the blood of Jesus Christ, um, but that God doesn't leave a person there. In other words, you know, God doesn't just want to save you from the mess that you're in. And I say this all the time to my congregation, he also wants to save you from the mess that you've become. And so that is where now the process of sanctification takes place under the umbrella of God's grace. that process of sanctification um takes place. Um and so the the part of the reason why we do hold um we do think the Sabbath is an important issue. Um is because I think that there is a a distinction to be made, which John alluded to, um, and that is the difference between God's moral law and the ceremonial laws of the old testament. And so we have, you know, God's moral law, the Ten Commandments, um, which the fourth commandment is talks about, you know, remember the Sabbath day, keep it holy. Um and so that there is a distinction in that. And so in the New Testament, as Adventists see it, in the New Testament, whenever it does talk about doing away with the law or the the you know the the law having been nailed to the cross, you know, as it says, you know, we believe that and and and thank God that That all those ceremonial laws, which Colossians chapter two talks about, were a shadow of the things to come. All of those ceremonial laws that were pointing towards Christ were fulfilled and done away with at the cross, which is why we no longer sacrifice lambs and no longer are held to, you know, celebrate um all these feasts that we find in in the uh in the Old Testament Jonathan, let me um he brings up the Ten Commandments. You know, the other nine, you wouldn't say, well, they're not really a big deal. I don't think we should get hung up on those. But the that fourth one For for whatever reason, y you're a little more willing to say, well, that one maybe isn't quite so important for us to get hung up on at this stage of of of the development of God's word and revelation or whatever. What what makes the difference between the fourth commandment and the other nine in your mind? In terms of the uh ten commandments. Um again The the issue, unfortunately, in the in the New Testament, the the in Acts fifteen, they had a huge opportunity to say, Oh, and by the way, we want you to worship on the Sabbath. You know, they had a huge opportunity to say, okay, that that particular thing is binding. They they chose at that to to not say anything about that. You know though that that's the weakest form of argument in arguing from silence. Uh as the absolute weakest form of argument. Okay, well let me argue this way. Okay. We must do the other things. And they made it abundantly clear that we must do the other things. But there is there is simply nowhere in the New Testament that we're given any indication that we must worship on the Sabbath on the Saturday. It's just th there's just no indication. That so so there's the old testament and so I had the question, are w would you argue then that in sanctification that we're being sanctified to the Old Testament law? Like for example, um uh our are the uh dietary uh laws in the Old Testament and then still incumbent upon us, meaning that if we're more sanctified, meaning we've grown in holiness so that we know the Word of God better, then we then we are going to find ourselves following the Old Testament dietary laws and following the Old Testament uh laws about um you know then uh then even following the Old Testament laws having to do with with celebrations and and festivals and those kinds of things. Like like again you're drawing a line of in terms of of where is it and where is it not. And I get the sense that at the end of the day that the Millerites back in the day simply thought that the Catholic Church was the Antichrist, and so in their reaction against everything that the Catholic Church stood for, this is my sense They simply came up with what were pretty sophisticated arguments to say that everything that the Catholic Church has said that doesn't line up with Scripture is therefore something that we need to readjust. so that we go back to scripture. And I feel like unfortunately that that uh that that it set up a dichotomy that that is an unnecessary dichotomy that that we're can that that the uh At Venice were committed to certain things based on their having to react against uh you know the Catholic doctrine. We only have maybe a little bit of time. You have thirty, forty seconds. Okay Um, no, actually I think uh you raise a good, good question. And I I do take um exception to that there is no doctrinal basis in the New Testament because I think there is. I think we find it in the book of Hebrews and in the book of Revelation. where specifically talks about um the in in our understanding of it uh worshiping on Sabbath. for next week's show. We'll pick up on the same topic. There's a few things more that I wanted to follow the the thread that we're on. I want to give Robert a chance for me to cite those passages if he wants Um I'll share my view if you care. And then we'll also talk about what it means to recognize and celebrate the Sabbath. Let's talk more about what is supposed to happen or not happen on the Sabbath. Maybe those are the things we'll talk about next week. Robert Quintana, a senior pastor at uh Frederick Seventh Day Adventist Church. Jonathan Schweitzer is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner, your ever-lovable and affable, host and moderator of the Faith Debate. Visit us online at WFMD. com keyword faith, and you can download and listen to this show over and over again on our podcast. I would encourage you to do so. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless. their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Putmint Plumbing. How can we make you smile