Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumbing plumbing, how can we make you smile? If you were listening to this and of last week's show, just edit from the end of where I left off last week and pick up right here. Which were for that time sufficient efficacious Through the operation of the spirits. I feel like we didn't even go anywhere. To instruct and build up the elected faith. in the promised Messiah by whom they had full remission of sins and eternal salvation and it's called the Old Testament. Don't worry, we'll explain you what we're talking about. This is the Project Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by John Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and his High Holiness uh at the uh Frederick Ministerial or whatever it's called. You know where I got that from? There was a guy in our church that did a a great program for for the eight to twelve year olds in a for a church retreat that had to do with they had to run around kind of a survivor thing and figure things out, you know, see who could win. And they had to search Bible scriptures and and all these things. It was very, very cool. And uh he said as part of it that all the kids had to call him his high holiness the majestic exalted one and so so that's where I get it from. Yeah, yeah, you look So anyway, we're tackling the Westminster Confession of Faith. We're up to Chapter Seven. Actually we got up to Chapter Seven last week, but uh we had a pretty good uh heated dialogue back and forth and that uh th that didn't allow us to finish chapter seven. There are six sections and last week I read the first four and a half, finished up with part five, section five. this week and the last section says, under the gospel, when Christ the substance was exhibited on the words. That's good. The ordinances in which this covenant is dispensed are the preaching of the word and the administration of the sacraments of the baptism. of the Lord's Supper, which through f though fewer in number and administered with more simplicity and less outward glory, yet in them it is held forth in more fullness, evidence, and spiritual efficacy to all nations, both Jew and Gentiles, and it's called the New Testament. There are not therefore two covenants of grace, differing in substance, but one and the same under various dispensations. So what in the heck did that all say? Here's the gist of what this chapter says, all right. Uh well we're not going to cover part one. We covered that pretty quickly and easily last week. But parts parts two through six are basically saying uh you know God made this holy agreement with Adam and Eve that required obedience. They disobeyed, bringing the curse of death. Therefore God made a second holy agreement, providing the way out of the dilemma through faith in Jesus Christ. God gives this faith to those he chooses. And this new covenant of grace plays out in the Old Testament through things um among the Jews, foreshadowing and pointing to Christ. And in the New Testament the same covenant of grace plays out for Jews and Gentiles alike in Christ directly and in signs that now point back to Jesus, specifically baptism and the Lord's Supper. So that's maybe more modern English kind of trying to So where'd we leave off last week? Well John was redefining uh regeneration. And I want to say in fairness, I mean in fairness to both of you, Jace's sensibility is wait a minute. We've got like two thousand years of of of Christian church history here that pretty much is on the same page of how we should understand and define regeneration. Are you saying, John, that you're gonna change that definition And so there's a lot of weight behind that argument. However, I think it's possible for somebody to stumble upon a new understanding and maybe Jonathan's the first guy out of all these years to get this right. Who knows? I think it's very I don't know. No no that's interesting. I I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna teach uh respond to that not in a c cavalier manner, though it's funny. But I I would say that that I think it's likely that that there have been those that have g have gotten it through the years, that there's always been those that got it through the years. In fact I'm sure that I haven't come to these conclusions on my own. Um but that, you know, I've I've followed, you know, teaching of others. Uh clearly that's the case. Um the question is, at what point did the Catholic Church go astray? Catholic Church is more than happy to say, Yeah, well we've got fifteen hundred years of of walking uh according to the authority of the Catholic Church and Martin Luther is gonna come around and redefine it all by himself. or Calvin, you know, and all these guys and Calvin's defining it a little bit different from Luther and and and Wycliffe a little bit different and even though they're agreeing on some majors, you know, what right do they have to to to you know to to redefine things and uh which again the Westminster Confession of Faith says it well. If we're gonna if we're gonna argue out uh fine hairs of of doctrine at the end of the day we gotta go back to scripture and uh and and the the actual words in in the original languages and I feel like that's the case. Now, th this uh this chapter, the title of this chapter is of God's Covenant with Man. We talked a little bit about covenant and Jonathan uh raised a point early on about you know the the covenant of works with Adam. And I was surprised I thought Jace was was probably gonna at least spend a moment on this, so I'm gonna bring it up now and see if you would be w would want to spend if you don't want to spend a moment you don't have to. Oh thanks. But there is uh there's some debate over whether or not that is well whether there is an uh But there is a covenant of works of works with Adam, uh, in the in the opening, you know part of Genesis. Well uh but the well I don't want to put words in your mouth, but I don't think anyone else understands the debate, so I don't know whether uh I think it's a a intricacy that probably is best not dealt with, but The question isn't whether because there is no covenant. There's no mentioning of a blood covenant taking place. There's no word barit, a cutting of the covenant, or anything like that that takes place in there. That's pretty much all I wanted you to say. There you go. I don't want to cut you off, but just give instructions. They they don't make a covenant. Noah sacrifices an animal, there's a covenant made. Right. We call this the covenant with creation, the covenant of Adam, um, an agreement that says, if you do this, I will do this. That's that's kind of the agreement. So uh that's the big picture, which actually moves into the rest of this because it's very important. Um Westminster is is very much would be very much opposed to um covenants that that change over dispensations. They would say there's one covenant of works, and this is a systematic theology again, not biblical theology. One covenant of works, one covenant of grace. The covenant of grace is subsumed under several covenants Noah, Abraham, Moses, all the way up to especially the better covenant, as Hebrews would say, right, with Jesus. So those are all one Yeah, I want to be careful because I'm a biblical theologians. There are many covenants. There is not just two covenants, works and grace. I'm comfortable with where you're at on all this. I'm in agreement with you. Excellent. So what we don't want to say is that the Old Testament covenants are somehow works covenants that that you could win your way to get to heaven back then by just doing good works. And then when Jesus came along all of that changed and now you need Jesus. Right. What he what they're saying in section five is although offered administered differently, these were all grace what Moses was all about, so they didn't get Christ either. Right. So Moses is is a type of Christ. We have all these types, Joshua a type of Christ, the sacrifices. Who else what else do they say in there? The Paschal Lambs. circumcision, all these are types and what we call types are um pictures is probably the best way to understand them. Uh typology. Um they point to something else. They're signs in the road. that say Jesus, if only they could see them as saying what it is they're saying. So Jesus comes along and he says, by the way, you know when they were doing that back then, what Moses was in this way. what the Paschal Lamb was, what the tabernacle was, I am the fulfillment of all those things. You don't need the signs anymore. It's me. But they needed to trust in those things. in order to see Jesus. So those were representatives of Jesus. If they trusted in this Messiah to come that was symbolized in all of these rituals then they had the same salvation that we have. Christ, grace complete. is yet to be fulfilled some of the the types of the Old Testament tabernacle are yet to be fulfilled at Christ's final return. Well, okay, let me I'll be able to do that. uh festivals, you know, in in in all of the Old Testament, the Deuteronom the you know, the the first books of Moses that are some of that those types that are yet to be fulfilled in Christ. It's all fulfilled in Christ, but that there's some yet to be fulfilled. Yeah, let me uh let me explain it. The reform distinctive um is something we call the already not yet, uh very famous in our in our well yes, George Elden Ladd is Certainly wasn't popular. But um this idea that Christ has inaugurated The kingdom of God began. Well that's the reform view. That's not exactly what the dispensational view would be. No, I'm new and improved. Uh transformed. But it's because of you that I call myself that. So I I think that's a very big distinctive here. The kingdom is present. We are not looking forward to the kingdom coming. We are looking forward to the kingdom consummated. Yes, yes. There's something else to happen. So Yes, Jesus fulfills it. Yeah. And there is a sense in which it's not completely fulfilled. Yes. The lion has not laid down with It's not the lamb. Well yes. But there is something else to go with you know the jackal has it laid down with a lamb, I think it's what it is. Putting his hand into the viper nest. There is a a conquering that Jesus has done in the cross that is serious and definite and to telesti. It is finished. I've I've conquered Satan, I've bound him. We don't need to get into all that, but um but there's something later that is still to come that we're still waiting for and that's why that's second second Peter, right? How long Yeah. Oh don't worry. You know, that's that's even Habakkuk. Yeah. You know, when are you gonna when are you gonna make everything better? Don't worry, I'm going to. Well that's Habakkuk is just a picture of the same thing Peter's saying later on, and the same thing we're all crying out for, even in Revelation, around the throne of God. You know, how long how long before you vindicate your righteousness when we w w we find out that we were right in this. So interestingly, you th this might be news to you. Uh my background uh and all my teaching, you know, under my dad and the the people that he's that we've associated through the years. Covenant theology is is a big part of uh of that whole background. And covenant theology of the continuity of those things. Except for the fact that there's a whole bunch of ways that we don't fit with reform theology. Which is very strange for messianic Jewish and charismatic. Because they're almost almost always Uh dispensational. Right. So very strange that you've mixed your uh your theologies here. I I wanna be see how it works, maybe over another five hundred shows that we're doing on this Christmas. I'll figure how it all comes together. But it's very strange and to me doesn't work. But that's just because Sure. Only new and improving. No. I have redefined my my terminology on new and improved But in his mind only new. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well I don't consider you reformed either then. Okay, good. Now a few moments ago Jace was talking about the an and An important distinction. I agree with it, but I want to make sure a point of clarification that in the Old Testament is, you know, it's not about works, you know, it's a covenant of grace, even in the Old Testament. But that's not to say that it wasn't also a covenant of works in the Old Testament, right? The what makes it grace is that Christ fulf does the work. But there's still a covenant of works at play, but the work that needs to be done is accomplished by God on behalf of because he lives a perfect life of obedience even unto death. He fulfills the work of the world. I don't know. I think I'm uncomfortable with what you're saying. Are you saying that that that the Old Testament basis for righteousness was in doing works? In obedience. And that the faith was in in what God had set up, that that that your righteousness comes by believing and and and uh trusting the word of God. And and so you did the sacrifices because you recognized that that was how God had set things up and you trusted God. It wasn't by your own righteousness But the sacrifices allowed righteousness to be imputed to you under the holiness of of ancient Israel. Is that what you're saying? Wait a minute. Maybe we're all saying three different things. Right. He's he's saying it is of works, but it's of God's it's Christ's work. So it's the same thing. Was Jesus' works. Yeah, yeah, but but that it happened to be administered through the uh sacrifices that were pointing towards Christ coming. And that David understood that his righteousness, you know, that that y you know, even David's based on himself. Yeah, yeah, you do not desire the blood of bulls Bulls and goats, but you desired you know a broken and contrite spirit and pointing to Christ. Is that what you're saying? We're just confusing our terminology when we start doing that if we're talking about Westminster, because they would say, No, it's not a covenant of works even in the Old Testament. It's a covenant of works only in Genesis one and two. You know, by chapter three, it's all over. It's a covenant of grace from there on. So uh but the way you're saying it is perfectly fine as long as we're not using technical terms in here. Okay. It is based on uh it is based on someone's work. I mean It's interesting, I feel like the covenant of works was introduced when they bit the apple. That the covenant of works is related to the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, not related to God's original commands to Adam and Eve to take care of the garden and that sort of thing, but that the covenant of works uh specifically arrived on the scene and the context of of having bitten the apple and so where it says you know that that when law came out When when when law came yeah, sorry, the fruit, sorry. When law came, you know, therefore grace wa no, when sin came, law came. Because the law had to had to teach us what what sin was. The law was a tutor. That sin, that's not. That sin, that's not. It was a tutor to lead us to Christ so that we could see, wow, I can't keep up with doing everything right. I need somebody to cover my sins. So I would say that that perhaps there was a a covenant of law and a covenant of grace that was um that was inherent in God from the beginning, but that once they ate the fruit, that at that point all they had was the covenant of works. They had they had initiated the covenant of works, whereas it's not until the the Mosaic Covenant and in understanding what it meant to live by faith that the covenant of grace began to be at least woo now you're back to dispensationalism. Okay. Now I got ya. There was at least one law though, right? Don't eat that fruit. There was at least that before they took the bite. So what would you would you have to move it to so there was one law. So you'd have to well at least. I'm not I mean I'm not arguing The law is obey me. I am God, you are my creat my creation. So follow me. Yeah, but that still applies to us. Agreed. We still need to obey him. Right. But the reason why we're in a state of grace is because God placed us there. And that's where that's why I'm uncomfortable saying that Adam had a covenant of works, only because because He he was given this state of um favor, maybe I'll say. I won't use the word grace, but he was clearly given a place of favor and in fact one of the names of the rivers has to do with with favor and blessing and bountiful, you know, there's a sense that God gave him this paradise, you know, and so he he was introduced into something amazing and beautiful and and so So there was no works for him. There was just him living in the favor of God and and obedience. And that's actually what we do when we're in Christ. We still obey, but it's not a covenant of works. It's it we're still in that place of of the favor of God and He He provides for us and we work in His fields as He calls us to and and His yoke is easy and His burden is light and that that in Christ then then we have uh uh uh begun to be restored back to the the the um the paradise that was in the garden and so so I don't feel like the the works comes in until the sin comes in. And then that's the point at which which which works as an issue because as soon as the sin came in, then Cain and Abel, Cain's trying to earn his salvation. and and is exposed as not being able to do so, whereas Abel seems to recognize that he just needed to accept God's salvation. And so so the struggle with works uh approach to to the favor of God doesn't arise, I don't feel like, until sin has has been introduced Hmm. Okay. What do we do with that? Well reset for a moment. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMB. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by John Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel in the Grand Pooh Bah, and uh Dr. Jason Broadhurst. Hey, the truth That truth matters, baby. Uh Dr. James Broadhurst, who is the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. And we are on show, I don't know, eight or nine or whatever on the on our series g working through the Westminster Confession of Faith. approximately a chapter at a time. We're up to chapter seven. There's a variety of reasons why the Westminster Confession was chosen. One, I found it to be an interesting jumping off point to talk about these issues Uh Jace's church does not uh subscribe to this as their confession, but he went to the Westminster Theological Seminary and uh has a lot of affinity for the Westminster Confession of Faith to say the least. And Jonathan um um does does not subscribe to a confession per se as a statement of beliefs And wrestles of them in history. Right. And wrestles pretty strongly uh against some of the things that are put forward in the Westminster Confession of Faith because Jonathan is not a Calvinist and Calvinists wrote the Westminster Confession of Faith. And so that's kind of the big picture of of what's going on here uh on the show today and over the last several weeks. And next week we're going to talk about chapter uh chapter eight. I definitely feel like the uh Westminster Confession of Faith is solidly in the orthodox stream of Christianity. And so so even though I I take issue with various um uh words and and uh uh elements of it, um I Uh if there's anybody that's that that is living by the confession of faith or various other confessions, um I'm not worried that somehow they're leading people to hell. You know, I guess I I think it's good for for me to I feel better now, thanks to you. I would hate it that you would be so bad. Yeah, I'm trying to find the section here that's talking about uh the Jews in distinction in the New Testament in distinction with the old It's five Uh delivered to the people the Jews, all for signifying Christ to come. Is that what you're talking about? Yeah, and then I guess in six again, the all nations, both Jews and Gentiles. Exactly. It's called the New Testament, therefore there are not two covenants. Because we've talked about this on the show before, trying to understand how that history outflow works. What was what was different about the the nation of Israel in the Old Testament and those Jewish people with what's going on today. And I don't know if we'll if we'll get into talking about this in a different chapter or not, so maybe we we can spend um five minutes talking about it. uh here and now. Uh remember about two months ago on the show we're talking about uh Jonathan will remember. Jace probably won't, you weren't here unless you happen to be listening that day. I know Jace is a faithful listener to the Faith Debate show. That's right. We gotta get him a shirt set. What? If if people start asking for shirts, we'll make sure that you guys get a shirt. Okay, we gotta we gotta make a shirt. Fifteen dollars apiece. Fifteen dollars. Okay. Wait a second. So help uh help us, uh, Jace, to navigate through h here's the the the kernel of the discussion. I was generally saying that not a whole lot changed Old Testament to New Testament And Jonathan was saying something pr pretty significant uh changed um Jesus. I'm having a hard time following the Holy Spirit. Yeah. Well he's saying that something significantly changed. However, I would say that nothing really changed for the Jews. And he uh I mean uh uh something changed for the Jews and that they had to believe in Christ. Uh and John's not saying they didn't have to believe in Christ, but that not as much changed for the Jews as the people. So we're kind of arguing Both of us were saying something tremendous has changed and yet something important has not changed, only we're on opposite sides of the fence in that issue. You know, it's interesting. It's almost like 'cause you keep saying that I'm dispensational and then you say I'm reformed It's almost like I'm I'm I think you're not I I think you know. It's almost like I'm both 'cause literally I believe that there is a that there is a dispensation of grace that that when Noah prophesied to his three sons that that each one got a different level of grace that still carries on to the day. And I believe the same thing happened with uh with Moses that when he prophesied to his ch I mean Abraham when he uh sorry, Jacob when he prophesied to his twelve children, that each one got a different measure of grace that carried on throughout their whole history, all the way through till today, and that the same thing happened with David, then a dispensation was poured out that carries on even through till to to to today that is fulfilled in Christ. And uh and that that that all of those blessings outside of Christ still carry on, but that all of those blessings find their fulfillment in Christ. And so say somebody out there has not lived under any of those blessings. You know, so so they uh for whatever reason they they they happen to be an individual in history that that can be traced out to to have not received any of those blessings. that came from either, you know, uh uh Noah or Abraham or Moses or David or uh the prophets down through history, uh the the Levites. You know, but they come to Christ, that in Christ all the promises are yes and amen. And so that Christ is the fulfillment of all those previous things, and so all of those blessings come to fulfillment. But yet when they remain outside of Christ that they still carry whatever blessings had been given to their ancestors. And so so in that sense I think I'm both dispensational and reformed. I'm kinda marrying the two of 'em, aren't I? Attempting to. I'm not saying I'm doing a good job. You're you it sounds like you're attempting to. Yeah. Um yeah, I'm just not sure that it The point is is that it's all fulfilled in Christ. But that that in leading to Christ, that that the Lord he he put these blessings in in these various places throughout the earth, all of which would would help people to be pointed to Christ when Christ arrives on the scene. And that those that are still outside of Christ, even the Jews that are outside of Christ, are still uh still have the echoes of the grace of God that was given to Moses and to Abraham and not just the echoes but like there's an a a a grace that rests on them as a people that is not grace unto salvation. But but but is a grace that they even experience benefits and blessing in their lives uh that that is of a temporal nature that that one day, if they'll pay attention to it it will lead them to Christ. But if they're not paying attention to it, then uh it will be cause for them to to to be judged as having had the gospel preached and they rejected it. What can you say to that in thirty five seconds? Then you know how would Um I I saw a great uh PBS or something about uh God on on trial, you know, with all the things that have happened to the Jewish people throughout history. How would they consider themselves to be blessed in those kinds of areas? Yeah, and I'd love to have that discussion with with Jewish person in the room. Uh and that I think that's a very difficult in fact I think that that is the greatest struggle uh to to uh resolve in all of history. I feel like that issue, that's why Paul wrote Romans nine, ten, eleven, because it is the most difficult not to untie for God, but I'm glad that he is worthy to open up the scrolls because I am not. I would say at least uh just to throw it in at the very last second here, that these blessings have been given to the people of God now and not to Uh but the literal fulfillments that are taking place throughout history are all spiritually in us. So just so we See the difference between that. I'd love to come back to that. I don't know if it's if if it's reasonable in terms of what we're dealing with, but it'd be fascinating. Uh again or not. I don't know. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Brownsville Valley Chapel, and uh Dr. Jace Broadhour, senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Today at WFMD. Thanks for listening. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P has in your preferred. Plumber. Pull in plumbing, how can we make you smile?