Welcome to the Frederick Fate debate on Frederick's Fuse Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host, Roy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Can we give them a call? Tell Marlena and Patrick and Braunwyn whoever answers the phone there. I said hi. You know? They'll they'll they'll get a kick out of that. Say smile when you do it. Say Troy says hi and he wants to know how you're gonna make me smile. Anyway, on the panel this week again, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and the senior pastor at Frederick Church of the Brethren. Paul Monday and also host of Time of Challenge here on WFMD from eight to eight thirty, our show from eight thirty-nine combined a powerhouse. A ratings winner's powerhouse the most popular hour on Sunday on WFMD. According to Arbitron, right? That's right. Independent research. Independent research. That's right. Russ Lindbaugh does all of his little, you know, like, you know, fuzzy little, you know, fuzzbar, you know, harmless little fuzzbar. We need to have like our you know our our our little things, you know, like like the most listen to show on Sunday, you know, better than even Glenn Beck, you know, or whatever it is. People to know how amazing the show it is. Yeah, absolutely. Okay How can we make you smile? So am I allowed to use one of the advertisers that are the plumbing company that's sponsoring us? Correct. Okay, yes. Okay. So we're connecting smiles with plumbing. Is that what this is all about? Okay, very good. Very good I love it. All right, so in a couple of days Well let me back up. Recently somebody was talking, I can't remember why it came up, but they were talking about, you know, politics. People talk about politics these days. Used to be you don't talk about politics. Over a T. Yeah. One of our one of our hopes with the Refredict Faith Debate Show is that another topic that's a taboo is religion. Never talk about religion. We're hoping to change that. Yes. Because we can't come to understand each other's ideas about religion. We won't ever talk about them We're on a mission from God. So yeah. So we got a half pack of cigarettes, a full tank of gas, and we're on a mission from God. Yes. Line from uh Blues Brothers. Yeah. So anyway. So talking to somebody and he mentions that uh He votes the straight Republican ticket. That's what he does. He's registered Republican, he votes the straight Republican ticket. And of course I think, well, good Christian man. Oh yeah? Republicanism is synonymous with being a Christian. I'm being a little facetious and sarcastic there. But you know there are those that would Buy into that stereotype. So in a couple of days, we've got some choices to make. We're gonna have to uh uh click the little check boxes on our electronic uh voting ballots. And you know, I mean i it's I think it it's a playful question, but I think it's a serious one for us to wrestle with and grapple with. So let's try to put the The smirks in the bag in the in the handbag for a moment, Jonathan. I can't. If Jesus were walking the earth as a as an American today and he were a registered voter Would he be a registered Republican or a registered Democrat? Or would he be an independent or perhaps a libertarian? And would he frequent these uh parties These tea parties. The tea party things. 'Cause I think Republicans think he'd be a Republican. And I think Democrats think he'd be a Democrat. Right? Well the th the th the reason why this is so so so um uh germane is because uh until recent years just let's pick on the Democratic Party. The Okay, let's the the Democrats would have little or nothing to do uh with the faith community in many respects and and would not bring faith into uh the political debate. And the Obama ad administration, whether you like them or not, they they deliberately sought out uh counsel from the faith community to basically say how could we there is an exception to that though historically it seems to me. It seems that historical But for the most part they they have steered away and they deliberately went out and hired consultants and whatever to somehow tap into uh to the religious community. And and and and and the feeling is, uh, and this is germane to our debate this morning, is that it's almost impossible to win the White House unless you win a certain segment of the so called evangelical vote or uh yeah, largely the evangelical vote but also then the religious vote in general. But in particular the evangelical vote, which is the more conservative Christian base in this country, has largely gone Republican. Um and and and I th supposedly many commentators believe that Obama would not have won the White House if he would not have been able to somehow get some so-called traditional Democratic votes in that way. Uh so uh so yeah, so so this topic is very, very critical. I mean, we'll get to Jesus here in a moment in terms of you know where he would come out in all this. But but but as believers I guess you could go so far as to say um is is one political party identified more with the gospel of Jesus Christ than another political party. And most people would say that uh it that what's driving that decision for them would be the the pro life, pro choice question, right? The abortion issue. um w would be the main reason that I think conservative evangelicals would vote Republican because that's the party of of pro life. Pro life right. You know, and not and not the party and the party that's fighting Maybe not hard enough, but fighting against abortion. Right. Right. So what do you what do you think, Jonathan? You think that Jesus would register one way or the other I think that Jesus rebuked the Sadducees and the Pharisees with equal effectiveness and fervor. My sense is that the Sadducees were the conservatives of the day trying to emphasize that we maintain the the old ways of of the importance of the temple and the tabernacle and these things and the Pharisees were the Well the parishes, the ones that were out amongst the people and and the emphasis on uh progressivism and and uh everybody being uh considered holy in Christ had problems with both of them. So I think I think foundationally that that Christ would prophetically uh uh be rebuking both of the parties uh in equal measure. Uh I what would he be re rebu re be rebuking them over maybe sp a few specifics? He would he would be rebuking the Democratic Party because of their stance on abortion probably. What what would he be rebuking the Republicans for? Uh I think at the end of the day Um the Republicans emphasis on law and order uh ends up uh not having much mercy built into it. And uh their emphasis on lock em away and throw away the key uh would certainly uh have received Christ's rebuke. I think uh immigration, the immigration debate, our emphasis on let's get 'em all out of the country and uh and throw up a wall, uh that he would he would have n d definitely been uncomfortable with that. Um but then he would have turned around and rebuked uh the Democrats for saying, Let them all come in and who cares what they believe you know. Uh let's not try to assimilate. He would have rebuked uh them as well for that and and uh about the law and order thing, I think he would have been quick to rebuke the Democrats about the Law and Order thing for uh emphasizing that uh that they've been hurt and wounded by everybody else and not requiring each individual to come to terms with their own sinfulness so that they need to change and take personal responsibility for their lives. And uh and so uh I think that that that goes right down the line. I think even about Um uh the abortion question that there are times when the Republican Party has has unfortunately not cared about the women that are stuck in the crisis abortions. Now that's changed significantly. And that's no longer the case, uh uh th that they're able to be accused of that, but that's it took a while for that to come around. Um and uh I think when it comes to taking care of the poor that he would rebuke the Republicans for uh uh y y and and be like, look, we gotta make sure that we care about the poor and that we're taking care of the poor. Um though uh a lot of that is when he rebuked the government for that or rebuke the churches for that? Whose role is it really to be taking care of the widows and orphans? When he rebuked the Sadducees and the Pharisees, he rebuked their their philosophy. The their their tendencies and their philosophies, the the weaknesses. He exposed the weaknesses and their philosophies. And I believe the same thing is true with Republicans and Democrats. Now having said all that, I'm of the opinion that the the Republican Party at this point uh is is d w right down the line, a lot more likely to be promoting what would be considered a uh um uh the uh policies that would uh that that would be conducive to righteousness as defined by the Bible. Whether it's a homosexual issue, abortion issue, prayer, uh in schools, whether or not schools should be free, you know, parents free to send their kids to schools according to their conscience as opposed to, you know, one size fits all where there's no prayer and no anything in them. Uh issues having to do with uh um Uh whether or not the government should take care of all of the uh the the jobs in a uh you know, trying to stir the economy, those kinds of things I think get a little bit more difficult to make the case. But the case can be made that Christ would be inclined to say, those that can't help themselves, let's go ahead and help them. But those that can help themselves, let's not put them on some kind of government dole that's encouraged to step up. I think you know the overarching uh um uh image or or or thrust that has to be placed before us now is the fact that Jesus himself uh was a political force. Uh his particular uh venue or his particular goal was a thing called the kingdom of God. And as a matter of fact you have that classic uh encounter between Pilate and Jesus where, you know, Pilate, you know, washes his hands. You probably people remember that. But basically Pilate, you know, uh you know, says, you know, you call yourself a king You know, w where's your kingdom? And Jesus says in so many words, Well my kingdom is not of this world. Otherwise my followers would do what every other you know, uh uh uh kingdom uh, they'd rise up and use violence and armies and all this stuff. But basically what you're trying to say, uh you know, yeah, I'm a p I'm a force to be reckoned with. You could even say there was a famous book by the guy A guy by the name of John Howard Gilder called the politics of Jesus and his old premise is there's just another politics that Jesus uses. It's it's The closest thing we have to it is what we've seen, for example, in Martin Luther King and Gandhi. It's kind of the a big part of it is the power of nonviolence. And our particular denomination is one of the three historic peace churches, and so we've really followed the whole premise of nonviolence in terms of this idea of being a political force. Now it it sounds weird uh to a lot of people listening uh this morning because well you know how how can nonviolence in any way, you know, make a effective political statement. Well, th that's that's a subject for another program. Uh but you know, Gandhi and and and King and others uh you know have illustrated that it at least it makes an impact. And then and then this whole idea of working for justice and serving the poor is another part of the political agenda of Jesus. Uh and and and it's a whole different uh campaign platform. I had a friend of mine who did a whole sermon on uh Palm Sunday uh basically uh recreating kind of a political convention and presenting the campaign platform of Jesus. And I would say that uh I'll I'll say this much uh here uh you know at at the outset that actually his political agenda, it is a political agenda, but it's a mixture of all political options, be it Democrat, Republican or whatever. Like for example, I think on the subject of uh again this is coming from our particular uh church's peace position. I I think uh uh you know the whole m though the the the the the president's action in Afghanistan uh tends to contradict this a bit Democrats tend to be more dovish, I guess, in terms of like warfare and things like that. I think probably Jesus would be more of a Democrat Uh I'm in total disagreement with that. Yeah, we'll yeah, we'll get to that. I knew you would be. And probably be but I'm preaching through Revelation right now. Christ is so far from being a dove Um a and then on capital punishment, for example, that Jesus would probably uh would be more of a democrat in that sense. But on the abortion issue he would be he would be more of a Republican because I do believe that Jesus would would be, you know, anti abortion. So in our tradition with you about the death penalty. So in our tradition I'm giving you I'm giving you a lot of fodder like Christmas, you know we're I'm I'm purposely lo loading things up here. But but what I'm trying to say is that in our tradition we talk about being people of the third way, and what we mean by that is that essentially the kingdom of God is neither left nor right. it's it's it's a third way in terms of p political pressure. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. He's uh senior pastor of Frederick Church of the Brethren, Paul Monday, the person who for the record disagrees with a much of what uh Pastor Money just had to say. Sound like a broken record. Is the senior pastor crosswritch like that? Jonathan Schweitzer. Uh but before we get because that would be separate from the topic. Those might be shows unto themselves. Right. Right. Uh so what would Jesus So if we have time maybe we'll circle back to some of those and if not if we can't we'll have this panel put together again and we'll talk about those issues. But I do want to stay on the whole political question And I brought up the Tea Party and neither one of you talked about that. You talked about the two major political parties, the Democrats and the Republicans. The big issue for the Tea Party movement is the size of government. Smaller government. Limited government. Would Jesus be more in favor of big government or small government? But I think if you if you were if you want to be that specific on one specific issue, then but certainly w we we be be talking about smaller government. Because the kingdom of God is not a bureaucracy. It's not a typical structured government in the sense of big taxes and all this stuff. It's primarily a a uh a revolution of people in interpersonal relationships helping other people in more of what we would call today more of a conservative, you might say Republican kind of philosophy Though I don't think Jesus would call himself a Republican. I think philosophically he would be we're gonna get political here in a second, right? But I don't think the Republicans necessarily fit Well that's why the Tea Party movement necessarily Republican, right? Because I mean Under the uh Bush presidency, the government expanded and got bigger. Well, but everybody recognizes that when Bush went that direction, he was a different kind of conservative. The whole compassionate conservative thing was his way of saying bigger government under a conservative orientation. And uh and so yes, we elected him, but but I feel like we elected him because we just didn't have anything better. at the time. But but everybody says, well the Republican Party, you know, is is guilty of this. Well, I don't know. I think what we're gonna find is that is that Bush going that direction was a blip on the Republican you know, uh approach which is generally smaller government, limited government, uh, you know, lower taxes. in Washington DC is the Ronald Reagan uh federal building. There's some irony there. Well it is because Re Reagan is the epitome of that. Yeah, well a bureaucrat did that because they were trying to be ironic. Reagan would never have wanted that. No he wouldn't he wouldn't have. But I but I'm saying Uh th that that the Tea Party probably is onto something in that in that regard because because uh I mean just recently I've become involved uh here locally in terms of uh kind of governmental structure, that's kind of a another subject. But but I've been I've been appalled at the at the waste in government and again the bloatedness of government. Well the government be it city, county, or federal. Right. So On that score we'll say Jesus would probably lean in the conservative or his traditionally Republican direction. I think he would. On the issue of sanctity of life I think you would have to say that you know, Jesus would lean in the conservative what is traditionally the Republican position. Right. On the issue of serving the poor, Jonathan before talked about that might be where Jesus would lean towards the more liberal democratic I wanted to bring that up because I thought I heard you say that and I would disagree with you on that. Yeah the point is is that Christ said You take care of the poor. He didn't say, Hey, go make sure your government takes care of the poor. Right. The emphasis is on you. He came personally to take care of the poor himself. Right. And that and that's why that's my point about the kingdom of God that I think is primary his focus is not primarily a secular government or a political party. It's his kingdom. Right. On a it's his government. On a political spectrum, he doesn't follow the line anywhere. At the end of the day he's off the line. At the end of the day Jesus is all about a theocracy, not a democracy. Right. That's the problem is that Jesus would be a theocrat. Well yeah, I would not a democrat. I don't think the I don't think a king kingdom is is is synonymous with theocracy, but it It certainly comes closer to him identifying with any political party, absolutely. You don't think the kingdom of God is a theocracy? Well, you can make that, except that people connect it with other things. Right. You gotta be careful. The kingdom of God is a theocracy Christ is the king, he's God, Theo Cross cross is the word for power, God is the one. But as far as what God's ideal or human is. saying, taking up for Paul here, I think what he's saying not that he needs me to, no, no, no, wait a minute. But I think what he's what he I think what he might be meaning to say is God's ideal for a human government wasn't a theocracy. He condescended to the Israelites' wishes to have a kid. So he didn't No, you're you're mixing up theocracy and monarchy Theocracies were God rules. That's what the original twelve tribes was God rule. Right. Monarchy is is what they went to when they rejected the rule of God and instead wanted to be like the world. Christ himself is the king. We'll agree with that. Yeah, that a secular yeah, a secular ruler or something. So anyway, but he I think like the Pope. Paul's nervous about the whole idea with you know he started thinking about Sharia law and all that sort of stuff, gets very nervous and he's Trying to make that distinction. See, I read the look on his face. Exactly. Imagine that. You got it. So uh now well no that's interesting because a Muslim theocracy would clearly not be something that Christ would be into for the record. Absolutely. We're all in agreement with that. Absolutely. A Muslim theocracy would say a minute. I just thought of three big issues All leaning in the traditionally conservative Republican camp. Well Wallace and who's the other guy uh that that recently uh Jim Wallace came out head to head with Glenn Beck about these issues. caring for the poor, right, caring for the environment and uh Well he would he would have a strong bent towards nonviolence and King and Gandhi and people like that. Can we deal with the nonviolence thing? Well let's do it. Christ said, Christ said I did not come to bring peace. but to bring a sir sword. Yes, he certainly laid his life down, but he was abundantly clear well, I don't know that Christ was so abundantly clear, but the New Testament is is definitely clear that the sword is given to government for the purpose of restraining evil. Christ did not have that role while he was here. He didn't come and that uh to accomplish that But if, as preterists would claim, Christ did return in A. D. seventy to bring judgment upon Israel, he came and he brought the sword. And it's abundantly clear that when he returns in Revelation to set things right that he is going to do battle and there's going to be blood flowing in the streets up to the horse's bridle at some point. And uh and so Uh it is true that we as Christians have a responsibility to turn the other cheek uh in in in all of our dealings with one another, anything having to do with Christ. We should never take up arms in the name of Christ. But when it but You know, uh w if somebody was a centurion they were told to go on being a centurion. You know, and so there's no indication that we're somehow supposed to renounce all violence as a as in like anti-war that I find in Scripture. Yeah, yeah. Well this this does warrant another program, but I'll say very very briefly that that that uh though certainly you can go to an extreme pacifism where where uh it it you know you begin really to t question uh you know, basic safety and and the basic protection of of of life in all ways. But but then but also you you can go to the other extreme of where uh essentially we go to you know the four full armor armor of God or the images of of revelation where the sword is w is being present. and you begin to make it synonymous with conventional weaponry rather than seeing the sword, for example, as the word of God itself. And in terms of the revelation interpretation, uh depending on the commentator Uh you know, it doesn't necessarily have to be interpreted as a literal sword in terms of that which would do violence, but it could be again the the image of the event. Okay, I won't use revelation. I'll use Isaiah and Jeremiah when they said God was coming in judgment. And uh and that meant that Israel was gonna be destroyed by Babylon or by Meadow Persia. God is not uh uh unwilling Yeah, and this is why we have to do another program on this. Because because essentially see it all goes into what w what is the meaning of the New Covenant, the New Testament, and and though though Jesus did not come to replace the old What is it about the new covenant in Christ that in some way offers at least another way of living or another alternative to the other? So I would love to do that show and I think that I probably would be uh would be educated by you on that Uh partially uh what I really appreciate about the the background that you come from is the emphasis on peacemaking. Yes. And I I feel like I would love to get as much about that as possible because because even though I'm of the opinion that that we don't need to renounce war uh and those kinds of things, I think that the way of being peacemakers is at the root of what Christ has called us to be. Yeah, and I I even like the term it my my son's out at Notre Dame and Notre Dame has one of the largest centers of conflict resolution. They actually use the term peace. Peace building now. Yeah. I in this way. And the other word, the other I'm also very pragmatic about this and the fact that I think everything has changed since Vietnam Vietnam in terms of the probability of actually winning a war And I think in some ways this particular discussion was much more difficult during the World War two uh era when conventional warfare uh was practiced. Um I mean since the Viet Cong and whatever, uh we've really not had a conventional war. Now we're living in this age of terrorism. So what is what does it mean? How do you Here's the larger issue of another program. How do you truly defeat evil? You know, uh from Vietnam on. How do you truly contain evil? And I guess part of my convention i uh uh uh argument here, does conventional weaponry, conventional strategy, truly defeat evil? Is there something that Jesus can teach us to outmaneuver and to conquer evil using the weapons of the kingdom of God? And my reply would be yes, let's let's work to defeat evil, but in the meantime the sword is given to government to restrain evil and there's two different things that are happening. Yeah and that's and and that's a fair that's a fair delineation because again it makes my case that we are primarily citizens of heaven, citizens of the kingdom So what are citizens of the kingdom or of heaven primarily called to do that the government perhaps might have permission to do? But do we then, as citizens of the kingdom, do we have the same permission to do that? There's M. R. Ziegler was a saint here uh in our area, lived up in New Windsor for many years. And he has what's called a a modest proposal for peace. And the modest proposal for peace was my modest proposal is that all the Christians of the world would stop killing each other. So think about that Because there is no war that happens on the face of the earth where believers are not killing other believers. Now of course there might be some. Are they Christians fighting against Christians still? Well, yeah, there are pockets. Now of course it's a very important thing. that are driving the issues of war on the earth for the last several minutes that will serve as the trailer for an upcoming episode of the Frederick Faith Debate. Without a doubt. Now to put a a bow on it. We have like thirty seconds, so really quickly. Would Jesus vote at all? Yes or no in this election? Um that's a good one. He was so caught up in his kingdom and his political agenda I think he certainly would encourage us to vote. Right. Because we are part of a democracy and we need to make it. He was so busy healing the sick and feeding the poor and and uh Preaching another way of life I don't think he would be it wouldn't be a priority. My answer is he wouldn't have to vote because God is sovereign and whoever is rising up to power with God's control anymore. Jonathan Sweiser, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and Paul Monday senior pastor at Republic Frederick Church of the Brother, I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening to Faith Debate. God bless. by how they service their clients from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?