Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumbing plumbing, how can we make you smile? It's a glorious day for a face-to-base. I'm sure. Roy Skinner, welcome to the show. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. It's a glorious day, wouldn't you say? I would. That's a fabulously green shirt that you have on. It looks like green eggs and ham I was waiting for the shirt comments. I knew they'd come. Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Foolsville Baptist Church. We're all gathered together here to take on the Westminster Confession of Faith. And show that we're smarter than the divines. Oh yes. Apparently though I'm the only one that has Westminster here. Show us brought to us by You guys are so much. Put my plumbing and eating. How can we make you smile? And so I don't forget, because it's it's important. I don't want to forget, so I'm going to say it now, maybe I'll say it again later. Fool's Baptist Church in a couple of weeks is is hosting a weekend conference. It's a Friday night Saturday all day, Sunday all day kind of thing? Sunday morning, yes. Sunday morning. Okay. Ends with church I guess. Ends with church. How about that? Yeah. Huh? Uh we just scared half the people away. But anyway. You don't have to come to the church part. Anyway, thirty five bucks gets you to the conference and you have dinner on I guess is that Saturday night you have it there? Yep. Yep. Dinner on Saturday night's part of the thirty five bucks. And they're gonna talk about Eschatology. Maybe that'll be raptured out before the church service. Well we can only hope. That would be great. So when does the world end? Why does it end? How does it come about? Where was Jerry Jenkins correct? Where was Tim LaHay wrong? Let's Figure this out. That's what they're gonna talk about. Good. Left behind. What about Nostrodamas? You deal with Nostrodamas too? I'm sure he's gonna come up. There's two whole sessions on popular uh end of the world myths. So Cool. So it'll be great fun. So that's October first, second, and third. If you want to get more details, go to Poolsville Poolsville Baptist dot com and there's a link there to the page that has all the real details that you want. There's a website for that too, but it's too complicated. I've forgotten it already. So, alright, last week at the end of the show we we read some glorious language. Half of it I don't know what I was saying. But here's uh In in a thumbnail sketch, here's kind of the gist of parts three and four of chapter eight of the Westminster Confession of Faith, which is talking about Christ, the mediator. The Father sent the Son to be the mediator. A job that Jesus embraced to the fullest. With the power of the Holy Spirit, he perfectly fulfilled the law, overcoming temptation and suffering, even to the point of death. However, he rose from the dead, is now ruling from heaven, and will return to be the judge at the end of the world. And I'm not thinking that either one of you have a whole lot of disagreement. With the divines here or with each other, but maybe I'm wrong. I just love it when you refer to them as the divines. Well that's what they call themselves, right? We gotta come up with a cool name like that for us Yeah, the schmucks. Nice. Alright. Wear that shirt when when we uh take that picture. So we're we're cool with God sent the Son to be the mediator, he did a great job in fulfilling that role, fulfilled the law perfectly, even to the point of death, rose from the dead. I think the issue there this is the key part, I think, of the chapter which everything else dwells around. He is the mediator. He is the one who stands in between. So in order for us to be justified, we need him. So he's he's th that's why the hypostatic union in section two is so important that he's both God and man. He stands in between and even still lifted up on a cross in between earth and heaven. So all that is yeah, I I I think we're on the same page there. I think so. At the end of the day I feel like the first two uh uh sections that which we tackled last week. That which we tackled last week uh attempted to respond to uh uh heresies that were out there and in doing so felt like they had to go beyond the language of the Bible, but I feel like the these passages simply use the direct language of the Bible and I and I find myself caught up with it. Well, I I mean even s with the same body in which he suffered and things like that are still are still responses to things that are going on out there, like Gnosticism, for instance, that continues even to this day, strangely. You know, that well this wasn't his real body or or whatever whatever different heresy that's out there. They're very now the the Bible talks about this, certainly. But there are some things that go, well, is it his real body or not? Because it's doing some strange things. So they're they're being very specific. You know, this is the same body. It's got the scars and there's locked doors. Yeah. Now the one thing that might have jumped out at somebody, because you know, the very first time I read through this, I was like scratching my head, what is what do they mean by that? In section uh four, we're talking about how he he we uh he died, you know, suffered in his body, was crucified and died, was buried, remained under the power of death, yet saw no corruption. What in the world does that mean? Yet saw no corruption. There was no decay of his flesh? Like what does that mean? Yeah. Yeah, what it means is that Christ um at no point in the process was less than perfect. He was the perfect Lamb and he did not he did not corrupt, he did not somehow become less than um uh good enough to be the substitutionary lamb. Why would that need to be there? Like what what was I they've chosen their words very carefully. I think that as big as this confession is, it's pretty lean. I mean they're tackling all of scripture and paring it down to thirty something chapters and they're choosing words Why add that phrase at all? What what are they speaking to or something? Those are two both those references are in scripture. They're both in Acts. Acts thirteen, Acts two, I If we had done this ahead of time, I might have some quick and easy answers, but now I'm gonna have to read it in context to find out. So talk amongst yourselves while I Well I'm gonna paraphrase parts five, six, seven, and eight because I think we'll have more disagreement on that, and then we'll f get my the answer on my corruption question and then we'll uh dive into the debate, the spirited debate on these uh final uh At least the final two, if not the final four, sections of this chapter. So part five and six to summarize, I think, say the obedience and death of Jesus after full payment for the sins of his followers uh offer full payment for the sins of his followers. And these followers include the faithful of both the Old Testament and the New Testament periods. And then the last couple of sections I think can be paraphrased as the God man mediator. has paid the price of salvation for all those that he intends. He effectively wins the hearts of his people and defeats the enemies of his people. And I know that there's going to be some disagreement, uh, not just on language there, but I think on what they the point that they were making. I think Jonathan will have some questions there. So I don't know if you found your reference in Acts yet or not. Well I've definitely I found both of the references. All I can do is uh read these. These are these are quotes from David. So Yeah, you can't can't go wrong, right, if I actually read the actual Bible. Although we might have a problem with the translation. Read it in the Greek, yeah. Okay. Which Greek? That's the question. Alright, for you will not abandon my soul to Hades or let your holy ones see corruption is uh Acts two twenty-seven and Acts thirteen 37 says David after he had served the purpose of God in his own generation fell asleep and wasn't a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit. laid with his fathers and saw corruption, but let but he whom God raised up did not see corruption. I think the idea is simply that he didn't die for long. I think it's that he wasn't um He wasn't allowed to continue in the state of death. And the point is that it was a fulfillment of prophecy. They're referring to prophecy, and so by putting it in here, they're recognizing that Christ fulfilled those prophecies. Yep. Okay. All right, so have at it now. What do you disagree with? Let's go. Oh, I wasn't paying attention. Well four and five were good. Yeah, six, five and six. Um I like it. Four or five are good, six, no, not good. Okay, go ahead, keep going, sorry Slow the arrogance that we all have. Yes, yes. Don't like it. They were all wrong. Well what don't you like about it? What makes you uncomfortable? denominated by the other nature. So what they're saying is that is is that what was what was something that Christ would be responsible for sometimes is not referred to in the Bible as being done by Christ but being done by God. Is that what they're saying? Oh no, I think we're talking about the different natures of Christ. Right. So his human side and his God side, and I I use that very loosely by saying about sides, because they're 100% each of those things. He's not he's not dual person here Um so th these things like um I think what the what they're trying to do is escape from Uh Jesus not knowing something. They're they're having this kind of a language. You know, how does Jesus not know something when he's God and how does uh how does he eat if he's God versus the other side of things ha i you know, uh I think that's what this is dealing with. Um I'd be Need more time probably in some guys. to the person denominated, right? They're they're talking about what? That that sometimes it the scripture refers to him in his manhood, sometimes it refers to him in his godhood. Right. And sometimes when it's talking about him in a man in a man centered way, it Talks about his God attributes that seem to be and so it gets a little confusing. I think an important i implication, maybe it's what they're addressing here, I don't know. But very comfortable with this. An important implication out of this section seven, which is talking about Christ in the work of mediation, acts according to both natures. So in the work of mediation acts according to both natures. And I think that's important so that we don't fall prey to this idea that well Jesus was just this superman and he lived this this perfect life that anyone could have lived, but he happened to be the one who lived this perfect life and as this perfect man is the sacrifice and losing sight of the fact that God is the one who is the mediator. God Himself. God as man fulfills man's obligation, but God as God fulfills the obligation on behalf of man. I d we don't want to lose I think that's good. Good clarification of who's who's saving who here. Man didn't save himself. Mm-hmm. Mankind didn't save himself through some superman, but mankind was saved by God who took on uh a man's nature. Right. I think that that might be a a point that they're making there. Or if not, it's a point that I take from it. Yes, I I I think it's valid. I'm with you. Wow, I got a gold star. So number eight though, I think. Yeah, eight? Well this is the one that talks about the I the This is what this is where we had to be. Exactly. That's the part. The effectual uh Yeah, the question is whether or not God chose exactly who was going to be saved before the creation of the world and then as a result of choosing them uh uh caused them to believe uh and gave them the ability to believe where nobody else gave them the ability to believe. So he uses that word effectually persuading them by his spirit to believe and obey. Uh and of course my uh my big problem with that is that nowhere in scripture are we told that the Holy Spirit ever interacts with somebody that's um that is and uh that has not yet confess Christ. We always see the Holy Spirit coming upon an individual in the context of their having believed in having chosen to to say that they're willing to submit to the will of the Father. And and in that context, the Holy Spirit comes on them. And and so in terms of understanding pneumatology, there's nothing that I see in Scripture that explicitly says that his spirit causes them to believe and obey. And so I feel like this just goes significantly beyond what Scripture says. I'm thinking that they anticipated As they're putting this all together, then they have this flow of logic and this flow of argument, if you want to call it that. And this last section of chapter eight really anticipates the next two chapters Maybe we should just go into that. It's almost like an introduction to the next two chapters. Do you do you think that that's You know, the the rest of the rest of number eight I I love that that he uh makes intercession for them, reveals unto them the mysteries of salvation. You know, my point is just that that that's available to all, not just those um for, you know, not not just a select group, but that that's available to all who will choose to confess Christ as Lord and and to uh believe that he is God. Well chapter nine's a short chapter. I mean I'm I'm not sure it might be the shortest chapter in the whole It's certainly one of the shortest. I don't know if it's the shortest, but it's certainly one of the shortest. I don't it's no far shorter ones. I know adoption is super cl super short. Anyway But the the first couple of sections are only a couple of sentences, and here they are. God ha this is of free will. God has endued the will of man with that natural liberty that is neither forced nor by any absolute necessity of nature determined good or evil. Man in his state of innocency has freedom and power to will and to do that which was good and well pleasing to God, but yet mutably, so that he might fall from it. So what do you say about that? Saying here that God created mankind in in in innocence, not bound to do either good or bad, but with the possibility of doing good or bad. Yep, I'm completely in agreement with all that. Right. Able able to not send at this place. See now for John so far in the I don't know ten or so shows that we've done on on this, I wouldn't expect Jonathan to have any issue because this aligns very nicely with how he kind of generally approaches the the the uh the dynamic of the God human relationship. But I would feel like there'd be some tension here for you, Jason, those who would hold more tightly to what the Westminster Confession is saying. Yeah, it seems aren't aren't you p um prone to an argument that says Wait a minute. You're talking on both sides of your mouth. First of all, you talked s spend several chapters talking about how God is the Mac Daddy, He's in complete control, He's sovereign, He's all powerful, and now here you are, you stink the stick this stinking little short chapter in here. It says, but men have free will. How can you have your cake and eat it too? I mean, isn't there a how do you how do you address that tension? Well, I would say man in his state of innocency is what we're talking about here. We aren't talking about mankind in general at this point. So this is I I don't have a state of innocency anymore. This is this is pre-fall. So when I say Pasy Nampakari, able to not sin, this is this is before the fall. Now I am not able to not sin. So we're in a different state here. So he had the freedom and power to will and to do that which is good and well pleasing to God. but that he might fall from it. It's talking about Adam. And he's about to get into this how his fall into a state of sin lost his ability to do any spiritual good. That's where we are now. We've lost our ability to do any state of good. I I'm going into number three. Okay. Well well let's read number three. Man by his fall into a state of sin has wholly lost all ability of will to any spiritual good accompanying salvation, so as a natural man being altogether averse from that good and dead in sin, is not able by his own strength to convert himself or to prepare himself thereunto. Um well John, I'm gonna pick on a few things there, maybe. um respond to the gospel of God in creation and to prophets who would come and call to repentance that he's incapable of of of hearing such a call and saying, wow, that's true about me. God forgive me. then then I'm completely in disagreement with number three. If however this allows room for an individual who who uh hears the the call to repentance uh either in again creation or preached by man and in hearing that call to repentance um that that he still has no ability to to say, you know what, I was wrong and I need your help, oh God. Then uh at that point I would say that that uh that I'm in disagreement with this. He hasn't lost all ability of will then uh there that that God has granted to him in the gospel the power of God and the salvation. Luther would have said he is his will is bound And his will is bound, that is, it has a choice. The problem is that it always chooses the wrong thing. And so therefore, uh which might be just semantic play, I don't know. Sure. But what we're talking about here is is the Westminster Divines would certainly have said He does not have the ability. That's what total depravity is or radical depravity is. He does not have the ability to respond because he's dead in his trespasses and sins. We can uh this show is we're gonna like deja vu here now. I remember this huge debate and both of us, you know, red faced and and beating on each other and we left with great bruises. But um, Yeah. So the question. By the way, uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Railway Chapel, Dr. J. Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Friday Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. So After uh part three says that you know sinful man is unable to do anything spiritually good in his own strength so far as it would bring or lead to salvation, it then goes on in part four and five. to basically say that God converts the sinner after which the person is made able to to do spiritually good things, but does not always do these good things in this life. This tendency toward sin is uh removed completely only in heaven. Actually I probably should read those. This is this is the original language from the Westminster Confession, chapter 9, sections 4 and 5. When God converts a sinner and translates him into the state of grace, he frees him from his natural bondage under sin, and by his his grace alone enables him freely to will and to do that which is spiritually good, yet so as that by reason of his remaining corruption, he does not perfectly or only will that which is good, but does also will that which is evil. The will of man is made perfectly and immutably free to do good alone in the state of glory only. See now I'm I'm com comfortable with both of those, but it all rests on number three. Right. Right? And and it's a question of of the moment of salvation. Is that something that And it's in my mind it's it's the it's a chronology. Uh that you know what comes first? What comes first is um is faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. So the word of God must be preached. So that comes first. The Word of God is preached. When the Word of God is preached, the man is presented with a choice that I believe that he is even in his fallen state capable of responding to. In the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. both for the Jew and for the Gentile. So in the preaching of the Word of God when it comes, there is the power for that individual to make the choice and if he chooses to reject Then he doesn't have any of this. He if he chooses to accept, then God converts him, translates him into a state of grace, frees him from his natural bondage under sin, and by his grace alone enables him freely to will to do that which is spiritually good. And so so I'm of the opinion that that that the issue is And I would argue not chronological as much as logical, because chronological will just be It would be confusing for our finite minds to try and split hairs over the timing of exactly when this happens, but logically at least, which of course has to do with chronological. Um the question is if you have someone who is dead in his trespasses and sins, Ephesians two, Romans three, etcetera, how does he respond? And the qu and I I think the Bible is clear throughout that he doesn't respond. Or if he responds, he's responding in a dead man's way, which is basically no response at all. It's I will not do it. So you were dead in trespassing sins, which you once walked following the course of this world. Following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. This is real scum of the earth kind of people, among whom we are all once lived in passions of flesh. Oh my goodness, it's us. That's what he's talking about. Okay. carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and we're by nature children of wrath. So enmity, God is angry with us. That's wrath. Like the rest of mankind. All are this but God. being rich in mercy because of his great love with which he has loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses. Even when we were dead, but God, there's nothing about making a decision or anything like that. All of that's going to come later. But God, even when we are dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved, and raised up with him, and seated with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming age he can show us the measurable riches of his grace, etc. etc. So I I think Ephesians two, Romans three through nine really are arguing the same thing. I certainly understand your point of view because I've been debating it for the last twenty years with everybody that I meet. This does not mean that God's that Christ's uh call is not made to the world. Of course it is. It's open to the world. The question is who will respond to it? And the answer is only those whom the Father has given the Son, only those whom he draws. Um, John. So the Most of these things I'm actually saying are bibli Bible, I can't believe it. Um I'm usually just making arguments that are logical based on biblical passages, but I'm actually quoting a few of these. Uh it's just hard on a show like this, of course, to find your texts real quickly and stuff. But you know, that that he he doesn't woo people to him, he draws them to him. It's that word for drags. Um you know it's It's you're pulling water up out of a well. It's not calling the water up. He he drags the water up. He pulls it almost as if it it's dead. It can't do anything of its of itself. So I think that's what they're getting at. I happen to agree with them. that that God works in a person to regenerate them before they are able to have faith. For If it were up to them, they would respond negatively every time. That was Luther's argument, that was Calvin's Bingley's argument. All the Protestant reformers basically were pretty sound on this. Um so I like to think that I'm in good in a good place with all of them. And I'd argue that they were not sound on that particular in agreement. Yeah. Um, I would go back to Ephesians 1, right before the passage that you read, verse 13, it says it it tells us when you were included with in Christ. And it tell and and it says exactly what I've been arguing. You were included in Christ when not it doesn't say you were included in Christ before the creation of the world. But it says you were predestined in Christ. All were predestined in Christ, but you were included in Christ when you Heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having believed, you are marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit, who is the deposit guaranteeing our inheritance. corporate, those who choose Christ, who hear the word of God and believe. But how about that predestined R Romans says Their destiny is before them, right? Before they exist. The predestination is a predestination for the entire world. That all are predestined to come to Christ? Yes. All are predestined in Christ. Because not everyone does. No, see, this is where you come up with an argument that I believe the Bible is completely unconcerned about. What do you mean God failed? Did God fail when the nation of Israel somehow did not respond to the gospel? No, none whatsoever. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. Did God not send people? God send people. I'm constantly quoting straight, you know, straight from I'm I'm Do they respond? God sent the word of God to the nation of Israel. Did he fail with the nation of Israel, his chosen people, who he promised that one day all Israel would be saved, as as the Old Testament says? No, he didn't fail. The point is they failed him. They failed to respond to the preaching of the Word of God. God sent the Word of God, they failed to respond. And that's the same thing he's saying here: that all mankind is destined for glory. But that they refused to come. The light came into that which is his own, but his own did not receive him. But to as many as what You're arguing that somehow God predominantly destined corporately Well, I'm actually noticed not arguing that he failed because that that's my point is that he didn't couldn't have failed because it's sovereign. But you ha it's the very arguing. Yeah, I got stuck on You talked so quickly that I I found a great point that you m were working that actually was persuading me a little bit and then you went somewhere else. Yeah, I think we're gonna maybe we'll pick up uh this discussion beginning of next week's show and then we can get right on to the next uh chapter on effect uh effectual calling, which is also a relatively short chapter, and we might be able to cover all that in the remaining time. This is why I've wrestled with this particular issue my entire Christian life. Because you hear Jace quote scripture and say, look, listen, man, dead means dead, okay? Dead men don't hear nothing. And then you hear somebody like Johnson say, Ah, but faith comes from hearing the word and responding to it. And he's quoting scripture like, Yes You're both right. How can that be? Well we will figure that out next week. I don't know. It's been the it's the classic Calvinist Arminian debate all over again. It's been going on for hundreds and hundreds of years Uh anyway, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Doctor Chase Broadhurst is a senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner, our sponsor of Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online WFMD dot com keyword faith and check out the shows on podcasts in the WFMD Audio Vault. Thanks for listening. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?