Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMG brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week again by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church in, of all places, Poolsville, Maryland. Yay. I always applaud their creativity in naming their church. I wonder what kind of church it is and I wonder where it is. Must be Baptist and it's probably in Poolsville. Anyway Uh we're talking about the Westminster Confession of Faith. And by the way, a quick quick aside, um I believe that today marks the uh sixth official uh sixth anniversary of the Faith Debate Show. Oh today's the sixth anniversary. Three hundred shows. I think it's the sixth anniversary today. So if we can do two more sets of six We'll have the whole six six six thing going on and this show will position. Alright, last week at the end of the show And if you didn't hear it, go to the audio belt section and fast forward to the end of the show and Quickly. And we read it we read chapter fourteen uh into the record. Chapter fourteen of the Westminster Confession of Faith basically says that a person becomes saved by the power of God's Spirit. Usually this work is accomplished through the preaching and or the reading of the Bible. Prayer and the sacraments are good too, but only for strengthening faith, not in giving faith. Uh being a believer means believing the Bible, being obedient to its commands, and taking seriously the threatened judgments and promised blessings. But more important than the Bible is trust in Jesus Christ Himself for justification, sanctification, and glorification. Sometimes the faith of a believer in Christ might waver and weaken, while others may have absolute assurance of their faith, but either way, once saved, always saved. That's the gist of chapter 14, at least as I understand it. So I think I think we got a little bit of fodder for some conversation. Last week we had a rarity. We covered chapter 12 and 13 in one show. uh two chapters in one show because there wasn't a whole lot of uh area for disagreement. The only area of disagreement we found really didn't have anything to do with chapters twelve and thirteen. Well despite about anything So no it had the word effectual in it. And so it's but it wasn't it was just an adjective. It wasn't a noun or anything. It wasn't a verb. It was just a very irrelevant little word. Yeah, but it has it had more to do with the the coming to faith and justification the entire passage. Yeah, anyways, yeah. So in chapter uh fourteen, what say you, Jonathan? You're the one that the always has the the thing. I can't start with Jace because Jace is Yep, I agree with everything. It sounds good to me here on out. I get to start things and really endless. Yeah, I like that idea. Okay, so it says the grace of faith, blah blah blah, is the work of the Spirit of Christ in their hearts. And uh my understanding is that uh well I can't see anywhere in the scriptures that it talks about the Holy Spirit working in the heart of an individual before they have come to the place of belief and faith. And uh my understanding is that saving faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God and that the ministry of the Holy Spirit in that And that equation is upon the preacher of the Word of God. And so the Holy Spirit anoints the individual, and the individual goes, and he preaches with power and with authority and with uh with precision. Uh and uh for those hearts that are being pierced, it's because they're hearing the Word of God, and in hearing the Word of God they're choosing to respond to the Word of God. And so for for this to say that the grace of faith whereby the elect are enabled to believe to the saving of their souls is the work of the Spirit of Christ in their hearts. I would disagree, and I'd say that the that the beginning of that is that uh is that the grace of faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. Somebody has to be preaching and the preaching uh is is uh the beginning of it. Then when the individual chooses to believe We're told having believed, then we are filled with the Holy Spirit. We are anointed. He comes and lives in our hearts, and he begins to do his work of Sanctification. And then Jason's gonna say, yeah, but they're dead in their sins, and the dead person isn't gonna be able to respond. So what do you say to that? I'm glad I did it, not JC. I just said we already talked about this. Let's move on. I can imagine people are so tired of this. You and I, according to the scriptures, when sin came into us, we died. Right? But we split a hair theologically that we didn't die physically, that Adam and Eve didn't die physically, they died spiritually, because they obviously still lived to the end of their lives, a good long life. Well that's that's a split that we all make. Well I thought they were supposed to be dead. Well of course we're dead. We're even dead spiritually, but that doesn't mean that that that we can't make spiritual decisions. It means that we are separated from God spiritually. So I've still got a spirit in me that's dead, you know, that that I could do all kinds of wicked spiritual things with. But I can make a decision as that individual, even though I'm dead in my transgressions and sins The same way that Adam and Eve weren't dead physically, the point is that our spiritual death has to do with separation from God. It doesn't have to do with the inability to make a spiritual decision to choose Christ. And we've we've split this hair, you know, I guess a thousand and one different times and it just occurred to me that, you know, that the that the definition of death is You know, uh being incapable of doing anything spiritually uh is again found nowhere in Scripture. The idea in Scripture is that spiritual death is separation from God. I won't keep going on this, but I think Romans eight and nine do say that. So I know you've already argued against it. But I think they do sho show that that you tell me what the verse is, but um not up to him who wills or runs, but up to him who has power. It is not Um he's not only not uh willing to, but not able. It actually uses the word not able, not capable of responding. It's uh Romans eight or nine, uh I'm getting ready to teach on reform theology, so I'm gonna have to actually bone up on all this stuff, but uh uh in my church. Yeah, but it it's this is like batting practice for Jays. I throw him some softball pitches, he cranks them up. Jacob and Esau. It's uh chapter nine, verse sixteen. It does not therefore depend on man's desire effort, but on God's mercy. And uh this is where you're saying that this passage is referring to the ability of individuals to respond and specifically having to do with spiritual death. And what I've always argued is that this passage is referring to the corporate uhness of the gospel specifically dealing with the Jews who as a c entire nation are being uh rejected at this stage of salvation history by God and so he's laying down the argument for why God is uh okay to do that, why why it's uh uh righteous for God to to make such a major decision and you're saying that that's a individual personal um inability and I'm saying that that has to do with a corporate um uh decision. God decided that Esau was going to be the one in his children, specifically in that passage, meaning the entire uh race of Edomites that they would be the ones that that would end up being hated. But there are plenty of individual Edomites that chose to respond in salvation and to do what was right. I'm understanding uh y your your thought on how to understand spiritual death as being separated from God, which is, you know, I would agree that somebody who's spiritually dead would be separated from God. So as far as that goes for sure. I I mean maybe even gonna speak for Jason's say we would he would agree with that. I agree with that. But what exact are you s are you thinking in terms of spiritual death not being so much a a condition as a position? I'm saying that when Adam and Eve ate the apple, we define the death that they entered into as separation from God. Right. And that's classic in all scripture. And I'm saying it makes total sense to apply that to the New Testament. It doesn't mean that we can't make decisions any longer. But it means that we are spiritually dead. It means that we are separated from God. So to say that somehow spiritual death means that we're incapable of doing anything doesn't line up with the way that Scripture uses that idea of spiritual death. So then there's this pi person who's in a position of separateness from God. Yeah. And that person somehow is able to I guess reach out toward God in response to what they hear. At the moment of the gospel. Because in the gospel is the power of God under salvation. To as many as received him gave he the power to become the sons of God. So when we're confronted with the gospel, and I say that that that that applies both to the preaching of the word in all creation Uh, because all creation proclaims the glory of God and also to the specific preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That in the gospel is the power of God and salvation. So then the person who's in this position of separateness from God, who's spiritually dead, as as you're defining it here, and stuck in that place and stuck there, but they're able to re s everybody who's in that place would be able to respond When they hear the message of the gospel, but only certain individuals choose to respond. That's exactly what I mean. And the other ones through obstinence or ignorance or both? choose to stay in their place of separateness? Exactly. And the other people choose to say, hey, I'm going to respond to that Yeah. I want to Yeah, I liked I like your Genesis, which is I'm perfectly h happy with. In fact I I wish more people would understand how Genesis works that way. Sure. That death is is exile, it's removal from the garden, removal from the presence of God, from from his pleasure. That's excellent. I just I I I get stuck with uh really uh we just have a v vastly different understanding of what Romans is written for and what the point of it is. Um Romans nine is not uh I Romans nine is where I would go also, but Romans eight is is the main discussion, which I think we've had, but I'll just read the verse and then you'll just refute it with everything you already said again and then we'll just keep going in circles. But Uh for to set them the for to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the spirit is life and peace, which you're good with. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. And what all Calvinists would say is that that people who are in the flesh that are dead in their trespasses and sin, which I think you'd agree with that basically, that that part of it at least, they're hostile to God. Okay, but not just does not, indeed it can not. Verse seven. cannot please God. And I would just find that pleasing to God that if I responded to his call, if I went, okay, I'm with you, that he would be pleased by that. And so if I'm in my flesh, uh That's just my understanding of eight seven. Um maybe I need some more work on it. I don't know how much more work on the other thing. Romans chapter seven, is that written to believer or unbeliever? All of this is written to believers. Okay. There is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. So at this point we're not dealing with those individuals that are pre-Christ. We're dealing with those individuals that uh that are choosing, even though they're in Christ, to still set their sinful mind on what the sinful nature desires. He's talking about those people that are being sanctified in chapter 7 who uh do what they do not want to do and they hate it when they do it and it's no longer them who do it, but it's sin living in them. They're coming to understand that, and he's teaching them. Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord who always leads us in triumphal procession. There's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Okay, so well that's the foundation. We're struggling with sin. There's no condemnation. But the key believers is to set your mind on Christ. If you set your mind on sinful things, you're gonna go on doing sinful things. And so he's not emphasizing and he's not talking about salvation here, but he's talking about the sinful mind setting itself on on uh sinful things and the sinful mind is hostile to God even when it's in when it's in a believer. The sinful mind, that part of the the believer that still needs to be sanctified is still hostile to God. It does not submit to God's law, nor can it can it do so. Those controlled by the sinful nature cannot please God, so believers, set your mind on God. That's what he's saying, is that that's where the victory comes from. That's where it's leading up to this triumph that that when Christ we are overcomers and there's nothing that can separate us from Christ. And that when we set our mind on God then he takes us from being predestined to being called to being justified to being uh glorified. He accomplishes all those things because our mind is set on him instead of being set on the sinful nature. Any sort of uh any sort of uh re response that occurred to you immediately. I will say this, uh most people wouldn't know this, but Jonathan uh over the years is toyed with the idea of trying to write a book. And uh a number of you I don't know if you've given up on that or you're still working on it or what the status of that is, but uh it was a it was that would be very helpful for me But I could work through it paragraph by paragraph and see where I agree and where I don't. Because I you know I find a point that you're saying helpful here, but I just don't have enough time to revisit it. Well, okay Is this passage written to believers? The the entire New Testament is written to the church. That's how I would argue. These are not written to the non-church, this is to the church, to the people of God Now, are those believers or not? Well, yeah, I mean I that depends. You ask me in my congregation, has it written to believers or not? When I speak, do I speak to believers? Yeah, I speak to believers, more or less. Some of them are saved. Okay, so we're in agreement that far. So when when Paul makes this argument here, honestly I wasn't sure where you would stand on that, alright? So I'm not I'm not just asking a question just to irritate. Point is Romans 8. 5 says that those who live according to sin for nature have their mindset on what that nature desires. At that point when when Paul uses the word those Is does those refer to believers or does it refer to unbelievers? Those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh. Those who live according to the spirit set their minds on the things of the spirit. I like the word flesh better as well, by the way. For to set the mind on the flesh is death, to set the mind on the spirit is life and peace. Mind is set on the flesh is hostile to God. Indeed it cannot. Um it would seem that it there's some kind of question there as to whether Okay, go down to verse 12. Therefore, brothers, we have an obligation. But it's not to the sinful nature to live according to it For if you do, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death a mystic body you will live. Seems to me that he is calling the believer. And this is what I'm asking you, whether or not this is this is an accurate description of this passage. He's calling the believer. He's not saying that unbelievers can't follow Christ. He's saying that the believer needs to make a decision, has an obligation, and so therefore let's do it. So the believer you're saying the believer has an obligation to not be hostile to God. And that's what that's what Paul is trying to get across. But specifically Don't be angry and mad at God. on the things above. He the the same thing in Romans twelve. We are therefore transformed by the renewing of our mind. He's drawing our attention, the believer's attention. to the fact that he could still choose to live according to the flesh if he's being foolish as a believer and that believers can do that. We we just went through that in the Westminster Confession that some believers don't grow as quickly because they they don't take advantage of what the Holy Spirit is doing in their life. So th so the Christian can live in the flesh. Absolutely. Those who are in the flesh and that and therefore they cannot please God. So he's saying don't live according to the flesh won't please God. Let me ask you this. We have all these questions but no answers. Okay. Me too. I'm not answering your questions either. Okay, no, no, okay. I'll answer your questions. We're both trying to understand. Uh I'm s I'm not saying that the that a believer is only living in the flesh. I'm saying that to the extent that the believer still lives in the flesh and still does what is wrong, and I think you and I both do that, that in that moment It's because he's still learning to set his mind on things above. To set it be in and and and when he doesn't, Paul's drawing the the attention he's teaching that that when the believer doesn't do that, it is true then that he actually ends up being hostile to God in those moments and then he's got to repent. God forgives him again. You know, and he he uh he learns to set his mind on things above, to be transformed by the renewing of his mind. Well I find it. I find it interesting. I hack I can say that um and I can say in these few minutes I'm not gonna be able to battle you too hard on it. Um I can say without a doubt that is not what Westminster is trying to say, which joyfully I can sure I can uh I can just go with what they were trying to say and say, hey, look, I'm just I'm just saying what Westminster says. Sure. So certainly Westminster would say this is referring to salvation and hostility. So that this would be one of their proof texts that you're that you're hostile to God. Oh yeah. Romans eight and nine is probably your biggest some of your biggest arguments for uh for the preestination for Cal Calvinism in general. you and I disagree about what the what the the baseline point of Romans is all about. So Well actually I'm not sure about I'm not I'm not convinced of that. I'm not even sure that I can go you know last time I preached Romans text has been A long time. So I really need to come more prepared. I'm learning that more than anything else to execute scripture. Because I'm told we're talking about Westminster and we keep getting into these like intricate exegesis, but I it takes me twenty hours to execute a verse So I I I guess you can't do it on the spot. Now let me say this. Uh I I mentioned this you know, this this project that Jonathan's tried to play with over the years and uh at some point one of the drafts uh made its way to me and I had the the honor of having a chance to read it. And I will s I would just say as an encouragement to uh my brother John, uh you should listen back to this show. When it's up on the audio vault or something uh on the website. You should listen back to the show, the the segment, you know, five minutes ago or ten minutes ago. Yeah. Uh you had one of the most lucid connect the dots, points of argument, that if you could capture that and use that as the kernel for driving the thesis of the book You think that would be capable of of doing it, huh? I th you know, that was one of the things I struggled with when I when I read it, as you know, I shared with you. You know, I I felt like there were two things things. One, I never felt like you've really lucidly connected all the dots. Interesting dots, but not really connected in a way that somebody could follow very easily. And the other thing was I felt like you were writing to like seven different audiences. Because some of it was like just inspirational and other parts, you know, I'm trying to get deeply thro theological. But use that Who is it that listens to this show? That's what I want to know. We need everybody to call in and tell us who you are so that we can know what kind of audience you are. Sanders and Dunn and Covenantal Gnomism and all that stuff. Heretics you would have to give me like a thing of it. Nobody's gonna care about such a thing. I'm just curious as to whether You know that side of things. I mean, you're obviously studying the reform doctrine, you're looking at Martin Luther and Calvin when you're writing this stuff. You know what they say at least before you're going to argue against it, I would hope. Um the new perspective is well, it's a new perspective. It's not actually that new, to be honest, but uh it's it's heralded all over and it's uh it's gaining quite a following, and so I'm just curious as to look at it. Right, Chase? You can say it. Go on. Let's just say that it is it is wrong in most of the conclusions I think that it reaches. Because people out there live under this. You know, they're going to churches and they deal with this kind of stuff. I think people care at the end of the day. Ask me to do it in and the next show. Okay. So I can at least write something and think about this. Gotcha. Um when I when I go off the cuff on things, I just make them sound stupid. So I I don't want to do that. Not wanting to sound stupid is Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor, Heck Twilzo Baptist Church. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm choice, you know this is the faith of it. We've got a couple minutes left and I did want to before we depart chapter fourteen. Yeah. Have we said anything about chapter fourteen? Um well. We went back into the pre definition and regeneration. thing that I wanted to get uh your thoughts on is this idea of once saved, always saved. Do you agree with that? Can we get to that in the next couple of chapters? Right, that's chapter 17. Can someone lose their salvation? Uh yes. I'm of the opinion they can. And I'd you know I'll be happy to get into that more in depth. You want me to now? Well, I never go in depth, but you're say so you're saying Romans eleven uh says that uh if some branches have been broken off and you have been grafted in Uh do not boast over those branches, you don't support the root. It says uh it says if God did not spare the natural branches He will not spare you either. It says, Consider therefore the kindness and sternness of God, sternness of those who fell, sternness to those who fell. But kindness to you provided that you continue in his kindness, otherwise you also will be cut off If they do not persist in unbelief, they will be grasped in for God is able to graft them in again. I feel like that's very clear that you have been grafted in to the tree of salvation that is Christ. And if you do not persist in your belief, if you if you were to to choose to not believe and persist in it, that you will be also cut off. And it says that very clearly. Sternness to those who fell, kindness to you, provided you continue in his kindness, otherwise you also will be cut off. I mean that's very clear. He's giving a warning. Don't don't let that happen. It could. But is the tree re meant to represent those who are actually saved or those uh or represent the uh a a a fuller idea of who the people of God are. Like not everybody who wasn't in uh ancient Israel uh ended up being uh going to heaven. Not everybody today who professes to be a Christian is saved. So is the tree that that uh that visible entity that is now known as the church, or is the tree Only those going to heaven. Uh the passage in Romans uh 11, 17 through 24, it says um it's talking about belief. And being broken off, uh it says they were broken off because of unbelief and you stand by faith. I mean, uh my sense in the whole passage is that The context is saving faith. He is talking about the difference between the Jews, specifically who were the God's elect many of whom have now been rejected. And uh so it wouldn't seem to make sense if all the elect are automatically saved, uh and it's grappling with this question how could God's elected people lose their salvation. And so uh that's what Romans 9, 10, and 11 is talking about. Uh righteousness that is based on faith, not based on uh some other standard. And so the Jews chose to uh to pursue a righteousness that was not by faith and uh as a result then was uh wa was by works and so as a result they got they got removed but not all the Jews got removed. And so it's dealing with the with the line between those that get removed, meaning they're a branch in the tree. In the tree of what? In the tree of salvation of God's family. And they got broken off because they persisted in unbelief. And that could happen to you as well, is what Paul's saying, you Gentiles, that could happen to you as well. And so I feel like it's a pretty clear passage. But taking just the one pat I mean we don't have time now because we're running we have like you know seconds here. But so maybe we'll pick this up in another show because it literally we've got like uh less than thirty seconds. So I'm gonna have to wrap up the show, unfortunately, on an awkward hanging participle. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Inviting you to visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Till next week. God bless.