Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putmint Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Pull in plumbing, how can we make you smile? There are uh in my book there are two kinds of geniuses. There are geniuses uh that you see perform and you tell yourself, Oh, I could never do that. And that they sort of shut down your creativity. Then there are geniuses that you see that draw you in and fire you up to go and and be creative and to write songs and to play. And and though he's leagues beyond where I'll ever be. Uh Phil Kegy is the second category. The voice you're listening to there is that of Michael Card and and he'll get into some stone here in a little bit, but I wanted you to hear just a little bit of him because you get By the way, you're listening to the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel uh Steve Hall, founder and director of the Lease of These Ministries and Greg Luke uh volunteer and supporter of Lease of These Ministries and also come to find out with uh with uh reasonable faith uh as well uh doing uh apologetics work. We'll talk about that in just a second. But why are we Talking about Michael Card and listening to the music and all that sort of stuff. Michael Carr is gonna be in concert uh this coming weekend, next week, six days from now on March twenty-seventh, uh at um Uh Steve, help me again. I forget the name of the church. It's in Carroll County. Grace Lutheran Church. Grace Lutheran Church in Westminster. In Westminster, Westminster. 21 Carroll Street. There you go. Put in MathQuest and uh and go. If you want to get tickets, go to www. leistofes ministries, or not ministries, leastofesmen. org. All right. And you can spell least of these men. You can probably if you can't spell that, we don't want you at the concert. I'm just kidding. No! Please, I want everybody who can possibly afford afford it to come. And they are affordable tickets and and I I and I'm kinda mentioned in passing I think it's a cool idea. If uh if you're interested at all in hearing Michael Carr do the Easter Story through song and you think it might be cool to do with some people you go to church with, maybe put together a a little loose confederation of people and you know jump in a minivan or get a bus or whatever and head out as a group. That'd be cool. It it would certainly put uh a different and closer perspective on the Easter story for uh the following Sunday. This is going to be the Saturday night before Palm Sunday and it really would set the stage for for Easter Sunday. And it's not just Michael singing, but it's a big choral group we'll be backing very large. Two choirs, so it's gonna be a pretty cool show for those that can make it. Are you sitting in on it one of those choirs? No, they're singing, so I wasn't asked. Just checking. Maybe Jonathan will go. And if Jonathan goes, you'll be sure to point him out to people so they can give him a raspberry game. Absolutely. Yeah. There you go Now I wanted to take a second uh to talk about uh the reasonable faith uh thing that uh that Greg Luke is involved with, but before we get into that, I want to make sure we have time to get this off our chest. Few weeks ago, more than a few weeks ago, uh Britt Hume made a comment about Tiger Woods. He was asked what would you say to Tiger Woods to give him some advice to turn his life around? And he said, Well, I think Tiger Woods is in need of redemption and as far as I'm concerned, the only place you can find redemption is in Jesus Jesus Christ and I understand that Tiger is a Buddhist and I'm not sure that Buddhism offers much in the way of uh redemption, but uh encouraged Tiger to to explore Christianity. That was the gist of what Britt Hume said. It caused us reasonable firestorm after that. And we a couple weeks after the firestorm 'cause they're always right on top of these things on the Faith Debate Show. Well we want to have time to let things percolate and really have formulate well formulated thoughts, right? We don't want to just fire from the hip. Because the truth matters, baby. There he said it again. Yes. So it's all about the truth. Baby. Baby. So anyway, uh so we talked about it on this show a few weeks back. Yeah. S uh since we did that show. Yeah. Tiger Woods, of course, has come out and made his public confessional. I don't know what that was. We were all as priest for a moment there. I'm not sure what that was, but as part of his public apology speech, whatever, uh he addressed That issue. He didn't mention Brit Hume by name or anything like that, but it was definitely he was responding to that, it seems to me. Yeah. And he talked about how he's a Buddhist. Yeah. He was raised a Buddhist. And his problems come from Of rejection of rejection backsliding from his Buddhist, so he's gonna now recommit to being a good Buddhist. The phrase was that Buddhism has taught me that cr that the craving for things outside of one's own self it leads to a pointless and meaningless existence. Which I thought was very interesting because um you know uh I would I would say that's he that's part of it, but if you if you uh are Looking for those answers inside of yourself, you're also going to find a a pointless, meaningless existence. Well well this is the whole thing, because I'm I'm of the opinion, because of what the Bible says, that what a man truly desires is unfailing love. And that's not something that you can find in your own heart. You know, it says it in Proverbs, it says what a man truly desires is unfailing love. Better to be poor than a liar. And I think the same thing's true about tiger. What tiger is looking for is unfailing love. He's looking for it from his wife. He's looking for it from his you know, from his family. And the reality is that uh is that at the end of the day, that's a nice philosophy that he shared. But he doesn't come anywhere close to living by that philosophy. And I tend to dedicate myself to doing it. Part of following this path for me is Buddhism, which my mother taught me at a young age. People probably don't realize it, but I was raised a Buddhist, and I actively practiced my faith from childhood until I drifted away from it in recent years. Buddhism teaches that a craving for things outside ourselves causes an unhappy and pointless search for security. It teaches me to stop following every impulse and to and to learn restraint. Obviously, I lost track of what I was taught. Yes the the the problem is if he wants to really abide by Buddhist teaching, if he really wants to divest himself of caring about anything, about having any concerns about things that are worldly, he will give up golf. He will give up his wife. He will give up his cars, his endorsements. He will give up his speaking opportunities. He will give up the chance to speak before these cameras and explain himself Because he won't care about any of that anymore and he'll just evaporate into nirvana. That would be being true to Buddhism. So even as he stands there and speaks, he's not being true to Buddhism. Having said that, we invite any Buddhist that lives anywhere in Frederick that would like to uh better explain what Buddhism teaches to us to come on the show and to teach us. 'Cause we want to have that discussion. We actually had on a uh Tibetan Buddhist monk on the show and for the life of us it was very difficult to get him to say just about anything. Like every time Every time he would say, Well, this is what it is, I'd say, Oh, well that's kind of like Christianity. And then he'd say, No, it's nothing like Christianity. And so I'd be like, okay, it's nothing like Christianity. And then sure enough, like a minute later he'd be like, Oh, well, it's just like Christianity. I'm like, oh, okay So it's like Christianity. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I said, okay, and then I'd go on that for a minute, and then he said, No, it's nothing like Christianity. The point was is that at the end of the day He didn't want to be pinned down on any definitions because Buddhism doesn't give any clear definitions at the end of the day. And so um w when he when he gave his his philosophy that that it's not wise to crave anything outside of oneself. Um the the bottom line is then he's basically asking us to not be human. I crave love. And it's human to crave love. And and I think that uh all of the all the religions of the world are craving for some kind of spiritual connect connection to our Creator. uh they may not realize that or that may not be in their statement of faith. Well my argument for my study of Buddhism is that Buddhism and Hinduism actually both tend to be the exact opposite that that that Uh the f the basic philosophy is a choosing to give up on life and to lose yourself, lose your personality, lose any any sense of meaning in i in this existence in this world because you've given up hope because life is suffering and you don't want anything to do with it any of it anymore and so you you go sit somewhere so that you can be released from the cycle of suffering 'Cause you're sick and tired of the cycle of suffering and you want to be released. My sense is that uh is that that Buddhism and Hinduism in particular as as religious structures particularly invite people to give up hope. And that's the exact opposite of what Christianity says. Christianity says, no, you should hope. And you should hope for unfailing love that comes from outside of yourself. And you can find it, because God has chosen to send his Son Jesus Christ and to show us precisely that kind of unfailing love. And and uh and so I my my sense is that Tiger when he was uh a g the the Buddhism that he claims to have been following when he was following it He was following kind of a nicey moral structure that really does not line up with with uh with Buddhist teaching. And um In in opposition to that, uh to really find joy, I think you actually need to go get into that misery, obviously not to bring it upon yourself, but to go do things like Steve does with the least of these ministries and get your hands into serving those people the I agree. It's it you know, you feel when you're down there doing something like that selfish because you're you're you're you're feeling It wasn't so much feeling good about myself, but I was you know, I mentioned uh feeling the Holy Spirit, I think, last program while we were worshiping with them and it I I felt, you know, kinda guilty about in taking some pleasure out of that, which is stupid because obviously God was sharing himself with me at that moment. But uh That was, you know, that is where joy is and and I know Stephen and his wife Anne get a lot of pleasure out of of doing this work. Greg, is this sort of conversation about you know Buddhism and how it compares to Christianity or whatever? Is it the kind of thing that you get involved with the Explain what uh the reasonable faith Well uh Reasonable Faith is a um organization founded by Dr. William Lane Craig, who's probably the leading Christian apologist in the world, apologetics being the defense of the faith, explanation of the faith Yeah, by the way, quick aside, if you're not familiar with William Lane Craig, if you've never seen him in action, uh you can go online and and Google William Lane, L A N E Craig, C R A I G. Correct. Um, Google that name and there are s some really cool videos of him debating Atheist agnostics, you know, I mean some really cool stuff. He's very, very sharp. He's one of he's probably one of the most intelligent men alive on the planet today. He is so sharp. Whether you agree with him or not, if you're not a Christian, you're not gonna agree with his point of view, there's no denying the guy's abilities to speak and and articulate his and defend his point of view button. But anyway atheists after after debates that he has, atheists will say, Well, Craig won, but that's because he's a better debater. But you know the fact that he's got the It's a curse that he's so gifted that they use it against him. Well and and in fact if uh I've seen w uh guys not so gifted uh debate who um still would win the day because really the the reason, the logic, the the the science, everything is with us if we Uh we've just allowed other people to interpret those things into Yeah, and to intimidate us into silence. Exactly. And um when you know, when they tell us that the universe came into existence from a a big bang from nothing, uh when you ask them what could cause such a thing Um they tell you, well that's you know, i I don't know what it was but it wasn't magic and those kind of things. Well it you know, now that's not to say that you know William Lyncraig is beyond reproach or that, you know, everybody's gonna agree with every Christian's gonna believe everything that William Land Glenn Craig says that's why one of the reasons why a show like this can exist. Will Glenn Craig this is for those of you eggheads, the theological eggheads who love the show for this reason. Everybody else But William Lynn Craig has come under fire for those who care about these things for uh his belief in middle knowledge. If you don't know what that means it's it's The question is, how does God know the future? Does he know the future because he's he knows what decisions people are going to make before they make it? Does God cause those decisions? Is there some middle ground in between that? There's at least probably a half a dozen ways to understand how God knows everything. Yeah. And one of those ways is middle knowledge. That's the view that William Lane Craig holds, and it's a minority view, and most evangelical conservative Christians would would criticize him for that. He's also an old earth guy. Hm. So if you're a young earth guy, if you believe that the earth is only six, seven thousand years old, then you're you're gonna have some issues with William Lane Craig because he believes that the earth is quite possibly and likely millions of years old. Four four and a half billion. But and and that's my personal view, but there's actually uh something that's quietly been talked about in science over the last uh eight, ten years is the fact that the speed of light may be slowing down. And this is I've I've mentioned this to people and they say you're a screwball for for it's got to be some creationist who came up with this. But as we've measured the speed of light over the last two hundred years, it appears to be slowing down and in a rate that would indicate it was very much faster not very long ago. And there was a study, I think it was in within the last ten years that was done that shows that the speed of light can be altered. Yes. So this thing we were all raised but being taught, right, that the speed of light is a constant of the universe. So one, it can be altered Scientifically they've proven it can be altered, so it's not a constant, and so that helps to lend some credence to the view that well if it's not a constant It could speed up or slow down, couldn't it? So while like out there in outer space it like it it kicks into hyperspace for a little bit and then And then comes back out of hyp hyperspace so that we can see it again? Well the uh you know, if if we look through a telescope and we're looking at something, say, eight billion light years away, then we're seeing light that we think left eight billion years ago, but if it initially was going uh ten to the ten uh times faster, you know, may have only been, say, six or eight thousand years ago. I I don't hold to that theory myself. I I agree with Dr. Craig. I'm old earth creationist and the six Genesis days are six long time periods, but Um I don't I'm not the kind of person who dismisses anything. I will listen to your evidence and and I sure try to go where that lens me leads me. So you're probably uh a big fan of is it called the Discovery Institute? Is that what it's called out in Seattle? Yes. Uh uh you know I'm actually uh there's also Ken Hamm's organization Answers in Genesis, which is uh you know I'm considered a heretic and so is Dr. Craig for for even considering old earth, but I even respect that. Uh you know, anything that gets people talking about God and and and Jesus is a is a good thing. But I'm gonna make everybody mad on this one. Here we go. Anybody who's gonna die on that hill doesn't understand their Bible. If you're a young earther, I th I think that you biblically have a right to believe that. I think you can biblically support that view. If you're an old earther I think you can still be a good Bible believer. I don't think that the Bible gives us ironclad absolute definitive answer on how old the earth is. And so if you're gonna die on that hill and divide with somebody and call somebody a heretic over that, I don't think you understand your Bible very well. And the reason you say that is because the first chapter of the Bible is clearly a amalgamation of poetry Uh and uh you know, to argue that it's a chronological, historical uh document, specifically the first chapter of Genesis is Uh, is something I think most people would say that it's not. Uh, but uh uh that it is six long time periods. Uh but would you agree that the literature that you see in Genesis chapter one comes to us in a poetic form as opposed to a chronic at least a quasi poetic form. For example, when when you open your Bible The is is it written in in the those little poetical paragraphs like you're looking at the Psalms, or is it written in in a format that looks like it's uh uh just a cr chronology like you see starting up in Genesis chapter two. I think most Bi Bibles put it in the poetic form. Th yeah, I put you know, it I try to let the Lord speak to me through the Bible as opposed to maybe how they was organized by somebody, but uh I'm not necessarily disagreeing with you. Sure. I think that um F you know, it's it's not an exact um match of what happened, but when we look at uh like the Cambrian explosion when all this life came onto the earth, you know, I would look at that and say, that looks like day five. By the way, he used a big word there, and I'm gonna bet that there's one person who doesn't know what the Cambrian explosion is. So you want to take a second to explain that? but four hundred and fifty million years ago. I'm doing this without any notes in front of me, but um the uh amount of life on the earth went from Um practically none. What's it are called phylum and currently we're down to thirty-nine. So it's a classic apologetics argument against evolutionism because there's these different strata on the earth. And there are other times where this has happened, but all these strata are labeled and have names and they repres represent a period of time, you know, thousands of years or whatever, hundreds of thousands of years. And so you go through all these different layers No life, no life, or at least no fossil record, no reason to believe there was life anyway, right? No fossil record, no evidence of life, no evidence of life, no evidence of the other. And then a little bit of life, little bit of life, a little bit and then you reach the strata that I think is labeled the the Cambrian uh strata and there's this explosion of all of a sudden there's just oodles and oodles of fossil record and evidence of life. It happened Like in the snap of a finger kind of a thing. So so the uh so the the evolutionist And eventually the amoeba turned into a human being. Like, you know, long period of time, but the this explosion of the fossil record would indicate that well no no no, it happened in a very short period of time. Not enough time for evolution to have done what it's supposed to do. Not even close. And uh one of the things that uh if you get uh I get into these discussions occasionally with with uh naturalists, uh atheists, Methodist uh excuse me, not Methodist uh Materialist which is where I go to church. But um but these these are you a Baptist? No, I'm a Methodist believer. But in any case, well the thing is is that they always change what they call themselves. Uh, you know, you try to you uh you try to figure out it's almost like you were talking about the Buddhists that you know they're constantly changing. Yeah. Uh one of the things that uh when you talk about how life began uh with an evolutionist is is that well that's not evolution uh that's abbeyogenesis, that's how life began, that's not how life changed. And I'm like, well don't you Yeah, maybe. And the real problem that naturalists have, uh, is that um when the earth cold and life could first begin to possibly exist If you look in the geological record, there it is. There are a handful of single-celled lifeforms that begin immediately. There's no There's no primordial soup. There's none of the things that they predicted that would be there that would spontaneously generate life if they're not going to be able to do that. Yeah. So uh what what what is your uh take on uh how the um uh one of the big elephants, the the woolly mammoths No, no, no. Specifically the woolly mammoths. are invariably found with food in their stomach, you know, that in an area that we're told that that over thousands of years we were supposed to have a um uh in an ice age where these guys were literally hiking, you know, hundreds of thousands of miles south and then back up again and what what we find them is we find them where it looks like literally that they fell straight down into the mud were buried in the mud after they had just eaten a nice meal of daisies and then and then overnight they froze. It was man-made global warming. See. Because if you're a scientist, you can change your you can change your mind because you're constantly changing your mind. I was reading one light somebody so that Al Gore should give back his Nobel Peace Prize, by the way. But uh well you know you're you're leading toward the flood there, but one one of the things that I'm not gonna go there yet. What did he get? Um whatever prize he got is whatever. They're handing them out like candy if you're bad helps. Sure are um trick or treat. One of the other things that in in the layer of record there that lends to a catastrophic flood is uh that we find trees petrified through what should be millions of layers of sediment rock Yeah. Uh that uh you know, well if the tree was standing upright as the layers uh came up upon it, it would have rotted, it would not have petrified there. And that's actually a uh young earth argument as well Totally. Right. Which uh I was gonna point that out in a second because you're you're an old earth guy. How do you explain that the flood from an old earth I can punt and and explain that as the flood. I don't know. I mean I mean why why go back to an older to explain that and then pop up to a to a newer new earth flood for the other I make the argument I I don't uh subscribe to the the the young earth and that that that's how the tree got there. I well I would say that the flood caused that, but the Cambrian explosion I think is is Um could the flood have caused that? No, because I think that that's that's i that uh would have is lower in the in the in the layers for one and two is It it would have uh my problem with that would be that if you're saying all these came under the scene after the flood would be uh God creating then. as opposed to um God allowing life after the flood to naturally gin you know, evolve but but but as it was programmed genetically to do, for the canine to become a wolf and a dog and so forth. Right. Um so after the flood that might happen, but new species do not come from in other words, these are whole new groupings that show up at the Cambrian explosion. And so that that's not what I would see after the f You know, after the flood. And if we hold to Ca should we can we stay here for a second or how are we doing time wise? Let me give you one more. Sixty seconds, ninety seconds left on the show. Okay. If the end of the sixth day God stopped creating and and mankind was his last creation. Yeah. And so we would not expect to see any new animals come onto the scene after that. So that's why I would believe it was not after the flood. Okay, so I have questions that we'll talk about next time around. And by the way, for the record, because we the the truth matters, baby. Uh it was the Peace Prize, so I stand corrected. Al Gore Peace two thousand seven I guess because of his climate change uh nonsense. Uh so anyway. Yes, and now uh Inholf is uh is calling for a major um uh investigation into the uh the climate gay emails that just came out uh just kind of web that gets weird. All right, well you didn't hear much of uh Steve Hall. Uh just to prove that he's here. Say hello. I'm still there. Hello everybody. Uh one of the reasons uh we we wanted that we wanted to have the model was to talk about these sorts of things, but also least of these ministries which Um Greg Luke is involved with in addition to his work with Reasonable Faith. Steve Hall is a founder and director of the least of these ministries, and they've got a a big fundraiser concert taking place uh this coming Saturday. So in like thirty seconds, tell me what I gotta know about this concert. Michael Cord's coming to Westminster to Grace Lutheran Church on twenty-one Carroll Street. and uh he's gonna put together a fabulous concert uh with uh Methodists and Lutheran church choirs backing him up and uh he's even written some new music for this. So we're looking for forward to a great time and uh you can get tickets by uh calling our office or going online to listathesmen. org and it gives you all the information you want right there. So that's Michael Cardin concert this coming Saturday in Carroll County in Westminster. And again, it's www. leastofthesmen. org. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thanks to you. Steve Hall, founder and director of the Least of These Ministries. uh involved with least of these ministries and also with reasonable faith. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening to the Faith Debate and we're going to wrap up the show just by listening to a little bit of Michael Card. on the way out. Until next week and beyond, God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile