Although True believers be not under the law as a covenant of works, to be thereby justified or condemned, yet it is, is it of great use to them? As well as to others in that as a rule of life informing them of the will of God and their duty, it directs and binds them to walk accordingly Discovering also the sinful pollutions of their nature, hearts, and lives, so as, examining themselves thereby, they may come to further conviction of humiliation for and hatred against sin, together with a clearer sight of the need they have of Christ to the perfection of His obedience. It is likewise of use to the regenerate to restrain their corruptions, in that it forbids sin, and the threatenings of it serve to show that even their sins des uh what even their sins deserve, and what afflictions in this life they may expect for them, although freed from the curse thereof threatened in the law. The promises of it, in like manner, show them God's approbation of obedience and what blessings they may expect upon the performance thereof. although not as due to them by the law is a covenant of works. So as a man doing good and refraining from evil, because the law encourages to do Uh to the one and deters from the other is no evidence of his being under the law and not under grace. That's a mouthful. Huh? I'm gonna read the last part here. Neither are the fo a four mentioned uses of the law, contrary to the grace of the gospel, unless you sweetly comply With it, the Spirit of Christ subduing and enabling the will of man to do that freely and cheerfully, which the will of God revealed in the law requires to be done All right, that is the last half of chapter nineteen of the Westminster Confession of Faith of the Law of God. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Flooming and Heating. Smile. Jonathan Sweiser, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you, my friend, for coming back for some more abuse. Good to be here. Nice time that you got on today, by the way. And uh Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor Pastor Foolsville Baptist Church. Thank you for coming back for some more views. I'm ready. All right. So bring it. Yeah, you guys are lawbreakers, right? Yes. Indeed. So this chapter has something to do with you. Indeed. So it did. We actually talked about uh this chapter, the first half of it. in last week's show, but we spent the first half of last week's show talking about something that had nothing to do with this chapter. So this kind of threw us off a little bit. But is there anything that I just read the that made you say, you know what, yeah, there's a little more we want to talk about here in this chapter. So maybe there's just not a whole lot of fodder for debate. or or a discussion. I feel like that was Romans seven. You know, that uh basically the the what is the law good for? What does the law do? Is the law somehow bad for us or or is there a positive benefit for the law and the law teaches us what's right and wrong. It it helps us to understand why it is that we need Christ because it it uh turns the light on and shows us where we we have uh missed the mark of God's uh righteousness. And so um I Uh I feel like that's basically what he's saying is that the and then finally it says the Spirit of Christ, you know, that's Romans eight. The Spirit of Christ, you know, who sets his mind on the things of the Spirit, does what the Spirit desires You know, the spirit of life in Christ Jesus set us free from the law of sin and death. And so the the obedience of the law, well you know, the point is we can't follow the law. We can't do what's right by the law. We can only do it by the Spirit. By what God has done in us. So let me ask you, what what is it that when we say Christians are under grace, not under the law? Just want to flesh this out for another minute. I don't think I disagree with you on anything. I'm just I want to make sure we get what this chapter is saying. Well doesn't it mean that a Christian can do whatever he wants? Right sin whenever Oh I'm sorry, Romans six. Oh You know, so God forbid that we would say that we're under grace, therefore we can sin whenever we want to. Or because we're under grace, you know, we don't care about the law. But that's precisely the point is that we're under grace, and being under grace means that we recognize that we could not measure up to God's standard. And so we needed him to give us what we don't deserve. We didn't earn it. So because we didn't earn it, he gives us what we do not deserve. And so then we receive his grace. And in receiving his grace, we still have the law to show us that we still don't measure up, but then we have the Holy Spirit also by his grace that leads us into all righteousness. I think I think pastors today need to hear this So clear I mean so many pastors with this perseverance of the saints that we've been talking about and giving assurance and now moving into this law, how they all fit together so perfectly here, seem to give people in their congregation this assurance, this well y you did something and all is well now. And you live under grace. That's what it's all about. I mean we're a grace-filled church and I love that. I mean I hope we are a grace-filled church. But it somehow means that once you have accepted the grace in your view or been given the grace, however it is, once that's there, that the work is done. So I've got people who say, you know, they they live lives of just you know, anti-God. But they walked an aisle and they had a tearful moment at one point and they said a sinner's prayer and so they and pastors are giving them assurance because it's grace It's simply grace. That's it. I mean, there it is. It's been given to you. It doesn't matter now what you do. And they're forgetting Romans six. So I'm I like exactly what you said. I was just Trying to say it a little differently, but Yeah, because Paul ends what, Romans five, he says, uh he says the law was added so that trespass might increase But where sin increased, grace increased all the more. So there's a sense that we can't sin more than the grace the grace that is out there. But then he he quickly anticipates uh what people are gonna do, which is to say that, hey, we could sin all we want. Yeah. And every time we sin, grace increases, and that's good because God's all about grace, right? Or in the other way he says, uh shall we sin because we're not under law but under grace? And so and there he talks about the the fact that that sin leads to slavery to unrighteousness and why would we want that? Whereas if we're slaves to righteousness that leads to good benefit in our life and so even though we're under grace we still want to be a slave to righteousness, he says that I tried to, you know, as I always do, try to wrap this up into some sort of, you know, modern contemporary English or as best I'm able to Which we appreciate 'cause I don't understand what this is saying half the time. You know, and I agree with the and it seems like we're all kind of in agreement. So this is what we're agreeing with in regular modern day American English. Um is that an oxymoron American English? Uh Christians are no longer ruled by the law, but it is still good to obey. It informs Christians how to live the best way. exposes sin so that people can turn from wicked ways and have an amplified understanding of their need for the Savior. It thus restrains evil in their lives and its consequences while promoting the kind of behavior that brings blessing. The use of the moral law does not Uh does in no way conflict with the message of the gospel, the message of grace. Christians are not bound to obey the law, but they do willingly desire to obey it. In other words, Christians obey not because they have to, because they want to. Yes. Right. That is out of love for their savior. Absolutely. So I think we're ready maybe to move on to chapter twenty. Oh, this is a big thing. Can I make a quick distinction? I don't know that I always want to Obey. Yeah. But I'm but when I set my mind on the things of the Spirit, my sense is that the Spirit accomplishes in me what I could not accomplish myself and that he He produces in me the motivation, the grace, the strength, you know, all those things to do what is right. He he pricks my conscience and he says, Okay, you didn't think that you wanted to do what was right here, but do you see what the other options are? You know, he he he turns the light on. And so I feel like Yeah. I feel like the want to come to further conviction of humiliation for, hatred against sin. Yeah. clear, but you know, uh as a Christian, I think what is it? Romans chapter seven. I I do not do the things I want to do and I continue to do things I do not want to do, you know. Uh but that's the not that's not the Christian self. That's not the new creation, right? That's the old self, that's the flesh. that you're still wrestling against in this already not yet reality until you're glorified, right? That's kind of the And Paul's answer to that is to set your mind on the things of the spirit. Right. Alright, so my important question now is I really want to know this answer. Am I allowed to smoke cigars and drink beer? I was just giving you an introduction to chapter twenty. I've decided that it's more palatable for me to read these long sections of the Westminster Confession when there's some musical accompaniment. Okay. So I want to see what do you what do you think about this? Well, Christian Liberty, this better before. What do you think about this music? That alright? That'll do? Yeah, yeah. Alright, here we go. Chapter twenty of Christian liberty. Liberty and liberty of conscience, baby. Huh? That's a rock music. Oh, nice, okay. All right. Well, you have liberty now with Christ. All right. The liberty which Christ has purchased for believers under the gospel consists in their freedom from the guilt of sin and condemning wrath of God, the curse of the moral law. And in their being delivered from this present evil world, bondage to Satan and dominion of sin, from the evil of affliction, the sting of death, the victory Victory of the grave and everlasting damnation, as also in their free access to God and their yielding obedience unto Him, not out of slavish fear, but of childlike love and willing mind, all which were common also to believers under the law. But under the New Testament, the liberty of Christians is further enlarged, and their freedom from the yoke of the ceremonial law to which the Jewish church was subjugated are subjected And not necessarily subjugated. And in greater boldness of access to the throne of grace and in fuller communications of the free Spirit of God and believers under the law did ordinarily partake of God alone is Lord of the conscience and has left it free from the doctrines and commandments of men, which are in anything contrary to his word. or beside it as matters of faith or of worship. So that to believe such doctrines or to obey such commands out of conscience is to betray true liberty of conscience And the requiring of an implicit faith and an absolute and blind obedience is to destroy liberty of conscience and reason also. Now That's pretty powerful stuff. What we're saying here is followers of Christ are free from their sin problems and now have free access to God to happily obey his rule over their lives. The people of God enjoyed this in the Old Testament times too, only now Praise God, it's even better. For Christians, there's no need for concern in any way for men's rules on faith and worship if they conflict or add to uh with what God says in the Bible, this means that there's no need to build any hedges around our faith practices. That's basically kind of a wrap up of those first couple of sections of chapter twenty of the Westminster Confession of Faith, which is of Christian liberty and liberty of conscience. So that's about the first uh half or so, right, of of the chapter. What do you what do you think? Can you smoke stogies and uh and and what did you say? Drink something? What was it? Drink uh can we say that word? Drink drink bourbon? Yes, that's right. Can we smoke stogies and I say yes. Alright. All in favor? Or else we're gonna have to put out put them out in here. So uh that would not be a question of law. That would be a question of uh No, but that would be a question of man adding these other laws on how to properly worship and obey God, right? Which is chap section uh part two here of the chapter, right? Yeah, in fact I feel like this is a this is a natural tendency, right? When Eve was in the garden, Adam and Eve, God said, Do not eat of the tree in the middle of the garden. When Satan came to her and said, Now did God really say you may not, you know, eat the tree? He said, Yeah, you can't eat it and you can't even touch it or you're gonna die And it seems to me like that is a natural tendency of uh of all of us in in our pursuit of uh God is that is that we add to God's commands and say, Yeah, we're not even supposed to do this, we're not even supposed to do that, we're not even supposed to do this And I think when we start to do that, I think the enemy of our souls knows that he uh that he's already got us because we don't really know. Yeah, we lose the point of the the whole gospel message. Yeah, I'm not totally per persuaded that that's what's going on in the Genesis story, but I wonder I I wonder uh granted that it is at this point Is there any room for doing those things? For putting extra barriers on what God has done? Is that uh Is that I mean I I know taken to the extreme it's a real problem, but if I was told not to eat of the tree, I might just you know, just tell around just just stay away from the tree. Just get away. So I'm I'm wondering, you know, we're told not to you know, we think about all the things that that conservative Christian teenagers are not allowed to do from whatever fifty years ago or a hundred years ago, you know, we know we're not allowed to fornicate. So therefore you have to put a big balloon between you when you're dancing. I mean it seems stupid, but at the same time, is it you know Uh my parents said y when you're going out on a date, you have you have a a plan. You don't have an extra hour somewhere between the movie and home That's a good move. Now, granted, they weren't saying this is God's word, this is my word, but isn't that sometimes a good idea to put barriers on laws that might That we might get on a slippery slope. Why did we call them wisdom? Okay. Wisdom is different from the law of God. If we're going to make it a law, and see this is the problem I think with a lot of parenting of teenagers. They come up with all these laws that they put impose on their teenagers to protect them and their parents are and and the kids are like, ma'am, that doesn't feel right. There's something wrong about that. And they're right. There is something wrong about it. What what parents should be doing in those years is calling their young people to wisdom. Do you understand? If you hang out with kids that are doing drugs all the time, you're just gonna end up getting getting caught up in the wrong stuff. So, you know, look, you need to make your own decision, but uh my appeal to you is to consider what is wise versus what not you know, what is not wise as opposed to just putting a law on them. And so Again, I feel like uh I feel like there wisdom is is a different issue than is the law of God. You could still put a law on them as parents that is not the law of God. Right. Now you don't have to say I'm appealing to you as a parent. I'm telling my children, I'm not appealing to you, I'm telling you. Uh it doesn't matter whether God wrote this in scripture or not. This is my law on you. You must not do this. Can I just do that? I think puberty is God's way of saying this child is uh is is old enough and he's gonna start thinking for himself and that if you continue to impose laws on a child after they've hit puberty, I think that that that is the number one reason why they end up rebelling and uh feeling like they want to get away from their parents because their parents impose all these laws. No, did I I wouldn't have to be a big thing. And my parents have taught um uh these uh these principals over the years and I've watched parent after parent refuse to approach their teenagers differently from how they they approach their their uh elementary school and uh and continue to impose the law once they've hit the teenage years and uh and I've watched Child After I was a I was a PK, I was a pastor's kid. And we did not end up feeling like we had to rebel. 'Cause Dad gently appealed to our hearts to choose wisdom. He did not impose laws. Never did he. In fact, remember remember the great uh the great uh demon beat debates about Petra back in the eighties, whether or not uh rock music was was good or bad. Dad sat down with us. And we're all waiting for him to come down with a judicial rule. You may or may not listen to this. And he said, you know what? He says, I want you guys to make the decision for yourself. And this is my appeal that you make it according to this this uh this uh conscience. Does this or does this not honor God? And I spent the rest of my teenage years uh submitting to that and choosing that because Dad did not say, You may listen to this, you may not listen to that And it helped me to develop to own my own faith. And I'm telling you that I've watched parents again and again impose law into the teenage years. And it creates something that's gonna explode like a like a can of soda. I don't think imposing the law is the problem. I think the problem is the lack of a relationship along with imposing the law. Now I'm not saying I disagree with the way that you were do it you were. Certainly I agree that relationship is a is a huge key and that might be enough to swing me. Yeah. So might be. I I think there is I mean At what point do I say, okay, my sixteen year old, you can stay up y I mean, you do whatever you want. I would encourage you to come home at ten o'clock Well, what if they decide to come home at four o'clock? At what point am I being a parent and saying, Well, you chose poorly. You didn't chose wisely with what I was suggesting. Now I'm going to impose some law or I would approach it this way. How do you feel like that worked for you getting home at four o'clock in the morning? Man, that was horrible, man. I fell asleep in all my classes. I say, Yeah, well duh. You know, and I and I'd say, Do you feel like Well that's great if they respond that way, but my my experience and my congregation is not at all that way. Yeah, it was great. I was out till four and I love being I do whatever I want. I love trying to go through class the next day and I'm telling you that they're acting that way because the rapport is already gone, the relationship's already gone. Okay, well the relationship I think is the key part of all of this. is that it's not on the basis of law, but it's on the basis of appealing to one another's hearts. That there there's a sense that they freely choose. You freely choose. And in in my sense The relationship can't include law Is that what we're saying? No, I'm saying there's a law of a relationship that you choose to embrace. There's a choosing and you can still make a command. I mean God makes commands of us. He expects us to do certain things. So to finish out the way the way that I would handle that situation, I'd sit down with them and say, Okay, look, is this what you want to do? Yeah. Do you feel like you're able to do it on your own Uh y you know, what what time do you feel like it's wisest for you to be in by, you know, on a on a uh nightly basis on a school night Uh, I think I should probably be in bed by eleven. All right, well I agree with you on that. Do you feel like you're good at that? No, Dad. I feel like when I get out with my friends I just don't know how to say no. Oh, well, how can I help And at that point maybe they would say, Okay, well maybe we should set up a law. Well if they say that, then I feel like I've won them through relationship and I haven't imposed it, but they've chosen it. In fact my experience when I work with teenagers and when I ask them something like that They will impose a stricter law on themselves than I would have ever felt like I should impose on them. And I think it's a strategy for dealing with teenagers that it's unwise to impose law because they're just gonna rebel. They want to think they want to figure it out for themselves. But if you let 'em and you work with them through it, through a relationship, that they'll often often choose well precisely what Christ does We're not stuck with the Old Testament law like we were back when we were children, but now we've come into our full rights of sons. What does that mean? That means that we choose to do what's right. We don't just try to stay inside the boundaries of the law. Yeah, well, I was there on the Sabbath. No, we do more than that. Man, we're there to worship and to love God. We g we you know, do w with all our hearts and I feel like the same thing is true with teenagers and I g I don't see puberty as some magical age where all of a sudden they want to do what is right. Yes, that's no no, I didn't say they wanted to do was right. Well even if I say what do you think about this? In fact I'll say this if you haven't trained them up in the way they should go when they hit puberty Yeah. Uh and in fact if you've been a bad parent and you've been angry and harsh and all that, that you will reap your own seeds that you have sown. Would you also say that you may have done things right for those twelve years and those teenagers may still rebel? And you might still have to treat them as if they are younger than you seem to think they are? Uh from my experience I've yet to see a parent that totally does it right. up until the age of twelve. Well I'm sorry, I d I I don't mean I don't I don't mean that I don't I don't mean to like split a hair on you. And so my point is is that is that the wise parent recognizes that coming into the teenage years and encourages the teenager to hold the parent accountable for their own wrong behavior and attitudes and patterns and in the process of doing that uh uh helps the teenager to be making their own decisions. Puberty with testosterone and estrogen and all the hormones that kick in I believe is God's way of saying in fact in the Old Testament, I mean in the Jewish world they call the bot mitzvah and the bar mitzvah for the sun placing. And I don't believe there's enough of that in the church these days, and I think it's why we lose a lot of teenagers and teenage years. Those words mean son of the commandment Son of the commandment. You place them in the commandment. That means you you say, son, from here on out you are responsible for your own behavior. If you're responsible for your own behavior then then I'm gonna give you enough rope to hang yourself. I'm not gonna give you all these rules to keep you from it, but I'm gonna give you enough rope that if you choose to do what's wrong, you're gonna be out there hanging on the edge. And uh and it'll be due to your own bad choices. And I'll be there to help you, but it it's you that will have made the wrong choices. That in the context of doing that, the teenagers what they do is that they turn And they're like, Mom, Dad, help me out. I know the right thing to do, but I don't know how to do it here, and I'm stuck. And that that that that it's precisely what what the law and grace is all about. We come into Christ. And so we say, Christ help us. I don't know how to do what's right. You know, okay, well here, let me teach you. The Holy Spirit gently teaches us and trains us into it. Very cool thoughts. I want to read the last part of this chapter and that might just about bring us to the end of the show as it turns out. But I don't think there's going to be a whole lot of of of discussion on things other than parenting uh in the Christian liberty and conscience. I feel like it's a it's an appropriate No, it's a definitely there's a connection. So here's the the last half of chapter twenty two, parts uh three and four They who, upon pretense of Christian liberty, do practice any sin or cherish any lust do thereby destroy the end of Christian liberty, which is that being delivered out of the hands of our enemies, we might serve the Lord without fear, in holiness and righteousness before Him all the days of our life. And because the powers which God has ordained and the liberty which Christ has purchased are not intended by God to destroy, but mutually to uphold and preserve one another They who, upon pretense of Christian liberty, shall oppose any lawful power or the lawful exercise of it, whether it be civil or ecclesiastical, resist the ordinance of God and for their publishing of such opinions or maintaining of such practices as are contrary to the light of nature or to the known principles of Christianity, whether concerning faith, worship, or uh conversation, or to the power of godliness or such uh uh erroneous opinions or practices as either in their own nature or in the manner of publishing or maintaining them are destructive to the eternal peace in order which Christ is eternal peace. External peace and order which Christ has established in the church. They may lawfully be called to account and proceeded against by the censures of the church and by the power of the civil magistrate. So the that's the parents bringing in the center of the power there or whatever, the church, right? Anyway. So that's saying that uh Christian is uh not Because the Christian is free from sin does not mean the Christian is free to sin. Christians are to live righteous lives and they should be happy to do so as rules bring order, which is a good thing. So calling oneself a Christian is not permission to ignore the laws of the church or the state. In fact, quite the contrary. twenty or thirty seconds for you guys to give a quick uh thought. Um I agree. I think that rules are necessary. I would just stress here, especially in the churches that I'm coming from with this legalistic background that we are That we have freedom, that we need not to be coming down on everybody for every single little thing that they're doing. We need to we need to recognize that not everything is a law. I'm just so afraid of legalism. I I I want to emphasize grace and love Is that a good final word or you want to say something? No, it's good. Well said. Okay. Amen. Thanks for listening. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Uh Dr. Jaith Broadhurst, who's afraid of legalism Praise God. Yes. Love to hear that from a pastor. He's senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Jonathan Sweitzer, are you afraid of legalism too? Uh I would say I hate legalism. He hates it. Is that afraid of it? But he hates it. Love to hear that from a pastor. He's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. I don't like legalism either. Hate those hedges. Violation the gospel is all about. Freedom in Christ. I love to hear that from a businessman. Thank you for listening. I encourage you to visit us online at uh www. wfmd. com. That's HTTP's We're gonna look punch drunk, I think, on the show today, huh? Punch was drunk or something like that. Anyway, thanks for listening. Till next time. God bless