God The Supreme Lord and King of all the world has ordained civil magistrates to be under him over the people for his own glory and the public good And to this end is arm them with the power of the sword for the defense and encouragement of them that are good And for the punishment of evildoers. Welcome to Credit Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Heating. This week, joined again by Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broader, Senior Pastor at Poolsville, Basketball. Baptist Church. And we're going to have some fun today. By the way, you guys didn't wish me a happy birthday a couple of weeks ago. I'm a little disappointed in that. I am too. I probably shouldn't have said it this early 'cause you're gonna be tempted now to I'm gonna get you a tie. Do something with that through the rest of the show and be nervous about what you're gonna do with it. I should have waited until the end of the show Huh. Anyway, so God has given authority to government leaders to point out. He doesn't want us to sing to him. Exactly. So join in in your car. I don't think you want to. No. There's a reason that Jesus a worship leader in his church. Happy birthday too. Apparently you've been there before and heard me up front. Yeah, okay. So it helps everybody else to feel like it's okay to sing too. Yeah, it's like Harry carries me and take me out to the ball game to ring the game. Everybody joins in. Seriously, that's was that was the magic. But Harry Carey is a is a legendary baseball broadcaster play by play for the Cardinals years and years ago than the White Sox and the Cubs. And somewhere along the line during the seventh inning stretch he started singing Take Me Out to the Ball Game became this big thing and now he's passed on Uh different broadcasters. Did you commit Harry Carey? Uh no, he did not commit Harry Carey. I was wondering what uh yeah. Uh Chip Carey, by the way, a broadcaster is his grandsons. Skip Carey, another broadcaster at Atlanta Braves. If I'm in the middle of a brilliant point at the end of this and you stop me, I'm going to be very unhappy. Keep going, So anyway, so the point in all of this is that Harry Carey couldn't sing. But people loved when he sang taking it to the ballgame and somebody asked him once, you know, what is it? Why do people want you to sing so much? And he said because Everybody else in the house knows they're a better singer than I am. So that's what you got going for you. So anyway, chapter twenty-three part one. God has given authority to government leaders to be over the people, but also under God The government's role is to protect those who behave well in society and to punish those who behave badly. I I just gotta say that I like the way that you read that. It felt You know, like you wanted to be powerful. Yeah. Wanted to be. Actually powerful. You sure weren't shooting for it though. You hang in there, my friend. One day you'll make it. Yeah We all will once we get to heaven. So any uh disagreement with that? I don't think we have a whole lot of a disagreement on this on that part, right? It's just fun to Romans thirteen, I think, makes that clear that he's given the sword to government. For our good. That's part of common grace, I think, to us that the world doesn't get as bad as it could possibly be. our Christian who would disagree with the first section that it it is when I think of how he sucks me back in. It is a glaring um proposition that much of the world would reject today. Much of the world in the name of a Hegelian uh uh dialectic, historical dialectic and wow and dialectic. So impressed. Wow. Please. I'm not talking anymore. I'm leaving. Wow. I need to be a little bit more. Hegelian dialectic. But the point is is that is that in there's so much of today's society talking about civil magistrates, you know, much of the left in fact politically here in the United States are of the opinion that uh uh that seem to be of the opinion or in the line of thinking that that civil magistrates are not ordained by God, but in fact they are just simply um the rich imposing their will on the rest of the people and it's a bourgeoisie. But those people don't believe in God. Well that's I guess that's my point is that this particular statement is like you know, it flies in the face of of the a large portion of people in the United States that would reject that God has instituted authority. Right, they're they're gonna they would use some sort of naturalism argument. You know, and and the survival of the fittest and those who who evolved to become leaders or become lead and there's some sort of scientific whatever. But there's no moral underpinning. Yeah. So there's no real accountability and you end up with a government like we have. In fact, some would claim that that's what the these most recent elections were were a Um you know, the whole issue was whether or not we return to, you know, some of those sense that sense of our founding fathers sense that God was in control. You know, George Washington Abe Lincoln, you know, some of their speeches that refer to this issue that God rules in the affairs of men But this the the Westminster Divines, uh writing this chapter on civil ma uh the civil magistrate, they weren't speaking to them, right? These are church leaders laying down what the church is to believe and subscribe to. So they're right? Yeah, yeah. This is uh Well in fact this is pre United States I mean there was no United States when this came out. Maybe not in America so much, because we have to put up with liberal people in office or something like that, or conservative people. That's our big curse in the world. But the rest of the world or a good portion of the world is under dictators and people who will kill them for believing the wrong thing. And they're saying they're l reading this and saying that God is the supreme lord over the people and he has designed, he has put them there? I mean this is a question I think for Christians. It's a significant question. He's armed with the power of the sword. And Kim Jong-un. Exactly. Yeah. The son of the greatest dictator, he's gonna do the same thing his dad did. Yeah. Ahmadinejad. Just to name a few. Yeah, and in the same way God shaped Pharaoh up. But when they're doing but when those dictators, those Yeah, and those evil empires are doing what they're doing that is evil. They are not doing what God has given them authority to do. They are being disobedient. Correct, yes, definitely. Right. So there's a distinction to be made there. Well yeah, but uh but what I just said is that God still, you know, used Pharaoh for his own purposes. Right. And so Pharaoh is still doing what God wants to do. Yeah, and so even though they're disobeying God, God's still in control. I mean that's precisely the cr that you know, what is so difficult to get our heads around that that somehow God could be doing all that at the same time. Yeah. 'Cause he multitasked. Yeah. Well that's the problem of evil question, which we're not gonna unravel in the next twenty minutes. So No, I want that. I'm later, buddy. I don't want you to give me the thirty seconds now. Ask me then. I'll be ready. Alright, so part two here, chapter twenty-three. It is lawful for Christians to accept and execute the office of a magistrate when called thereunto, in the managing whereof as they ought especially to maintain piety, justice, and peace. according to the wholesome laws of each commonwealth. So for that end they may lawfully now under the New Testament wage war upon just and necessary occasions. So it's okay for Christians to serve in the government. And if they do, they are to do so honorably. And it's also okay for Christians to be involved in just wars. Now we're going to have some Christian brothers and sisters who will disagree with that. Right, which is the reason it was written. It was written against the Anabaptists. And there's n and there's nobody in this room I think that represents that point of view. So my question is whether or not God gives the sword to the magistrate to uh kill the Anabaptists who are not willing to buy in. So I wish they were here 'cause I want to ask them that question. But since we can't get the chance to do so 'cause this is a Westminster confession, I mean that's anyways, keep going. Alright, so do we want to try to give voice to the opposing point of view or we just say that? It's like the brethren tradition primarily, right? I mean that they're gonna say that uh Uh night, yeah. You shouldn't run for public office. You shouldn't you know you shouldn't be a politician, uh you shouldn't serve in the army or whatever, you shouldn't go go fight wars, you know. You should you should Christians should not do those things. You should be separate from that. I disagree. But they're gonna have their argument's gonna be What exactly? We're called to be separate from the world? Well certainly, yeah. You're in the world but not of it, so you shouldn't be a part of those kinds of things. They would it's a very separatist whole movement is the idea is to separate yourself from that. And they've got This is not a dumb argument. I mean the politics is not exactly your your um place for all. Bastion of purity. Yeah, exactly. Good. Bastion of purity here. Um this I did politics and and this is what I wanted to do, so I have my degree in government and politics from Maryland. I wanted to do politics and I realized somewhere in there, I just I don't know how you do it. I don't know how you do it and stay faithful other than just, you know, be you know, maybe in your own little town, but how can you move up and still stay faithful to the word? And so uh so you said play the other side I mean I think there's a lot there. How do you do that? You can't move forward. You can't you have to compromise on things in order to get what you want. And so I kinda feel like if we look at the body of Christ uh universal that Anabaptists play a role in the body of Christ with their pacif and their rejection of being involved with those kinds of things that is healthy for all the rest of us. It's a reminder. It's a their their their very stance in their lives are a prophetic reminder to us that we need to beware and that we cannot take these things lightly, that we really need to be uh look to be holy uh in the way that we go about serving the Lord if we're called somehow to magistrate or whatever in that um there's a great uh Babet feast It's a French movie with subtitles that that deals with this specific issue. I think it's even maybe even set in uh um in Switzerland, uh, or or that uh region of the world at that time and it's a it's a fascinating movie about pulling away from the world and how those that pull away from the world, even though it seems like they only influence the few that are with them, at the end of the day, like the Amish, the echoes of what they believe ends up trickling out and making a difference. And I feel like I feel like it's very possible that God raised up the Anabaptists for that specific reason. Now let's take a couple minutes and talk about this just war thing. All right. Um that it's okay to wage war upon just and necessary occasion. Um an argument against that would be, well, I mean Jesus had turned the other cheek. You know, love your enemy, you know, he's the prince of peace. You know, so why would we go to war? What what would ever constitute a just war? Well let's also remember the entire Old Testament, which is Oh that. Which is Jesus leading his people into war for a purpose. So yeah, I I think the New Testament's understanding of Christ as a peacemaker, which he certainly is, and we should all be, and we should be turning together cheeks. No, not not at all that way. Um but I I mean I I want to emphasize that because I even my dad used to tell you know, you you let him hit you once, but you know, then Then you take care of business. You know, that was what I was taught. And as much as I like that idea and I'm that's that's not Jesus. Yeah. That's pastor says, walk on me. I mean uh you you c not Not to be abused for the sake of abuse, but to lay down your rights and to be submissive. I don't think we're talking about that in a war setting I think we're talking about the difference between individuals and groups. And I think it's a significant difference. I'm not going to go to war with you. That just won't happen. I will. Me on the other hand, I bet you're not going to be able to do that. You I will, yeah. No, but As a group I could join up with if if I believed that the war was just to accomplish certain things. And I don't uh you know, I'm not gonna go with, you know, Machiavelli and all of this um understanding that anything is just as long as you are Uh as long as you're protecting your people and as long as you're taking care of your people, there are certain justice requirements, I think. Yeah, I mean. But I I'm not sure I can follow Aquinas' just war argument either, which is Well to say that Jesus, you know, is a Prince of Peace and say that that's a reason we shouldn't, you know, fight back or defend ourselves or h go to war or whatever, I think misses the point of he's the peacemaker between who He's the peacemaker between man and God. Right. You know, at the end of the day, throw them all into hell. I mean, where's the peace there from? And he says he's coming back with the sword. And he he he ca and he came to set, you know, uh son against father, mother against child, you know, he's he came to be a a divisive force in the world, right? Oh, so we can't take that too far. And he's the great warrior. I mean, just warrior theology throughout. You're supposed to see him as the epitome of the greatest warrior. He comes and he defeats disease. Well even even the gospels. I think this is you know seeing well, I know we won't go to that, but Satan being thrown out of heaven. All these things are him conquering. This is him he puts his hand over over the waters and he says, Peace be still, which is really just That's enough, shut up, you know, I'm in charge here. I mean he's he's the word he fights nature, he fights his easy fights demons, he fights Satan, he fights death I mean this is what he does. He conquers all of those things. We have to see him as a warrior as well as a peacemaker. Peace on the other side of conquerors. You mean he's not like some wispy little guy with feathered back hair and girlfriends? No, this is he's Wow. Cool, man. Huh? So soldiers should like testosterone here right now. What what's what's the Jewish word for warrior? Do you remember it? I love the word. I know. Alright, well let me read this next section and then you'll think of the word. Civil magistrates may not assume to themselves the administration of the word and sacraments, or the power of the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Yet he has authority, and it is his duty to take order That unity and peace be preserved in the church, that the truth of God be kept pure and entire, that all blasphemies and heresies be suppressed. All corruptions and abuses in worship and discipline prevented or reformed, and all the ordinance of God duly settled, administered, and observed for the better affecting whereof he has power to call sinners, to be present at them, and to provide that whatsoever is transacted in them be according to the mind of God. Are you kidding me? By the way, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Freddy's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. So this part three is saying that there is to be a separation of church and state. So far, so good. Civil authorities should not take on the role of church leaders with things like preaching or performing baptisms, for example. So far, the better. However The civil authorities do have responsibility to keep Christian Orthodoxy pure by suppressing things such as false teachings and improper worship. In fact Civil authorities have the power to call together official Christian conventions and to participate in them, even rule over them? Really? Seriously? Come on! This is how many years before the American Revolution? I mean the American Revolution and the French Revolution were I mean the world changed. And this is pre-American Revolution. And certainly pre-American Revolution, this kind of thing happened all the time. The guy that was the king or the ruler called for I mean from Constantine on. Called for synods, called for, you know, uh Well I know that they did. Doesn't mean it was right or biblical. Well in fact that would tie an awful lot of the problems in the modern day church that's what Constantine did sticking his nose in affairs if none of his business. And and I guess I've been arguing this about the Westminster from the beginning that they moved in the direction of being more biblical, but they ended up being a product of their times. And so that being the case, they could put something like that in there. And the reality is you and I are a product of our times. Is it really so wrong? For that to happen? I mean are are we so capable of being unbiased that we could we could we could transcend either American Uh worldviews, political worldviews, and uh medieval worldviews. That's not medieval quite, is it? It's uh it's Reformation worldviews, that we could transcend those and somehow judge as to whether or not a king should ever have the authority to do that kind of thing. I don't I don't know that I can that I can adequately make that kind of judgment. I know that my gut instinct says that that is bogus, you know, and that that the government shall make no law concerning the establishment of religion. Or, you know, respecting the free You know, exercise thereof. You know, well that's the establishment calls uh clause of our constitution. But previous to that All the kings did that kind of thing all the time. And here's where I get more like a regulative principle kind of mindset. The Bible says that the government has the power of the sword. Bible says that we should pray for our our leaders, our government leaders. Yeah. But where does it say that The government can tell the Apostle Paul what to do and how to do it. So what would you have done had you been Constantine? And your entire nation, the Roman Empire of the Day, was divided uh in in different sects and you realize that Christianity was the most unifying possible thing. See the problem is that it's har it's easy for us to judge having not been in the midst of the immediate situation. But when when we put ourselves in the midst of the immediate situation Constantine had to make some kind of decision. He chose Christianity or whatever Aryan version thereof. And Since that time, Christianity was the lingua franca, the religion of the day. Religion Franca? Religio Franca. You know, it was the and that was About fifteen hundred years. I mean the Holy Roman Empire didn't really end until um Bismarck in the mid eighteen hundreds, right? I think that's a lot of time. And we're talking about that phrase that the king has the authority to do that reigned For that period of time. But it's unblicable. It's what's the concern that you have in the Westminster in in here? You have specifically the the language? You have a you have a blending of the of the church and the state. You have the state order, the unity, and peace preserved in the church. That's the problem. Hm. His duty that the truth of God be kept pure. His duty that all blasphemies and heresies be suppressed. His duty that all corruptions and abuses and worship and discipline be prevented or reformed and settle, administrate, and observe all the ordinances of God. So throughout Scripture, I know you made the question the statement from church history more, but throughout Scripture, what is the duty of the king? I mean what's his job? His job is to be a representative of God on earth. This is a theory. Well, uh yeah, I mean it could go there for sure. But if his job is to do that, when does that job stop D when when is Deuteronomy no longer supposed to be held? Are are are not kings supposed to be. As of the end of the nation of Israel. So no kings anymore should be following God, you're saying. I'm saying that that in the New Testament We do not have set up a administration of a Christian political kingdom We have set up an administration of a Christian spiritual kingdom headed over by the church, and that when the time arrived with Constantine that Christians could rule the political that that their tendency was to go back to the Old Testament and it doesn't necessarily seem like that was apropos. Well, I'm just saying, whose job I mean, certainly it's the church's job to undo hair I I'm thinking through this for the first time, so I'm talking who knows, I'll change my mind in the end. Um I did that earlier. Yeah. It's certainly their job to to squash heresy and to promote orthodoxy. But is the king no longer required any religious duties? I mean it seems to me that the king, just because of his position, it's it's still he's still that representative of Christ, and his job should still be to call in to call to account those that need to that need to hear those things. He should be a Christian. I mean what you're arguing is we don't live in Christian world anymore. What I he they're arguing is, but we should Well, they lived in a Christian world. Well, yeah. I mean yeah. They had to. And the king called this assembly. So they must come together. Well, the king and then the Commonwealth, Oliver Cromwell. So it's you know, kinda it's balanced back and forth between these 'cause it's right at that time when all that's happening. Yeah. But So so they'd have to put this in there. But I'm trying to think through what what legitimacy is there in that? 'Cause I know we always say separation of church and state. And we like that because it means they can't bother us in our Christian world. But what if the ideal is them not bothering us in our Christian world, but supporting our Christian world? I mean should that be. Okay. Is that at the end of the day a state enforced Religion uh creates a unrealistic environment Because in reality, many people will reject Christ. And those people, if they're forced to act like they haven't rejected Christ, pollute the church as it is, and create a false reality. And so in fact you could say that this was the problem with the nation of Israel at the end, you know, when Christ arrived on the scene. that the religious establishment, you know, had this appearance, but no reality, no life, no power, denying the you know, the power thereof. And and and that the problem is that Whoever is the king, the political ruler, needs to allow the freedom of conscience for the individual to reject or accept Christ. based on his own choices before God because when he dies that's going to be the judgment. And that there's certain laws, but that but that he's free to do so He has that freedom of conscience and that a righteous I've thought often about this. What if we were to have this move in the United States and we got all these Christians elected? What if that were to happen here in Frederick? And I've thought often about this that if we were to impose where somehow we're, you know, we're pr that that guy would be preserving, you know, so bla blasphemies and heresies are suppressed, uh, I feel like that would be a return to a false sense that we're all in unity on this thing. And that that was the reason why why there is so many glaring, ugly, historical but things laid at the feet of the church. But is it arguing for the king being in charge of all those things or calling the church to have discussions on these things? And again I'm not I'm listening to you and I'm t I feel like I'm totally on board with what you're saying there. But could it not be that, you know, they could say, you know PC USA and PCA, um, we need to call a meeting together and discuss this. This is a this is important, which is I mean, yeah, Constantine had a little more power than that. Um we live in a different world. I just wonder if our Americanism has crept into our thinking on this. that they have to be so separated, could not could not they say, you know, we need to get together and come up with a s decision on this. You guys are just talking in circles and it's time to it's time to hash something out. Well it seems to me like the what what should call for that according to this what should call for that should have been the Universal Catholic Church, not headed by the Pope, but headed by a you know, a group of of elders that have uh you know risen into that position that would, as it were, rule over a universal church, but do it according to biblical worldview and and we rejected the Catholic Church being able to do that and so then the king had to be the next guy to do it because there was no authority that had been duly established to do so. So it was kind of necessary for them you know, to to make this particular decision. But we're gonna have to finish up uh this chapter uh and next week's show. We are out of time. I'm Troy Skinner. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And uh Dr. James Broadhurst is the senior pastor of Plato. Uh yeah. Oh sorry out of time, gotta go. Thanks for listening. God bless. to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P, as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?