Our Lord Jesus In the night wherein he was betrayed, instituted the sacrament of his body and blood, called the Lord's Supper, to be observed in his church, unto the end of the world for the perpetual remembrance of the sacrifice of himself in his death The sealing all benefits thereof unto true believers, their spiritual nourishment and growth in him, their further engagement in and to all duties which they owe unto him, and to be a bond and pledge of their communion with him. And with each other as members of his mystical body. In this sacrament, Christ is not offered up to his father, nor any real sacrifice made at all. For remission of sins of the quick or dead, but only a commemoration of that one offering up of himself by himself upon the cross once for all and a spiritual oblation of all possible praise unto God for the same. So that the popish sacrifice of the Mass, as they call it, is most abominably injurious to Christ's one only sacrifice, the alone propitiation of the For all the sins of his elect. And there we have the first two sections of chapter 29 of the Westminster Confession of Faith of the Lord's Supper. And If you're Roman Catholic, sorry you don't have a seat at this table, because you wouldn't like what I just said very much. The guys at the table won't have a whole lot of disagreement with Some of what I just said, but I'm sure we'll disagree with each other nonetheless. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you again for being on the show, my friend. Thank you for having me. It's good to be here. And Happy New Year. Dr. James Broadhurst. You know, that's gonna give away how long it'll be before you know since the time we did this show to the time it actually airs. Happy Easter. Yeah, right, exactly. There you go. Anyway, uh Dr. Jace Broadhurst, the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church and Well it you know, the resurrection Sunday is the the the dawning of a new life, a rebirth, or it's a new era begins. It's a new year Hi right? Well figure out a way to figure that out. Anyway, so of the Lord's Supper. The first part is talking about uh communion was instituted by Jesus himself as a memorial of his sacrifice and as a seal of the spiritual benefits and responsibilities belonging to Christians who are united to Christ and to each other as one body. I'm not sure if you guys are going to disagree with each other too much on that. I don't think there's much in in the world of Christendom that there'd be a whole lot of disagreement there, other than maybe not liking particular words or something, I don't know. But then in part two of course that's what we always argue about is not liking s particular words. Word of the week is transubstantiation. Mm. Wait, you skipped right over propitiation in section two there? Come on. You want to make that the word of the week? Two words of the week? Propitiation is certainly a difficult word than transubstantiation, I think. Well, okay. Alright, Jonathan, you tackle you tackle what transubstantiation is, alright, and then we'll let Jace have his way. So he doesn't pout in the corner and talk about propitiation. So fair enough. Transubstantiation is uh transubstantiation is the belief that once the uh the bread and the wine have been sanctified, uh that they actually become the body and the blood of Jesus Christ. That Jesus Christ actually comes and lives in them and that wherever they are carried, that you are actually carrying in your hands the body and blood of Christ and whenever they're ministering that you're actually drinking the body and the blood of Christ. Right. Trans, there's a change, subs Then substance changes comes in changes. Changes from bread into actual flesh, changes from wine into actual blood, right? Transubstantiation, right? Well yeah, we want to be fair to our Roman Catholic uh friends. Um The the the the bread itself doesn't change. The essence of the bread changes in transubstantiation. So in our old philosophy it would be the difference between accidents and um essence. And so we're not saying Oh what does accidents mean? It's the uh well yeah, that's what I was trying to get into. Sorry. It it it it doesn't mean that the that which you can see physically or feel or touch actually changes. It's the uh you know, we don't speak this way anymore, so it's hard to explain, but it's the essence of it. So when you rip the bread, you know, the the the the priest is not saying that we're actually ripping Jesus. in half. They're not arguing that. There's there's no bloody sacrifice taking place in their mind. In fact they they very sincere to say very serious to say there's no bloody sacrifice. It's simply um In in the essence of it. I mean, I really can't go a whole lot further than that. Um but I just I have to tell you again, this is part of part of this whole discussion where um okay it's valuable to split hairs. GK Chesterton, you know, argues that it's a great thing that Christians sit around and split hairs about these things because it keeps them uh focused on righteousness as opposed to, you know, getting caught up in doing unrighteous things. Uh it Well the accident which is one way and a laminess terms and that's the best I'm gonna be able to do. My understanding of that is it's it's what you can see. It's w it's what reality appears to the eye, right? So the what you see doesn't change, but what is in fact happening is a change. We just don't perceive it with our senses, but it's actually changing, right? Well so it comes back to where the where the Christ said this is my body and this is my blood given and shed for you. And so if he says this is, he doesn't say this represents, he says this is. And so in their mindset because it says this is, then there must be something that happens to it to, you know, even though we can't see it with our eyes, to actually change it into something that is the body and blood of the thing. the the body and blood of Christ. So whenever a priest will be will be saying his uh statements in in the liturgy, he will be genuflecting before that altar. I mean there's uh it's really something has happened. It's certainly changed. So I'm I'm 100% in agreement. But even in in con substantiation, even in Luther's view, they would argue for this is my body. I mean this is why re the Reformed and Lutherans never could get together. 'Cause Luther kept pounding the table on this, wrote in chalk right across the table, so it said, that this is my body. Well obviously it is my body. So even consubstantiation has that idea that It really is the body of Christ, although Khan says with it would come I feel like we're jumping into number six here, but we're only on number one and two. Um For those that can wait, uh consubstantiation is next week's word of the week. Okay. All right. So consubstantiation should have been two because we're in number six, but that's actually Uh but you were going to talk about proficiation, right? Well yes, because proficiation is such a more beautiful word. And it's right here in our section too. Does transportation even in here? It's not, is it? No. Alright, so propitiation shows up right at the end of number two there. Um most abominably injurious to Christ's one only sacrifice, the only propitiation for all the sins of his elect Um, a lot of people like the idea of forgiveness. Jesus offers forgiveness. In fact, I think pretty much all Christians like that, and probably most of the rest of the world like the idea that God's a forgiving God and and he is, certainly. Um and we call this expiation, that that exchange that takes place, that he takes um hit our sin and you know this imputation idea that we discussed a long time ago. Wait, sorry for those. Yeah, sorry for those of you who aren't aren't following. But propitiation. Let me just define propitiation. Um appeasing the wrath of God. So Christ comes and takes, as it were, the lightning bolt of God on himself that was reserved for sinners, because he took the sin on us, he actually gets punished for us um in our place. So that's the propitiation, appeasing God's wrath. And yes, God is a wrathful God. This is This is the Christian God, he's loving and he's wrathful, he's just and he's compassionate. Both of those are 100% true at the same time. uh occur in the the early section here of the chapter, but the idea is is there, which is why I I wanted to introduce what it meant, because in part two They're basically saying that during the Lord's Supper, Christ is not this is the Westminster Confession saying that during the Lord's Supper, uh, Christ is not re-sacrificed. Mm-hmm. Instead it uh commemorates the once and for all sacrifice he made on the cross. And this means, according to Westminster, right, that the Roman Catholic idea of the Mass understood to be the reoffering up of Christ's body, because of their idea of transstantiation, uh, they're saying it's wrong and damaging. And this was a big division between the reformers. The Council of Trent the specific words that they use, because I find at the end of the day that when I read the actual words that they use that um I just get the sense that they're genu genuinely trying to grapple with the same things that you and I are trying to grapple with. and that for us to make the accusation and this is my concern and I don't know and I'm hoping maybe you can help me out here, Jace, on this. Uh uh my concern is that for us to to claim that they're re-sacrificing Christ all over again is merely a Protestant caricature of what they really are intending when they do it. And that's why I wish we had the language in front of us because um I fear that they're more areas like that where uh where we we paint that we we we paint the Catholic position out to be something that Um is is it, you know, they're an institution and so they they've come up with certain language that that the entire institution had to come up with together and agree on and and uh and choose and at the end of the day I feel like um I feel like there's a lot more sincerity and they're grappling with those things than you know, our caricatures of them really give them credit for and it it concerns me, honestly, uh how much that's the case. And I feel like uh this also could be an area I haven't studied out uh the Council of Trent or wherever else they specifically deal with it uh adequately enough. My sense is the 'cause certainly there's always going to be some hyperbole whenever there's a debate, a a long standing, ongoing, hard fought debate some hyperbole will will uh be given birth there and and all of a sudden you've got uh caricatures like you said. It happens in politics, it happens Uh it happens in marriages. You know, the the wife says something about the husband that yeah, there's a little bit of truth there, but she's painted this broad caricature picture of the negative side of her husband to make her point. And the husband does the same thing back and it's hard sometimes to recapture a good relationship once it gets to that point. And I think that's what your heart is on this, right, Jonathan? Like, you know what, let's let's be sensitive to maintaining a relationship If at all possible. I mean I think that's been uh the goal of our show every step of the way is to get people in here where we can sincerely deal with what people actually believe. and uh and take it from there. We can disagree passionately if we disagree, but let's be you know, let's be sincere about it. And unfortunately this is one of those areas that the confession itself I fear the Westminster Confession itself, I fear paints a caricature that is not necessarily Um but I think what they're speaking against isn't so much the teaching of transubstantiation. I mean that's just that's like the secondary thing. I think that what they're reacting against in their time is Um oh the a a sense of there being an idol worship for the elements. Like this you know, the the the bread and the wine uh take on a significance that is not appropriate and therefore spiritually dangerous because your your affections are towards something that isn't God if if you don't believe that it's actually God Is that your sense that they're dealing with the idolizing of the Well, certainly because one of these we were going to say in here is very specific towards that, you know, that they not hold up and in some you know some way. Um I can't remember which one it is, what we're gonna get to it. So idolatry is certainly a major thing. And I'm I'm with you on this um This idea of not not characterizing people unfairly. Um I don't think this is an unfair characterization. Um this is one of the the big things that Protestantism and Roman Catholicism has been fighting over for centuries, probably just as big as justification by faith alone, has been has been the definition of the mass. And so The transubstantiation versus the consubstantiation versus the reformed view versus the the uh you know the basic uh just symbolic view. These have been these have been relatively well notated. I mean So in in Trent, I I think they're pretty specific that there is a sacrifice. And what what is the reform view? Reform view is there isn't a reform view, is there? Well that's okay, that's that's fair. In that case, there's not a Lutheran view or a symbolic view, but there's a generally understood view, and it's somewhere in between symbolic and consubstantiation. So Calvin would have said that the spiritual presence of Christ was there, that there's something mysterious that is happening that is not merely symbolic. In fact, that's what Westminster is going to argue. So this I mean, what is the reform view? Westminster is generally the reformed view. So And I don't know what John I don't know if you and I have ever talked about this, so I don't know what Jonathan's uh view would be, but most American uh Christians would have a merely symbolic uh view of the Lord's Supper. That would be uh Z that was Zwinglies position, right? And that's that was the story when Zwingli and uh and Luther met and Luther's pound literally Chase wasn't like just saying that for a fact. The story is that Luther literally was pounding his fist into the table to make his point. And basically a qu uh all but accused Zwingli of being damned, right? Right, yeah. Zwingli left it says uh heartbroken crying, but he and Luther his hero. I mean Luther's a generation above Zwingli and that he couldn't that they couldn't come to terms on this, that it was that big of a deal. Um on one of one of these issues and I noticed that that they literally have an anathema, an a curse placed on people that that don't agree with this verse. Like like they they almost seem to go through verse by verse by verse by verse. Like every place where you find something about uh the Lord's Supper, they say if you don't believe what this verse says about the Lord's Supper, that that it is the body and blood of Christ, then let you be accursed. Basically they're saying if you don't if you don't believe the word of God on this, then you should be accursed And then they they add a couple places where they feel like um other things would be going beyond the word of God where again they're saying, you know, let let a person be considered cursed if they go beyond. Well the Bible itself says that, you know, if anybody takes away or adds to uh the words of the of this book, you know, then let him be a curse. There's a there's a uh that's not a super unbiblical thing, but it's interesting to me to read through their delineations and again I I almost feel like it'd be fair you know, to uh to read those in this context, but we won't be able to. What are the would you say are the verses right, there's Corinthians, there's the uh passages in the Gospels, what are the other major passages dealing with uh the Lord's Supper? Um other than Corinthians and the Gospels. Yeah. Four Gospels. Those are the major spots. I mean Corinthians has it in chapter ten, eleven, twelve. Yeah. We're dealing with it a lot. Yep. Um Mark chapter fourteen. Um What's the point of the question, by the way? My point of the question is trying to come back to what they're saying about it and what the Catholic Church or anybody else is saying about it is stemming from these verses. So where Christ says, this is my body Right? But then he says after after he says, This is my body, he doesn't say broken for you, interestingly enough, he doesn't say that anywhere in the Gospels. He says, This is my body given for you. And he breaks it in front of them, and then he says, Do this in remembrance of me. Right? And so so he's telling them to do it In order to remember, but he makes the statement, this is my body. And it seems to echo what he had said earlier in his life when he said uh in his ministry when he said, uh, unless you eat my flesh and drink my blood, you cannot be my disciple We're told at that point a whole bunch of people quit following him you know, 'cause there was the charge of there being cannibalism. going on, you know, in the in uh in his ministry and or in the the early church as a result of this kind of thing. And so, you know, the question is, what does it mean? This is my body. When Christ said that, did he mean that that something spiritual had happened to to the actual bread that he broke there and the wine that he passed there, or was he was he sanctifying it in the way that things are sanctified in the Old Testament to to show that that that we should not treat these things lightly. Well let me read these next couple of sections I think they s begin to address part of the question. This is chapter twenty nine, I'll read sections three and four together here, all right. The Lord Jesus has, in this ordinance, appointed his ministers to declare his word of institution to the people, to pray and bless the elements of bread and wine, and thereby to set them apart from a common and uh to a holy use and to take the br uh and break the bread, to take the cup, and they communicating also themselves, to give both to the communicants, but to none who are not then present in the congregation. Private masses are receiving this sacrament by a priest or any other alone, as likewise the denial of the cup to the people, worshiping the elements, the lifting them up or carrying them about for adoration, and the reserving them for any pretended religious use. are all contrary to the nature of the sacrament and to the institution of Christ. By the way, this is the Frederick Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to uh 930 WFMB, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. uh on the panel this week. So uh there we're talking about the supper uh involves breaking of bread and the uh and the cup of wine when the congregants gather together they are to pray over the elements But to treat them as something that's set apart to a special use and to share them among themselves. They shouldn't worry about running down the road to give the elements to anyone not present at the time of the meal. Uh there's no doggy bags for the Lord's Supper. And uh and then they go on in part four to say, here's what not to do, right? Yeah uh you you you are to observe the you are not to observe this supper privately. You are not to deprive believers access to drinking from the cup. You are not to uh worship the elements or parade them about. Uh so they start in part three, this is what it is. Part four, this is what you don't do. Um so is there anything anywhere in scripture that says do not take this alone? I'm a little bit concerned that that that they're making a point to not take it alone. And is there anything anywhere in Scripture that says once is there anything anywhere in Scripture that says that we should should um actually uh like bless the elements in order for them to be considered sanctified to be used That's just following the example of Christ that he prayed. I think that's all they're going for here. Okay, and so they're building they're building this this year. So yes, there's nothing prescriptive. Yeah, and again I'm a little bit uncomfortable then with going beyond that because because once we say, okay, now that they've been prayed over, now they are the body and blood of Christ, something mysterious has happened then become that, then then what is that? Good for like five minutes and then once once we we're done with that part of the service, like like they u lose their their sanctified state, you know, and it just kinda goes bad. Or you know what I'm saying? It it it it gives me this impression that like if something actually changes, then maybe it changes forever unless somebody who is um who is not been confessed their sins, not in a place of being righteous before God, comes and partakes of it, and then they make it unholy. Like like why would it become unholy or not Christ again uh at some point You know what I'm saying? If the Catholic Church is arguing against the Roman Catholic Church here. Okay. But only Rome thinks that. For a period of time. Well, but you're arguing as well that there is something mysterious that happens that that space comes. Spiritual presence is all that means. Okay, and so so it's not so much that they come in. Yeah, it's huge, but Christ's presence is already in us. Wherever two or more are gathered, he's already there. So why why would we need that doesn't mean that, but okay. I what's that? I don't need to deal with that verse, but that doesn't mean that. But anyway, yes. Wherever two or more are gathered, there I'm in your midst. Yeah, that's Yeah, it has a totally different context. But I'm not that's not my point. Well we're gonna have to deal with that at some point. Probably not for this. Okay. Nevertheless, all that being the case then now he's there also in the broad in the in the body and bread. So we partake of that, so that we partake of Christ. You know, uh again Okay, fine. I want as much of Christ as I can get, but we're dealing with such fine elements of all these things that um You know, if they actually become the presence of Christ ends up in the body and blood, you know, in in the bread and the wine, then I don't know that I'm so uncomfortable with bowing down in front of the thing. If I know that Christ is there, you know. When I'm in a church service and I know Christ is present, I will fall on my knees and I will bow down because He's present in our midst. I'm not bowing down to the people But it's certainly the context of the people being together where there's a sense of his presence that I fall down. And if that happens with the body and blood, I mean with the with the bread and the wine, man, bow all you want. Right. I I think we I I don't know how much time, but um I think we we probably have to do a big picture, like instead of doing all the little details, we have to have a you know a bird's eye view of how this all works too. Because Protestants don't generally think about sacred space very much. We don't understand what sacred space is in the Old Testament, even in even in modern Jews in New Testament times, um all the way up till today. There's There's something different. We can say that Christ dwells in us. Even Paul talks about the temple being you. You're the temple. But he also talks about you all being the temple. that you come together and you become the temple. So there's there's distinctions in the way Paul speaks of things. That's good. So there's this um there's this way that that God becomes more present or that that Christians enter into the heavenlies, as Paul says. Yeah. in a spiritual sense at certain times. So where Christ might dwell in me, or I would say it's the Holy Spirit, and I however you want to ar say that, dwells in me. There is a difference that happens, for instance, when I said under the preached word in the temple, that is, I don't mean the church building, but I mean with the people of God. There's some kind of sacredness, a difference. In that moment that takes place that that is different than my normal you and I hanging out together two or more. Christ's still here. Here we are. That's no problem. But it's different. So Um, the church has always said, Rome, Episcopalians, Protestants, I think have lost a lot of this, unfortunately, but that something different takes place when we take the Lord's Supper. That there is something mysterious and sacramental that as the Irish sa I think it's the Irish say, the curtain is thinned, um, you know, between the heaven and earth. I mean our our great hope is that heaven will one day come and be and connect to earth, that heaven and earth will become one. And so I I think we have this m misunderstanding that heaven is like light years away or something like that. But it's actually just the the realm where God dwells And our goal every day is to enter into that realm in some sense, to become like the people of God, like we're called to be. And that happens, I think, in the Lord's Supper. So that's when I say Christ is present there, I don't mean that that that something actually changes, there's an element, but that we enter into the presence of Christ, Christ enters into our presence that the curtain becomes so thinned or You see through it. Scrim I I call it Scrim theology. They you can kind of shine the light on the acting curtain and you can see the other realm and that's what happens when that takes place. And I think that's I think that's the reformed general view of that. Something happens mysteriously at that time. And and and I honestly I'm happy saying something happens. I think I can maybe maybe specify a little better than that. But the mystery, I think, is actually somewhat beautiful in not knowing exactly how this is a means to grace, but it spiritually nourishes us. Um, you know, that little piece of bread doesn't do squat for me physically, but it spiritually nourishes in a similar way that preaching spiritually nourishes and praise Although those I don't think are sacramental, they're not mysterious in the same sense. So I I know I I kind of speak and I hopefully I gave the bird's eye view, but I'm I'm speaking about something that's so much bigger. And my finite senses I think can even clean up. We're gonna have to pick up with was this. You did. You got the last word Sweet. Jonathan got the last gesture and and deep breath, but you got the last word. Both of you in fact get the last gesture and breath. Anyway, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Doctor Jace Broadhurst, uh senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. And yeah, this is I knew that this chapter was going to take us uh a couple of weeks to work through because it's a long chapter anyway, and then Yeah, you do need to get the big picture view uh going on as well. So I want to remind you to visit us online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith will take you there. By the way, what am I reading these days? Uh finish reading Charles Colson with Ann Morse, uh Burden of Truth, and that's a recommend. That's a highly recommend Um what will we talk about next time? The outward elements in this sacrament duly set apart to the uses ordained by Christ have such relevant uh relation to him crucified as that truly yet sacramentally only, they are sometimes called by the name of the things they represent to wit, the body and blood of Christ, albeit in substance and nature, they still remain truly and only bread and wine as they were before. So that's Kind of the gist of what we have been talking about this last uh half hour or so. Until next week, God bless. by how they service their clients from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?