The Catholic or Universal Church. Which is invisible consists of the whole number of the elect that have been, are, or shall be gathered into one. Under Christ the head thereof. and is the spouse, the body, the fullness of him that fills all in all. The visible church, which is also Catholic or universal under the gospel, not confined to one nation as before under the law, consists of all those throughout the world that profess the true religion. And of their children, and is the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ the house and family of God, out of which there is no ordinary possibility of salvation Unto this Catholic Visible Church Christ has given the ministry, oracles, and ordinances of God for the gathering and perfecting of the saints in this life to the end of the world, and does by his own presence and spirit According to his promise, make them effectual thereunto. And there you have the first half of chapter twenty-five of the Westminster Confession of Faith of the church. Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith, where you find a daily blog. I cheat a little bit. Saturday and Sunday's blogs they hit the pa the the post on Friday. So Friday you get three. Huh? Very nice. This week on the show and thinking it's very nice. We'll call it Free Friday. There you go Three for free on Friday. Three for there you go. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Hello. And we've done I don't know about thirty shows now because some of the chapters have taken more than one show and we did one or two shows that had nothing to do with the Westminster Confession of Faith and It's just the way we are. Last time we we were on this were in chapter twenty-four, which had to do with marriage and divorce. And I think we ended that show thinking marriage good, divorce bad. Right. And so now we're gonna talk about the church and we're gonna decide church good, church bad. We don't know. We're gonna find out W what the Westminster Confession of Faith has. No, actually, right, we we agree in this room anyway, the church good. But the question really is what is The church. Who who is and for those that thought that all that was about being Catholic, it's not actually Catholic in the sense of what you think it is. Catholic just means universal. in that context. So we're not talking about being a part of the Catholic Roman Catholic ki church. We're talking about the universal church. What does it look like? And you I just felt like that needed to be said up front For all those that were just barely listening and just heard Catholic, Catholic, Catholic Pass. And you can tell Jonathan Schweitzer is a Protestant pastor. So the first um three sections here, first couple of sections, let's tackle those kind of uh first. Part one, uh the true church is made up of all those known to God as his. This is the invisible church, they are collectively the Bride of Christ. That's kind of what that section is talking about. We have talked in earlier sections of the series about the distinction between the visible and invisible church. I don't know if we want to spend a lot of time on that part of this chapter today. But really quickly, Jace, you wanna explain the distinction between what we mean by the visible and invisible church. Generally a local church, uh Crossroads or Poolsville Baptist. I mean, these are the ones that you joined up with. And inside that church are hopefully mostly Christians, but not necessarily so. The invisible church are those we don't see actually. Like Casper Right. Or the or the invisible girl, yes, from Fantastic Four. No. These are the ones that we're not s we that are the true church, the true Christians that are within the visible church and perhaps perhaps uh Westminster will help us a little bit with that are also there may be a few outside of that visible church, for instance in a place that There can be no visible church, or so those that are invisible are for the most part also visible. Yes. Yes. Although I guess you could have somebody that's not somehow in the visible church that could somehow still be Visible to God, is that a possibility? It seems to be a possibility. So uh anything else you want to say about part one? Am I am I going too fast to say that that's something we've kind of touched on and covered for the most part. No speedy. You're doing just fine. Well because I know there's six sections here and you guys, you know, you're pastors, you guys talk a long time. So uh All right, part two. The professing Christians from all over the world represent the kingdom of God, the family of God on earth. This is the visible church. Without something extraordinary happening is through this entity exclusively that people get saved. Now there's some stuff in this section that uh I think we're gonna want to talk about. Uh we already talked about the what we mean by Catholic or universal. Uh it's not confined to one nation it says here, uh as before under the law. Uh we're talking about What? Explain Jonathan, nation. What do we t what do we mean here by nation? And as before under the law. We're talking about before it was the the Israelites, right? The nation of Israel as opposed to the rest of the world. Consists of all those throughout the profess Yes. Where is it talking about nation? The pair the parentheses there, not confined to one nation. That is Israel is not simply the chosen people. Now the chosen people are scattered abroad all over. Alright, so I answered and answered for you. Yes, I appreciate that. Hey, over here. Coffee? Yeah, right here. Consists of all those throughout the world that profess the true religion. Now that's an interesting phrase. Uh but ma maybe I don't know if we want to get bogged down on that because I think we're saying define it for us again, please. You want me to do it? Yeah, yeah. At least I was awake enough to note that somebody had to do it. The true religion that once for all delivered to the saints. Yes. Right? That God God is creator. an establisher of the entire world and all the people. He has saved us from our own sin through the person of Jesus Christ, who literally, actually in history lived. actually literally in history died, uh rose again on the third day, actually and literally, uh forty days later, ascended into heaven, where he is now seated at the right hand of the Father, and he will come again in judgment of uh of of the d of actually everybody. Right? And those that are are are his will will be with him forever eternally. Uh experiencing great joy and and uh drinking their favorite beverage and all that sort of good stuff f floating on fluffy clouds. No no we're getting we're getting away from the true religion That was Casper again. Right. And then those that uh that that uh are judged on the ton damnation are uh cast into hell, the lake of fire, whatever your image there is. I mean that's Everything else we're talking about a lot of times on this show is not necessarily what they mean by the true religion, right? The the divines who who wrote this. We're not going to get hung up on if you disagreed on baptism or if you disagreed on the biggest thing. In fact, that's the point they show for us. is that yeah there's there's certain things that are absolutely true but there's other things that that are worth debating and that uh intelligent people could disagree on them. But at the end of the day there's certain core issues at least that we share that uh that are non negotiable. Now that all said, given the context of when this document was first formulated, uh they might have been taking a shot at the church in Rome. Certainly. From here on out we're we're gonna take taking major shots. So on every section. But now I don't think that we read it through that lens so much anymore, right? Now but here's the part I this is where the debate I think really starts to begin, right? And of their children. Yeah, I don't think the debate begins in this particular chapter and of their children, because we're talking about the visible church. Okay. So we're not talking about the invisible church here. We're going to get into that in a moment or in a few more weeks of shows here. But um this is just saying it's the church that you see, the ones that profess faith, and their children. But it's not arguing that these are necessarily saved, it's those who profess the true religion. So within the visible church there are Christians and non-Christians. So I don't know that there's probably any major debate for us here. Yeah, I'm good. You're good? Man the coffee hasn't arrived yet, so you know maybe good, but you don't really know if you're I don't even know if I'm found heresy right now. I actually know what's going on. Literally, God forbid. But uh was that DCAT you got then? Yeah. Um There's no uh there's no ordinary possibility of salvation outside of being in the family of God. That's that's an interesting words, isn't it? No ordinary. It's just a flowery way of saying that uh that what, that people are gonna be saved, right? Yeah, but is there an extraordinary possibility of salvation outside of the family of God? These guys are going to be saved. Agree with um uh with Rome in this sense that the church is their mother, that God is their father and the church is their mother. They're not gonna disagree too much with that. They're saying the the Usually the way someone gets saved is through the church. Is the church is doing something that's the word is preached, proclaimed, and there's something happening there. So that's the that's the normal way that people are saved. These are people that are ordinarily have a high likelihood that they're going to be saved. Yes. There's something wrong with you today. Must be my children. Are you on Medicaid Christmas time? No, for the rec Oops. For the record, I spent a significant amount of time trying to get my computer back up and running today. One of those new mini jobs and it wouldn't connect to my to my uh Internet at home, my wireless and and uh you know, literally I spent like eight hours on the phone with some somebody over in India. So your brain's humming around that fuzz, your reaction time goes slower. Yeah. Okay. I could I could I feel your pain. I'm gonna uh read sections four and five because I think we might end up talking about parts four, uh three, four, and five together. I already read part three. So part four. Uh by the way, you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. You are still that, right? You haven't lost in the past. I am, and you're wearing a nice jacket and tie today. Appreciate that. And uh Dr. Jace Broadhurst, senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, who's wearing a nice shirt but not a nice jacket or tie. Yes, he's got jeans and loafers on. He looks like a religious guy to me. Uh this Catholic church has been sometimes more, sometimes less visible. And particular churches which are members thereof are more or less pure according as the doctrine of the gospel is taught and embraced, ordinances administered, and public worship performed more or less purely in them. The purest churches under heaven are subject both to mixture and error, and some have so degenerated as to become no churches of Christ, but synagogues of Satan. Nevertheless, there shall be always a church on earth to worship God according to his will. So parts three, four, and five together, basically saying the visible church has been given by God. uh what it needs to properly minister to the invisible church. And these visible churches don't always fulfill their roles perfectly, uh, and there are varying degrees of purity among the churches, but they can still get the job done unless they are so far gone as to cease being churches of Christ instead becoming churches of Satan, like the Waynesboro Baptist Church in uh in Waynesboro, Kansas, for example. So I just like to take shots at them every once in a while. Nice. Those are the ones that go to the military funerals. Right, right, right. But but is there something that they do that is that is specifically uh listed as heresy? in like the New Testament. 'Cause when the when the when the New Testament talks about a synagogue of Satan, they're being very precise. And unfortunately, I don't know that the Waynesboro Church of God, they they just don't, I don't think, represent like what you know, what Paul and John and those guys were referring to as as churches that are that are claiming to be Christian but are falling away. Right? Those guys are fools and they're idiots for other reasons that I don't know necessarily uh arises in the context of uh New Testament teaches teachings about synagogue of Satan. So just for the sake of splitting hairs, I don't know that I could call them. a synagogue of Satan. Because what the what scripture defines is very clear and I think it's worth hanging on to what Scripture defines as a synagogue of Satan. Well as far as the Waynesboro Baptist Church folks, you're obviously wrong and I'm right. But in a more general sense it's because of how you dress, by the way. Dress for success. So let's talk about uh this idea 'cause anybody who's not in the church actually people even in the church would complain about this, but certainly one of the one of the stones thrown in our glass houses. would be that what they're talking about here, the church doesn't do its job all that well a lot of the time. We make a lot of mistakes as the church, right? We don't we we don't behave like the church is supposed to behave. And they're saying, not that that's okay But there's uh the the the the people who wrote this uh Westminster Confession aren't saying that that's okay, but they're saying are they saying it's okay to a point or we just need to understand that we are fallen and we're gonna make mistakes for a human after all Yeah, it's interesting because I'm I'm grappling with what they use the term they're using the term synagogue of Satan to describe a congregation that has as a body You m which means what the majority of the people in that particular congregation have given themselves over to false teaching that at the end of the day is man's doctrines and not uh not the true gospel, not uh not the revelation that comes through Jesus Christ. And so they are um defining churches that way. The Bible defines the synagogue of Satan as specifically synagogues in the New Testament era of people that claimed to be Jews but actually had uh light during the time of Christ, had quit following uh the true religion of the Old Testament, and they'd rejected the true religion of the Old Testament in favor of the doctrines of man, i. e. what their rabbis had taught all through the years and had gone astray from the true gospel. And so Christ came and clarified in the Sermon on the Mount what true religion was like, and all those that had been following the true religion still came out and embraced him and followed him. But many did not. They remained in these synagogues, uh, following what was a rabbinical Judaism that was not a biblical Judaism, and as a result, uh John identifies those people as synagogues of Satan in Revelation. So is it the word synagogues that you don't like so much? Not so much the of Satan part, but you don't like that they use the word synagogue here. No, no, I don't know that I'm uncomfortable with other I'm just reading this for the first time. and uh um recognizing that they're using it in a way that I think I tend to use it, but they're they're not using it in a strictly biblical sense. They're taking a biblical New Testament idea and they're applying it to to a similar problem that happens among churches uh after the time of Christ. And this problem that happens among churches is that they quit following the true gospel and they embrace uh human tradition and human doctrine, tea uh teachings that are taught by man instead of things that are taught by God. And as a result that gone astray and have become something other than Christian even though they still claim to be Christian. So it's similar to what happened with the Wainsboro quote unquote Baptist quote unquote church in uh Kansas. Uh because it's fun. Um and because it's they've been in the news and people kind of know that but there's there's uh a more insidious almost form of false church and false teaching out there. Most quote unquote Christian quote unquote churches uh aren't either Uh that that's my opinion anyway. Aren't either what? Most churches that claim to be Christian churches aren't really Christian churches in my opinion. I think that pastors like you are in the minority. I don't know if you feel that way, I'm not even asking you to agree or disagree with me. I'm just saying my opinion is you guys are the minority. So you have this. So forgive our self-righteous opinion that we in this room represent the true church and everybody else does not forgive us. So you have uh Even if even if I'm wrong on the pr on the percentages, there certainly are a lot of churches out there that people would say, Oh yeah, they're a Christian church and they're not, because they don't stand for the truth. They don't teach the truth, they don't preach the truth, they don't behave as and walk in the truth And they're teaching lies. Many churches have have moved to a non-Christian religion. They have just become they call themselves churches. I'm I'm just agreeing with you and saying it differently, because I haven't talked to them. So it they've moved into this um moralism, this uh therapeutic moralistic deism it's called today. Um they just have some semblance of God, but they don't have Christ in this. Or they throw Jesus in at the end. So you could go into pretty much any Jewish person or Roman Catholic person or Joseph's witness, or anybody could come in, pretty much even atheists could come in and learn good things and be happy and leave content. Which is one of their big concerns. Right? That's the they're really trying to hit that. They are the ones who are the synagogues of state and they have less the true religion. But we see it everywhere. I mean you you said Waynesboro Baptist. I would say Joel Osteen or something of this nature. Right where sin is no longer mentioned. And from the pulpit at all, you know. Yeah, they're friendlier versions of the jeweler. Right. Right, yeah. So Can we call them, Jonathan? Can we call th all those churches that Jace just described? You know, synagogues of Satan? And if not, like what would be better language? I think that's what they're talking about. All right. So n so now the now the question is how do we get into defining at what point Have you become uh according to the Westminster's definition of the synagogue of Satan, uh which I don't know is is precisely a biblical definition, but according to Westminster's definition what what uh r relegates them to being a whole synagogue, a whole church that is that is a you know, a satanic as it were, uh, representation. And I guess this is where I think very very possibly we might be in different places. I think I'm Probably going to say that at the end of the day, I'm not going to come out and say that uh that Osteen is a synagogue of Satan. I am going to say that Osteen is in great danger. of going down that road. And maybe ten, fifteen years from now I'll be prepared to say otherwise. But I know of congregations uh some of which are right here in Frederick that are of the opinion that they're that Christ is not the only way to God that are of the opinion that Christ actually rising from the dead physically is not that important a thing to teach. Now, from what I understand of Joel Osteen, even though he doesn't emphasize those things uh the way that he should on a Sunday morning, which I'm very uncomfortable with the fact that he doesn't, uh, but he still believes that Jesus Christ is the only way to the Father. Right? And uh and he has a hard time coming out of the time. Maybe you listening don't. Uh Joel Osteen is uh very well known, uh very wealthy now pastor uh at Lakewood Community Church, I think is what it's called in Houston, Texas. His congregation is something like fifteen, twenty thousand people or whatever. They they meet in what used to be a big sports arena and they fill the place every Sunday and he buys time on television stations. He might do some radio, but I think it's mostly television stations. And you can watch his stuff on TV all across the country. And he's put out some best-selling books, New York Times best-selling books. Becoming a better you is one of them. I've uh I forget what some of the other ones are He's so popular his wife wrote a book and it's a bestseller. That's how popular this guy is. And if you're thinking, I I can't know the name. What is it? He's got the black curly hair and he's always smiling. Yeah, yeah. He's like the half-inch. He blinks blinks a lot. And he blinks a lot And he was on this is where I want to now take issue. He was on the Larry King show when Larry King still had a show. He was on the Larry King's show and did not stand up for Christ being the only way. Okay, what's over that's a huge problem for a Christian pastor, what'd you say? Yeah, totally. And that's where I'm saying that that bothers me. But I've spoken with Christian pastors claim to be Christian pastors where I've spent literally two hours attempting to define their terms. They're using terms like salvation, grace, Christ, all these different phrases, and they mean something totally different, so much so that when they use the terms I come away feeling like they're liars. And that's what it says in Revelation 3. 9. It says, I'll make those of the synagogue of Satan who claim to be Jews but are liars. And and I can't qu I don't quite feel I feel like Osteen has a problem with with confrontation. He's too nice, and so when it comes down to saying the truth prob publicly about Christ being the only way to the Father, he has a hard time saying it. But my sense when I read his books is that he's pretty clear that Christ is the way to the Father. Okay? All he he's just not going to come out and say it in a way that says, if you don't believe in Christ, you're going to hell. He's afraid of doing that. And so that means to me that he's in danger of leading down that road. Seeker sensitive churches, I think we're in danger of being synagogues of Satan. Then the next generation of seeker sensitive churches have embraced it's called the emergent church have embraced this idea that there is no absolute truth. And as a result I believe are they absolutely sure of that? I b yeah, apparently. With all the irony thereof. That's a little bit little bit um. I wouldn't quite go that far about the emerging church, but okay. W well many of 'em. Yeah. Like d like McLaren and some of these other guys that are totally unwilling that they're they're saying that you cannot make an absolute statement. To my to my mindset they have They have drunk the juice and they are a synagogue of Satan. They've gone over the line in such a way that they are massively leading people astray. These other ones Um, I feel like they were leading people towards Christ, but they didn't lead people all the way to Christ. They they were still pointing in the right direction, their doctrine is still right, but at the end of the day, they they had a problem with courage. And uh and at you know, and cowards are condemned in Revelation. And so so they're they're gonna be condemned for their lack of courage, but I'm not willing to go so far as to call those guys synagogue of Satan. That line for me is where is where they're they're blatantly leading people into a denial of the truth through using language and stuff that uh you know Well for me I would just say and some have so degenerated as to not become churches of Christ. So however you want to define um these guys, I I mean you you and I probably would have difference of opinion here. Yeah, and I and I see there again I'm I'm using synagogue. I I I'm using the synagogue of Satan phrase as as the way the Bible uses it, not the way the w Westminster uses it. And so let me go back to Westminster. Maybe I'm in agreement with you. I'm just concerned about all of these churches, then we're just kind of all grouped together as churches. I mean even I uh you know I I meet with several pastors that I don't think would believe that Jesus rose from the dead. That That is to me That's clearly not. That yeah, this is this is not a church of Christ anymore, but they call themselves a church and they have all the same denominations that we have. And so I I've great questions. We you know is a church of of uh which one is not. And and and that would lead us into extensive discussions as to what exactly OSIN teaches. You know, d does the Church of Christ teach? What exactly do these guys teach? And and uh that would be a very long show, and I don't know that I'm fully capable of handling all that. You know, but it's kinda it's kinda like pornography. You know it when you see it. You know? I gotcha. Thanks. You know, in uh in uh c uh uh as as Westminster defines it, s you know, a church that is no church of Christ but a synagogue of Satan Uh I know it when I see it, and at the end of the day I come away with a deep impression that these guys are being led directly away from God. not to God. I'm going to read this last section because we're running out of time. There is no other head of the church but the Lord Jesus Christ, nor can the Pope of Rome in any sense be head thereof, but is that Antichrist That man of sin the and son of perdition that exalts himself in the church against Christ and all that is called God. So Jesus is the head of the church, not the Pope. In fact The Pope is the Antichrist. Holy cow. You have an old version of Westminster. It has been edited since then. Oh really? What does the new one say? It stops at uh there's no other head of the church but the Lord Jesus Christ, nor can the Pope of Rome in any sense be head thereof. Period. Yeah. So that's how much better by Christ. All right, according to John in 1st, 2nd and 3 John, there are many Antichrists. Right? And so this idea that there is one guy that is the Antichrist Well, every generation has identified one guy that's the Antichrist, right? We all identified Gorbachev at one point as being the Antichrist because he had the mark on his forehead, right? Or whatever it is. My point is, is that It's very likely that many times in history, the Pope himself has been an Antichrist spirit Right? And so so at that time Westminster could very well have been correct. But that would require me being there, having the chance to to study that particular Pope and understand him, you know, precisely and And what was going on. Uh am I of the opinion that Benedict is that way? I'm not of that opinion. I'm very uncomfortable with how much emphasis he puts on Mary and uh and uh praying to Mary and uh that sort of thing. But I don't get the sense that he is a antichrist. Where they basically say we're all cursed. Which I'd love to matter. I'd love to get into all that too. Well we're we're done. Okay. It is a show. Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. You've been listening to Faith Debate. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmin Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred. Plummer. Pub and plumbing, how can we make you smile