The reading of Scripture was godly. fear and sound preaching and conscientious of the word and obedience unto God with understanding, faith and reverence, singing psalms of grace in the heart. As also the due administration and worthy receiving of the sacraments instituted by Christ are all parts of the ordinary religious worship of God Beside religious oaths, vows, solemn fastings, and thanksgivings upon special occasions which are in their several times and seasons to be used in a holy and religious manner Neither prayer nor any other part of religious worship is now under the gospel either tied unto or made more acceptable by any place in which it is performed or towards which it is directed. But God is to be worshipped everywhere, in spirit and truth, as in private families, daily and in secret, each one by himself. So more solemnly in the public assemblies, which are not carelessly or willfully to be neglected or forsaken, when God by his word of providence Calls thereunto. That's the middle section of chapter 21 of religious worship on the Sabbath day, the Westminster Confession of Faith. This is the Protestant Faith Debate, home to conflict resolution. No, please don't whether Jonathan likes it or not. That makes me sound like I'm married to you or something. Listen, we can't Resolve anything without understanding. So would you just understand already, Jonathan? I can't figure you out for the loud for you. Huh? Anyway. And Dr. Jace Broadhurst is here helping me to beat into Jonathan's skull some understanding. Right? I'm working on it, yeah. Jace Broadhurst, doesn't that like Broadhurst have to do with a sword or something like that, beating something into somebody Uh I like it but not on the snow. Anyway, Jace is I don't know if I said this. Fool Vasil Baptist Church, Jonathan, the Crossroads Valley Chapel Uh did I say my name Troy Skinner? I don't know if I did or didn't. Anyway, I just read part five and six of uh chapter twenty one, which is basically saying that worship should regularly consist of Bible readings, preaching, singing of psalms and receiving the sacraments. It can also on occasion include oaths, vows, fasting, and special giving of thanks. And it doesn't matter where this worship takes place. In fact worship should happen everywhere and always in private with family or with public assembly. And Part of what I read there was talking about fi uh about uh prayer and prayers where we left off last week on this show and Jonathan went on to an uh off on a nice little soliloquy, lasted about three and a half minutes. Oh you have the time, yeah. And then this is forever on the radio. And then Jay said, um I'm still not sure I can get what you're disagreeing with here. So Do you care about what you disagree with? What's what's what's uncomfortable to me and maybe maybe Maybe it's because of the context that I live in. I don't I don't get the sense generally at large that the art of making appeals uh to one another um is uh is so well known any longer in our society. I feel like that the art is being lost in a lot of ways, you know, the uh uh in today's culture. And so I feel like it's important to to r To not make prayer something that you do to God, but make make prayer the adjective That describes the communication that uh that we have with God, that that when you go to talk to God, you take time to honor him for who he is. and to worship him for who he is. Uh you take time to thank him for what he's done. Uh and and then, you know, you're gonna make some requests of him and that the request itself is not an act of worship so much as it's done in a worshipful manner. It's the the the the worship is the adjective behind it, uh not the not the actual noun in that situation. that that it's the it's the the context of your relationship with God. And so maybe maybe I'm just splitting a hair that has to do with my sense that there's a need to help people to make that distinction. Maybe I should own that. I feel like I needed help making that distinction, my own growth in the Lord. I think your distinction is valid in trying to say that we think prayer is is Appealing to God. I'm just not sure that I see worship as an adjective in that. Why cannot uh wow w isn't appeals even in in worship a worthy thing? I mean Uh I I have a pastoral prayer. It's a five-minute prayer usually in my church. Probably fifty percent of it is appeal. Because I give and we'll just stick with the English definition of worship, I give worth to God I I underst I don't give it to him. He has it whether I give it to him or not, but I happen to give it as well. And because of his worth, because of his value, because of who he is, I can make these appeals and know that he hears and know that he cares about me. That's worship. Yeah, and in fact, it's not I don't have to do it worshipfully. I mean that comes naturally because it's worship. It is I'm never gonna speak to God rudely. Hopefully that'd be obvious. Even as I think about the passage that I quoted from Romans twelve about, you know, your spiritual act of worship is being transformed, you know, the very act of our asking being transformed. than would would represent worship. And so I I guess I'm at the end of the day I would have to agree with you that that it's it's it's all kind of wrapped up in in a big bundle together and you know, whether you call it worship or whether you call it communication with God or, you know, just uh reconciliation with God that is in the context of worship, that at the end of the day I'm probably splitting a hair that the Bible doesn't even split. And so Um I've again I f I felt like it's valuable and I've I've wanted to take time on behalf of my congregation to to make those distinctions, but I don't know that the way it's written here is necessarily wrong. It just hit me in a way that So let me ask you this question, because this is not concerning with just prayer in general, but this is specifically the chapters on religious worship and the Sabbath day. Yeah. So it's I I think it's I think it's trying to point to that time when we gather. Yeah. Um do you have appeal in your worship service? Yeah, sir. Okay. So I I think we're kinda on the same place. So I guess we're now on to five and six where we were. Maybe? No no again that that that's another distinction that uh that I I think is an important distinction to make. Um, worship in the in the context of just saying, you know, what happens when we come together is not really the biblical idea of what worship is. You know, in fact in today's culture, uh, you know, in the in the um contemporary world, we say, okay, we're gonna worship and then we're gonna have the preaching of the word. No, no, no, we don't say that. Okay, well many do. And and I I'm constantly Making it. Pushing back on that, you know, that that's not the case. But I I think I would also say, well well we don't just you know we we don't just worship when we go on Sunday. We worship in everything that we do. You know, our our very lives and how we live our lives is the spiritual act of worship that we're called to do. But do we see there being any kind of a distinction between what happens in the assembly that's gathered together. They call it religious worship and I I guess I'm of the opinion that all worship is Religious I think they're talking about the Sat the Sabbath day. That's why it's all connected to there. Yeah. When we come together on that special time of what's happening. Now they're going to specify the thing. that all this is true in the context of corporate worship. So if that's what they mean by that, then I think I'm more in line with it. Okay. And they're gonna get into what happens after corporate worship too, because the Sabbath day is used. We're not there yet. Sure. But the Sabbath day is a whole day, not just an hour. Right. Um but we do see do you see a distinction, I guess that's where I want to find out, between what happens during that hour or two or whatever, depending on who you are. and what happens afterwards on the same day. Like is there something different from when that virtual calls and not being together? Yeah, but is there something There is a sense that we're two or more gathered. Christ is there in their midst. There's a sense that the body is represented. Um there's a sense of uh of uh something unique happening in the context of the body coming together that that you know Christ is enthroned on the praises and his spirit is manifested in in the midst. Um I do but they would say there's there's a m I I know Westminster would use those words, you probably wouldn't, but there's a means to grace. There's something I hate to use the word mystical because I know the way people think of it, witches and stuff like that, but there's something transcendent that takes place in a m in the means to grace. When you're taking communion, something is different than just taking a piece of bread. I'm not saying that it's changing or uh we're not there yet, so I guess we should just wait till we get to those things. But there's something special that sets apart that time when you're gathered in a different way than my family worship, which I have every day with my children. There's something special about that too. But something amazing, this is you know, Christ died for the church. And I think that the local church is representative of the invisible church. I'll be in agreement with you about that. Oh man. All right. So w where are we at now with number five and six that we're supposed to get to? Um so all these things. Do you think all these things are part of uh They're talking about in in part five, they're talking about singing of psalms with Grace. Are they talking in here? Do you think the divines are speaking specifically of singing psalms? You know, Psalm 1 through Psalm 150, and that's it? It's or or are they are they including all spiritual songs as Psalms? What do you think? Well clearly I would include all spiritual songs. Uh I personally love the idea of putting, you know, the actual biblical Psalms to uh to song and singing them. I think there's something unique and uh valuable in singing them, even you know, like the way that they've been you know, that they come down to us and and not just like mixing up all the different verses, but Um I wouldn't think that the divines were against that. I mean a mighty fortress is our God is not was written by Martin Luther. Luther and Vestberg. I think even even their um The section there in five says singing of psalms with grace in your heart. Even that is referenced in the Westminster Confession when they went back and put all these things to say, to use Colossians 3. 16, Psalms, Hymns, and Spiritual Songs. So that's their proof text. So I think they're just saying that you should be singing songs about God. Now when I read the first part of ch uh of section six here, in today's context, I immediately think of uh Muslims bowing down and praying to Mecca. Is that what the divines have in mind here, you think? That prayer and religious worship not tied to any specific person. And that tw and that it has nothing to do with where the prayer prayer is directed. Isn't it likely that there was a sense that some people would pray to towards Jerusalem in the Catholic Church and somehow that was more holy or something? Yeah, which is which has to do with the Mecca thing as well. That whole idea is is location is somehow significant. Oh. Is that what you're referring to? Yeah. The problem is Old Testament has this idea of sacred space. There are certain places that are more sacred than others. And that is the case in the Old Testament. I mean the temple is is the place of God's dwelling. It is it's not that God isn't omnipresent, he is. But there's something special about that place. And I think what Westminster's trying to get across this assembly is that y uh you no longer go to church and like that church building is that place that has God's dwelling in it because God dwells in us. Right now the body the body believers are the temple. Correct. So I will tell you having been to Jerusalem that that there was something unique about it, you know, with all the history and all the everything around it that that it was it was hard for me not to feel like like there was something really special and unique even happening in me in the context of seeing what Jerusalem looked like and the Mount of Olives and you know uh the valley of Jehoshaphat and And you know the places you know, I don't mean to diminish that in what I'm gonna say, so I'm prefacing up front. But um because I haven't been to Jerusalem, so I can't imagine what that might feel like until I'm there. I can't I can't I can't describe an experience I haven't had yet But I've had something that sounds like it might be similar when I've gone to Independence Hall or if I've gone to Monticello. And I'm just wondering, is it just because you recognize the historical significance that's tied to the roots of who you are and your own identity and the the the the benefits it's been to you and your family and your forefathers and that sort of thing that maybe that's the connection and it had nothing to do with that s that particular place being more holy than the other place. I mean, I don't I don't know. I'm what do you what do you think? What's your first blush on that? Uh my first blush is that that I would be very keen to avoid leaving the impression that praying in Jerusalem is more holy and more likely to be received f from God than prayer anywhere else. Um and and I would add to that that You know, at the end of the day I do I I'm still of the opinion that that even in the New Testament there's that there's a uh unique historical significance to Israel and Jerusalem that is yet to be fulfilled, uh, in that that it will be fulfilled in a way that is unique to Jerusalem that won't be uh so common to the rest of the world that I think is eschatological in nature that, you know, I don't know that now's the time to get into that, but I think you I think it's a good idea. There's a great conference on that, but it's over and disagree with you in every way. But that's all right. Maybe read the next couple of sections here. This is the section seven-eight, the final two sections of chapter twenty-one. As it is the law of nature that in general a due portion of time be set apart for the worship of God So in his word, by a positive moral and perpetual commandment binding all men in all ages, he has particularly appointed one day in seven for a Sabbath, to be kept holy unto him, which from the beginning of the world to the resurrection of Christ This Sabbath is to be kept holy unto the Lord when men after a due uh preparing of their hearts and ordering of their common affairs beforehand do not only observe a holy rest uh all the day from their own works, words, and thoughts about their worldly employments and recreations, but also are taken up the whole time in the public and private exercises of his worship and in the duties of necessity and mercy. By the way, this is the Freddie Faith Debate on Troy Skinner, this is listening to us on 930 WFMD. I'm joined this week by Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, and Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. So one day a week is set aside for Sabbath rest. Before Christ this day was the final day of the week. Since Christ is the first day of the week. Proper observance of the Sabbath requires getting our head on straight before the Sabbath begins, and then spending the entire Sabbath day in nothing other than worship of God, whether or alone or with others. Um now there is an exception of doing things that are necessary and merciful duties, right? But so that's pretty uh Pretty strong stuff. How uh how well do any of us abide by that uh pr prescription? a scripture that would give the impression that that the Sabbath has has been changed to a different day. Um there's a couple of scriptures that I feel like kind of maybe give a little bit of an impression that maybe You know, like like it's just not like absolute. You know, we had the seventh day at Venus Gaun. Right. You know, and at the end of the day an at the end of the day the passage that says, Let no man judge you according to new moon festivals or sabbath day or any of the other s other things I think is is the more applicable scripture that um I don't know. The the Sabbath in the Old Testament was clearly and and I agree with the the uh seventh day Adventist about this but the Sabbath day in the Old Testament was clearly an eternal thing that wasn't to be changed and the Kiyas in the New Testament that were not obligated you know, to to the whole law. So nobody judges us on the basis of those things. It's it's wise to move in the direction of resting one day out of seven. You know, it's wiser to do it, you know, with the whole culture doing it on the same day 'cause then blue laws and and and people that are poorer and so they have to work on the weekends, don't get stuck working when the rest of us are recreating, you know, which can be a very injust thing and and happens uh in our culture. I feel like there's value in those things, but to but to say that it's a a doctrine Absolute, I'm just not there. I think we're missing something. I I'm not sure I totally disagree with what you're saying, but you know, I always disagree just a little bit. Um I think we're missing that that big picture overview of scripture and what it's doing. And even you use the word while we're recreating. And I think that's the key to understanding new Sabbath or real Sabbath. Because the Sabbath day is you know in Genesis is creation. You know, that's why we celebrated its creation. And then in Exodus, we celebrate the same thing, not because of creation, because of redemption. Right, because what what we would call a new creation as they go through and the other side of the Red Sea. And I think that those two stories are the the archetypal stories for the rest of the history of redemption. Creation, redemption combined into one. And so we're supposed to see when does this get fulfilled? When does all of this really happen? Because this is a this is an important creation, this is an important redemption, but my gosh, they both pale in comparison to the new creation that Christ brings on the cross. And so we're supposed to say, I mean I I just don't want Saturday to be like, well Saturday I don't I don't know that it has eternal significance. I think its significance was specifically to point to the true creation. I mean that's uh for me that's what the whole New Testament is about. It's Jesus is the new creation, he's the first fruits raised, and he now creates in us. It's a recreation, regeneration we call it. He He breathes new life into us. And so we do it on Sunday for a very specific reason. I think that's why the early church did it, because they understood that principle that we've forgotten, because we don't know what Genesis and Exodus is talking about, and we don't know how the history of redemption works. They got it. This is really what it was talking about. This is the real creation. So they do it on Sunday and they do it all day long because that's the way that the Old Testament did it. So I agree that it's a value. For those practical reasons it's a good thing, but I actually think there's the theological purpose in doing it. I'm not fully persuaded that That this is you know, I'm gonna pound the pulpit over like you know, really people have to do it on Sunday because I struggle with those like the verse you mentioned in the beginning, no wrangling over days. Um but there's a difference between judging people for doing it wrong and showing them what's right. Um I'm not gonna judge them for doing it on Saturday necessarily. But I'm going to instruct them that they're wrong. You know, same thing, I I won't judge people for for liberties that they take that I think are not fit not right, or immature brothers where I'm more mature. I'm not going to judge them for those things, but I'm still going to try and make them more mature. Which is interesting because that's what the Seventh day Adventists would say. And so therefore, you know, as you grow in God, eventually you're going to move from Sunday back to Saturday because you know scripture in the Old Testament is abundantly correct. Just misses the whole thing, what he's doing. Well, th this is the question I have for you. Do we have any indication anywhere in scripture that there will still be Sabbaths in the new heavens and the new earth? Because there's a sense that scripture says Yeah, well there's a sense that Scripture says that that God rested on the seventh day, worked six days, rested on the seventh. And and that's not something that like changes after the fall. That was like pre-fall, in fact. And so so if there's a sense that there's going to be one day even in the new heavens and new earth, and I know of no passages that tell us that there will be just the passages that talk about the Sabbath gives us the sense sense that it's this, you know, monumental thing that that God himself even did it. You know, God himself even did it, then we do it as well. Um then if that's the case then I think it's likely that it's going to go back to being the original Saturday Sabbath. That's my personal sense. Yeah. So that just comes with your big theological system that there's still relevance to the Old Testament. And I see the entire Old Testament as a picture of what Christ did, all fulfilled in Christ and over. So I don't I don't see there being any. Right. This is the church age and everything's gonna revert back. I don't have a parentheses. I think this was the plan. Revert back to what? To the Old Testament? Yeah, at least in many of the ways. But you're talking about a A Sabbath that's like that, you're talking about a future for Israel, all those things. No, I believe God is able to multitask and that He has simply been doing that effectively all through history. Yeah. And he's continuing to do so. And so everything's moving towards a progressive end that I think will be very similar to the original creation in in terms of its Um it's uh provision in no weeping, no tears, you know, that there's a sense of the restoration of all things, you know, at the end. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I don't I don't have any sense that we're going back to the Old Testament, just that what God is doing in the Jews and what uh uh that even the ones that reject him uh is something that he that he did just like he did with Egypt, that he's shaping them up to do something special in history that's gonna be for the praise of his glory. And that he's doing it at the same time that he is using the church to destroy the gates of hell around the world and to uh be the fulfillment of all things and and so that somehow those things are going to come together. in a final moment that will be the fulfillment of all the all of those things at one time. So I so I don't see a parenthesis uh so much as I see God doing what he's always done, sovereignly working in all situations, even when those people have rejected him. Yeah, I would uh just to jump back to the lot of Yeah, we make a lot of hair slits in there, but I think there's a lot that's similar there as well. The reason that I w that I'm emphasizing this whole this whole Sabbath rest thing is you know Hebrews speaks about the rest that we have. And I like to I like to get across as we're reading this that We are already in a period of rest. We are already the kingdom is I'm still confused as to how your how your theology works here. I'm still trying to figure out how to pieces together. I'm gonna write that down for you eventually what my theology is. I want to see if that how it actually logically fits together with the finally write it. Yeah, right. So anyway, the rest the rest is there and so what we're doing now is is symbolically resting on one of those days because it's it's we're in rest but we're still not totally rested. Right. So we're already not yet, we say, in this in this world here. So we're symbolically resting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, because Ladd was the first one to come up with the already I get. Yeah. Okay. Um now you can Okay anyway, we we've got to get into this one. So we are resting in symbol uh now right for what we will eventually have as an eternal rest. But I think the rest has begun. So the Sabbath is is a piece of that. So now the question of the application is the same thing. Right, right. Well we're coming up on the end of the six thousand years, right? So it's all going to end up against the seventh day? I'm kidding. I just saw a picture of Flabbergas. Yeah. I just was which was my goal there. Look on Chase's face. Holy crack, I have to start even early Imagine what my wife goes through. Well we're wrapping up here, I guess. The one thing that we haven't touched on at all that I thought for sure we would was that was in the center of this uh chapter when it's talking when no when it's talking about you know that's prayer needs to need to be a known tongue I thought for sure that Jonathan being at a charismatic church, you know, that's that those too many other things in the fighting words. Right. And I would agree. Clearly uh I I I am completely of the opinion that it's appropriate to pray in an unknown tongue. Uh but it's uh also appropriate to do that uh in uh when you're alone. It's still vocal, but it's when you're alone. uh as opposed to when you're with people because when you're with people you want to speak in a way that uh you can edify them unless your tongue is going to be uh uh interpreted. And so I'm I'm open to all that. I I feel like scripture has reason No, ironically I don't just give reason for it. In in today's last forty years historical context we think in terms of speaking in tongues. But back then they probably weren't talking about that, right? They're probably talking about uh having the religious service in something that the lay people could understand, not doing it in Latin or something, right? That's probably what they're speaking to. Yeah, that probably is what they're speaking to. I would say um just For those people who are listening and care about this whole tongues issue, O. Palmer Robertson has a great hundred-page book called The Final Word, which traces this prophecy from the Old Testament to the New Testament. Hundred page book. That's it. Beautiful. And just to me just demolishes all other arguments because it works in the Old Testament. Robertson? Yeah. R O B. Like his first time O Palmer. Yeah. That's his first name. Yeah. Halmer. Yeah. Really. P A L M E R Roberts. Alright. Alright, cool. Everybody got that written down? We're gonna do a book report on it next week. Uh Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church, Jonathan Sweister, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, and brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Encourage you to visit visit a hard time talking at the end of the show here. Visit us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. Until next week. Footman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Footman Plumbing. That's with a P, as in your preferred plumber. Popin plumbing, how can we make you smile