The light of nature shows that there is a lot of the same thing. is a God who has lordship and sovereignty over all, is good, and does good unto all, and is therefore to be feared, loved. Praised, called upon, trusted in, and served with all the heart and with all the soul, with all the might But the acceptable way of worshiping the true God is instituted by Himself and so limited by His own revealed will that He may not be worshipped according to the imaginations and devices of men or the suggestions of Satan under any visible representation or any other way not prescribed in the Holy Scripture. That is the first section of chapter 21 of the Westminster Confession of Faith of religious worship. and the Sabbath day. This is the Credit Faith Debate, home to conflict resolution on the issues that matter most. Brought to us by Footman Cluminator Heating. How can we make you smile? We can't truly resolve anything, I've decided Without understanding. And we can't gain authentic understanding without honesty. And so that's what you get here, a safe haven for honesty We share what we hold to be true and why where there's disagreement we hash it out. Because we know why we're here. There's no worry over hurt feelings. At the end, if we fail to persuade each other Within these twenty-seven minutes, we will at least know not only where we stand, but the reasons that we camp out where we do. My name is Troy Skinner, along with Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. And this week we're tackling this is part twenty-one of a thirty-three part series on the Westminster Confession of Faith. One for each year of Christ's life. Thank you for bearing with us. That's right. See, I I knew there was a reason. Thirty-three did did we like have a uh have a group decision about calling this conflict resolution? I I I just I I'm just not quite sure that I can uh buy into such a uh PC uh terminology, you know. I'm gonna show it hairs before we even get into the confession. Now just for the record, Jonathan was busy bowing to the Aqua Buddha before the show. I was. So He uh Yeah, yeah, yeah, but I didn't inhale when I did it. So he's and dabbling in witchcraft at the same time, I mean. So it's all okay. Well we're Before we you know, we're gonna go into this thing, but since you're gonna have you know picking over it That's a nice tie by the way. People all the time are asking you, what's the show about uh the faith debate? So you guys are just trying to stir up trouble and be controversial and No. We're trying to get to the heart of the matter. What is the truth of the matter? And if we can all arrive at the truth, with that comes peace. You know, five years ago. Yeah, yeah. Five years ago when we started this show There was not the sense in in popular society at large that it was okay to take stands on things that are religious And I kind of feel like there's been a shift, like maybe even just like the last year or two, that that all of a sudden it seems to be okay in popular culture to finally start taking stands on some of those things. I guess ever since Glenn Beck did his thing, you know? That Mormon guy. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you know, whatever. God will use everything. So, alright, chapter twenty one. First part we've got to do. Well but my point is is we changed the the flow. Right? Frederick Faith debate changed the flow of the whole nation because we stood up to make a difference. Because the truth matters, baby. Yeah, this this show is available on the internet through streaming and podcasting, so I'm sure Glenn Bae and others have heard this show. Sure, they listen all the time. Alright, so part one basically says God is incredibly great People are to yield to him with their lives, and this means worshiping God the way that God tells us to worship him and not the way that we want to. We have any disagreement over that? I can't believe it. You're pleased about this particular thing. Uh All I can assume is that you don't totally understand to say this is the hardest part of this particular chapter, I think. Um he may not be worshipped according to the imaginations and devices of men or the suggestions of Satan under any visible representation or any other way not prescribed in the Holy Scripture. The regular principle is generally restricted to incredibly strict reformed churches. So if you want to interpret what they're saying that strongly um and read into that that they're saying that it's not okay to prophesy or to uh speak in tongues in church or it's not okay to um to do those kinds of things, then I'd certainly would take issue with it. But what they're saying there is I'm in completely agreement with because All those things follow the clear teaching of Scripture. And so it's not imaginations or devices of men or suggestions of Satan. under any visible represent there are those that are of the opinion that speaking in tongues is satanic. My dad was told when when he first uh came under the influence of that that it was satanic, but That would be in contradiction to the clear teaching of Scripture. And so it says, or any other way not prescribed in Holy Scripture. So I'm Uh if if that if that what it is is what it means on the surface, then I'm good with it. But if it means things that you want to say taking it at face value, which is what Jonathan's doing, i if you weren't to read the rest of the chapter at all and just took that opening paragraph, you Yeah, it is subject to some interpretation. But they do go on, as I read the rest of chapter twenty one, to kind of put a spin on that opening paragraph. So that I think what Jason is alluding to probably is what the intent of that opening paragraph was, but I don't know that the words of the opening paragraph specifically say uh anything that uh you would disagree with. And and and they're gonna get into w exactly what should constitute uh worship later with pr praying and singing uh psalms and things like that that start to get a little more specific about what they're saying in this opening paragraph. But we'll get there as we move on. Let me read the next part. Sure. Religious worship is to be given to God, the Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost, and to Him alone, not to angels, saints, or any other creature, and since the fall not without a mediator, nor in the mediation of any other but of Christ alone. So There there's talk here of the Trinitarian God of the Bible, but they don't use the word Trinity, so I think Jonathan's good with that. And this Trinitarian uh God of the Bible is to be worshipped alone and only through the mediation of Christ, no one else, including saints and even angels uh are to be worshipped. Um okay, so I just want to ask this question for this particular section. Um did uh Noah worship God through a mediator or Adam and Enoch or Abraham and those guys. I mean we know that that uh that it was necessary uh for their sins to be covered, for them to be embraced. It's necessary for God to extend his grace, but um I'm not aware of there being any mediator uh in their mindset uh in what what we're taught in scripture and there's nothing that that gives us the impression that Abraham came you know through Christ. We just know that Abraham came by faith recognizing that God alone could justify him. And so if you're assuming in that a mediator, I'm happy to to to grant you that. But You know, just for the record, I there's there's no um there's no mediator mentioned biblically in the context of any of those characters that are the fathers of our faith. Right. And I don't think this is speaking of um pre pre incarnation. Uh since the fall. Yes. Not without mediator nor mediation of any other but Christ alone. I mean my my if if they didn't say since the fall, I'd agree with you, but they said since the fall But I think even in the Old Testament. But even in the Old Testament, the quote unquote saints of the Old Testament are saints in Christ. But it it's like a retroactive application of Of the of the salvation. I'm comfortable with all that, but they're saying religious worship. What they're describing, I think, is when people come together to worship as a group. And I think they're referring to Moses and Israel in the Old Testament that that that mediation was necessary. And I agree for Moses on that that that that was abundantly clear in religious worship, but that was not abundantly clear previous to Moses. Maybe it was uh maybe it was clear in everybody's minds that there would have to be some kind of mediation. Uh well there is there's mediation in the sacrificial system in itself. That's probably the only place that I could go. Sure. Um I would read this. If I were writing it myself, since the fall, not without a mediator, and then later on, not without a mediator in Christ. Certainly he is the mediator Anachronistically. He's a good thing. Absolutely. He uh they were they were seeing Christ in the sacrifices and in the symbols that were in there. But it's true, Hebrews says that, you know, they u he God used to speak directly to the prophets. Um that's the whole Old Testament. They're begging Moses to please, please speak to us because we don't want to speak directly with God. We're scared to death of him. And and so Moses takes it, that's the prophet, that's the whole position throughout all the prophets. God gives his information to the prophets, the prophets. Take it on to the people. And now in Hebrews it comes through the mediation of the Son. So then the point there being that Moses was the mediator or Isaiah was the mediator. Is that as a right, as a type of Christ. So I I would have to actually look at this a little closer because that's not exactly what it seems to say here's the thing. Right, but Moses would be considered the prophet, and a prophet would be a An Old Testament um way of thinking, the prophet, priest, and king would be on a on a middle ground between humanity and gods. They would kind of take the word, which is why Jesus is the perfect prophet, priest, and king, is he stands in between, hanging on the cross. He's he's actually truly in between. hypostatic union and all that, totally totally man, totally God. They were in a symbolic sense that. So even in Jewish mythology, and I know this is going a little bit farther out before we are, but Moses ends up going into the throne room of God, and in some strange legends even takes the throne off of God's head and puts it on himself. The position. Yeah. Right, the crown, not the throne, yeah. And uh and obviously that's that's not the way we would understand things, but the all that shows is that the prophet's position was something Huge. It wasn't some human position. It was a a hugely elevated thing, a mediatorial position. Sure. Same as the priest, same as the king. They were icons of God. They were representatives of him in a very special way, very different than the rest of humanity. So we're all sitting here saying the divines might have gotten this one wrong. Well, I'm I'm not willing to go that far again. Maybe. I have to think through this one some more. You definitely gave me room to uh room to think. All right, make a note so we can study that one later. They're smarter than me. If you're keeping score at home, make a note. Run for John. All right. This is uh part three and four. I'm going to read them together because I think they kind of flow together here. Prayer with thanksgiving being one special part of religious religious worship is by God required of all men. and that it may be accepted it is to be made in the name of the Son, by the help of his Spirit, according to His will, with understanding, reverence, humility, fervency, faith, love, and perseverance, and, if vocal, in a known tongue. Jonathan might not like that one. Prayer is to be made for things lawful and for all sorts of men living, or that shall live hereafter, but not for the dead, nor for those of whom it may be known that they have sinned the sin unto death So basically, everyone should seriously pray in an understandable language and do so in the name of Jesus Christ. Prayer should not be for the dead or for those who have blasphemed the Holy Spirit I got some lots of issues with both of these sections, but I'll let you guys go first. Well why don't you bring up some of your issues? He's always got issues. So if we're gonna, you know it may be known that they have sinned and the sin unto death, how could we how could we possibly know somebody's heart? Only God is gonna know that. So I think we've got to pray for everybody, even if our strongest suspicion is They're utterly lost forever. I think we still gotta pray for 'em. Uh I'm not so sure. Somebody could some somebody could like verbally Blaspheme the Holy Spirit. I mean somebody could do that and it could be known that they've that they've blaspheme the Holy Spirit I think we need to explain what blasphemy of the Holy Spirit probably is if we're going to get into that. But it would certainly be someone maybe we agree on this, that someone is denying someone who believes that Jesus Christ is Lord and yet still denies. um at least after I I think Jesus speaks of it differently in Matthew, referring just to the Holy Spirit, but later on in in the epistles it talks about Jesus or the Holy Spirit. So it would have to be somebody who who knows the truth. And vocally or maybe written blasphemes it or says against it. I guess I'd define that differently. I would say I would say it's somebody that denies that uh that there is a Holy Spirit that is God. They deny the Holy Spirit. They blaspheme the Holy Spirit sick says I don't believe Holy Spirit is not a good thing. And they're saying it's of Beelzebub. And Jesus is saying, that's blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. Actually he doesn't say that. He says you're coming dangerously close to that. Oh. Should we look at the verse? Yeah. I preached this one, so this is one I'm pretty sure about. Yeah, fascinating. Yeah, he's he's concerned that they are going there. And then we've got the whole idea of you know of church discipline. And if somebody is Wait just a second. We're supposed to stop praying for them. Okay, so let's back up while he's looking for his verse, because he said you don't know how you can pray Why why you wouldn't pray for somebody 'cause you don't know where they are. And I think this is one of the places I want to show because this is John's big thing all the time, is this is just Using scriptural language, right? That's that's all he's trying to say. There is a sin unto death. I do not say that he shall pray for it. Right? So we're not supposed to pray for those that have committed a sin unto death. All the all Westminster is saying, don't pray for those people. It's not actually saying who those people are, but it's saying the same thing that John said, first John five, right? Don't pray for those people who have committed that sin unto death. Yeah. So it's just kind of they're just taking a lot of things. There would be a sense that maybe there's a t time when we would know that that who those people are. We don't know all the time and unless there's some kind of glaring example of that being the case, I would agree with you y you know. uh that we should keep praying for people. Oh yeah, I'm with you on that too. Did you find your verse? I did. Uh it's in Matthew twelve and then it's also in Luke. Matthew twelve says it this way he talks about driving out demons by the Spirit of God. Then the kingdom of God has come upon you. Uh they were saying he drives out demons by Beelzebub. He says this. He says, He who's not with me is against me, he who does not gather with me scatter. So I tell you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but The blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven. Anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven. But anyone who speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven either in this age or in the age to come. Yeah. And how how are you saying that accusing them of it? Yeah, I think this is a warning passage saying You better stop it. Yeah, you y you m you m you're sta coming dangerously close to this. And then and then actually Stephen turns around and says uh uh later on, what is it about, maybe five years later, he turns around, maybe longer, and he says, You always resist the Holy Spirit, just like your fathers did. And they got really upset and then they stoned them to death. And uh again there seems to be a sense in in both of those situations, like I've talked about previously, that the ministry of the Holy Spirit is this thing that comes upon the righteous to proclaim and minister, you know, whatever it is that God wants them to do. In in Jesus' case, in Stephen's case, that was considered resisting the Holy Spirit when they were rejecting the messenger of God. But you can't say that's the same as as uh blasphemy the Holy Spirit. Well Jesus is the one that's tying it together. But we have those present and responsible that we have at least one example of somebody present and responsible for the stoning of Stephen who obviously didn't blaspheme the Holy Spirit. Right? The way that we're trying to define it now, because he ends up becoming one of the greatest of the apostles, author of And so in that case probably half the New Testament. Then I'd fall back on on what uh Jace is saying that that they were either dangerously close or had gone over the line. And uh and Jesus was clarifying it there and Stephen was clarifying it later on that look, that's where the line is, guys. And some of you guys have already gone over, and the rest of you really need to beware. Yeah and I would just I would say the line is that people with true knowledge, that is, you know, notitia, assensis, they they have the knowledge, they assent to the facts, and yet they still slander or blaspheme the Holy Spirit. That's that's how I would understand. Which facts You're talking about the facts about the world. Yeah. All those things. So it's that you know those things, you believe those things But you still deny you still say, I I don't care. So there's lots of people who resist the Holy Spirit. In fact that almost all my friends seem to resist the Holy Spirit. They're resisting them all the time. Right. I think they still have a chance. I'm still going to pray for them like crazy. Sure. And again, resisting is different from blaspheming. There's actually a website that's a good thing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It was about or something like that. Where they actually Where they have people reading the statement where they're just Now the question is, would they be blaspheming the Holy Spirit? I don't know. They may just be ignorant. If they're ignorant of it, I don't I'm not sure that I would count that as blaspheming. Just to say something against God I just have too many people in my life that have said something about God that have become Christians. Yeah, I'm well so Well but that's what he says here. He says if you can blaspheme the Son of Man You can blaspheme God, but if you blaspheme the Holy Spirit. And so so it's an interesting distinction. Yeah, but in the in the epistles they combine those, the glass blasphemy of the Holy Spirit and the blasphemy of Christ. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan's wife. You're talking about first John in particular? That's Jonathan, senior pastor at Cross Rosalite Chapel. And Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Are you talking right now? We're supposed to be listening to you. Oh, sorry. So why would you start now? Alright, so i i is that first John two twenty two where it says who's the liar, the man who denies Jesus is the Christ Such a man is the Antichrist, he denies the Father and the Son. That's not what you're saying. Well that's actually that one fits. I don't know if that's the one that I had writ I I didn't write them down unfortunately. Well then I think we come into this particular thing. It says it says nothing there about not being able to be forgiven later on down the road for that. Whereas Christ says Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven. Blasphemy against the Son of Man will be. And so I guess what I'm saying is that if you apply that to first John two, somebody could be the Antichrist, denying Christ. But still be forgiven and change have a change of heart down the road, which is different from what seems to be the uh this other area which is blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. Well, I can't really argue since I don't have the verse, but I'm quite sure the verse exists. So I'm not convinced by what you're saying. Points of for fraud are here in this in this section that we haven't touched on yet. One is prayer for the dead. It's another worthwhile one that would can make connections, but uh I can't tell you if it's the one that's the same thing. Interesting. Okay. All right. What were your questions? We'll figure it out later on. Can't pray for the dead. Now you got some people uh that think you should, you know having baptisms for the dead. So this isn't even going that far, but you can't even pray because it's a pretty common thing, right? It's pretty common for somebody to lose a loved one who who who who passes away And they're and they're gonna pray very commonly. I've heard these prayers. I think I've probably uttered these prayers, you know, at one point in my life. Oh, okay. I just wonder if that's saying you still do it. No, because I'm sensitive, I think, to this. Yeah, scripture says it's appointed the man once to die and then the judgment. And so my understanding is that is that Once they've died, they've they've had their last opportunity to deal right with God, and if they haven't dealt with it before that, then it's too late. Because obviously when they come to the judgment, they're going to see Christ. And what at that moment they're going to say, Oh now I see you. I repent. You know. No, that that's too late. You know, it's appointed to a man wants to die, and then the judgment. You do it now while you're still alive before you die That's where I stand. I agree. So everybody So everybody that's praying for a dead person is sinning? What's that? Everybody who who's praying for a dead person is sinning? Uh I would say that they're not going to be able to do that. Well you can say that you hope that they are, but that's different from saying, God would you please help them to get there Okay. It's fine to hope that they're there. Okay. At the end of the day. And I would say yes, that it would be a deception, and in that case it's harmony it misses the mark that you could call it sin. I wouldn't say it's a Massive sin, but I'd say it's a very dangerous one 'cause it leads down a path towards um a veneration in a uh a interaction with the dead that that I think is incurs in Catholicism is something that I protest against. That's the major concern I think that they're having here. Remembering this is a document of its time, very concerned, anti-Catholic Um we don't want to to support purgatory in any way that we can pray some years off of their uh and that's what Westminster is trying to do. And I think they're absolutely right. We don't that's a very dangerous dangerous. Well, uh should I move on to the next section or you do you not want to talk about uh the pray and understanding? I wanted to say this. I did a study of the Hebrew word for prayer. And it shows up as often in Scripture where one man is speaking to another man as it does a man speaking to God. And it means appeal. And so I'm uncomfortable saying that prayer is religious worship. I'd I'd I I'd rather say that it's important in our worship that we be communicating with God in a prayerful manner. But to but to say that prayer is part of uh uh religious worship to me um is uh uh uh uh it it it it I I guess I feel like it reduces the idea of prayer. My my sense is that is that as we learn to pray to God, we're taught to learn how to make appeals to one another that are godly and not bossy and demanding and rude and that that's the point is that we learn how to honor God and respect God as we're asking for things and as we're communicating with him, so that we learn to do that with one another. And the point is is that is that Well, w what does scripture say? Uh Romans twelve says that our spiritual act of worship is to be transformed by the renewing of our minds, you know, to to live differently. And the difference is not is not prayer to God, but the difference is is communicating with everybody, including with God, in a more uh righteous way, in a in a holy way, a way that that honors everybody uh that's in your life. And so I'm a little bit uncomfortable with them, you know, making just prayer this thing that you do to God and that's it because it It reduces the biblical idea of prayer. And again, I'm always uncomfortable with that. Obviously we need to talk to God, we need to do it regularly, and we need to do it according to the way that that the Bible prescribes that we do it with thanksgiving and with uh with worship and with honor and all those kinds of things. Uh and that would be a part of worship, but in fact what I'd say is that worship is a part of our communication with God. We don't spend all our time with God worshiping, uh interacting with him. Sometimes uh Moses looks like he's rebuking God and it doesn't look like worship whatsoever, but that doesn't mean that there's not worship in his heart towards God in the midst of the communication process And prayer is the the process of communication. So again, I'm splitting hairs about their language and uh and unfortunately I feel like it reduces the idea of prayer in a way that uh that We only do it with God. We don't we don't learn to improve uh as a result in our prayer with one another. I feel like Philemon is the classic example. Paul's very gracious uh uh request of Philemon that Onesimus would be uh would be given his freedom and allowed to come work for Paul, uh that appeal is the essence of prayer from one man to another Paul recognizes that he has he has uh uh you know that the slave belongs to Anesimus. I mean to Philemon, he recognizes all these things, but at the end of the day, he he grants to Philemon the choice, the right to make the decision. I'm not going to boss you around. There may be in the Lord I could, but I'm not going to do it. I'm going to let you make the decision. It's it's an appeal that is gracious, and I feel like that's the essence of prayer with God as well. God's in control. We don't go demanding things from him. We we recognize that he's got a will that maybe we might not understand, so we ask. And in asking, doing it in the right way, it's a form of communication. So after those two minutes, I have no idea what you actually disagree with here. Do you disagree with the word prayer? And you just want them to be more specific and say, pray to God? Because I think everyone agrees with you. I I think everybody in the world agrees with you that the word pray also means ask for appeal and that we can Most of the people most of the people that I preach to will they do this for me. Most people that I preach to don't know the uh King James and don't don't recognize that as important and I feel like that's a big part of uh preaching uh in this generation particularly that nobody knows how to do that anymore. Everybody's like, whatever. You know nobody knows how to appeal with with graciousness. Okay, so appeal with gra Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Jonathan Sweitzer, thank you. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Club and Heating. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Povin plumbing, how can we make you smile