It is the duty Of people to pray for magistrates, to honor their persons, to pay them tribute or other dues, to obey their lawful commands, and to be subject to their authority for conscience' sake Infidelity or difference in religion does not make void the magistrate's just and legal authority, nor free the people from their due obedience to them. From which ecclesiastical persons are not exempted much less has the Pope any power and jurisdiction over them in the dominions or over any of their people And least of all to deprive them of their dominions or lives if he shall judge them to be heretics or upon any other pretense whatsoever This is the Frederick Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Show is brought to us by Putman, Columbia Heating. How can we make you smile? Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crosshurst Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jay Sproadhurst. Senior pastor at Foolsville Baptist Church on the panel again this week. And that's uh the last section of chapter twenty-three from the Westminster Confession of Faith that I just read of the civil magistrate. So in more modern day English, what that was saying is Christians should obey and honor their government. They should pay taxes to pray for their civic leaders. All of this is true, even if the government officials are not Christian And a church has no authority to remove a government official from office. So we're picking up kind of where we left off last week. Uh on chapter 23, we We're going back and forth on whether no now this section is saying the church doesn't have any authority in the government, but the last section is saying the government does seem to have some authority in the church. Right. Right? That seems to be kind of the uh the the way this duality might be understood here. And I am vehemently opposed to that idea. Jonathan seems to agree with me with me very nervous. And uh the Jace is not quite so sure what to make of all of that. Well, I'm just not sure it's authority. I I guess I just as I read that over and over again, I just I'm not seeing quite so clearly as you guys. Well he's i i they use the word, yet he has authority. Yeah. I know he has authority, but not in the things that you were saying that No, he no, cause that's a run-on sentence. It goes like from there to the end. He has authority. It is his duty to take order, unity and peace be preserved, truth of God be kept pure, all blasphemies, heresies is uh suppressed You know, that's only halfway through the run-on sentence. He's like the Apostle Paul here for a second. But I feel like that it comes in conjunction with with the the fourth session here. Because they're fighting against the Roman Catholic Church here. Right. Right? And the Catholic Church is the one that said Uh it's clergy and property are exempt from the jurisdiction of civil courts. They're the ones who executed heretics. They didn't offici officially recognize authority not approved by the church. And they're They're arguing against these things. Weren't they w wasn't Calvin brought in to be set up to create a Christian society that would be ruled from the top down as a Christian society. I mean isn't that part of what the institutes of are all about? Well that's not what the Institutes is all about, but that is what Geneva was largely trying to do, to try and set up Yeah, so if that's the case, Christian community. Then then remember he has authority over him too. Who has authority over him? He wasn't he wasn't like the top dog. He wasn't top dog in Geneva. In fact it early on I didn't know, but he was clearly k major driving intellectual force. As should be all pastors in their communities, I think. But he was He ended up like Kroyders said, he got kicked out and there was constantly things that he couldn't accomplish. He tried to Plead with Cervatus, so Cervatis wouldn't be killed, but they ended up being killed anyway, not according to his law. Right, all of which puts him at the highest levels of authority. The reason he got kicked out was because he was Right, like all pastors should be doing. Influencing their communities so strongly. Yeah, no, I agree with that. Nevertheless, i he did it at a level that that was like Martin Luther. You know, these guys influenced their societies, you know, like you should too. But are you hanging out with Barack Obama? Does that somehow mean that you're doing something wrong? No, I mean you you you you just you know, and God haven't been brought to that level. Maybe you will, maybe I will. God forbid. But these you know, the point is is that Calvin was, and so was Luther, and so the Calvinism, you know, the influence that he brought was was an influence that was basically building a Christian society. Yeah, but but remember we're talking about a town. We're not talking about a country or a state. You know, Shihifas is not big. It's a small area. He has he has the ear of the local magistrates But you know, not all of Switzerland and all of Germany and everybody around him. So yes, should I should I have some kind in fact you do, don't you? So it's like the Curtains over in Massachusetts. He's trying to set up In that town a heaven on earth. Or not not sorry, that's the wrong yeah, that's the wrong phrase. But he's trying to set up a pure Christian society. Correct. And the Puritans attempted to do the same thing and they also failed Um yes, of course they failed. I don't think anybody would have argued that they were trying to make it perfect. They were just trying to come and live closer to Christ. See what it's interesting to me because and you're using Calvin as an example here, but it's it's hard to figure out how to split the hairs because Calvin was a magistrate and a pastor. So when he's trying to affect a spiritual environment that is healthy and good and dynamic for the purposes of God, is he doing that as the magistrate or is he doing that as the pastor? And here he's one man, so in some sense he's doing them as both, I get that, but Westminster following in that same line i the Westminster Confession is attempting to to to bring together almost like Ezekiel. In the book of Ezekiel we have this amazing attempt to bring together the king and the the uh religious system. Right? And and it's fascinating to see how he's trying to tie everything together in Ezekiel. I feel like that's what the Westminster Confession is attempting to do here is bring together the current contemporary political structure and and how it should play out because Finances are run a certain way and powers run a certain way. And so how should those things tie together? And so we have a historical statement that Worked maybe for what, ten? How long did it work for that they even tried to do these kinds of things? Ten years, twenty years, thirty years Five none. I mean they attempted, but it really never got played out. It's a little bit of a idealistic attempt That's something that really oversimplifying the argument, but you know, all of these things in the Old Testament that are pointing forward to the person of Christ. You know, the the the priests, the sacrificial system, the kings, whatever, all fulfilled in Christ. And so now Christ is our king. And we see in the early church when they have an issue to be resolved, there's not some guy that stands up and says, Hey, I'm your leader I'm gonna take charge. There's a council because the church handles things more corporately, because Christ is the king. There's not that I I You said you thought that might be simplistic. I I actually think that was my original thinking in all of this, so I don't think it's simplistic at all because it's brilliant. It was in my mind too. Is how does Christ fulfill that kingship thing? As I was saying, look to the Old Testament and the kingship. That's what I was trying to wrestle with Although I was trying to stay with the pol politics that you were kinda dealing with. But yeah, how does Christ fulfill that kingship and how are we in relation to that supposed to relate to ours? And to me that's the best The best point that we need to bring out of this that would say that they seem to be uh either wrong or moving in the wrong direction at least. Um so I I I just wanted to. I like that. It wasn't simplistic. It was brilliant. Brilliant. Hear that Donald Trump. Brilliant. I'm going to start speaking again so things will go back to the simplicity. Okay. Okay, yeah. Okay, so just you know Samuel in the Old Testament they want a king. Yes, right, they do. And God and Samuel gets very angry and God says, Look, they're not rejecting you, they're rejecting me. The very idea of a king in the Old Testament seem to seem to have not been God's original purposes. Yeah, I'm not with you on that one. No, I think that misses the whole kingship theme of the Old Testament that begins in Deuteronomy. Actually begins in the Totally, but he tells him, he says that you're gonna want that And so when it happens, like he warns them against it. No, I don't think the king is supposed to read it. Samuel says they're rejecting me as as king. That's right. That's why they're asking for a king. They're rejecting me. What is it that they want? A king like the other nations. Like the other nations, yeah. That's the problem, I think. It's that they're rejecting God as king and putting a king there. Not that they have a king as a representative. Well if God intended in in the law to set up a king, then why didn't he set up a king? Why did he wait for so long to do it until they asked for it the wrong way? Why didn't he just go ahead and set up a king? Well he did. It's it's in Genesis chapter two. And it happens there, and he gives him the dominion and power over all of the earth to subdue it and to name it and that's that's totally different. That's we are kings on the earth. That's very different from you rule over me. They weren't given Adam was not given rulership over people. He was given rulership over the animals in the earth. And that's precisely the problem is that kings tend to rule over people, and that's where where Christ coming as king is attempting to turn the whole thing upside down and calling us up that we would return to being kings together, that we'd be a royal uh humanity, that we'd be a royal priesthood in a holy nation. And so so that's precisely the point, is that that it doesn't seem like that the the world's idea is this one king, but God's idea was that we be kings. Yeah, I don't think Deuteronomy pushes that out at all. See that's the problem is when you talk for a long time I agree with most of what you said. But I don't think that takes away from the fact that one can rule over others. I think that he was put as a representative over others. Yes, it comes in the fall. Certainly the case. But it was designed that way, and I think Deuteronomy sets it up. I think Moses then is in many senses a king Now the official status of kingdom I mean Saul can't even t technically be called a king over all of Israel, um if if you read the narratives correctly and you know anything about history, he was more a king over certain places in Israel that accepted him. Um David is the first real monarchy and even that you know, some people didn't accept his kingship but Well th they do end up accepting Saul but for a short period of time and they run away But not everyone then they run away. Yeah, not still there Yeah. Yes, there were people in all of the kingdom that did, but there were also many who did not Okay, so but your point in that is My point is that the that the kings were actually set up on purpose. That there was designed to be a king that was very essential, and yes, Jesus fulfills that kingship where we're going with Troy And they had to have that king. So a it's Adam as king. Yes, there's a fall. Now we raise up a king that is a representative for all others to follow and to look to Christ. This is how they see God, the mediator between man and God. King is is raised off. This is how the the uh gosh, I need a better word than mythology. But but again you're mixing you're mixing the ideas because if Christ is the king mediator, but we're supposed to be kings and priests, the ademic uh uh original was that we be kings and priests and that's not that's not dealing with us uh through a mediator that the king is the mediator. That's dealing with us as being you know, the kings as being the ones that are walking as kings. You know, and Christ is the mediator, but he's also a king, you know, and so I guess. So he's a king mediator, it's the same thing. We're we're getting things mixed up. No, you're you're not just like Christ. Christ. Certainly I am like him in some sense. Okay, okay, you're right. So that's I think that's what Paul is doing. He's saying he's the first one, the unique one, and then we follow in his footsteps. We're not only called co-heirs. Yeah Yeah, we're brothers of Christ in some sense. And so there is a sense in which he started all of this based on what the Old Testament was doing. He's the first fruits of all of that, but now we rise with him as well. So yes, the we are back to that. We are all kings But I think what they're saying now is, yeah, that's true, but we still have authorities over us and we need to be praying for them, etcetera. who i it's it's it's the world. It's the way that the world works, that that it it he rules over and he tells them he's the benefactors, you know, this kind of thing. But Jesus says you're not to be like that. Instead, if you want to be great, you are to serve others. And there seems to be a sense that uh that that they're trying to bring together this to the the city of God and the city of of man. That I I might agree with you on that. That that's where I'm kinda I'm s I think I might be sold. They're trying to do that. I'm I don't know where the whole servanthood thing came into that, but Well my point is that I'm trying to draw a distinction between the idea of kingship that Christ represents and the the city of man idea of kingship. that this seems to be addressing with civil magistrates that that is very different that I think is what what Troy's getting at, that the that the the kingdom of man, the way that Israel ended up setting up kings, uh wasn't godly. That's part of the reason why I feel like uh I Ezekiel had to had to do what he did because he was trying to He was trying to y well God gave him a vision of what a true king would do in terms of setting things up, instead of just bringing all the money into the to the central place, he would be like a river that flows out and blesses the entire kingdom. He's trying to turn the whole model back, you know, i into a Christ like model. And this is precisely the problem is that I feel like Well, I like your conclusion, I think, but I just don't like the fact that you think kingship was some kind of a earthly thing. I think this was foreordained from the beginning. that the kingship would be there and it'd be very important. And it's a good thing. Or that maybe that maybe that's the point is that if we talk long enough we'd be like, oh yeah, we agree with each other. We're just getting at it from different directions. I mean at the end of the day I I feel like you're mixing uh two ideas. One is the idea of the Adamic that we're all going to be kings, the other is the idea that there will be a king over Israel that will that will be the king of Israel. And um But that that question is the true Adam. That is the he's supposed to be Adam. That's Adam theology. This is just Who Adam is as the king is now represented in this king over here who sits between man and God as this special, special a regular human king sits between man and God. He's some kind of special or sacred. And that ends up pointing to Christ here, because he has to be the second David. That's very important that he's the second David, that he's the second Adam. That's why he calls him the this whole thing. And now we are lifted up with him. I don't I don't think David ever called the second Adam? I think the word Adam for man is used often and probably ends up anyways. Yeah, but I'm just talking about the big history of redemption here. how the king shift theme works throughout it. Yeah, I'm following you. And so I don't I don't think I'm mixing it, but it is possible. This is one of my one of my fun areas in Old Testament studies is trying to to work out covenant and kingship, especially how they relate to war, but anyway, I think I think the end point of all of this, because eventually you're gonna call us back to this I I think I might be sold in what you're saying. Um that I'm not sure how much power the magistrate should have. That's uh That's concerning to me at least. I can I can say you have sold me on that being very concerning both biblically and practically. It was already concerning to me practically But I wanted to make sure that we weren't just stuck in our own. Because if we are bringing in the kingdom and then you know, certain things are gonna happen, you know, in eschatology, but we're bringing in the kingdom, then there will be an increasing sense that righteous people and even Christians are are in these positions of leadership and bringing a more godly perspective that is there to serve and to lift up and not to be served. Right? But or maybe we're just kind of waiting for for you know the apocalypse to happen and then Christ is going to return and then he's going to set everything up. You know, and so eschatology comes into play here right away in terms of, you know, what are we anticipating? I think you're of the opinion that we're going to be able to do. Neither one of those in neither one of those. No, that's post-millennialism. The one that you gave would be m more premillennialism. I would consider myself, if we want to get into all these huge words, non-millennialism. Yeah, yeah. What's the distinction between the two? Well the kingdom is here already. Yeah. It's well not that we're bringing in the kingdom, it is already present. But yes, there is a sense in which there's an overlap of these two ages. So are we bringing it in more? Like Well certainly we are to do kingdom-oriented things. We are to take care of the sick. We are to do those things. And in that sense No, that would be more that would be more postmillennialism. and uh even going closer to theonomy. Um I'm glad for people like them. I'm glad for them to be in those positions of things. I don't see that the world is going to keep getting better and better and then all of a sudden Yeah. Heaven becomes earth. Um I think there is something that will happen. Sure. Uh that will change all these things. And what I call in the y you're of the opinion that the saints are reigning now? Yeah, the this is the king of the gods. This is the reign of the saints. I'm in it. I'm in the rest of Christ. And and that being the reign of the saints, then then we are kings. We are reigning as kings. Right. Christ being the first fruits. This is Paul's, I think, constant point. And so then how that how does that apply to this? To the section of three that magistrates should have authority? Yeah. Well yeah, that's what I've been working on through this whole discussion here. I like this heady stuff. You know, so far who else does it. It's hard to know. Is it too heady? I don't know. You're too much right in the average. I feel like if you guys talk for like three minutes and I don't know what you're talking about. That's good stuff. Hopefully a few things went through there that were somewhat No, I do think that uh uh I mean we we throw some big words that we might want to take a couple of minutes just to make sure in case he's like, Okay, I don't know what they're talking about. Eschatology, things that have to do with the end of the world, the end of time, right? The study of the end, right? I mean I'm trying to think of a I would I would say the the study of last things. Last things, okay. But the question is whether most people think of that as referring to something that's still future. But I would say it that last things has been referring to the last time. See here it's a good thing. for me too. I just know what people think with the right. Right. We hear eschatological or eschatology, you know, that's that's what's being talked about there. We probably should take just a quick second. We've talked about it before on the show, but it's been a while. So we're talking about these millennial views. Yeah. Millennial. The millennium is that period of time where the saints are supposed to reign. A millennium is, you know, a word that stands for like a thousand years, but what do we mean by a thousand years? Is it a thousand literal years at one thousand three hundred and sixty five day years, or is it a uh uh a a a a term that's meant to just represent a long, long, long, long time or whatever? And then different people have different views and there's a whole bunch of variety But there's three main flavors, the strawberry, chocolate, and vanilla, if you will, of of ice cream here on End Times. And you've got the premillennial. And if you are familiar with the Left Behind series books Those are premillennial books. Dispensational premillennial. Well, yeah, that's yeah, that's a particular brand of premillennialism. Very important distinction. Of course that just adds an extra word that we got to find, so we're not going to have time to. But anyway, so I'm trying to make this as simple as possible. I'm doing a horrible job. Anyway, so the pre and the millennial, post millennial, and all millennial. Those are words we used on the show today. the the pre, post, and ah all have to do with when we're talking about Christ's return in relation to the millennium. So people that say that Jesus will return before the millennium starts Jesus comes before the millennium, they are pre-millennial. Jesus comes and then the millennium starts. He will rapture his people up into heaven and then they will reign. And then there's the post millennials who say that things are gonna get better and better and better until at some point this idea of heaven and earth kind of blend into one. Heaven And at that point then Christ will come and judge. Christ will return after a thousand years of that So there's a thousand years of this heaven on earth and then Christ comes. And then there's the all millennial view, which is that um Uh ah meaning like non or no. Yeah, it's really a it's a bad way to phrase it, but the people the whole to a millennial view are saying that the millennium started when Christ came the first time. hasn't been fully consummated yet. That happens at the second coming. And so there's this overlap between the old the old days and the new days. Right. Are on top of each other. And we're living in that period now. So it's true that We don't have heaven yet. However, it's also true that we have heaven now. Right. Because there's there's a sense in which when we do certain things we enter into the heavenlies. That's That's kind of the that concept and I've had trouble I did this in Sunday school, even this last week, trying to explain it. And and I can't come up with a good number. My hands are doing things, you can't see this. Um This overlap of these ages, how we kind of we kind of f flip back and forth between them. So when we when we're in worship in a sacred way, there's a there's a sense in which we're We're going into the heavenlies, or when I'm when I'm doing when I'm showing mercy to people, or when I'm doing godly things, when I'm doing all these things, that heaven is theme. I've called it like a a scrim three theology is what I've become famous for in my own church for talking about. They know what that means, that that you can see through into this other dimension when that happens. That God God's heaven isn't like past outer space, despite what Max Lucado's angel books are all about. You know, it's not past there. It's it's this This other dimension. It's the that's the throne room of God where he rules the earth. And so we we see that when the light shines through that backstage room, we can see God through his people. So there's that sense in which that's kinda heading in the direction of post-millennialism that we do that enough that eventually heaven will come. I don't think that will that will be the way. I think Christ will come and there will be um that that cataclysmic moment and then heaven Jerusalem the new Jerusalem is willing to be a very good thing. And I and for the record, I mean Jace If you've listened to the show in the past, you you might recall that uh I described myself as a millennial. And Jonathan is undeclared on his millennial view. So that's that's the panel that we have here. The thing that sold me That really 'cause I wrestled with okay, which which view do I real the thing that really sold me, uh again I maybe oversimplify things, although maybe Jace will tell me I'm brilliant. Uh is the millennium has to do with the kingdom of God. And there is a there is a king ruling over that millennial period that's is sitting in rulership. That that king sitting in rulership is Christ. Jesus Christ sits in rule now. Yeah. God has crowned him. And so if he is in if he is king now, the millennium has to have started. That's kind of that it's an overly simplistic way probably to come to a f final decision on it. But uh that was the thing that pushed me over the edge. I'm now firmly entrenched in the Abilenial Camp. And uh so go to our website if you want to know more about these things. We've got uh tw we just had an eschatology conference. There's like thirteen or fourteen different and I was there, it was fantastic and there was uh some great lectures if you and uh guys who are able to make it a s a little simpler than I thought. Oh yeah, yeah. Me too. And brilliant. Just uh you can listen to them all on podcasts, I would encourage you to do that. Foolsville Baptist dot com. Alright. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh what's your uh church's website address? CVchapel. org. CVchapel. org. Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. And what was that again? PoolsvilleBaptist. com. There you go. And I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith that Bay. You can find us at wfmd. com, keyword faith. Uh there you'll find a uh pretty much daily blog that's updated. You can find links to podcasts, thinking of podcasts, podcasts of of this show and other shows like it even better. Um and All I'd say 75% of the shows we've ever done are available on our website somewhere. You just gotta try to find them, I suppose. But they're there somewhere in cyberspace. And the Ten Hulk and the ten most recent shows are really easy to find now. They're right on the Faith Debate page and there's a special uh audio player there And the ten most recent shows are always right there. So give our webmaster a couple of days. If you want to hear this show back, for example, give him a couple of days and then go to the Faith Debate page on WFMD. com and you'll be able to find. Uh this should have listened back. Anyway, thank you guys, this is great. Uh next week uh is th is uh Valentine's weekend And we'll be talking about marriage. Oh, how nice. How perfect is that? It's as though God is providential or something. Oh. Indeed. Thanks for listening. Thanks for our sponsor, putting in plumbing, and heating, how can we make you smile? God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing that's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Povin plumbings, how can we make you smile