A lawful oath is a part of religious worship. Wherein upon just occasion the person is swearing solemnly calls God to witness what he asserts or promises, and to judge him according to the truth or falsehood of what he swears. The name of God only is that by which men ought to swear, and therein it is to be used with all holy fear and reverence, therefore to swear vainly or rashly, by that glorious and dreadful name, or to swear at all by any other thing. is sinful and to be abhorred. Yet, as in matters of weight and moment, an oath is warranted by the word of God under the New Testament as well as under the Old So a lawful oath being imposed by lawful authority in such matters ought to be taken. Those are the first two sections of Chapter twenty-two of the Westminster Confession of Faith of Lawful Oaths And vows. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, a safe haven for honesty. So we're gonna be badgering each other, beating each other up, and at the end of it, we're all gonna get along nicely because why, Jonathan? The truth hurts, baby. No, because this is the home for conflict resolution. The truth matters, baby. Oh man, sad. After six years, you think you'd get the show tagline right. Jonathan Slicer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst is the senior pastor of Foolsville Baptist Church. Last week we were talking about Chapter 21 Which and we talk about the Sabbath and worship and how that played out and just for the record there's a reason I always live in the past. Most of my life is there Most great one. That was just profound one. Not to get all esoteric on you, but I got to be Well I guess most of his life is future. I had to debate yeah. Most of your life is to come. That's true. But most of the life that I've lived is in the background. Okay. So anyway, be precise in your language. So we were talking about uh worship last week and ver the very first line of uh chapter twenty two here has the word worship in it, which is good because it gives us a chance to to tie up some loose ends because we didn't really get to finish some things we wanted to talk about in chapter uh twenty-one. But by the way, for those who don't speak old world English, this is what I read a second ago, right? People are allowed to swear oaths so long as it's part of religious worship or required by civil government. Oaths should be sworn in the name of God only. To do otherwise or to take the matter too lightly, that's not good. That means it's bad. These guidelines are true from an understanding of both the Old and the New Testaments of the Bible. So that's the gist of it. So in in worship service, if the if your church asks you to take an oath Give me an example of saying have you ever been asked to take an oath in the name of God in the s in the membership service? Yeah. We do in our church. Like what? I think at uh membership. Yeah. Open oath? And they do that in the name of God? Uh in the name of God, but revelence. The reason why is because scripture says Uh that you are not to s your Christ is the one that says it, that you are not to swear by anything, whether in b whether by heaven for it is God's throne, or by earth for it is footstool, or for Jerusal by Jerusalem for it's the city of the great king Don't swear by your head, you know, and and I can't find anywhere in the New Testament where somebody took an oath in the name of God and we're were led to believe that it was a good thing. Wait, so so it has to be in the New Testament for you to abide by it? Um I'm saying that Christ is the one that is that is saying That you have heard that it was said, do not break your oath, but keep the oath you made to the Lord. He's referring to the Old Testament. Yes. He says, but I tell you, do not swear at all. And he is the one that makes take takes it to this whole different level and says, look, I don't want you guys swearing. Because it's all pride and vanity. And you can't change anything. You gotta trust God. You know, you make commitments, but you know, he's he seems to be drawing a distinction here that people take these oath oaths and that that there's a problem with it. I mean what how do you read that passage in uh Matthew five? Um Do not swear by anything. Well, a at all by there's the exception clause that comes right after that. Either by heaven. Or by the earth. Yes. Or by Jerusalem. So all the other places you shall swear by the Lord your God. You've got Deuteronomy ten, you shall fear the Lord your God, you shall serve in the whole fast command by his name you shall swear. Leviticus nineteen, you shall not swear by my name falsely, and so profane the name of your God, assuming of course that you are supposed to do that, Jeremiah five. Um uh uh what Ezra ten, he made this he he made all the people take an oath together that they would uh Interestingly, we won't talk about that, but that they give up their wives um because they were foreigners. Yeah. Um so Quakers would agree with you that oaths shouldn't be taken. And they base it all on Matthew five, but it seems to me that there's a specific there that Jesus is saying and and a point that he's trying to get across, not that no oath should ever be taken at all. Either by heaven. The all is now Given its given its specifics. Either by heaven for the throne of God or by earth versus footstool or by Jerusalem for the city of the great king. I I think what you were saying, the reasoning behind the swearing is the problem. You were saying because it leads to pride or it leads you to think that you were in charge of the thing. And that would be a real negative reason for doing it. And yet I want people to make promises to certain things. I make promises to my children, which is an oath. Um a I guess I I there's a distinction actually in Westminster between oaths and vows, I think, too. And in scripture uh v vows are I guess person to person and oaths are Person to God. Hmm. See if I remember my It'd be nice if I did some research before coming. Sure. Um I've said that many times. Because Paul made a vow. Actually, and his vow was a religious vow that wasn't to people, but it was it was to God that he would I think the main problem Westminster was having and the reason that they did this next one is is the Roman Catholic Church was making oaths all over the place. of poverty and chastity. And they were say and the Anabaptists were saying, No, you can't do any of that stuff because of Matthew five. There it is. You can't do it. And Westminster's saying, no, no, no, oaths are okay. If you're going to go into a courtroom, you're making a promise, you're making an oath before God, He's listening. That's an okay thing to do. Even God himself, by the way, swears between heaven and earth. So I don't know that that allows us the ability to do the same thing. But there is uh swearing doesn't seem to be wrong. I've heard a lot of times, you know, you don't want to be part of the Masonic lodge because they have to swear oaths. Well It's a little bit feeble of a reason for the problem. The problem is that the oaths that you're required to swear in the Masana Lad end up leading you Away from scripture. But that's not the argument that's simply well you can't make it all oaths are bad. And I just don't see that in scripture. It doesn't seem that all oaths are bad. Yeah, so so I'm a little bit I'm not sure. I mean I I see your point that I mean it says do not swear at all and then he gives reasons why and I could I could see what you're saying that maybe uh that's referring, you know, that it's saying just okay, don't swear in these ways. Let's go back to only swearing, you know, in the name of God and doing it with proper reverence. I could see that that possibly that's the case. Um and I think the need uh the need for swearing should should I guess that's the for Christians. No, well I think doesn't James say that? Matthew five thirty-five or if still do not swear by your head. James five twelve. Okay, James says, above all, my brothers, do not swear. not by heaven or by earth or by anything else, let your yes be yes and your no no or you will be condemned. Yeah and I I Having not exeged these texts, my guess is and I would only say that it's a guess, that he's trying to emphasize that we don't need to promise. We don't need to make s In fact, James had just said a little bit earlier that that we should not say, you know, I'm gonna go here and I'm gonna do this, but that we should say if the Lord wills I will go and do this. And so there's a sense of of Christ and James calling us back to humility and uh you know not not trying to act like we're everything revolves on us. Look, I'm telling you that I'm gonna do this So you know what's gonna happen. You know, as if I'm the guy that, you know, makes all the difference in the scenario. And something else I think is important to keep in mind, the tr 'cause You know, proof texting can be so dangerous sometimes. We've got to keep in mind the entire narrative of all sixty-six Bibles, uh uh books of the Bible. And later in Matthew in chapter twenty-six Jesus testifies under oath at his own trial. So he would have refused to speak at his own trial at all if he was resistant to speaking under oath. What uh the high priest Caiaphas says, uh you need I I'm gonna paraphrase really badly here, but he's basically saying, you need to tell me right now, swear by God, you know, what's going on here. Who are you, what this all what's this all about, and Jesus speaks He says, I charge you under oath by the living God. Tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God. He says, yes, it is as you say. But he doesn't say, Okay, I swear to you under oath by the living God. He just says, Yes, it is as you said. The implication I think is there. I I'm with you on that one. Because he said swear by God and that's what he kind of did. afterwards. I mean that's that's what courts do. That's why you put your hand on your Bible and you say, I swear to tell the the idea is that I'm swearing by what is most holy to me. Hopefully that's not the Bible. That's a misunderstanding, but what the Bible represents, that is God Himself. So I'm not sure. Okay, well let's do that. So vowels are impossibly a a point that could happen in religious worship according to this a lawful oath. Um but we also last week we were talking about all these different other possibilities and we never dealt with what What Westminster calls the regul well, not what they call, but what we've come to call the regulative principle. That is only things this is how they would have understood, only things would have prescribed in Scripture can show up in our corporate worship services to use your uh and mine the way we normally talk. So I start I mean this is something I battle with, so I don't have answers to this. Um I would ask any pastor who came on staff at my church how they understand the regulative principle, because I want to know where they're at on this. What how what liberties do they take with this? And there's different understandings even within the reform faith. of how the regulative principle works out and read like John Frame for a very liberal view of how this this takes or Richard Pratt. But um My question would be, w you know, what about microphones? I got microphones in worship. Um is it talking about those kinds of things? PowerPoint, which I have in worship. Uh contemporary songs that I heard on the radio, which we don't do an awful lot of, but every once in a while they might show up in mine. I'm sure they show up in yours. Um Yeah. Worship services. Um I just wonder are you thinking about the regulate the regulative principle what's the regulative principle that you can only use what is prescribed in scripture. That's the only thing that show up in scripture. It says you should pray in worship. Well the only people that really follow that are the ones that don't use instruments, right? Um well they yeah. I mean i people with instruments would of course argue that that is prescribed for worship because David is the psalm writer and he uses instruments all over the place. Sure. So and I think I think that's a fair argument. Um but maybe cer you could go so far as to say, well not all instruments because they're not all prescribed. But you know that's that's going a little bit far with it. But if it's not prescribed, can we do it? I mean can dra drama is probably one of the best examples. Drama never shows up in scripture that I'm aware of at least as part of a worship service, and yet most worship service are using it. Or or dance, interpretive dance. to a song. Not saying either of those things are wrong. In fact I think they're both beautiful. I did drama for many years. I thought you were going to say you did interpretive dance. I was going to be really impressed. You'd be impressed? Yeah. Or you just go back a little further from me. Um but Do they show up in the worship service? There's some things that are perfectly fine but probably shouldn't be used in worship. You know, I I might think that smoking cigars is great, but if someone's smoking a cigar in the middle of the worship service, I'm not going to be real happy with them. for instance. So how do you I I'm just curious, truly, this is just a a friend to friend, how do you understand that? Or do you not even worry about you just do whatever you want to worship. You know, parts of uh scripture uh in the in the New Testament. Um, you know, and so there's there's a sense of of communication going on, and so a communication device that helps us all to read together, you know, like everybody having a Bible. Well there's not a sense that everybody had a Bible back then either. Nope. You know, and so so we use Bibles, but that's just so that everybody can read along together uh because we are post-Gutenberg, you know, and we all know how to read read these days. And then uh so we put it up on an overhead. It's just allowing everybody to read and to do it together. Uh we use devices to to project Uh I think the uh uh the synagogues were probably built in such a way that that the acoustics would help, you know, technologically to you know, to get things around right and so um So for you communication is the key. Yeah. And they would get into that, the difference between elements of the spirit versus the law. when we come together and worship. I think they the assembly would have said differently. I think they would have said, well the word is read and the word is uh proclaimed to sometimes different things. But people aren't allowed to have their own Bibles? Yeah I'm putting my I'm putting my I I don't know what they would have said But certainly they're part of the Reformation and the Reformation was all about getting the word into everybody's hands. So but reading the word uh I mean what what what happens from the stage or from the front? They would say is is is the guy. And then how about uh how about parables? I mean when I picture Jesus telling a parable, I don't I don't picture him just sitting there just speaking. I picked your expression and uh maybe a maybe a little bit of uh of emphasis in different places where where you almost get the sense of these kind of, you know um he you know he's acting it out. You know, I guess it depends on what what you see there. But they just wouldn't see that as religious worship. Christ preaching? It's not r uh parable is not a religious worship? No. That would have been no, definitely not Well that's fascinating to me. When the assembly, the kahal is pulled together. When if they had pulled them together, telling a parable that that Jesus told and using expression. Yes They'd say that's okay. Probably you're splitting more hairs than I do. Well I'm just trying to think for them. Like, hey, look at that tree over there. Let me tell you a story. That's very different than the gathering, the cajals. Well that's funny because I feel like when Christ is like, you know, preaching the sermon on the mountain they're all gathered around him, that would probably be a good one. Yeah, I don't know how they see it. Yeah. Environment and a gathered group. Teaching you. I would I would feel like that's a profoundly religious worship scenario. You know, you're with the Son of the Living God communicating. He's teaching you. You're being transformed by renewing your mind. I mean the whole thing is to to me But even you said there's a distinction between what happens when the church is gathered and what happens elsewhere. Because the Holy Spirit indwells all believers, so our worship is always worship right now. So this is hopefully worship taking place. But there's a just a bucket for an offering in a second. Yeah. Me. Yeah. I guess so. This is your place. We're in your house now, so good all goes to you. So is there a distinction? Yeah, it's funny. There is a distinction and I guess it uh sometimes I feel like that distinction is worth minimizing, other times I feel like it's worth magnifying. Uh but but all that to say that Um again that I feel like where I don't know. I've totally forgot what I was gonna say. Yeah, absolutely we'll do that. And I just for the record, I always get very nervous whenever we try try to prescribe too much. And it starts to feel legalistic and constraining and confining and it seems to go against the grain of what the overarching meta-narrative of the Bible is, which is freedom in Christ. You know, and if somebody wants to jump up and down during church for example. You know, don't do that. There's no jumping up and down mentioned in the Bible. Well, but there's no prohibition against jumping up and down in the Bible either. And I I just think we ha I it makes me very nervous. Yeah, the reentry of w of dancing and worship came along with this this sense of going back to the drums and the the you know using tambourines and and guitars like the you know like uh like you found with David in the Old Testament. You know, David's the one that uh that seems to talk about dancing and and danced as they were coming together. So your your words on prohibition, that's the other side of this. As long as it's not prohibited, then it's okay. And my concern, uh even though I agree with everything you just said, I think My concern is that the other thing is. Yeah, but he was dancing when he said that, and that's that's that is That is a concern of mine. Right. Well in in the Old Testament. Right. What I what I'm saying is I I agree with what you're saying that uh there's freedom, that you know we shouldn't be legalistic and all these things. But my concern is the opposite side of this, which is we think somehow that we have a better way to worship than what God has already given us And he said, this is the way I want you to do it. Here here it is. It's it's laid out. Now who are you to come up with new ways to do it when I already told you the way I like it? And so I I'm not disag well, I think I might be disagreeing, but I just feel that huge tension that I don't I don't want to do something just because I get a feeling of it, I get something nice from it or I don't think there's anything wrong with it. This is why you get paid drawing pictures. This is why pastors make millions of dollars. of the rule, the spirit of the law is, you know, the and and we circle by the letter of the law. That makes me very nervous. You know, e c there are s we've had him uh we've had 'em on this show. We've had uh you know pastors on this show that are uh apoca uh they do um um um with no no me no instruments. Yeah. Acapella. Acapella, here you go. Thank you. Acapella music, psalm only. Yeah. You know, that's all they do. And po probably because of this. Exactly because of this, I'm sure. Uh you know, there's something just I I think they're missing something really important when they get so legalistic on a letter load. And everything that they said to us is that all the other stuff is vanity and I was and And I called him on it. Remember when he was sitting here? I said, Yeah, you don't you don't think that when you guys are singing with all your four part harmonies that there's not a little bit of vanity that slips in his And he immediately was like, No, you're right, it does. I mean vanity is Yeah, anyways. So anyway. I think we all find out we've got gaps in our own. All right. Let me read part three and four here and see what if we can make some headway on oaths and bows, all right? Whoever takes an oath ought to ought duly to consider the weightiness of so solemn an act, and therein to avouch nothing but what he is fully persuaded is the truth, neither may any man bind himself by oath to anything but what is good and just, and what he believes so to be, and what he is able and resolved to perform. Yet it is a sin to refuse an oath, touching on anything that is good and just being imposed by lawful authority. An oath is to be taken in the plain and common sense of the words, without equivocation or mental reservation. It cannot oblige to sin, but in any thing not sinful being taken it binds to performance, although to a man's own hurt. Um although to a man's own hurt. Not is it to be violated although made to heretics or infidels. So in English. By the way, this is Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Froy Skinner, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Foolsville Baptist Church, on the panel this week. So when swearing an oath, the person should tell the truth, intend to keep his or her word and commit only to good things. It's a sin to refuse to take an oath that's required by the government, unless of course what the government asks you to swear to is evil. An oath should be stated plainly, clearly, and obligate the person, making them to follow through, even if it kills them This is true of all oaths, even those made to heretics or infidels. So any disagreement on any of that? No, I mean I pledge allegiance to the flag. I uh made a vow to give to my wife on the wedding day. You know, I'd made vows to hold other people to their wedding vows. You know, I uh I I guess at the end of the day there's a bunch of vows that we do, but uh you know, I th I I I think the gist of what they're saying is here don't is don't do it lightly, you know, follow through on it and uh you know And there's a chance you won't make it. And there aren't certain groups of people it's okay to lie to. Right. Right? The infidels. You can't lie to the infidels. But you still have to because it's your word. Right. So it is true that King David used deception with Absalom and others. Oh Very okay. Yeah. Wartime, yeah, that's a whole we should do a whole series of this is my area. The Maki and God sent a di uh a deceptive spirit, right? Yes you did. Confused them and last two sections here. Three sections. A vow is of the like nature with a promissory oath and ought to be made with the like religious care, and to be formed with the like faithfulness. It is not to be made to any creature, but to God alone And that it may be accepted it is to be made voluntarily out of faith and conscience of duty in way of thankfulness for mercy received or for the obtaining of what we want, whereby we more strictly bind ourselves to necessary duties, or to other things so far and so long as they may fitly conduce thereunto. No man may vow To do anything forbidden in the Word of God, or what would hinder any duty therein commanded, or which is not in his own power, and for the performance whereof he has no promise of ability from God. In which respects Popish monastical vows of perpetual single life, professed poverty, and regular obedience are so far from being decrees of higher perfection that they are superstitious and sinful snares in which no Christian may entangle himself. So there's a shot at the Roman Catholic Church. So Valley Everything was nice, but then they had to go partisan. I know, they do that every once in a while. Vows need to follow the same rules set forth for oaths, a special note regarding vows that we are not to take vows requiring something of ourselves that depends solely on us apart from God and his provision of power to fulfill it, and specifically taking vows of lifelong chastity and poverty, are superstitious entanglements to be avoided by all Christians. What do you think? I'm just wondering if uh if it's against the Westminster Confession to uh to put it like in a uh NIV version or something. There is an NIV version. Is there? Yeah, yeah. Uh I think that um uh a vow of perpetual single life I think that's biblical I mean, right? A vow. Both Paul and Christ said that some people what did they say to take a vow that you would do it? Or called to that. Well, I mean I mean Paul remains single. Right. But he didn't take a vow that he would forever remain single, right? As far as we know he continued to remain single, but he didn't. Yeah. I'm not uncomfortable with somebody taking a vow to to live a single life. Um I think it's very important that they think it through that they understand what they're doing. Well yeah, because if they take that vow, I mean they're kinda stuck with it. Exactly. Exactly. Um poverty, I can't find anything in the New Testament that's a vow of poverty. I see Paul willing to be impoverished in certain situations, but a vow of poverty is something that that I've grappled with and that I'm you know, because I've I've known people that feel like More Christians should do that because we live in a materialistic society that is full of greed and you know worldly uh uh things and and we need to, you know, remove ourselves from that. Um, I I personally have taken vows at time to simplicity to put away some of the things of the world for a period of time to to uh help me to be less distracted, you know, i. e. not watching television for a period of time or or uh you know um you know so uh I'm I'm comfortable with that sort of a thing Okay, but I think you I think you limited it exactly the way that they're specifying that you shouldn't do. Like uh or they you they're yeah, they would e they would agree with me. Yeah, because It's okay for me to say perpetual single life is wrong. Perpetual issues. I mean, I might feel now this is what I'm supposed to do. And that that's just something that we we I mean, how do you get out of something like that? Or I mean it's a few years ago. I vow to end the show on time. I'm Froy Skinner. He's Doctor Chase Broadhurst. Senior Pastor Poolsville Baptist Church, Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. This is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Flipling, Flumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks for listening. God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's where the P has in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile? Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?