Baptism. is a sacrament of the New Testament, ordained by Jesus Christ. Not only for the solemn admission of the party baptized into the visible church, but also to be unto him a sign and seal of the covenant of grace Of his engrafting into Christ, of regeneration, of remission of sins, and of his giving up unto God through Jesus Christ to walk in the newness of life Which sacrament is, by Christ's own appointment, to be continued in his church until the end of the world. The outward element is to be used in this sacrament is water. Wherewith the party is to be baptized in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, by a minister of the gospel, lawfully called thereunto. And there you have the first two sections of chapter 28 of the Westminster Confession of Faith of Baptism. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And encouraging you to visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith where you can uh check out a daily blog and also hook up with all the podcasts for the show. By the way, we've crossed the threshold. We have over two hundred shows available via podcast. That's more than four years worth of shows. You've been keeping track, we guess we've got six years of shows under our belt, which means we've lost two years of podcast somewhere along the way, but the law of slo supply and demand does not apply here. Actually the more of those that we do the more valuable they are. Is that right? Yeah, yeah. Well, seeking your value, Jonathan Sweitzer, a friend I value for very much for many years now. Senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and Dr. Jace Broadhurst Senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church on the panel again this week. And uh it's interesting the last part of the section two here on the uh on the baptism talked about those called Uh law where is it? Where is it where is it? Lawfully called it. lawfully ordained. And by the way, ordained Frederick Faith uh Faith Debate Word of the Week. So for uh the uh I'm he are you hearing that? I'm hearing no you don't hear it probably in the I'm hearing like a basketball game or something in my No. Are you seeing things too? Very distracting. Very distracted. Hopefully you're not hearing that on the air. If you are, let me know who wins. Ordained word of the week means what? Who wants to take that one? All yours, sir. Uh it's got something to do with uh Great Dane, is that correct? Uh you have been or great dane. Uh it means that you have been called by God to the ministry or to something that God has set something apart for a specific purpose. Meaning an individual or sacrament has been set apart under a certain purpose. Is that correct? And you do that in the case of the the church, you know, when you have tested someone and approved them in a certain way, depending on the policy of your church, uh the government of your church. Okay. You you know, you have to go to seminary or whatever it is that you say the divines have a huge list of things that you have to do in order to be ordained. Um but yeah it's just it's just the transfer of authority. And once you've been ordained, then you can administer the sacraments. And there are seventeen? No. Six? No. Well, it depends who you ask. There's either two or seven. Right? Right. Yeah, or well, there could be any in between there as well. Um my my question is w would you agree with that? I was just curious to your thinking on that, as to whether they must be lawfully ordained in order to administer the sacraments. Because your church is more of a you know you got no no governing body above you or anything like that. It's it's autonomous, you kind of set up where it's going as you understand scripture. So would someone else be able to deliver the sacraments for you or ordinances or however you um I'm comfortable with uh people that have not been ordained in an official sense administering the sacraments. Uh with it being people that are members in good standing in the congregation I I'm comfortable with. So you'd let a dad baptize his son? Regardless of whether he's an elder or deacon or whatever your government is? Um I'd be open to it. Uh generally I wouldn't I wouldn't encourage it. I wouldn't offer that as an option. But if there's a dad that um that feels more strongly about that, that um I Some some I would, some I wouldn't, honestly. And I I think I'd draw the line as to whether or not I felt like they had demonstrated that there's piety. Piety. Yeah. I figured you were gonna go there. Yeah. Yeah. I I a I struggled with it because I had someone ask me that question and it's for certain reasons like um you know tactile problems of the children and they don't w they won't really be touched but their father has that and so there are exceptions to the rule I've been thinking about. Sure. Um I certainly understand the reason that Westminster does it. Is there you know if they're really trying to protect um this the the idea is that we discern uh the body properly or that we we aren't taking this too casually and so You know, you generally think someone who's done this work and who has been shown to be pious and those things. So it's just a protection thing. But I I'm not persuaded that it's a law. Um I'm still working through that. Safer anyway. At the at the end of what? At the end of My thoughts I come up with this conclusion that there joke that there is a um A problem with this official ordination. And the key to it is that uh is that you unlock the door with keys. The key to it is that is that there is There has been an abuse of ordination where people have been ordained to ministry and that they've end up uh y you know uh There's no piety or there's no there's no call you know ordination or something. You can buy it at Walmart, you know, you can you can get it online, you can do whatever. And so so there's a loss of of the meaning of it on the one hand and then on the other hand there's there's an an attempt maybe in reaction to elevate it to this thing that is that is so great that that we've lost just the sense that what we're saying is that is that we're we're wanting to discern who in the body of Christ has come to the place of being uh being having demonstrated that that they're they're godly, that they're living godly, and uh taking ordination and stamping somebody with it feels overly pompous to me. Yeah. Um because of all the pomp and circumstance that goes with ordination. But on the other hand, uh the the reason why they ordain, which is to clarify who should be discerned and who shouldn't you know, how to discern rather or that we need to discern who is worthy and not worthy is an important thing. And so I'm I think there's something to setting apart people in some pomp and circumstance. somehow where these guys are even called the divines. I mean these are the pastors, the scholars of the time, they're the divines. They they they've gone to a different level. We might think that's a little bit haughty. I don't think they were thinking like we're better than everybody else. But we have You know, there's been approving of themselves. They've been ordained to give be given the authority of Christ. The gospel has been given entrusted to them. And now they're protecting the saint. I mean, what they're doing is huge. This is this is not some little thing. So anyway I I want to talk about but also the fact of the two uh whether there's two or or separate. Mm-hmm. In Roman Roman Catholic circles and Protestant circles, there's there's universal agreement that those two are sacraments. Right. Roman Catholics would say that the sacrament of the anointing of the s of the sick or the uh the extreme unction, the last rites, right Uh that is one of them. Um uh sacrament of holy orders. Which is ordination. Ordination. They call that a sacrament. Right. We b uh we in this room believe that ordination is important, just not that it's a sacrament, right? Uh marriage is a sacrament for Roma Catholics. The sacrament of confession. How many am I up to? Or penance, yeah, is what it's five and then confirmation is confirmation. So is is confirmation connected with baptism though? Well yeah. Baptism would be as an infant in the Catholic Church and then confirmation would be at twelve or thirteen. Right, and so the confirmation is like the the fulfilling the baptism is confirming what happened that you're now saved. So is it included as a separate sacrament or just kind of like the seven separate ones. And uh here's my question. You go through C C D classes and you I mean I feel like all those things are important and valuable. Um it seems to me at the end of the day that all those things, if they're if they're handled appropriately, that they would um result in their you know, and there being grace uh released, you know, appropriately. I I don't know that Um so I don't know. Maybe I'm Catholic in this sense. Yeah, I I'm not I'm not persuaded by all of them. Um penance and their understanding of penance I think is just is just way wrong. Um so I wouldn't argue that one. Yeah. Confession or penance. Oh. They're they're together. I would agree that confession is important but I wouldn't say uh I wouldn't say that that it has to be done to a priest. You know, you confess your sins one to another. You know, I I I would say, you know, remove the the uh the Pomp in the pomposity. For the Catholic Church confession is just the beginning of it. There's also acts done in response to that confession in order to move you out of that state. So that's the penance part of that. But normally what we say is these are instituted by Christ. That's what makes them. And and many of these aren't really instituted by Christ, which makes it, you know, extreme unction. Um, but marriage is one of those that always kind of bothers me because it was both instituted by Christ and is a symbol of something. And so uh and usually I hear the good Presbyterians who follow the Westminster say yes it's instituted by Christ, but it's not a symbol of something. But That's a good idea. What am I missing? Something. Yeah, it's a good idea. The two shall become one flesh? I mean that's pretty mysterious. I haven't figured my marriage out yet. I do. I kind of tend towards that. um not being involved in the Presbyterian church as as much as I should. But even even preaching in the Presbyterian church they speak of preaching as being a means to grace. Uh granted it was instituted long before Christ, preaching is all the way back whenever, but and I guess that's what makes it different. Yeah, it's interesting. They've loosened the rules a little bit about uh people who are already married becoming priests. But until they loosened those rules, there was no way that any one individual could participate in all seven of the sacraments. Because you you you can't uh you can't do holy orders and marriage. So nobody could do all of two sides of the same corn, because holy orders means you're married to Christ. in him alone. Right. Anyways. Yep. And you know, I I would say that ord ordination is an important thing and that that there's there's grace that's conferred in the context of that that is valuable. I don't know You know, like i I don't know. I just grace is given I mean we have to be careful. Grace is given through anything. In my devotional time in the morning when I'm reading the scripture, gra God gives me grace. He gives me common grace every day when it rains, etcetera So this is a this is a step further than that. It's a mysterious form of grace that comes as instituted by Christ and actually the sign and seal of the covenant. So it's not just any grace that comes to us, it's it's more than all that, which I guess is a good segue into baptism. And that might be one of the arguments against marriage, because marriage isn't necessarily a sign and a seal into the covenant with Christ, because people outside of the church get married all the time. Right? So Well, unless we have civil unions. Well And that it well and and you're right. As a pastor I would marry two people who aren't Christians, but I wouldn't marry one who is a Christian, one who's not. So maybe that is the distinction. I don't know. Would you say we are thinking out loud, yes. Very dangerous territory. Let's move on. Okay, so yeah, it's a the point is it's a major rabbit trail and in today's society we have to figure out just how important marriage is because it's about to be s to be redefined uh by by our culture and potentially by the world at large in a significant way. And so, you know, there there's kind of a need to recapture something and You know, and so maybe we'll feel in our day and age that the Westminster Confession should include marriage. You know, they took something out uh about the Pope being the Antichrist, maybe maybe in our generation for the sake of uh maintaining lines that need to be made maintained that that should be reincluded. I don't know. Can can we be so pragmatic? It appears that the Westminster was at various times. Sorry. Sorry. Okay, Lyft. Well that's your problem. You're listening. Don't listen to me. Is he duly ordained? I I definitely I I don't listen to myself most of the time. Uh at the beginning, by the way, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Jonathan Sweitzer who's questioning whether I've been lawfully ordained and the answer to that question is No, I have not. I do know you've been lawfully married. He's a seni he's a senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, uh senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist uh Church. So I read at the beginning of this show the first couple of sections, I think, of of chapter twenty-eight. Let me give a little synopsis of part one. Baptism is ordained by Jesus Himself as a sign of entry into His Church, as well as a seal of grace, meaning the believer is joined to Christ. Having sins forgiven, as is uh and is made a new person who is to live a renewed life. The practice of baptism is to be observed until the end of the world as we know it. Um we've talked a little bit about baptism already, but Thoughts on this first section or should I go on to parts two, three, and four? Um I feel like that's just scripture. That's like straight out of scripture. It's good. Okay, good. Well, baptism sign and seal of all these different things that he's talking about that's a spiritual birth grafting covenant of grace. Removal of sin. Well I read section two, but here's three and four. The grace which is exhibited in or by the sacraments rightly used is not conferred by any power. You're on the wrong one. Here we go. I thought maybe you're reading out of the King James for a minute. Can't tell them a part anymore. Put that one over there. All right, here we go. Um Yeah, three and four. Dipping of the person into the water is not necessary, but baptism is rightly administered by pouring or sprinkling water upon the person. This would be an interesting conversation. Not only those that do actually profess faith in and obedience unto Christ, but also the infants of one or both believing parents are to be baptized. So this section, parts two, three, and four, baptism is to be done For believing adults and the children of believing adults, in the name of all three members of the Godhead, using water to submerge the person or sprinkle on the person. What say you? I think you both actually are immersion pastors, right? He's a Baptist and I came a from a long line. Right. Your churches both practice uh adult Baptism by immersion, is that correct? Both of your churches do that, I think, right? Yes, correct. Do you would agree? I was just commenting on the end of the day. At the end of the day, it wasn't necessary. Um by the way, for those counting at home, that's free. Um yeah, I actually would agree with Westminster in this case. Um I don't think dipping the person in the water is n necessary. Um it may also be but I I do think I I mean one of the reasons that that we do this is for the symbolism of the dying with Christ and being raised in newness of life. And that looks best, I think, in immersion. So you argue from an art standpoint? Yes, for a symbolic yeah, I I actually would. I think that's a for the But I wouldn't argue that that's necessary. Artistic I'm saying power symbols. are there for a reason. And the you know, I think it's I think it's better not to use a little wafer but to use a bread and break it up. Because I have something that's I thought I was going to have to take up that point of view and argue with you, but now I have to take up the other point of view and argue with you. So those that would say, no, no, no, immersion, baptismo. Baptiso, right? Baptizo, whatever. It's it's immerse But there's so much debate over even how to define that word, so why don't you speak to that a little bit, right? Because one my understanding is one definition is of that word is has to do with dying cloth or whatever, has to do with repeated dipping. And we don't advocate that for a baptism that we should be up and down Right. Over and over as I do it to say that that the image brings a smile to the face. Baptizito does mean to dip or to immerse. Um there's different forms of bath even the dipping idea, you can have submersion or immersion. So they could So the New Testament baptizing probably wasn't immersion, it was probably submersion more, if anything. It would be to go under or to you know kneel in there and to go under or be poured over at the same time. Um I I think I think they're taking a form that they know, Baptizo, saying dip in water. There has to be water and bringing down they're doing what they did. I was confused. What what's the difference between immersion and submersion? Immersion okay, just for the the technicality side of this. One of 'em happens to a submarine, the other one happens to an ind to a human. Submersion is uh generally going forward into the water. Oh so you would just you'd kind of take their head and push them under the water or gently. Whereas immersion looks more like they've died and gone into a coffin into the ground and then raised them back up. So most of us do immersion, even though that's probably not what the New Testament did. Yeah. Okay. But I would I would just say while that is what they did, I'm not sure that that is I I think that's more descriptive of the way they did it and not as prescriptive and saying that everyone from here on out must do it by submersion or immersion and therefore the symbol is what's the most important, that they have been washed or cleansed. And that they've been completely completely washed or cleansed. Yeah. So I like it better. Again, the symbol is more beautiful. Alright, so let's switch to the other big the other big one then in this section. Okay. Infants. Yeah. Baptize them or not. You guys obviously don't practice it in your churches. Um so you I uh but uh you surprised me with your last answers a little bit. So if somebody comes to you, John, and says, I've got An eighteen month old. I'm just now, you know, I've become a member of your church. I want to be baptized and I'd like my whole family baptized where you baptized me and my eighteen month old. You tell them We'll make an exception. You tell them no under no circumstances because we we can't do that. Uh we don't do that here, but it's okay, so go to another church and have it done there and then come back next Sunday. That's what we would say probably. Well what what do you say to them? Say hi to Pastor So and so when you're down there. Tell him I hope he's doing well. Um no, I would I would say to the to the individual that what we teach here across roads is is that baptism happens when an individual chooses to be baptized. and that if you would like us to to have a uh uh sh a dedication service on a Sunday morning where we dedicate you as parents to raise your child according to the nurture and admonition of the Lord and where we we're where you dedicate your child to to uh being a part of the kingdom and serving the Lord together, you know, uh to raise the child uh in a godly home, in a godly environment. Um and and that we do so that's what we do is we do a dedication service and uh when when you the parents and the child uh uh feel like he's ready and he wants to be baptized, uh, and there's a sense that he knows what it means, then we'll go ahead and baptize him. So I I would use it as an opportunity to teach what we what we do as a congregation and if they're adamant that they want it done then I think they probably would just go find a way to get it done. You know, if they're still around after that, then great. Praise God. I'm not gonna be offended. No. Jace already kinda showed his hand, he said, Oh, we'd probably do the third option, you know. I think Go go go have Pastor George take care of it and I'll see you here next Sunday or whatever, you know, something like is I mean, is that a kind of a flip answer or is that kind of close to what might actually happen? It's both the flip answer and I mean actually I would I've never had exactly exactly the Well yeah, people generally aren't going to come to a Baptist church because we have Baptist right in the title. It means we b only believe in baptizing um uh those who believe in Christ. So That's kind of where we at. It's kind of our distinctive. I would do, I would say almost exactly with the same pastoral heart that you just did. I would say, here's what we do here. Um I wouldn't uh for me as a pastor, I'm I'm stuck with a with a polity. This is where we are, this is what our church does. Um me as a person, I I see the argument as uh you know, I'm not one of those Baptists that's so I s I see the I see the argument from the Presbyterians and and you know the Westminster confession here, especially as an Old Testament scholar Um the beauty of circumcision being replaced by baptism. Right and I lean I lean in that direction for that reason. I mean I see the corollary for baptism in the New Testament is circumcision in the Old Testament and that they were circumcised on the eighth day. They weren't adults and they were circumcised, they were Children. And the fact that we have two thousand years of history of them doing of baptizing children. And there's some kind of pretty strong historical argument they have. And the idea also that even the early church fathers did. And the idea of uh of um you know the covenant and God's covenant people and the family of God and you know, baptism is a symbol of entering into the family of God, so you're saying that until you're what, sixteen, fourteen, thirteen, eighteen, whatever that ages when you feel like okay they've reached an age of accountability where they can give a credible confession of faith. I'm now going to baptize them. So the eight year old isn't in the family of God. I I struggle. So the question is what is baptism? Does it enter them into salvation? Or I mean, does it a symbol of them becoming saved or is it a symbol of them entering into the covenant? And so the covenant does not mean that you are saved. Throughout Old Testament, there are people within Israel who are not saved. They're part of the covenant family, but they're not saved. In the New Testament, we've got the invisible, invisible church that we've just been talking about. And they could be in the visible church, but not part of the invisible church. So we just have to define our terms what is it that baptism does. If it is a corollary of circumcision, then it enters them into the covenant. So my children are part of the covenant. They're covenant children. I catechize them. I will confirm them one day by baptizing them because I'm in the Baptist church. But they are part of the covenant. They mu they're not saved. Uh maybe. I dun I mean I don't know. But they're they're part of the church. And on the other side of what I just arguing against myself, I sometimes am concerned about those who were baptized as infants. They come to be adults and they never had for themselves that experience of baptism. They never experienced for themselves the symbolism of dying in Christ and rising again. And you know, there's what uh what is that person losing out on by not having been baptized as a doll? It's a it's it's a tough issue. I think it's tough for us to wrestle with 'cause I don't know. My sense is that scripture isn't really entirely clear. So the Presbyterian model of baptizing infants by sprinkling, you can defend it from scripture. And those that are they die hard, you've got uh adult adults only by immersion or submersion only. They can defend that by scripture, so who's right? You know, it's uh I I see a correlation here that I've never seen before right right tonight, and it was as Jace was talking, I caught a vision. Uh I uh I I I Very charismatic of you. Yes. I I I saw the judge whether you can keep speaking in this service. And precisely what you guys are arguing out, uh and the the the Romans nine, ten, and eleven dealing with who are the elect And and the the Jews who who have rejected the Word of God, but have lost their salvation. So so uh when it comes to the gospel they're enemies, but it when it when it comes to uh the covenants, they're still in the purposes of God. And it seems to me that this baptism issue is a key to the whole election issue having to do with uh with Israel in Romans nine, ten, eleven. And that's probably over most of our heads, but um I'm fascinated by the disgust and by it by the the inability to come to a conclusion on this particular issue. And we haven't even finished this and we're out of time. We're gonna have to finish up this chapter. Uh you guys good for uh one more Well let me just say oh yeah oh yeah definitely we're good for one more. But I I sound like I was too much Presbyterian there. So I'm a Baptist. Okay, keep going. For the record, disclaimer, so noted. Ooh, uh Dr. James Broadhurst, Foolsville Baptist Church. He's their senior pastor. Uh Jonathan Sweites are senior pastor of Crossers Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Visit us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. Book of the week. Lee Strobel, Case for a Creator. W what does it have to do with anything? Has nothing to do with anything other than laming books that are good? Oh, I see this is arbitrary. Arbitrary. Arbitrary. Actually, where this comes from is these are books that I am either now reading or have recently read. And what okay you can recommend that one next week, okay. I don't need to, but okay. He's feeling left out. Thanks for listening. God bless you. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's where the P has in your preferred Plumber. Pull and plumbing. How can we make you smile?