Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? And I could sure use a smile right now. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Which one of you is gonna go Oh Jonathan just gave me the clock? There it is, baby. I'm feeling bad already. No music today. I feel like I said this before, I'm not sure why, but uh we're in the WFR Re studios recording this show. We have kicked out of our own homeland and so are wandering the wilderness right now. That's not how I view it. I view it that we moved up in the world. Yeah, it's a much bigger, better lit Better smelling, just better overall studio than where we did the dark dungeon we normally have to do the show in. So I feel like we've ascended after Jonathan is a big guy anyway. But when he sits on that big stool, man, you're like John Wayne big. Whatever you say, I agree with today. Good, good. About time. I'm gonna do this more often. So we're gonna probably get into chapter twenty six of the Westminster Confession of Faith today, but before we do that, last week, chapter twenty five, we were talking um at the end of the show last week about what constitutes the true church. versus Synagogues of Satan to use the language of the Westminster Confession. And then at the very end of chapter 25, uh the original edition of the Westminster Confession takes this big shot at the Pope saying he's the Antichrist that the modern editions of the of the confession have been that big enough of a shot And so Jace wanted to take a bigger shot. So we're returning to the topic of the Catholic Church. I think Westminster was written in order to largely refute many of the Catholic problems. And the biggest was not, I don't think, the worship of Mary or however they want to define it. It was it was justification by faith alone. And they would have argued with works, uh works being part of your justification. And Luther said this is an issue with the church which the true church stands or falls upon. And so since the the popes continue throughout, Vatican I, Vatican II, continue to anathematize The Protestant religion for believing justification by faith alone, I mean I think Westminster would agree that they are outside of the church And I want to thank Jace one for a very cogent, thoughtful, articulate uh response right there. But also for giving us a word of the week Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Anasthematize. Anastasia. Anasthematize the word of the week on the Freddy Craig debate. Uh please explain. Anathema means curse. So they have put a curse on us. They say you are cursed, you are going to hell. Yeah, it's mathematics. So they they have said that we are going to hell because we believe in justification by faith alone. And so the Protestants of course have turned that around to a large degree and said, Yeah, well right back at you, I guess, kind of. Okay. Are you uncomfortable with with that sort of thing? I uh it it The problem with the Catholic Church is that they've got these doctrines that they uh have bought into through the ages and uh and so if there were a shift with the current Catholic church. They can't go back and, you know, just automatically change what they have believed, you know, it's like the speed long process. And they have on the books that those of us believe salvation by faith alone, justification by faith alone, should be cursed. And it's a little bit of a stumbling block. And you have to get past that. I mean I let's be friends, but I curse you. You know, I mean you can't quite Get past that. I mean it's well our previous Pope has has done a good job in in, you know, extending this to some kind of a brotherhood. Yeah. Uh the previous Pope had had done a good job in his sense in doing that. Our the newer pope John Paul II. Ratzinger, our new new pope, got n names for everybody, has has basically gone back and said Yep, we were right all along. Now now Pope John Paul didn't didn't change anything. He was just nicer about it. And the new Pope is is arguing what what the Catholics have always believed, that the Protestants are not part of the faith. So I I mean I I think that's pretty significant. And so Westminster w Westminster said they they're not the head of the church and we shouldn't be listening to them. So officially You know, the Pope as vicar of Christ is gonna say that the Protestants are not part of the church. And the Protestant response i in this Westminster uh confession is Roman Catholics are not part of the church, right? It's like is is that it's really uh Can't say about me, I'm saying about you. Uh hopefully it's a little bit deeper than just immature spoiled children, but yeah, we do think justification is is a pretty darn important thing. And so we would argue that um people that It's not I don't think for most Protestants it's an issue of all Catholics are not going to heaven. It's not that. It's those Catholics that understand that this issue and say you must use works in order to get to heaven. If they say that if they if if they agree, you you have to have works to get to heaven and they ignore the grace alone part then then yeah, I've I've trouble considering them brothers and sisters. I as well. So you evangelize them? Yes. And show them in for the Catholic Church, it's about showing them uh I think simple things in Scripture about justification. So they already believe in Jesus. They already under they already have I mean you know the Protestant faith is the Catholic faith just reformed. It's just, you know, gone back. So we can we have the same basic backgrounds and the faith is is j is is there. So we just need to show them their faith and show them what they believed early on and what scripture what What Paul had to say about this. So I don't know if it's as much as coming to them in our normal evangelistic sense, you know, to atheists or people who don't believe in God. But it is evangelism. It's it's showing the gospel 'cause they don't have the gospel. Yeah. So reaching way back to last week's show, Joe Rollstein, and this week's show, Pope Benedict, they need some evangelizing. Yeah. That's right. Which is interesting because uh Billy Brandon Prepare for the picture. The rest of us, yes. All right, are we something we've been to get the twenty third? Sure. I'm I'm ready. We can always jump back. It's on similar topics. So this one is uh title is Open Commandment. Let's do the section one. Section one is one three seconds. All saints are united to Jesus Christ their hands by his spirit. And being united to one another in love, they have communion with each other, gifts, embraces, and are obliged in performance of such duties public and private as we can do with their mutual good both and the world. and outward man. The Christians are united to Christ and to each other through Christ. So they are connected like this. I don't feel like The body and being the body, one updated version of the other by uh Jeff Colton and Ellen Bone. Really speaking to this issue very well, I enjoy that part of the book. Section two Let's have a book last. Okay. By the way I forgot to mention the book of the of the week last week so I've got some seven minutes. Well make up with one I didn't mention last week. Okay. And I'll mention at the end of this week. Okay. Alright. A new feature on the basic? I don't remember. Uh saints like profession are found to maintain in holy fellowship and communion in the worship of God and joining such other spiritual services attend to the mutual education as also in relieving each other in helping. because there are several abilities in the country. It's community and God's offering opportunities to all those reason qualifying and voice and I think there's some words here in that Christians are expected to come together and fellowship with this. So the work has got together as a group and to contribute as they are able and as is necessary to sell to extend beyond the front point of the local congregation and also be everywhere around the world. That's the that's the same. That is occasionally. So edify. We didn't do Elastic didn't make enough love. Edify edify. Um encouraging and exhorting. Uh specifically in scripture, it's almost always with our eyes on. Resurrection. So edifying the lifting up. I guess it's probably a good way of doing that. Yeah, I think edifice. Well, I go to church every Sunday parked in front of my TV watching T V N Right. Yeah, I think I think this this well I mean that's not exactly what they were talking about because there was no uh they didn't have PPN back then but but y you're right, this does speak against that for us today, that people think you know they can find God on the mountains or in the wilderness or at TV or wherever else it is. And this is arguing, I think, along with scripture, that the church being gathered together is is hugely important. I mean it's how we have means to grace, which is why of course Westminster goes with the sacraments and the next sections and stuff. And I have somebody that's been a friend of mine for for a stretch now and she's uh she's a dear woman. She's uh you know an o older lady. And she and her husband have been a blessing to to my family and myself personally, uh, in in a number of ways over the years. And as far as I'm concerned, as far as I can tell anyway, you know, I think they're part of the invisible church, right? I think that the the r the the real deal. But for years and years and years they didn't attend any sort of a formal gathering of believers. They didn't belong to a congregation. And after after a while, you know, got to know her a little bit better, probably after a couple of years, the I felt like the relationship had had matured to a place where I could speak a little more uh directly to her. And I challenged her and I said, Hey I love you. I respect you. Think the world of you. You are a wonderful part of my life. But I think you're sinning. He says, what do you mean? You're not going to church. Well, I get everything I need from, you know, TV and radio and books and and and sermons on C D on tape and that sort of thing. And I said, I think you're missing the point It's not just about what you can get when you show up, but it's about what you can give. And when you don't show up, you're robbing some local congregation of of the maturity and the example that you and your husband in in the in the godly marriage you have, you're robbing some local congregation of the benefits of that. And it didn't happen immediately, but probably within, you know, a relatively short amount of time I guess. She and her husband finally started to go to a church and I think it's made a big difference in their life. So I mean that I I think I did the right thing, but you have anything you wanna add or or or yell at me for, Jonathan? Usually you do, so I'm I'm just a little bit concerned uh at those churches that have um resisted the full expression of the gifts um and graces that they're obliged to perform with one another. And I think that there's a reason why some people have felt like they shouldn't go to church anymore because they go to be spoken to, uh, not to speak. They go to be ministered to. There's not a sense that that they're uh they're going with an anticipation that they will be a part of the worship experience and a part of the um sharing revelation or testimony or those kinds of things and that instead those things are controlled by a few elite people at the top in ways that uh that create a sense that everybody else is not as important and uh certainly seeker sensitive churches that are geared towards platform ministry have fallen in that direction. But I think that also that there's been a tendency um in many denominations to um to let the professionals do the work on Sunday mornings. And um that's obviously not the only place where saints minister to one another, not the only way that saints can minister to one another. But it seems to me that Sunday morning service should be dynamically available uh through the working of the Spirit to all the saints. And I think uh I'm in a different place than both of you guys on that particular issue. Well as long as you say it just the way you said it, I agree with you. But I know where you're going with it, so you're right, I probably do disagree with you. But I believe that the worship serves should also be dynamic and should be dialogical to some point. But that doesn't necessarily mean that others um, are able to proclaim the word whenever they want. There is a there's a dialogue. When we do it, we say, Congregation of Christ, we begin the dialogue of worship. It's a back and forth. So God speaks, not me. He speaks uh from the pulpit, from this word, and we respond by singing, by confessing our sins, by confessing a confession what we all agree with universally. So there's a lot of give and take But when it comes to the word being proclaimed, we you know, even the fact that I stand on a platform isn't as much so people can see me as it is to say look the word is in some sense exalted here. This is the word Um even I I try and do it even with uh little things like um if I'm giving illustrations I'll even come off of the platform a little bit and when I when I proclaim the word I'll stand behind the pulpit and uh this is just little little things that we think the word is supposed to come from God. So uh but we still ag I still agree with you that there's a bad thing. Is describing an environment, whether you think that still happens today or not. What he was describing in 12 and 14, whether it continues to today or not, is describing something that clearly came from God through members of the congregation, different members of the congregation. Uh there wasn't a sense that it was just the professionals, but there was a sense that the Spirit of God could move and and a revelation could come to somebody that was sitting down that was not scheduled to speak. And so then the first speaker would stop and the other guy would get up. And all I'm saying is that what we see in First Corinthians twelve and fourteen, whether or not it applies today to today, was certainly a lot more dynamic than than what happens in most congregations that are led by a pastor. Like what you just described to me is you doing things differently. But you didn't describe to me the opportunity for people that are coming and sitting in the congregation to to participate in speaking forth the Word of God, in in in ministering and edifying one another. See, I I would consider song and confession and all those things to be participating in the Word of God and edifying one another. And so First Corinthians says that when you come together Every one of you should bring a hymn or a word of encouragement or a revelation. Every one of you should bring that. And so who brings the songs? I think it's the worship leader. And only the worship leader gets to pick what songs are going to be sung And only you or the ones that you choose to get up and share testimony have any freedom whatsoever in your congregation to get up and share. There's no spontaneity. uh on a given Sunday morning. Jump in for a second. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross House Valley Chapel. Uh also on the panel this week, Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Hurst. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Uh what about when Paul also tells and there's different ways to understand this passage. It's it's one that creates much angst in a lot of congregations, so I'm going to try to take it from a particular angle. here when Paul tells uh um the women in a particular church, be quiet. Some have understood that to say, well, he's speaking to a cultural context where the women weren't educated weren't uh well informed on what the doctrines and then truth and t true teachings of the church were and rather than cause problems and division and dissension by asking lots of inane questions or ma or or saying things that were not appropriate to be said, just be quiet. Is that m if you were to understand it that way, would that be an argument for saying, you know what, those who don't really have everything together the way that we would like them to should be quiet and let those who are in leaders, not just the professionals, like Jace is a professional uh at his church and uh yeah in a lot of churches the worship leader is professional, they're on payroll. But others who are offering up prayers or or or upfront and leading in the singing or playing the piano or whatever are not professionals. So is is that a middle ground or or uh uh enough or obviously not your claim? uh in an orderly and fitting way, always. And so uh if the ladies and the Corinthian church were um just blurting things out in a way that was not fitting and orderly, and that's inappropriate, right? Uh basic um politeness and manners says that when I'm sitting and talking with you guys, I wait until you finish and then I talk. If I'm always blurting and cutting in, which Often enough I don't on this show, right? I mean I I just couldn't keep that. Yes, yes. Uh so uh but the point is is that an orderly and fitting congregation, if everybody's cutting everybody off in the midst of the congregation, then there is no order. I mean when I what what I hear Paul describing in the Corinthian church, I have never seen in my entire experience. And I've been in a lot of congregations that I felt uh were were more disorderly. But people uh uh speaking in tongues over top of one another trying to compete with one another and people kinda shouting each other down and getting drunk uh on a Sunday morning when they and and other people having a feast when they come to to communion on a Sunday morning. I mean this is an uncommonly disorderly congregation, and Paul was calling them to order. So it's certainly true that we need order in our congregations But um the definition of that order well let me put it this way. The definition of order for people that are wealthy and they go to church is a lot more strict than the definition of order for most of us that listen to W F R E and W F M D, you know, and are just going about our lives. The average person, uh uh disorderly uh Uh so so my point is Paul's calling for order, but he's calling for a sense that all of us are ministering to one another. And we're giving special place without a doubt to Paul and to the to the fivefold ministry, the apostle, prophet, evangelist, pastor, teacher. But While we're giving that special place, there's still clearly the sense that in the weekly service that there is a uh spontaneity that everyone, when they come, they come uh with something uh to say in Uh I just think that there's reason for people to be frustrated that that's not happening more often. It's just a matter of degree, right? Like you couldn't have somebody who walks in, uh, claims to be a Christian. And s and interrupts you two minutes into your sermon and says, Pardon, I I really apologize for the interruption, but I'm really feeling moved to do the sermon right now. Can I have the next forty five minutes? You wouldn't just step aside and allow that, right? So it wasn't just a A matter of degree. That would be inappropriate because the individual has n is is is not um uh taking the time to get to know the congregation for us to know them. Yeah, I'd be very uncomfortable with something like that. And what if it was somebody who's been at your church for the last two or three years and they did that? Um kind of spontaneously almost at the last moment said, You know what? And they tried to take the message time? Uh yeah. My point is it's just kind of a matter of degree probably. There have been times when somebody that that has been in the congregation and we felt like there was a a message that was coming forth in the context of the Sunday morning service that was godly, that was timely, that was uh ministering to the hearts, that I'd be happy to step aside and let that happen instead. I've seen that happen many times and I'd be very comfortable with that. The point is we judge it as it comes forth. We pay attention to what's happening. And uh and and as it is uh clearly demonstrating itself to be something that is uh of God, then we encourage it and we we let it play itself out for the sake of the people that are there. I think there may be I I'm certainly not at the same place you are even even as I'm listening to you, but I think there's certainly some rebuke that can probably be taken for some of us who are overly formal in our worship. Um that there that there can be another time. We we do think about our worship extending past our worship time though, so that encouragement and edification can come during the before and the after time. And this time is is just more um more designated than the rest. But we would hope in our in our groups as we get together that we would do some of the same things that you're doing, maybe not all of them But certainly would be encouraging each other with words from the Lord that we heard from either from the message that morning or even from our devotional. the difference of our congregation, um, this is even something that I've struggled with 'cause when I was growing up in the context of uh these more spontaneous uh services they generally went two, two and a half hours. Sometimes, you know, stretching to three hours. There was a sense that, you know, we're just gonna let things play themselves out. And uh and many times it was argued in that context that a time orientation ends up um ends up scheduling the spirit f the spirit's freedom to move right out of the right out of the schedule. Now I'm saying this as somebody that we've kind of chosen to keep our service to an hour and a half to an hour and forty five minutes. Uh, which is probably still longer than some, but it's definitely consistent uh and shorter than where I came from and sometimes it feels like Uh the pressure that, oh, we gotta get out of there means okay, well look, we don't have time for the spirit to move. We don't have time for somebody to be really broken, you know, and and to minister to them, you know, we're just gonna have to find a way to fit that into our schedule some other time And uh at some level I think that there's again a need for us as leaders to think through those time orientations and what they do to our sense of uh allowing the spirit to move. I think it's fair. I I wanna want to add though that the spirit moves during a sermon as he does during a spontaneity. You know, people say, you know, I'm in agreement with that. You you plan your sermon three weeks ahead of time and you don't have the spirit move. I said, Well the spirit is powerful enough to know what's going to happen in three weeks when I'm preaching the sermon. Yeah. So he he knows organizing my thinking that time. Yes, I agree. Yeah. Speaking of time and limits. Uh this communion which the saints have with Christ does not make them in any wise partakers of the substance of his Godhead or to be equal with Christ in any respect, either of which to affirm is impious and blasphemous, nor does the communion with one another as saints take away or infringe the title or propriety which each man has in his goods and possessions. So in other words This Christian unity rooted in unity with Christ does not mean that the Christian somehow becomes God or equal with Jesus Christ, saying otherwise is blasphemy. Also, by the way, the oneness of Christians does not mean that each individual loses his or her personal property. Can I ask a question about that? Sure. Um are the the saints in the Catholic Church once they are What's the word saintized? What's the word canonized? Thank you. Uh once that happens, are they considered in some sense of same substance with the Godhead? I don't my understanding on that is no, but you do pray to 'em. Um not in the same sense you're going to be able to do that. So you're wondering asking them to pray for us. Right. Yeah. Okay, uh all right. Uh and my other question is um where it says does not make them in any wise partakers of the substance of his godhead. Now, it says in 2 Peter chapter 1 that we have we are partakers of the divine nature. Right. And so so again the language there is throwing me off because it seems to it seems to contradict the c the language of scripture. So maybe you can help me to understand what they mean as opposed to what Second Peter means. Well I don't know any of them personally, but my guess is that they mean by that um i in in becoming Christians and being part of this communion of saints. Rem remember Jesus prayed that that they would be one as we are one. The Father and the Son are one. That's like huge. That's like so we we we want to do is is both say, that's great. That's incredible. My goodness, that kind of union with each other is the same union that Jesus has with us, the God the Father has. But what we don't want to do is say that we are now at the same height as Christ. I don't even think Peter is trying to say that now because you were a son of God, you were like the unique Son of God that you are a part of the Trinity in any way. Um because i it th I had to go head to head with a guy one time um that was in my circle of churches that When he read the passage in Second Peter one, he was saying that that we have become divine. You know, and I had I I drove him back on that and I was very persistent that no, we are per and he pointed to this verse and said, No We're partakers of the divine nature. But partakers of the divine nature does not mean that we've become divine, but that that we partake of, we participate in the divine nature that's been given to us from Christ, which is different from us being divine, that there's a very clear line there. And I think it's getting at the same thing that you're saying that they're trying to say here. It's just coming at it from a different direction. I think there's a lot here. I wouldn't mind I know we're out of time. So I wouldn't mind jumping on this real quick. And ironically it's the divines that wrote the Westminster Confession effect. Uh Jonathan Swiss, a senior pastor of Cross Israeli Chapel. Weren't they a group in the seventies that sang together the divine? Yeah, do op. Uh Dr. Jim Broadhurst. That scares me. He is the senior Patrick Close Baptist Church. I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Face Debate brought to us by Bookman Plumbing and Heating, Help We Make You Smile. Thank you so much for listening. By the way, book of the week that I can uh Uh recommend you have a hard time finding it, but uh I find it helpful and accessible by Virginia Wiles Making Sense of Paul. There you go, assigned reading. Till next week. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Pub and plumbings, how can we make you smile?