Welcome to the Frederick's Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator with this week's Word of the Week. Yes, it's back. Oh no, we've been negligent on the Word of the Week in recent weeks. That's right, because we've been doing the Westminster Confession and that has its own words of the week. I'm going out of my way. We're going to start the show as if if I can be more disciplined every week with a word of the week. So this week's uh actually it's words of the week, I guess, correct? Penal sanction Okay. Penal sanction. Can I try to define it? Sure, go ahead. Has something to do with the justice system and it uh a sanction is I don't know what a sanction is. What's a sanction? Something to do with the justice system. Yeah. Okay. Well, okay, yeah, you got the penal part, right? Sanction, the punishment part, right? Punishment through the justice system. Yeah, a coercive well the definition I have here is a coercive civil punishment which honors and enforces a law by being imposed on those who violate it. Alright? I. e. like last time that you got a speeding ticket. W which is long time ago. Okay, just one for the record now Assuming the the word of the week has nothing to do with the programs. It's a quirky me thing, yeah. And he's not even wearing a tie today, so he's really quirky too. Anyway, the person calling me quirky, Jonathan Sweites, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and the one wondering what in the What's going on? Why did I agree to come on this show? Absolutely. It's Paul Monday, senior pastor at the Church of the Brothers. Welcome back. Good to be back. Good to be back. And he's he's he's well rested after his show, which ended about five minutes ago. And uh he's ready to come at it again. Absolutely. Oh that's right. So uh we're gonna talk about something today that I've been as you can tell by the yellowing, uh Jonathan and Paul can see the yellowing of the pages here. Yes, it's yellow. I figured someday we're gonna do this I've got the religion and ethics section of the paper, which is going back like a year. Uh Paths to Peace. Uh talking about, you know, Martin Luther King Jr. The way to go Okay. Here's another article, same section. Interfaith Group Works to End the Death Penalty. There it is. Right? So and then more recent oh what's what's this? This is talking about inner faith, uh the Jews and the and the Christians getting along. Okay. And and and not being so divisive and so argumentative. Can't we all just get along? Abraham's the father of us all You know, or and more recently we had still a while ago, but we had the pastor Terry Jones over him down in Florida. Right. The Quran thing and threatened to burn it. He decided not to burn it, but he was too militant shouldn't be so militant, by the way, he was kind of a jerk. But I'm just saying uh lots of these sorts of issues come up and then you know, the war in Afghanistan is the should we And the war in Iraq, should we have gone? Is war ever right? Is it can you defend yourself if attacked? Right. You know, all of these sorts of issues come up and I I I thought we would get to this At some point and I've been hanging on to this stuff. Wonderful. Here we are. Last time that we had this panel together, when the show was over, Jonathan and Paul continued to talk for a little while and they got into the whole You know, peacick thing that the brethren stand for. Exactly. And Jonathan was asking lots of questions and I said, you know, if you can remember even one of those questions That would get us rolling. Yeah, that would get us rolling on the show. So I don't know if you remember any of those questions. But to set this up, uh Jonathan, um he's all for war. He thinks war is good. He likes war. Spiritual warfare. Yeah. Spiritual warfare I like. I'm certainly not of the opinion that we should never go to war. How's that for double negative? Okay, okay. Sure. Exactly. Certainly of the opinion that that there are times when war presents itself that it is appropriate for the believer to participate as a citizen of his country. Right. Right. Now I don't know if that's where you're at or not. Well i i i it it uh uh a pacifism uh or it's better better defined as w what we call biblical non resistance as a continuum and it goes all the way from from a from a kind of a radical extreme uh where people uh assume you're gonna stand by and allow your wife to be killed or your kids or whatever, all the way to to kind of m maybe the other end of where uh even some pacifists and those that believe in biblical nonresistance would support uh the defending of the borders. In other words, a more of a defensive kind of posture, and then many people are just kind of in between Uh and is there anywhere in that a uh a resistance to pledging allegiance to the flag? Is that is that the it would not be uh kind of an overt anti patriotic uh thumb your nose you know in the face of America or that lean in that direction. Well what it yeah, it can go that way again. We it's a continuum. You've got to think of this as a continual. But I think when it's best represented biblically, what we're talking about is the whole image that our citizenship is primarily in heaven, or you could say in the kingdom of God. rather than citizenship, you know, in any nation state. And historically where does that come from? Well, I mean it's the biblic there's a the biblical text uh related to to citizenship being primarily in heaven. But don't you trace it back to to the Germans like like at the time of of the Reformation. Yeah, our There's a bunch of Germans that felt like Luther didn't go far in the world. There were three historic peace churches, the Quakers, the Minnernites, and the Brethren. the Brethren and Minnesota come out of the German uh uh counter reformation, radical uh reformation. And so what we basically uh Zinzendorf. Yeah, what we basically conclude is that in spite of the Reformation that there was too much uh of a marriage between church and state and that in reality, rather than the church being the church and differentiating itself as kind of the people God they were still basically in cahoots with a secular force and still in Europe today uh many churches survived by the tax revenue, you know, from the state government. So the radical or the counter reformation basically said the people of God need to be kind of a called out people, in terms of the ecclesia, which in the Greek language means the called out people. Very interesting. And so this is even uh you could argue something of the foundation of our nation, uh, saying that that we need a separation of church and state. So that the church can be church and the state can be state and do whatever the state needs to do. And so in the context of that, this these groups, these German groups uh I would imagine had influence in that direction to say we need to keep those things separate. Yeah, absolutely. A and it all goes back to what does it mean to be a Bible believing church What does it mean to be radically aligned to Christ in Christ alone? So it's a radical Christocentric Bible. The Moravians would have been uh forerunners of that. They would be cousin in terms of our faith in that way Can you call can you call them kissing cousins? Can you say that about part of the body, whether the good brother in the moonites do such things? But uh but uh Yeah, Tony Campolo once said, uh somebody asked you, you know, do Christians dance? And Campolo's answer was, some can and some can't. So that's kind of I guess what I was is is kind of on a new plane since World War Two. In some ways this was a very difficult decision to have uh during World War II because When you have an obvious personification of evil, such as Adolf Hitler and the concentration camps, all that kind of stuff, etc. , etc. , an identified enemy that one could uh move towards and there wasn't nuclear weapons all that kind of stuff. Right. But Stalin and Mount Peton. But since World War II all the rules on engagement have changed And you could argue this whole argument from a whole nother front in terms of not just even the biblical theological rationale for this, but the practicality of conventional war. In other words Uh uh can can a conventional war any longer really be fought in a day and age where essentially when we tried in Vietnam, for example, to fight a conventional war uh you know the enemy didn't fight a conventional war. They basically went underground. If you ever go to the US Spy Museum in DC and watch the the biggest diorama of the Vietnam Tunnel system I mean we were just I mean a and and I again uh we want to honor all Vietnam veterans this morning. This is not a slam but any of our veterans this morning whatsoever. Uh we honor them and we esteem them. Uh so no comment I'm about to make is in any way to be derogatory. But uh but essentially they were only following orders and the orders that our GIs followed in Vietnam, for example, was basically the the rules of engagement in conventional warfare And and so uh now we're dealing with terrorism and we're still, you know, taking, you know, sons and daughters of this country and kind of fighting um you know, in in in sort of the same old, same old when in reality, I guess I would argue, uh from a practical perspective, uh does that work anymore? And I think from a pastoral perspective All you need to do is go walk walk the wards of Walter Reed Hospital and see, you know, I mean we talk about people being killed, that's bad enough. Of course that's the ultimate sacrifice. But we don't talk about those that have been literally maimed and wounded for life. Well let me jump in here for a second. I would agree with the the the original idea and the premise for having a a pacifist uh mentality, a separation of church and state. You've heard me, Jonathan, numerous times on this program talk about how the church lost its way when it blurred its identity with with the state, going back to the three hundreds with Constantine. That was the beginning of of the end that led to the Reformation um you know, twelve hundred years later as far as I'm concerned. Bingo. So I think that their instant wasn't the thousand year uh reign, that wasn't the millennium? No, no, no, no. Because it was about twelve hundred years, not a thousand years. So you have to you'd have to have a inexact counting. But anyway, so I think their instinct is right. But I think they went maybe uh in all due respect to the brethren tradition, they threw the baby out with the bathwater a little bit. Because I think you forget the idea that, you know, give unto Caesar what is Caesar's, you know, g uh give unto God what is God's. And In our country, in this context, American citizens are citizens of this country, and if they're Christians, they're also citizens of a kingdom that's not of this world. There's a dual citizenship going on. And then we defend it by a pragmatic argument. Begs the question. Yeah, yeah. Sure. So there is a question pragmatically about if whatever you come to morally that you feel like is is is your stance. The the the bottom line is that uh we live in a very tough time. So there's plenty of discussions to be had there. But but going back to the issue. The question is Does Christ or do does Scripture give us the impression that we we should be people that are always um unwilling to go to war or or opposed to war. Is you know the classic case of Christ in the in the in the uh in the Garden of Gethsemane when Peter draws the sword and you know it cuts off the ear of the soldier or whatever. And Jesus makes a very you know Very dramatically. Of course that's that's literally verses away from when Christ said to his disciples, if you have uh the ability go sell your cloak and buy a sword and then one of them holds up the sword and says here's a sword and Jesus says okay that's gonna be enough So literally Christ had just finished talking to them about you know, the apocalypse, you know, Matthew twenty four, and in the context of that he told them that they should go ahead and buy swords. Right. And so when Peter pulls out the sword to cut the guy's ear off He could be um forgiven for thinking, oh, this is what Christ is talking about. Here it is. Slices the guy the guy's ear off. Well obviously we all know. Yeah, but but right, you can make that told him to go get a sword in that moment. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well that's yeah. And so biblically we gotta deal with that. Okay, why is Christ saying w you know, when it comes to the apocalypse, make sure you have a sword? Like what's What's the impressive? Many Bible scholars interpret that sword as being the uh the word of the Lord itself rather than a literal sword in order to you know use uh over against others. The other classic example, and of course this is somewhat controversial because uh persons uh sometimes do not want to interpret the cross of the atonement from this perspective. But in our tradition you see we basically say the ultimate uh expression of nonviolence is Christ on the cross because he could have called down his angels, he could have uh called down mighty armies or whatever, but he then chose to uh m essentially to win the victory through a nonviolent uh means. Now I realize there you know people debate that, that stretching things in terms of you know making the atonement something it really was never meant to be. But from an Anabaptist Brethren Mennonite perspective, the cross is the ultimate example biblically of nonviolence. And just simply saying that whether it's Jesus or whether it's Gandhi or whether it's Martin Luther King comes in the name of love. Sorry, you two had to be brought in at the end of the day. Now again, returning to kind of a pr modern day example that that it was interesting, one of the best examples of nonviolence intervention, and making the argument, again, pragmatically, not just biblically, that this doesn't work. is the Cuban Missile Crisis that if you watch, you know, any historical accounts, you know, Curtis LeMay and others in the military basically said bomb bomb the Sunarines risk, you know, the uh nuclear war or whatever, just go in there and just bomb bomb, you know, the heck out of of of the Russians uh in Cuba. And of course it was Rob Bobby Kennedy, I guess, who primarily persu uh persuaded his brother to do a nonviolent intervention through the whatever the politically correct term, the quarantine of the blockade. And historians now do say that if we had gone in with conventional military approach probably we would have had a war. I gotta tell you, I feel like that begs the question. Okay. Because the reason why Cuba backed down was still A fabulous show of force. You cannot take out of the equation in the Cuban Missile Crisis the fact that that They carried a big stick and they they spoke softly and they were diplomatic. Right. And I would say that that should always be the case. Right. That we should always be actually actually and we should always try to not go to war. But if We're not carrying a big stick. Well, uh Proverbs says it that that uh the rich man answers harshly to the poor man has to beg and plead. But what Jesus would argue, I believe, though you know there's isn't necessarily a a a a demonstration of this in Scripture But followers of the remote. Okay, so back it up when you say Jesus would argue. Well let me I'll get back to Jesus in a moment. But but but if you want to see another but an an example, an example of a nonviolent big stick, it would be the Martin Luther King nonviolent demonstrations where he literally had hundreds, if not thousands, of people in the street. That was the big stick, uh, because there was at least the the appearance of a mass force in that way. And I guess in the case of Jesus, uh you could say he could have you know, he the big stick was Okay, but there's still a a big difference between the Cuban Missile Crisis where you have you have our battleships practically bumping holes with their battleships. Right. Right. I mean, that was clearly a a war Uh you know, uh whereas whereas Martin Luther King clearly he came with a nonviolence in in terms of of being a nation and and bringing change, a prophetic voice in a nation That's very different from uh looking to repel borders and to defend against You know, like communism, which clearly was looking to overtake the world at the time. But I guess the blockade exactly, I'm not sure whether what type of ships were actually used. I don't believe they were all military or combat ready. Okay, but all kind of begs the question again. Enough of them were that Russia knew and Cuba knew that that we were on the verge of opening fire on their ships. Right, yeah. No, okay, yeah, that the it could it could stretch the uh stretch the metaphor of the example in that way. Uh but uh you had something you you were talking about. Well what I wanted to say. The first thing to say I have something to say is Jonathan Sweiser, senior pastor of Cross Rosie Chapel and senior pastor at the Frederick Church of the Brethren, Paul Monday, on the panel this week. I'm Troy Skinner, you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty. WFMD. And I I don't want to interrupt if you guys if you had a lot of things. Well I have one other thought that I want I want to throw I want to throw out here. 'Cause a lot of people uh go up to New Windsor, Maryland at our Brethren Service Center and buy these things. But M. R. Ziggler was one of our prophets in this area and he came up with what he calls a modest proposal of peace about thirty years ago. The modest proposal of peace is simply this that uh the the the the Christians of the world would stop killing each other. And and essentially what he was saying is you realize that in every war believers are actually pitted against other believers. Sure. And that actually it's not just so-called, you know, heathens killing heathens or whatever, that actually in any war Christians are actually killing other Christians Well so we have to come back to where does war come from in the first place? And where does the sword show up in Scripture? Mm-hmm. Right? So you probably could tell me, where does the sword first show up in Scripture? Well, uh I'm just trying to think chapter verse on that. I mean obviously war comes out of the kind of the fallenness. Wow, fascinating to me that you would know this. The sword shows up. The first place in Scripture when God wants to protect the tree of life from corrupt humanity. Right. Why? Because God wanted life and the tree of life and the eternal uh uh power that was represented in the tree of life to not be extended to sin and corruption. And so he had to protect life from corruption. And it seems to me like that is and always will be the only argument for a sword ever being used. Wow. Right. For example, like a scalpel being used to cut cancer out of a human being. Right. Why? So that you would defend life. Right. And so the goal is that you defend life. When Hitler is taking over, there's a sense that death was raining, was having its way. So so there's this this collective, you know, the West rising up and saying, no, and we kind of, you know, spit 'em out of our of our of our of our mouths that this that this is wrong and we got we gotta cut him out. You know, and so so it's only ever right to use the sword in the context of defending life Right. Well, of course, then that comes down to Jesus Christ. Right. Jesus Christ was the was life at the end of the day. Right. And life itself was killed. Right. Except God Himself then brought, you know, Christ back to life. Right. And so my point in in saying all that is that Um that that follows along with what it was says in Romans. Right. That the sword is given to government to do what? To restrain that which kills. Yes. The wages of sin is death Sin kills, and so there's a certain amount of evil that God says, okay, for the sake of of keeping the world safe Right. So that the gospel can continue to be preached and to reach people. Right. God saying that that I'm going to There's a certain level of evil that I'm going to to destroy. Right. Where people have forfeited the right to live by the extent of the the evil that they represent. Right. And in forfeiting that right to live, if we let them remain the cancerous nature of their evil will will touch too many people and and and cause there to be a scenario where even preaching the gospel would be a waste of time because they become like so hardened. But the classical Uh the classical counter argument to that, going to Ephesians in terms of the the the full armor of God is is is the believer however called Uh it's not a question whether we're to contain evil and defeat evil, but what are the weapons that we are to use in order to contain and defeat evil. That's the only argument against what you're saying. It's not you can't make an argue. You can't uh you can't argue that that Hitler should be l allowed to run a rampant, etcetera, etcetera. The only question I think that our tradition would would argue is our what what is the weapon tree? What is what is the uh what is the arsenal that you use. Well and that's see that's a great example of how complex this is because there you had Dietrich Bonhoeffer who's one of the leading uh uh uh saints, I guess, of our particular theological movement who in the end indeed succumb to conventional weapontry uh to try to kill and assassinate adults. Dietrich Bonhoeffer, a pastor in uh Germany at the time of of Hitler led a an attempt to assassinate Hitler and was caught and uh lost his life as a result of sanctioned by by the somebody on the Allied side. He didn't just go do this on his on his own day. Well he actually he four he he he he gathered with other uh co conspirators and they basically uh banded together because he actually began the he realized that at that point in his career there was no other alternative. So it's kind of a contradicting the very thing that I'm saying. And uh I I I guess the only way that you can really uh make the case for what I'm saying is going back to scripture and finding additional examples of how uh the weaponry of God, uh other than the sword, the literal sword, uh the so-called full armor of God, uh was used effectively to contain evil. And Okay, so let me let me uh ask a another hypothetical. Let's go back to Constantine, pre-Constantine. Like it I I almost feel like this whole discussion would never have been have been uh discussed pre-Constantine because pre-Constantine if you were a because it was documented the majority of the believers at that point were were not believed in biblical nonresistance. Prior to Constantine. Well centurions clearly were were told to c just continue to you know, they weren't told to stop being a centurion or stop do stop doing what they're supposed to do. Uh though I could imagine that the argument there is just stay in stay where you are, but don't endeavor to be a centurion. Right. Is that what the argument would be? Yeah, yeah, I think yeah, I think that's true. But who are the people that you're saying like where are the uh the the uh the voices that argue for pacifism or nonviolence pre-Constantine. Well I c yeah, I this feels very much like a post Yeah and Lutheran Church and all those arguments. But this has been documented that that prior to Constantine the the the the the norm was leaning towards biblical non resistance in that way. Well because people basically clearly Paul would argue that. Paul didn't respond violently to protect himself. Right. All the apostles allowed themselves and so that the the the testimony of martyrdom Don't mean to be redundant. Uh there was was pretty pervasive, without a doubt. You know, and then going into