Welcome to the Friday's Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator. Our show is Brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Jonathan Sweister, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Paul Monday, Senior Pastor at Frederick Church of the Brethren, on the panel this week. Their clothes are tattered, their little trickle of blood going down the corner of their mouth, they're missing a couple of teeth. But uh but they're all right. They just had a little tussle after last week's show. I'm kidding! By the way, yeah, no that that that that makes me think. W would you would a pacifist think it's okay to pray, Lord, break the arm of the wicked like David prays, or knock the teeth of the wicked out Figuratively speaking. Absolutely. Just so we're not using conventional weapons. If we're using weapons of the spirit. Now they're not going to be able to do that. A foretaste of what's to come. By the way, word of the week. Penology. Penology. Oh my goodness. Any guess? Yeah, yeah. It has to do with the study of justice or justice systems or something. The study or theory of punishment, especially the punishment of criminals by the state. Oh my goodness, okay. Your assignment now is to use that word every day, at least once in casual conversation. Absolutely. Absolutely. Sons that are about to hit puberty are gonna think that's a really funny word, by the way. Yes they are. Just for the record. Yes they are. Wearing Dr. Ruth West Hyper when you need her. I know, I know, I know. So here's a uh Uh an example though of of you know violence towards criminals, a death penalty is a violent act towards criminals. We're talking about war, violent police. We don't believe in the death penalty. We don't believe in capitalism. But here's a story. This is uh from Benjamin Davis who writes the on religion part of the uh in the paper. Uh the Gazette. Yes, I thought. All right. So here's just an opening part of one of his articles that'll help us set the stage. Do we know like what his uh credentials are? Let's see. It says here they have the religious coalition here in Frederick. He was executive director of the Religious Coalition for Emergency Human Needs in Frederick from ninety six to ninety nine. Teaches theology at St. Mary's Seminary in Baltimore. Okay. Those are credentials. Good Right? All right. All right, that's so this is this is gonna debunk anything that Paul might say the whole show. Okay. Let's see. Let's see. Alright, he says, I heard a boy recently tell his mother that he what he learned in Sunday school. Our teach us teacher told us how God sent Moses behind enemy lines on a rescue mission to lead the Israelites out of Egypt. When he got to the Red Sea, he had his engineers build a bridge and all the people walked across safely Then he calls headquarters for reinforcements. They sent bombers to blow up the bridge, and all the Israelites were saved. Is that really what your teacher taught you, his mother asked? Well, no mom, but if I told you the way Pastor Jim did, you'd never believe it. So see, God I mean he sent in like F-16 fighters and it's in the Bible. Absolutely. You gotta read your Bible and prove me wrong. Absolutely. That's your other homework assignment. Alright, so Jonathan has he he's mad at me now because I just took all the winds out of his tail. But Jonathan has been advocating for the position that war is sometimes necessary and appropriate and godly Right, it's the godly response. It's a biblical response. Right? Um and Paul is saying, Well, I'm not sure I'm gonna agree. Yeah, I don't know that I've that I've adequately qualified my statements along the way. So I think maybe it's time for some qualifications. Absolutely. Well many people don't think I'm qualified for much of anything. I mean there's a whole study of theology on this, right? Just war theory is something that people have been wrestling over for a long time. Right. When if ever is it okay to go to war. Right. When is it just to go to war? Exactly. So Yeah, um I guess let's see how far I go with this. I would argue that that since the beginning that the Lord has um been uh taking action against nations that are wicked and stopping them from being wicked. Uh uh in a consistent throwway. And he invites the nation of Israel to do that for a defined uh section of the world. He doesn't send them around the world to do that with every you know, wicked nation on the world, but but he gives them a defined place and a defined time to participate in that, specifically dealing with Canaanites who were uh vile uh s you know giving giving their children uh and sacrifice to idols and and you know just uh a vile religious uh uh environment. And invites is an interesting word. He does more than invite them. to go to war with the Canaanites, right? He heard he commands them. Yeah, no, he does command them, yes. Right. So he commands them. He brings them into the the the working to do that, right? And then with Christ Uh it's clear that the church is given no authorization whatsoever to continue that. Right. Right? That part of history is over. Right. Uh meaning specifically Israel being used by God to uh to s to violently stop evil Yeah, that's documented. In the book of Romans and elsewhere, sure. Alright, so we're in agreement there. But the question remains whether or not God still uses governments Right. Instituted among men and gives to them a sword to restrain evil. Right. Right? And that's uh that's the place where where if that's the case then that would mean that government has has the sanction from God to restrain evil. The problem arose Not with Christians in the early centuries, uh, but when when Christianity was married to the state, then all of a sudden you have people that were were taught by Christ to turn the other cheek. Right. Uh in the face of violent persecution, being burned at the stake and being uh you know, uh heads chopped off and boiled or whatever, you know. I mean it was pretty severe the what the things that were happening to these guys. All of a sudden they are brought into power And there's still the reality that there are murderers that have to be restrained and there are um uh other violent um criminals, not to mention, you know, the the oncoming hordes of of other nations. And so um I I so what I'm arguing is that Hitler's a good example that there's been been throughout history uh for that matter radical um violent Islam. I'll qualify, it's not perhaps all of Islam, but there's enough of violent Islam that that will use the sword on the earth to totally annihilate like Pakistan, the church in Pakistan uh uh has been documented to have shrunk so drastically that it's nearly non existent now when Pakistan used to be a Christian nation. Right. But it's it's It's done that because the Muslims have come in and they have taken over and whatever witness the Christians have had in a nonviolent manner has been totally ignored in the name of violent Islam and and they've totally taken over. And there's clearly the sense in uh North Africa that this is happening. Uh uh the where where this kind of genocide is going on. Right. Where where they're unwilling. Right. to be appealed to. They they will not listen to reason. It would appear at some level that that Hamas and Hezbollah have given themselves over to to levels of that uh right there in Israel and in and over into the West Bank. So I'm of the opinion that every step of the way we should appeal to men's conscience. and not use the sword. Right. But that there are those that have uh that have become cancerous and are completely incapable, you know, for that matter, maybe they're at the place where they where where God is hardening their heart, like Pharaoh. You know? Uh and and that God raises up a sword. Right. to destroy them. Right. And if that sword includes the United States, then I think it's okay for there to be Christians, a part of the army in the United States. that would be a part of that sword to restrain that evil. Right. Communism would have been an example. Hitler is an example. All these different guys. I want to jump in and clarify just a couple of things I because I think it's going to be important too. I think somebody who's not well versed in Christianity and what the Bible teaches could come away from the first, you know, what, ten minutes of this show thinking it Oh, God has changed, I guess. The God of the Old Testament said the Israelites should go kill all the Canaanites and and God of the New Testament is not that way anymore. But that would be contradictory to what the Bible really teaches about God. Right? So Ecclesiastes tells us that There's a time and a season for different things, yeah. Sure. So God hasn't changed, but circumstances and we and we clearly identify there's an old Covenant and a new covenant and it doesn't mean that necessarily God has changed, but it it yeah, it's what you're saying is it's a sea seasonal kind of thing and clearly The new covenant with Christ is to indeed be essentially our marching orders at this time. Did you guys see that movie that uh Mel Gibson did uh down in South America Uh among it was it the Aztecs? Yeah, the foreign la it was all foreign languages. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well they they basically it was a nation that was into human sacrifice. Yeah. It's very dark And uh in it ends it ends at the end of the movie with this one character that has escaped and and he's being chased by these by these human sacrifice religious you know leaders right up to the the shoreline as the crusaders are arriving on the shore and they're his savior from this violent uh uh religion that was the Aztec religion that was very dark. And and so when God sent the k the Israelites and said, Look Uh the Canaanites are going to be destroyed. Their religion has become so dark with human sacrifice and the ugliness of it that I'm going to destroy them. However, I'm deciding to give you their land. So I want you to go in and to destroy them because they've lost the right to exist because of of the hardness of their heart and sin that there are ways to come And that's still gonna happen in Revelation. At the end when Christ comes in. And that's what I'm arguing is that God is still doing that and has been doing that. He's never stopped doing that. Where he He restrains evil by giving the sword to government, whichever government it is. Yeah. Well I let me clarify that that we we really have to differentiate, I think, between the role of the government and the role of the church. Yes. Right, right. And there is a there is a segment of the continuum that believes that the nation state has every right to defend its borders, etc. , etc. So you can make that case. But they but we need to come back to the church calling for the holy war. No, no, but we need the crusades that the blight on the case. What is the what does it mean to render unto Caesar what is the Caesar's and what is the role of the Christian related to the nation state? So so in our tradition we have the uh tradition of of uh of alternative service or conscientious objection, which means that we still serve our country. For example, uh many of our uh of our of our folks were a part of World War II in terms of defending uh the land or whatever by participating in Sergeant York. Well no no no great movie. No, because he ended up in the pattern. But we were w well we for example we're we're at NIH, you know, we put ourselves in in high risk you know, uh experiments in terms of uh medical experimentation or whatever and and we were in non-combative roles in World War II and all sort in all uh services uh But see I think what it comes down to is what again I don't want to go too far down this because it it is sort of a uh you know it's kind of a counter argument I guess that might stray too far from scripture. But but on the other hand you can make the case from scripture as well. What ultimately truly is effective? In other words, I You can't really you can never argue that it is not the call of even the believer to contain evil and to corral evil and to uh essentially uh stop it. Uh and and and I think our our argument is simply what what weaponry or what tactics are most effective. Now again to use another argument. 'Cause it clearly we disagree uh about, you know, some elements of of of whether or not Christians should be involved, like, you know, in in the army specifically killing people. Okay, but all that aside, there are these elements of uh of truth in being a prophetic voice and how to do that in a nonviolent way that you guys advocate that I feel like are strengths that the entire body of Christ worldwide should pay close attention to. They're very important. Yeah, yeah. Well let me see what you're getting into. Yeah, let me give you an example of of another again, I again I can get too pragmatic about this, but I tend to be Uh uh in other words, I think the only way you ultimately uh uh advance the biblical argument is show how it does have prag uh it pragmatically works. Another great example from recent history is when this uh dictator uh Noriega was down in Panama or whatever, George H. W. Bush had to make an intervention. the guy ended up being holed up in the Vatican Embassy and they have a choice of whether they were going to go and kind of blow blow it up or whatever or somehow do a kind of a a a SWAT team kind of thing And he decided to do the hot SWAT team. They actually went in and kidnapped the guy and you know, corralled him, this evil dictator or whatever, took him back to Mi Miami. Now again, this this might not be true at all, but So they took him out of the Vatican Well out of the Vatican Embassy in in uh Panama took him back to Miami and supposedly the guy uh I don't know whether this is true or not, but the word on the street is the guy's given his life to Christ, that this dictator no. So in other words, what Bush did was, uh through the US intervention They they corralled or contained evil, but they used a nonviolent means of going in. They locked him up. I mean we gotta lock up whether it's uh Saddam Hussein or Hitler, any of these people So the the other point we're trying to make, I think, is is is you have to dress evil. You cannot allow you can't do a Chamberlain kind of thing. and be snookered by these people. But but what pragmatically ultimately works and this reminds me of David. I don't like I don't like the term pragmatic, but there is a righteous a righteous response when like if somebody comes up and wants to fight me Yeah. Right, and and just pick a fight with me. There's a righteous response that I can have that in no way is a uh is a um uh a doormat just inviting him to walk in me. Yeah. And I can respond to him with with strength and with righteousness and appeal to his heart. And David does this in a bunch of places where he is fighting against his enemies. Where he shows compassion and mercy and he doesn't just go the route of the sword and as a result he gets peace on every side. Right. And and I feel like That's the argument. model that approach through his entire ministry. He had every opportunity to utilize violence, uh you could argue, I guess, uh in in many ma ways. He could have called down the armies of heaven, uh if he wanted to. And there is a sense in Revelation. depending on how you interpret it, 'cause you alluded to this earlier. Right, exactly. That Christ is going to come and at least what he's gonna do is he's gonna he's gonna take everybody Oh, yeah. That chooses the beast and throw them in the lake of fire. Whether or not he comes with a sword, you know, what however you define that lake of fire, there's clearly a sense that there's going to be an ultimate violent judgment. A violent restraining of evil. Yeah, we would say there's accountability. In other words, there are consequences that are less than positive. But we don't necessarily you know we don't need to I I I don't think we would say it requires violence as much as it does the logical outcome of one's choices and the lake of fire and hell and all that is just simply the logical outcome of one that chooses something other than a God. I mean you have an ungodly outcome and that's basically what the imagery is in Which is interesting 'cause that 'cause that gets me starting to think about um uh the death penalty. And I don't know that we want to go that direction. Well I think we probably ought to touch related 'cause we because we see we honestly You know, we don't b we don't believe in capital punishment in that way be uh uh uh because And what's the biblical Well it's basically again it's it it's bel yeah it's believing it's believing certainly under the old covenant, eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth, but Jesus himself came. uh under the new covenant it says you've heard it said an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth but I say unto you know love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you're not sure. Okay so if you're going to go pragmatic then let me ask you a pragmatic question What what is uh most costly for society to try to restrain somebody that has clearly proven his inability to stop killing? Right. you know, or to stop um uh uh you know, abusing children sexually or whatever. Right. And he's proven his inability to do that, so we have to keep him locked up. We c we can't afford that as a society, just to lock those people away. I mean there are some people that that argue the uh the economy of this, but I think I think probably it's it's more truthful to say that it's more costly, obviously to lock somebody up for X number of years rather than uh the the more quick and immediate solution of capital punishment. I mean if there's somebody like that, like a ham Hannibal Lectern for all this Not with the American justice system though. It's more expensive to kill somebody because of all the appeals processes all the time. But again, it's the modeling. But it's basically what Scripture says, and that is, you know, uh that Jesus clearly sa he addresses eye for an eye and says You've heard it said, but I say unto you. Yeah. See, and it's kind of the modeling a and and and this is, you know, with this we can go a whole down the avenue in terms of of the pervasion of violence in our society. And it kinda comes down to what Jonathan said is does that mean what are we modeling for our kids and what are we modeling in marriages It's the death penalty models violence. Yeah, I think we would we would say that. Would you go so far as to say that spanking is violence? I would say I yeah, it w uh it's right there. I mean it's not I mean, you know, you have to i if it's not if you don't have to not capital punishment, it's corporal punishment. Well yeah, but but but again uh again getting back to what do you call pragmatism, whatever. I mean does it really work? And then what are we modeling for our kids? We get all upset about our kids. I didn't turn out violent. Yeah. No, no, no, no. But I mean but often but all we're trying to say is there are is there another way that's that it's equally effectively or more effective than that. And and essentially, I mean we I think we would all agree that there's a pervasion of violence in our culture and that it's simply is more of a negative than it is a positive in terms of the effect it's having on kids. Which leads us in the direction where does violence come from? So Troy, what do you think he's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Processal Chapel, the voice you most recently heard And before that, you heard the voice of Paul Monday, Senior Pastor at Frederick Church of the Brethren. I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. We've got, you know, maybe five minutes left uh in the show now. So uh you know I want to make sure that you guys are gathering your thoughts for your your last volleys here. The last thing that you said Paul was interesting. You're talking about you know the death penalty and and uh and and I used to agree with you And it was in a Bible study years ago that actually Jonathan was uh was uh was in involved with was that his house? Yeah, okay. I was uh I was persuaded to have my my view on the death penalty change. Uh my it's kind of a nuance uh position now where I believe that the I think the state has the right to enact uh capital punishment. Technically it would, yes. Uh so biblically I think you can you can uh you you can uphold the death penalty biblically. But something Jonathan said a moment ago about the failure of the system with the legal expenses, I think our system is flawed and fails in so many ways that I have no confidence in our judicial system to enact a death penalty because I think we put innocent people to death. Uh there are innocent people in death row. Oh my goodness yeah. So I I go so I think biblically you can support it, but pragmatically I'm not real comfortable with it. But something you said a second ago, Paul, about uh uh you know, the example she said, what we should be doing I'm gonna go back to what you said about ten, fifteen minutes before that about keeping clear the difference, the distinction between the government and the church. Right, exactly. The church should not be killing anybody. Yes. I shouldn't go grab somebody by the throat and say, In the name of Christ, I'm going to kill you. That is not what the church should be doing. But God has given that authority to the civil government. And I think that we as Christians can support the government's role in that. Okay, well y and that's the point at which i if we're sanctioning it meaning that we're we're saying that the government is okay to do it then we end up, you know, guilty by association. Yeah, and the and the part and yeah, I think we have to accentuate that difference and everything. And I think w all I was arguing in the first program, for example, is that at least in recent years even even governmental uh intervention or participation in conventional warfare just has not been successful And then I I I look at this from a pastoral perspective again, my heart goes out as full. You could argue World War II was successful. I think some people would argue that. But I since since World War II in the modern era, I think we have successful at restraining evil. I wonder whether well World War II is the definition of success. Well, I think yeah, in terms of actually stopping uh stopping Hitler, Mussolini uh etcetera etcetera. But in this there's definitely the question as to whether or not in the Vietnam War, if they would have really gone in there and fought it and uh and and not been afraid to go for it, whether or not they could have stopped Pol Pot you know, at the root instead of uh the yellow Yeah, and how and I guess the argument there is how much how much more would have had to be done because you look at the the type of bombing that did do and a lot of it was so incredibly horrific and it didn't a problem. I mean in the in the you know in the day was ugly. I mean when we went against Hitler. Sure, sure. I mean, war is always going to be that way. Well you look at, you know, the Revolutionary War, the Americans the Americans won In large measure because we didn't fight a conventional war. The British were fighting by what was then the conventional state. Mel Gibson toss taught us that again. Right And we were play we were playing by by by the uh the the Native Americans' rules of engagement. And we beat 'em. Then in the Civil War, you know, th Gettysburg was brutally just grotesque violent. And the reason is because they were fighting by rules from fifty years ago, but the weaponry had advanced so that the old rules of setting up and then charging In the old days the bullets wouldn't travel so far. Right. But by the Civil War the bullets traveled a lot further and those guys are running to their death. So so this I play there's always been this this chase. I play out that the that there should be two things going on. One, that the government should should use the sword to restrain evil. Yeah. And at the same time, there should be Christians that are infiltrating every part of society And building up this this conscience, you know, more and more that we don't need to get so selfish and self-centered that we end up violent. Now I've asked this question a couple of times. Where does violence come from? The clear implication in Scripture is that violence comes from people who turn from the purposes of God. Yes. And in turning from the purposes of God, they turn turn towards their own selfish desires and it leads in the direction of warfare. And so if you've got nations that are uh that are growing up to be more giving and more caring, you know, that that at the end of the day those nations are going to get along better. I. e. , you know, the West certainly um has leaned f more you know pr pretty far in that direction with with and the other the other part of this I'll just say very quickly is that just as we would we would never uh recommend within a family, within a marriage, that you would settle differences on the basis of using violence. Is it possible then to say to nations that you can't do that. Well, uh that that ultimately, even among nation states, there's gotta be another way of living, another way of settling differences than simply because oftentimes what happens it becomes an ego struggle between certain high profiled uh presidents, kings, rulers, whatever. And then what happens is our you know young kids then become almost the pawns in the midst of the ego struggle between, you know, uh certain very powerful people in the world. Yeah, but you know, right now we are headed in the direction of of nations combating one another and it's an easy That's part of it as well, right. You know, it's that's not an ego thing. That's very practical. We've been trading with you, we don't want to trade with you anymore because the way that you're manipulating your currency The way that we're manipulating our currency in the reality is that if you got enough nations that are impoverished, the there's the tinder is available. I'm slapping my fingers to just go up and smoke. Smokey bear stuff. I'm going to have to jump in and wrap us up here. War is never gonna end clean and positively. I mean there's positives. World War Two ended positively. But World War One led to World War II. But you can't say then. The Cold War led to an environment that has fostered all these terrorist pockets Right. And now we're le inv involved in the war and terror. So there's there's there's just never ending cycle. So the instinct is right, we want to avoid it, but sometimes you've got to stand and defend those who need defending, it seems to me. But anyway. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Jonathan Sweitzer, thank you. Paul Monday, thank you very much. By the way What I'm reading, another book by Ted Decker is finished three two one. It's a novel. You're gonna love it. Thanks for listening. Thanks to putting plumbing and heating. Help would make you smile. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P, as in your preferred plumber. Pum and plumbing, how can we make you smile