Welcome to the live stream from Household of Faith in Christ. We're going to be in Revelation chapter 22 today, so if you want to get your Bibles ready to follow along, you're encouraged to do so. I think Today's message will have something for people on both poles of what they like in sermons. There's going to be some of that nitty-gritty deep dive kind of stuff, and there's going to be a lot of uh uh personal pastoral application kind of stuff too. So a little bit of everything So try to be all people go uh at all times, right? Not going to make anybody happy properly. But anyway, I encourage you to visit us, visit us online at Household of Faith in Christ. It's the name of the church, Household of Faith. And just add . com to the end of the household of faith in Christ. com. Today's message is titled, Life Without Aim is Life Without Power. I'm going to read now Revelation 22, verse 11. Let the one who does wrong still do wrong. And the one who is filthy, meaning vile and pure, still be filthy. And the one who is righteous, meaning just, upright, still be righteous. And the one who is holy, still be holy. It's just one verse, but it's a verse from our Christian canon, the 66th books of the Old and New Testament, and so it is Written by men as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. We call that being inspired by God. It's God breathes and God doesn't make mistakes, so it is inerrant. It is infallible, and I encourage you always to receive it as such. This verse I just read stands smacked up in the middle of Revelation's 22nd chapter. The final chapter here, it opened with an angel showing off the river of the water of life and the tree of life and the throne upon which sits the giver of life. In the opening half of this chapter you're invited to be blessed as royalty by the light of the world. The one who is faithful and true, the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets. And this blessing, it comes to those who heed the words that are contained in the book that John has written. Words instructing us to worship the only true God, the one true God, purposely serving others by sharing the prophecy of the book That we've been reading here with others. We can be busy doing this because the time is soon. The time of fulfillment is at hand. Be eager to share with others the need to throw off the shackles of sin and to become a slave of God's righteousness in Christ The most recent sermon, the sermon from last week in the series, we end it with a plea for the lost to come, won't you come? And the end of this ending book of the Bible, it's going to conclude with some prominence also placed upon coming. And in verse 7 of chapter 22, that sounds the note as well. Right, Jesus says, Behold, I am coming quickly. These words ring out with a suddenness, they spring off the page It's as if our Lord is interrupting his angel. There's an urgency here that jumps in, arresting the flow of the narrative. Now this is a storytelling device that was used earlier in the Revelation a couple of times before in chapters one and twenty-one And Jesus saying he's coming quickly, this has also been said a couple of times before in chapters two and three. The words, I come quickly. are both a warning and an encouragement. And which one applies to you? Well it depends on whether or not you believe the eyewitness account of John and and so many others like him, the and the message that they announced. In other words, it depends on whether or not you have eyes to see and ears to hear. Have you seen? Have you believed The angel of Yahweh bearing this message to John and also to us is likely the same angel whom Christ calls his own in chapter one. And so you see it is the angel who's talking When Jesus interrupting. But it's Jesus giving this message through his angel We've noticed this sort of thing throughout the book. God the Father, he has a message for his children, which comes through the Son, as it's spoken by an angel, and then mediated by the Apostle John to the entire church. And this angel of God an angel of Jesus Christ is also the mighty angel of Revelation chapter 10, and possibly elsewhere within the book too. And one wonders Might it also maybe have some connection anyway with the angel of God associated with the pillar of cloud and the pillar of fire that we read about in the Old Testament with the Exodus from Egypt? Maybe it's connected somehow with the angel of Yahweh mentioned in Genesis chapter 16, Exodus chapter 3, Judges 13, Isaiah 63. Those sorts of ideas are merely idle speculation, would require some deep study to try to determine if those are fair connections to make or not. So your devotional time, maybe take that as a homework assignment and give yourself some purpose to your devotions. See if there is a connection or not. See if if that's mere speculation or not. Now there's no need at all for us to speculate about the thrust of the angel's words in what we're reading today, particularly the end of verse 9 in chapter 22. John is told, and by extension, we also are told, worship God. Bam. There it is, worship God. How are you doing it, Dad? What people, things, ambitions, dreams have crowded God out of first place in your heart? Are there any? Is the worship of God central in your life? Or has the devil or the world or your personal yearnings Or all of them somehow in combination, have they pushed you to distraction and stolen your devotion to your eternal King? I mean if even the disciple whom Jesus loved could struggle to do this right, remember he bows to the angel, if he could struggle to do this right, you really think you're immune to facing challenges in this area? And this can be a rather tricky thing, a much trickier thing than you even perhaps realize, any of us perhaps realize. Because have you ever tried warning another professing Christian? against the dangers of worshiping angels or dead saints or icons or images of various kinds. Perhaps you've had this conversation with friends and family members who are part of the Roman Catholic tradition or the Eastern Orthodox tradition, talking to them about the way that they they revere the Virgin Mary or the martyrs or certain statues or the way they will honor even candles or kiss books and things like that. You see them do all these sorts of things and you you say to them, What are you thinking? Well, if you've been down this road with anybody like that, then you know what they'll often tell you. They'll generally say something like, Well, we don't worship these things in people. We simply honor them by venerating them. This sort of conversation tends to get complicated by the variety of terms that can be used in English and Greek and Latin. There are several ancient foreign words that we today might translate as worship in English. So let's see where the rubber meets the road here. Do Rome and Constantinople worship Mary or icons? Well, technically, yes. They're going to push back on me saying that, but there's really no getting around it, try as they might. They might say, you look, veneration, it's not the same as worship. Well, actually, it is. The word veneration, it's from the Latin venerates. Looks like venerates in English, but it's venerates. It's a past participle of venerari, which means to reverence, to worship. That's the dictionary definition. You can look it up. So if you point this out to your friends, Then they might say, well, okay, but worship is kind of an umbrella term, you see. There's there's Latreya worship and there's Julia worship. And you might respond to saying, so okay, so what's the difference? And if they've been catechized, then they will say, well, Latin is Latrea, and that's the worship or service that is owed to God What we give to the statues and to the dead saints isn't Latrea, it's it's it's duleia. It's very different. It sounds kind of impressive, right? They know these old fancy Latin words and stuff. The trouble for them though is it's merely a distinction without a difference. Because Dulaiah means slavery or bondage. We are to be in bondage as slaves to Christ. We're not to be in bondage as slaves to Mary or anyone else Now sometimes our conversations like this with others could could grow to be even more complicated, although it's truly not that complicated, but some people they sure do try to make it so. This might especially be the case if you're talking to someone who's on the Eastern Orthodox side of things, because they will tend to bring up yet another word, proscaneo. This has to do with prostrating oneself in homage. And they will draw a distinction, these folks will, between this, this Proscaneo, and Latruo, which means to serve in worship, it's somewhat like Latrea, which we've already mentioned, it means adoration in worship. Now in making this distinction, what the Eastern Orthodox are trying to do here is they're trying to make a point that La True and La Trea, that these are reserved for God. But it's okay to give prostrating worship to angels and such like. And this prostrating or bowing in worship posture is captured by that Greek word proskeneo that I mentioned just a moment ago. Now one of its verb forms, the aorist infinitive active, is prostinaci. And I know I've lost some people already with all these words and all this information at once, but why am I bringing all this up? Why am I spending five minutes of the message on this point. What word do you think is used in Revelation chapter 22, verse 8, when John wrote, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel? Well, if you've guessed it's not Latrea, you've guessed correctly. That's right. Latrea, again, said to be reserved for God. That's not the word he uses. Instead, it was a verb form of the word prosceneo, which the ill-informed like to say is okay to give to others who are not God. Such as angels, for instance. That's the word. So what does the Word of God now have to say about this? Well it says, don't do that. Some English Bibles they say exactly these words. Don't do that in verse 9. The original Greek there could be translated as look out, no, or more woodenly, see, no. In other words, beware, no, watch out, stop. There's a great emphasis in God's word on worshiping the true and only God, Him only and Him truly. Now, some may hear me teaching this, or others they'll never hear my voice once in their life, but they will read John's description of his vision here, and they're going to choose to ignore the warning. Some people that you talk to try to persuade them of the truth. They're going to turn their back on you and the truth you proclaim. And what are we to do about this when this happens to us? Well, we certainly can try again and again, always standing for the truth and hoping that at some point it'll break through and there'll be a moment where the Holy Spirit moves in a way that we can see and appreciate. But there's other times when maybe the sand needs to be brushed from the bottom of your sandals. Time to move on. Sometimes, sometimes it's game over. God's word says as much in today's featured verse, Revelation 22, verse 11. Let the one who does wrong still do wrong. The one who is filthy, vile, and pure, still be filthy. The one who is righteous, just, upright, still be righteous, and the one who is holy still be holy. There are stories in the Bible about God turning people over to the hardness of their own heart. They refuse to change direction. They simply will not repent. We see this in the world all around us, even in non-spiritual terms, really, right? You know any parents that can't stop fighting with their spouse? Fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, no matter how unsettling it is to their children. Do you know any churchmen who can't stop fighting with their brothers and sisters in the Lord? Fight by fight by fight, no matter how unsettling it is to the children of God. Have you seen this? I've seen this. I think we've all seen this. I even have a personal story about being too rigid myself. And it wasn't really even about me wanting to sin. But still about, I think, being too blind to recognize the path of righteousness that would have me behaving and carrying myself in a way that our holy God would want me to. See, we used to have a dog. She died coming up on a couple of years ago, but it it was up until only a few weeks ago that I kept a picture of her on my phone as the screen samer image. So every time I p picked up an answer on my phone or something, I would see a picture of the dog there to greet me. Just last month I changed that image on my phone to a photo of my daughter and grandson. Took me a long time to make that change because letting go of the family pet was difficult. Very sweet dog. And a very important part of our household for the better part of two decades. But there was a time things could have turned out quite a bit differently. It almost did. See, when I was a boy I go with lots of pets. There was a period in my life when our house was home, all at the same time, mind you, to four dogs, six fish tanks, a hamster, some hermit crabs, and about a dozen exotic birds. Other times we had turtles and cats and quite a few rats and mice, but those weren't pets technically. So when I reached adulthood, I felt like I had already enjoyed my my fair share of playing with and caring for a pack of animals, and so I didn't want any more pets. Plus they interrupt, you know, your life, like your vacation plans and stuff. And they force you to leave where you are before maybe you want to leave 'cause you gotta get home, let them outside before they Leave you a whole mess of presents in the living room. That's what my wife likes to call them. Gotta get home, let the dog out before we're left with a bunch of presents. And you know, dogs, they cost money. You've got to feed them and medically care for them and repair the things they chew up on, all that sort of stuff. And so no dog for me. But my daughter, Danny Joe, she's not me. And so when she turned 10, she wanted a dog. Actually, at first what she wanted was an American girls doll. I'm no fan of those dolls. They kind of creep me out a little bit. And they're expensive too, actually. But she really wanted one. And so I made a deal with my little girl. I saw an opportunity to teach her some lessons and patience and goal setting and working for what it is you want in life. And so I told her, look, you can get the doll if you can go an entire month without watching TV I told her you couldn't even watch a single second of TV, or you blew the deal. And to make the reward even sweeter, I made her really work for it. I picked a month that has 31 days in it, the month of October. And she agreed to the challenge. And then about five minutes later she came back and said to me, What if I want something other than a doll? Like what? I asked. Uh she said, a dog. If I can go the whole month without watching T V, can I get a dog? Well, like I said, I didn't want a dog. But honestly, even less that I want that creepy American girls doll in my house. So my daughter and I we amended our deal. And I'll be darned she did it. The entire month. She even had her cousins, particularly her most annoying cousin, tried to trick her into watching TV when we visited their house one time, but she didn't fall for it. As I recall, to avoid uh all of this, she even joined the adults upstairs so she could spend the day avoiding all these schemes of her jerky cousin. So she didn't get to play that day. All the kids were in the basement playing. She is upstairs. She didn't even get to play. And if my memory serves me correctly, I think she also skipped some overnight sleepovers with friends during that month because watching TV would have been a central activity during the sleepover. So she really sacrificed during that month. And so I was really very immensely proud of her and still am Well, when the month was up, we visited the animal shelter, and she first wanted to buy a dog. She wanted a special breed dog, but uh we had convinced her that, you know, honey, there might just be that perfect dog waiting for you at the pound And if so, well then you could rescue that puppy. You can give that dog a great life that it wouldn't have had otherwise. And she kind of liked that idea. But she was liking it less and less when we continually left the shelter without a dog. First day, very excited, go to the shelter, leave without a dog. Next day, go excited, leave without a dog. The next day, the next and the next, and she was frustrated But she was determined. Each day after school, she asked her mother to take her to the animal shelter And there were a couple of times actually she saw a dog that she really fell in love with and she wanted to to bring home. So I reviewed all the paperwork that was attached to those dogs to see what the deal was, and I really didn't like what I saw uh particularly in their medical history for a couple of them. It's a good thing actually passed on these dogs, it seems like, looking back, because one of those dogs that she had her heart set on was quite a bit more sick than anybody realized, and it ended up dying on wood what would have been that dog's second day in our house. Can you imagine how horrible that would have been for our little girl So I'm glad we passed on that one. And we just kept going to the shelter every afternoon. Well the passage of the days it felt like the passage of kidney stones to my daughter. And she was beginning to feel like she was never going to get a dog and she'd given up all that TV watching for nothing. So one night we're sitting down for dinner, and we had already prayed for the meal, but she was venting about her being upset by not having a dog yet, and so we added another prayer to our family time gathered around the dinner table. And during this prayer, we ask God to bring us the exact right dog at the exact right time. And that God would find a way somehow to let us know it was the right time and the right dog. Well the next day, Dina, she decided to pay a visit to the shelter again. This time without the kids, she figured I'm going to spare them some of this additional frustration they keep experiencing day after day And she walked around the kennel, she saw nothing new, all the same dogs that were there the day before, the same dogs that greeted her on this solo trip. It was a couple hours later the kids they got home from school and Danny Joe wanted to go to the shelter, even though her mother had already just been there. Dina didn't really feel like going again, but she took the kids back to the shelter anyway. And believe it or not. There was a new dog that wasn't there just an hour earlier. This cute little terrier puppy, mostly Cairn Terrier, Norfolk Terrier, possibly a bit of a long-haired dachshund mixed in really cute as a button puppy dog and she looked a little bit like a baby version of Toto from Wizard of Oz or maybe like a a puppy version of um um Benji from the popular movies came out in the 70s and 80s. So it was looking very promising. But then, Dina and Danny Joe, they saw this dog aggressively, fiercely snarl at another dog who was trying to steal her toy, and she would have none of it. So then I'm thinking, hmm, I don't know about this dog. My two ladies both suddenly were just a tiny bit unsure. But not for long. They knew this had to be the one. It had to be the one. We had just prayed the night before for God to bring us a dog and that he would let us know that it was the right one at the right time. We had just prayed this And this four-month-old puppy had already been given a name. It was right there on the cage in black marker written on there on a piece of paper, Angel. We prayed for a dog, and the very next day God sent us an angel. So Dina told the shelter our family wanted to adopt angels But they have rules and the staff they wouldn't let us take the dog without the entire family, meaning me too, meeting this cute little pup. Now this was going on in the middle of the afternoon. I was at work. So uh Sadina, she called me, she had some urgency in her voice as I recall And uh she asked if there's any way possible that I could get to the shelter right away. And I said, well, I'm gonna be home in a few hours. Why don't we just go and I get done? with work and when the you know when the work day's over we can do it then. She's like, No, I'm convinced somebody's gonna adopt Angel right away. I mean you gotta see this dog how cute she is. She's not gonna last. Someone's gonna see her and swoop her up. So I dropped everything. I went to the shelter, and the rest, as they say, is history, but it was a history with some bumps. Now Danny Joe, she was very attentive to this dog at first. But over time, she grew less and less attentive, as can be the case with children. An angel, she dug up Dina's favorite flowers in the backyard, and she uh Well, let's just say a number of the toys for the kids went missing, or they found much later underneath a bed or something completely chewed to smithereens. There was one time Angel she had mangled an item that was dearly precious to Danny Joe, and oh she was so upset. Oh my gosh, real tears. She was so, so, so upset. And I'm thinking, man, this might finally be what it takes to really have a breakthrough moment so she'll more properly watch after this dog the way that she really needs to. Not really. I mean Danny Joe was but a little girl after all, right? Then middle school is followed by high school. And the passage of time, Angel became more and more my responsibility, Dina's responsibility. And I simply didn't have the time. And Dina had started back to work at that point in our lives. And Tyler, he requires a certain amount of time and attention. And so Angel, this very high-energy dog, was getting almost no playtime. And I was after my daughter, you've got to play the dog, you've got to take care of the dog, you gotta look after the dog. I did everything I could think to try to get her to take this seriously, and it just wasn't working. And so finally I said, look, since you're not properly able to care for the dog, I'm going to find Angel a home where they'll have kids that will be able to give her the attention that she needs and deserves. And this wasn't an idle threat. Those had come before this. This was a decision I informed her of this decision, and boy, she cried. Of course she did. And Dina cried too And I remember Dina, she nearly, not quite, but nearly begged me to change my mind. Because Angel, she had become a part of the family dynamic, and if she were gone, it wasn't just Danny Joe who was going to miss. This cute little spunky dog in the house. We were all going to miss her at some level. But the challenge for me was that I had already informed my daughter of the decision. And I had always been very clear in our house, my yes is yes, my no is no. When I make a decision and and put a statement out there that I've made a decision, that's it No arguments. The time for negotiation has ended. It was a principle that ruled this house for years. I couldn't change it now would undercut the very foundation of what we are teaching our kids. But the tears. But I saw my wife's eyes and the cries from my daughter's heart. Honestly, even the sadness that welled up within me, I needed to change the decision, but I couldn't Not without going back on my word. I felt trapped. I still remember very vividly I can still picture in my mind. I was in Danny's bedroom. I was explaining all this to Danny Joe as I was kneeling at the side of her bed. And I was torn up inside. I truly was. I think my daughter actually noticed. I saw something change in her eyes, like I said, wow, my my dad's like really upset that he's needing to follow through on this. But you know, first principles are first principles for a reason. Wasn't sure exactly what to do And then it was like a bolt out of the blue, an idea entered my mind. I don't know if it was a prompting of the Holy Spirit or not. I I I truly don't know. But all of a sudden it just dawned on me, Danny Joe's birthday was just around the corner And so I said, look, honey, I want to be clear, you have forfeited the right to keep this dog. So you have lost the dog. Rules are rules. However, we serve a God who doesn't always give us what we deserve when we break the rules. But he does this in a way that doesn't have God himself breaking the rules. So I said to my daughter, I said, you know, I'm going to hold firm for the rules. I have to. That's how we do things in this house. But I have an idea of what I'm going to get you for your birthday. I'm going to get you a dog. Angel dog to be specific. So you're losing the dog but getting the dog back for your birthday. But then I added, I said, Danny Joe, listen to me, you've got to do a better job of playing with the dog and and feeding the dog and giving the dog water and cleaning up after her and all that sort of stuff and you know things all those sorts of things and And you know what my beautiful daughter she did. Kinda sorta for the most part. She did better anyway. And then she went to college and she got a job and she got married and she moved out of state and she started having babies and all that sort of stuff. And so, Angel, she again became more and more a dog that belonged to Dina and me. And looking back, I am so grateful for those 17 years. And we almost didn't have them. Why? Because I was so firm. Now in this case I don't think it was sin. I say there's been other times. The problem definitely has been sin is sin. Sometimes we can all live our lives in a way that we're just far too firm. Even in our sin, we won't let go of it We're not malleable at all. Instead, our hearts increasingly come more and more like stone. So I've got to ask, are you open to having God teach you new things? Are you open to having God soften your heart, alter your paths? I recall an activity my family enjoyed one time. We were on vacation. We were canoeing down a river, and we had a tour guide with us. He was giving us the history about the area, the region, and that sort of thing. And and he mentioned how the um the houses were passing by, the shapes of their backyards would change over time 'cause the river would kind of s snake its way in the serpentine kind of a way over time. And a lot of people who were homeowners didn't like that their backyard would shrink and stuff and so they tried to stop the flow of the water. They would build these concrete barriers to keep the the movement of the water at bay. In many cases I gotta say the results were ugly. Have you constructed any ugly concrete barriers in your heart, trying to alter the flow of the spirit moving in your life? Have you closed your mind to new and loving insights? Insights from the Lord God Almighty Do you make the mistake of living as though you alone have all the answers? And so you rigidly cling to your self-righteousness. Listen, you can check all the right boxes. You can pray. You can attend church services. You can read the Bible. But if your walk through this world is marked by selfish stubbornness Watch out. You're bound to an idol of your own making And culturally speaking, you can vote for all the best canons, you can support all the most moral cultural issues, you you can even spout off interesting historical anecdotes that help you uh and and help you to equip others to have more discernment in this world. But If you simply refuse to die to self, then watch out. You are prostrating yourself before an idol that is most definitely not the one true God. And if you remain on this path after hearing today's message, well then perhaps these words were written with you in mind. Let the one who does wrong still do wrong And the one who is filthy, vile, impure, still be filthy. The Bible clearly teaches that the Lord does, in fact, turn people over to the hardness of their sinful heart. He does this. You don't want that to be you. Oh. And sadly, it appears it's most people. And we look around us. You look around, what do you see? You know what I see? I see plenty of worshipers. Plenty of worshipers, but no God. They're not worshiping God But the one who repents, to that one there is great hope. A glorious future awaits. The Lord has called these people to himself and he upholds them by his very hand for the remainder of time saying to them, and let the one who is righteous, just upright, still be righteous, and the one who is holy still be holy. At which half of the verse are you aiming? Hopefully it's the final half. And if not, begin to pursue the path that is righteous and holy today. Begin with just one step. Small changes over time, they do indeed affect our path, and they can become happy. And habits they help to form our character, and let it be a character that stands strong as a rock, but has the wisdom to know when and how to be soft as velvet. Be strong. Be soft. Grace allows us to be a velvet hammer. Father, we are so grateful and thankful you do not give us what we deserve. And give us so many things we do not. We thank you that as your people we can recognize you have called us to yourself. You have been so gracious and patient and gentle with us as you form us to be people who uh are restored to being true image bearers. And help us to navigate this difficult world filled with slings and arrows, to do so with boldness, to stand firm, to be strong. But to also understand that winsomeness is not a dirty word, that we should have peaceable hearts Comport ourselves with joy. Do things in such a way that we give the lost in this world a reason to be attracted to the truth of the message of the kingdom. But help us also to do this without compromise, always standing on the sure footing of the rock, the truth. It's in his name we pray. Amen Going to be shutting down the stream now. Again, I encourage you to visit us online at householdfaith in Christ. com, household of faith in Christ. com. Until next time. God bless.