Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB. We thank you so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. If you're listening on the radio right now that is. And if you're listening later via podcasts, well we appreciate you spending whatever time of day it is. with us here. We know your time is valuable and boy increasingly there are more and more options for people to consume audio. I think there's like eight billion people on the planet and there's sixty-four billion podcasts So everybody's got like four or five podcasts going right now, and it's a good time for all of us. So if you're making time for us, I do not take it for granted. I appreciate it. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me online at household of faith in Christ dot com. That's Household of Faith in Christ. dot com and I'm joined this week by a familiar face and voice, Daniel Rasby. You can find him online at conqueredbylove. org. That's a ministry that his family started, oh, I don't know, quite a long time ago. His father and mother started it and Daniel's part of it now too. And we're joined this week by a new friend of the Faith Debate. His name is D no I should have done this before we started the show. I'm going to take a stab and say it's Samuel Schleif. Is that correct? That's close. It's Schleif. Schleif. Well, it had to be one of the two. I picked the wrong one. Sorry about that. Samuel Schleif. He's with Whole Heart Ministries. Find him online at wholeheartmove. com. He's pretty active with the YouTube channel. You can find that on YouTube, or I think you can just connect to it through wholeheartmove. com. He's in North Carolina. Daniel Razby and I are in Maryland. And I think all of us are involved in some way, shape, or form in the house church movement. So we're going to be talking specifically about that. And we've tackled this topic before, actually, on the faith debate, but it's been a little while. And um Imran Razvi, known as Raz to his friends Daniel's father. He put me in touch with Samuel and said, Hey, we should have this guy on. And I'm not sure if he thought that would be because you're a really good guy who has lots of nice things to say, or if he thought it would be good fodder for a faith debate. I really don't know So we're going to find out together. Why don't you tell me a little bit first so the audience has a sense of what you're all about? I I mentioned you're North Carolina. What is it you're doing there with Whole Heart Ministries or the Whole Heart Movement, I think you call it? Yeah, that's right. We usually go by Whole Heart Movement. Troy's awesome to be on. Thanks for the opportunity. And that's great to be on with my friend Daniel also. Uh here in North Carolina, we're on the eastern side of the state. We're in Greenville, North Carolina, and we're doing what we call a disciple-making movement. So we're making disciples. Our goal is to make fully consumed passionate disciples with a burning desire to make Jesus known and to know Jesus. We are functioning in house churches. Right now we have loosely three house churches that we fellowship in. Uh we started the ministry in twenty f started our first house church in twenty twenty one and just in the last really year we've multiplied to the the two further house churches and one even as recent as this month is starting up in Washington, North Carolina. So yeah, we're doing disciple making movements, functioning in house churches here in the east part of the state. And remind me what we were doing, right, Daniel? Yeah, yeah, I g I guess so. Um but remind me, Sam, w you will you consider yourself a church plant? Are you part of a denomination or organization that sent you to step to the house churches or you just decided I want to start a house church. Well really not. Yeah, we we decided to do something new. In twenty twenty I was transitioning from a pastoral position I was a pastor up in the western suburbs of Chicago. I noticed that Chicago Bears hat that's Troy that Troy's wearing. Troy's really uh repping my history over there because he's got a North Carolina sweatshirt on and he's got a Chicago hat. And uh I'm originally from Chicago area for a large for a long portion of my life and then I moved to North Carolina. So I'm not gonna tell you what underwear I'm wearing because if I did then you'd know where you're moving next. Oh no. I don't know. That was my blame attempt at some humor there. But anyway. How many years now? I don't I don't really pay attention. I I got more important things to do, like talking to you guys. That's right. Come on. I was a pastor in the Western suburbs and I was there at my church for about five years and pouring out my heart and you know, had been to Bible college and seminary and everything. And I was leaving there and uh I looked at my congregation. Uh it was an interesting position I had. I was a pastor of in English ministries at a Chinese American church. So I was over this little congregation of English speakers in a slightly larger Chinese church, but I'd kind of put my blood, sweat, and tears in that ministry for about five years and I was leaving Troy And I was like, Lord, who has really transformed in these five years? Like who has really transformed more into the image of Christ? Like who has had visible change, who's grown in the fruits of the Spirit, things of that nature? And I saw Three people that I knew had really transformed. One was an alcoholic who got sober in those years and came to know Christ, wasn't a believer previously, the other was a woman coming out of homelessness, um, who had a lot of spiritual issues and really needed to get free from um really d demonization and God set her free in some dramatic ways. that there was a college student who just came on fire for Jesus and I said God why did these three change but sometimes it felt like the other twenty seven didn't have that much change and I felt like God said discipleship. And so from them on then on my ministry really changed. And I said, I don't want to do big church anymore. It doesn't really matter how many people I preach to on a Sunday. I want to see this. kind of change in people. I want to be close to people. I want to see them weakly. I want to know what's on their heart and just really closely pastor them and shepherd them as best that I can and most of all to see Jesus touch people's lives in the deeper way that I saw in those couple of years with those couple people. So your father's a pastor too, right? That's right. Moved to North Carolina and started something new. But yeah, my father's a pastor also and I grew up in traditional kind of institutional brick and mortar churches and saw God do a lot of things, good things in those places, but I felt that over the years of seeing his ministry and then being in ministry for a few years of my own, the Lord called me to something different. So I think if I'm I've tried to figure out who you were by looking stuff up online and I think you had a Methodist background. Is your father he's a pastor and a Methodist Free Methodist. Free Methodist. Yes. A more conservative branch of the Methodist Church. She was in the Free Methodist denomination for for quite some time, about fifteen years, twenty years Yeah. Okay. But you're not affiliated with any sort of Methodist denomination anymore. No. No reason why they didn't send you and you decided to just go off and do it on your own? Uh we're non-denominational yet. Um I I was actually in a Lutheran church. I was in a Chinese Lutheran church, and I was not um To be honest, I wasn't really a fan of our denomination. I didn't really want to be sent by the denomination. And um the challenge maybe D which which Lutheran denomination was it? It was ELCA. Oh. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I was um I was just doing a speaking ministry in which I was speaking at a few different churches while I was in seminary and I told I asked the Lord if I could, you know, quit my secular job that was getting me through seminary and just wait for a position. And so I quit that secular job and the day I was leaving that job The director of the speaking ministry called me and said, one of those little churches you spoke at wants you to come be an interim for them at Chinese Lutheran Church. And uh Yeah, took some time and prayed about it. Had never been in a Chinese context, had never been in a Lutheran context, and uh a little bit off the wall, but just felt like uh I was supposed to go. And it was a really unique place because it was um Yeah, a biblical spirit-filled Chinese church in with some complications related to their denomination. So yeah, it's a long story, but Yeah. So you said your father was uh was in a you know a more conservative oriented Methodist uh tradition, that's what you grew up in. Then you ended up in the ELCA, which is anything but conservative. That's right. some could argue anything but biblical at this stage of in their in their denominational history. Uh and now you're doing the house church thing. So that I um but that makes it harder to know since you're n since you are non-denominational Where would your theological commitments be now? How are how you know how are the to get into how they're the same and different from where you were, but just what are some core things that define what you and your church and your uh theological commitments, what those look like. Yeah. Um We are a spirit-filled church. You could probably label us more charismatic. We believe that the gifts of the spirit still function today. So that's a big aspect of who we are. We're very passionate about the scripture as the word of God. We believe in the inerrancy of the Scripture. We probably lean a little bit more like Wesleyan or Arminian in our theology, but definitely believe in the sovereignty of God and sort of the paradox of free will and sovereignty, um more of a little more covenant in our theology, but we're yeah, not particularly disposed to a lot of eschatological teaching or going to those places. We try to focus on the Great Commandment and the Great Commission and do more um practical work and practical teaching while we also are willing to talk deeply and be uh be theological or be more academic But a lot of our practical teaching and how we function the house church is. As part of the setup, I have like just one last question before we kind of try to get into whatever the meat of the our time together is going to be. Uh why a house church? Why a network of house churches? Why not plug into uh an existing church or planting a new church in a more uh quote unquote traditional uh model? So because y that was your background. ELCA is the traditional model. Uh you know, uh Methodism is a traditional model. So why this? Yeah, it's really um really connected with that experience that I had in ministry. I felt that at the end of the day, the large group meeting once a month in a building on Sunday or excuse me, once a once a week in a building on Sunday morning wasn't really transforming or producing It wasn't that big, was it? I thought it was like thirty people. Didn't you say it was you know it was kind of small? There's only a few people you saw where their lives are being changed. There were twenty-seven other people who dislife didn't change. So it wasn't that big, really. There's house churches that are bigger than that actually Yeah, that's true. Yeah, our English ministry wasn't very big. Our uh our church in general was maybe a little bit larger than that, about a hundred total. Um but yeah, I thought maybe even smaller than that, Troy, maybe a group of like twelve What we see in that G we see Jesus' core group was twelve people, right? He had lots of different crowds and he had bigger groups of disciples like the 72 or like the 120, but there was this core group of twelve people that he really I think he invested in most deeply. Maybe you could argue like the three were his most core group. But those twelve they really were with him all the time and that was those that he commissioned um at the end. So yeah, something about that size really. And we didn't really talk very much before we you know jumped in and started doing the show today. Uh we like I said we were put in in touch by uh a common friend, you know, Raz, Imran Razvi. And um and apparently you would talk to him and say something about, hey, I know you're involved in this knucklehead radio show. Uh how c how ca how can I set you guys straight? uh and come on the show someday. And so here we are. What was your motivation? Like what is it you're maybe f hoping to touch upon or focus on uh by being on the faith debate? Is there did you have anything in mind or it just kind of Open season on whatever comes to mind or what? Yeah, Daniel had invited me um when I was up there visiting and he had said Man, we have this radio show that airs, you know, once a week, often on Tuesday, I think he said on Tuesday nights, I thought I remembered that. And he said, you might be a good guy to get on and talk about house churches. And so I was planning a visit to go see Roz again and I was like, hey Roz, uh I'm coming up. I know Daniel had mentioned this like radio show or something. We couldn't do it last time, but if it's available and you still need to guest, I'd be happy to get on and talk about house churches So I was responding to Daniel's invitation to talk about house churches because I have a little bit of experience there. Well yeah, and for the listeners of the real quick Daniel, I'm gonna come to you in just a second, but just to clarify in case the listeners are like, wait, what Tuesdays? The show's never been on Tuesday So a little behind the scenes, the show airs on the radio Sunday mornings at nine o'clock and it has for a long time. Uh but we record during the week And our regularly slotted time to record when the station the radio station set aside the studios for us to record was Tuesday evening. But now they kicked us out. They don't want us around anymore. I think it's because I I was forgetting to brush my teeth or something. My breath was bad and they said that's enough of that. So you can just do it from home. You can smell however you want at home home. And so uh so do it from a home studio now. So we're actually recording the show uh via the internet. Uh much to Daniel Rasby's chagrin. He much prefers my bad breath and I appreciate him for that. I feel like Daniel, and I know you had a thought on so you share whatever thought you had, but in addition Uh Samuel gave us a whole bunch of fodder for probably, I don't know, forty or fifty faith debates. So I'm wondering if you're going to want to pick up on any of those threads and tug on them or not. We can talk all day long about uh charismatic movement and and you know, gifts of the spirit and and cessationism and and uh uh various things. Uh oneness theology which may may come up at some point, I don't know, but those are I think the the the reason I have s suggested that uh Samuel might be a a uh uh a good uh addition for the panel one of these recordings is because he's very involved in building house churches. And for the last several years this show has really the the people on the panel have have pretty much always been uh pastors of house churches. And so when we m uh met and connected with Samuel he was visiting our house um enough several months ago now and so we said it it'd be good to uh to have him on the show just because he's planting different house churches in North Carolina and all of their connections were really more in Maryland. So that's why I I said that now Not so much to talk about the theology which is I think something good and just maybe talk about house churches and why what is what is better or worse about a house church than a church that meets in a in a building and I think you touched on that some of the Samuel. I think discipleship is a big part of that. And I happen to agree. I think a lot of emphasis is made uh in the church broadly in America today about getting people saved and getting commitments for Christ and praying the sinner's prayer and and so on. Um and now we're s we've got people saved. Well now what? And nobody really I mean I there's I I know people they go out in the streets and they preach in in the cities and so God calls them to do that, great. And they like you know three people gave their life to Christ today and If I have a conversation with them, I'm like, okay, who are they? Oh well one was named Bob. Okay, do you have his contact information? Like what church did you send him to? When are you going to meet for your Bible study? Uh we didn't get that far. Like, okay, well what do you expect him to do? Now he's giving committed his life to Christ. He's supposed to just Google how to be a Christian? Like you gotta disciple these people. And I think that piece is lacking. We ha we try to save people and not disciple them. Uh it and I I I believe that there really needs to be a bigger because the Great Commission is not go and save all nations, it's go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you And I think that piece is really lost in the American Church is the discipleship. Yeah, by the way I want to clarify If Samuel said it himself, I missed it, but Daniel you alluded to uh the uh the question of oneness theology might come up. So uh Samuel, are you a a a oneness Pentecostal? No. Oh okay. So that's much more like yeah, that's much more like Pentecostalism. Um versus like are are you done? Forget the Pentecostal part. Are you oneness? Are you are you are you non-Trinitarian? No, I'm a Oh, okay. So Daniel, I'm not sure where that where that thought came. I I di I just mentioned it because some people as uh will associate all the charismatic movement and Pentecostal movement into that category So it's good to clear the air about that regardless. And if that's not something to debate on, then great. We can debate on other things, but that's that's good at uh I'm glad that we agree on the Trinity. Yeah. All right, so Samuel, um you know, obviously I uh I shouldn't say obviously, it from my perspective, obviously, there are advantages and disadvantages to doing a house church compared to the more traditional institutional brick and mortar building kind of idea of a church. Um so what are some of the uh I think we could all wax eloquent on some of the advantages of House Church and we'll we'll get there. But let's start um with what some of the disadvantages are. What are some of the challenges and obstacles? Yeah. Um one of the big obstacles is uh burnout and fatigue. Hosting, providing food. If you guys if if you do food, a lot of house churches will have a meal, things like that. One of the biggest things that we see as a challenge is just people that are willing to faithfully be a host to the church um over time. That can be really difficult. Um and then just kind of drawing from that smaller body people that are Teaching, people that are doing worship, if you do live worship, things of that nature, it's just like there's a smaller community to draw from for, I don't know, your worship, your services, your prayer, your hosting, your food, all these things. So what we have found is that in our house churches, it the house church succeeds with very s a very servant-oriented body. It's a body of a small group of people for ourselves which are willing to serve and really expend themselves and make sacrifices to continue to meet together and they value and they have a sense of that mission and the sense of what it means to be this house church together and what the involvement requires and then they're able to continue. But I think one thing is is burnout and just kind of the the the draw on every member of the community. Yeah. Well, uh we have probably all have friends who are pastors in the more traditional model, and I think they would probably suggest that burnout's an issue for them too. I forget which d denomination it is now. Um I think it's the um uh the EPC uh one of the Presbyterian denominations, I think that uh they had you know one of their big meetings or a big report came out or something and it indicated that half Half, let that sink in, of their current pastors intend to retire within the next five years. Wow. So some of 'em are aging out, you know, they've been hanging in there for a long time. But I a lot of them, you know, the the post COVID reality has has been brutal. Uh on everybody, including pastors and uh those who are already kind of tipping towards burning out. Uh it's it's really sped that up for them. But anyway, Daniel, what are some things you would point to as uh challenges or concerns about the uh the house church movement. I I don't know the burnout as far as hosting is for uh for us is what we've noticed is because I mean we host my family hosts every week and and it's uh I think maybe more of a cultural thing because we're a Middle Eastern family and so every day we're always hosting people and that's just the reality of life growing up. We basically always have somebody over for dinner pretty m you know, or spending the night. It's like this is uh it would be unusual not to have a large amount of people that are not my immediate family members spending the night at our house, um let alone cooking a meal. So that piece of it I haven't noticed as much and now I have noticed it is depending on the size of the congregation and especially in a very small congregation, it is tough to have people that can fill in a role if if someone is out of town, right? If if we only have one person who can play the hymns on the piano and really nobody else that knows how to play the piano and and the congregation doesn't sing well or parts and what are you gonna do? You're gonna try to sing a cappella for the hymnal and it doesn't work so well if you're used to the piano. So there's there's things like that, you know, if it that that are i easier when you have multiple people that can fill is and step in Um I think w what I would uh point to is actually instead of the challenges of running the the church, more just this I think there's a stigma of house churches. I think when you say to somebody people say, Where where do you go to church Oh yeah, I have a house church. They're like, oh, like it's a cult or something. I think there's they don't nobody nobody really comes out and says that, but it's it's almost like an unspoken thing. Like they if they think of us as oh you must be uh cultish in in nature, you know, or y y where you got one person this uh running this a house church and everybody's gotta bow to that pastor and it's gonna be really uh authoritative and and just a little weird. I mean any legitimate church would would have a building and a and a staff and a website and all this and that and if you don't have those things Yeah, there's something weird or kooky about your church. And you have to point out to people that this is how the early church met and and they're like, Well, yeah, but that's not how it's been done for two thousand years, so You know uh anyways at least in the Western world for the last several hundred years it's has not been very common to worship in in homes. So that's something I've noticed and uh I think more education around the history of the church and and and the benefits of the house church is a good thing, but In fairness, I think a lot of the house churches are kooky, uh but a lot of the more traditional looking churches can be kooky too. Uh we do it right. We're not the kooky ones. Everybody else does it wrong, right? Well and yeah sometimes I I think I gave it wrong too, unfortunately. But and that's one of the problems that the house churches have is there aren't as many built in guardrails. And so I think you have to be proactive in figuring out how to keep yourself in the straight and narrow and have accountability and those sorts of things. A lot of that's built into the denominational structures, for example. One of the challenges of people finding a house church to join or meet up with or ask questions about theology and stuff, you know, most house churches do not have websites. None of them have their own building somewhere with a big sign out in front, that sort of thing, and so they're harder to find. And uh even if you do find them, unless you're very well acquainted with theology and commitments from the Bible and that sort of thing, it can be a scarier thing for somebody to connect with a house church and start meeting with us as like, how do I know you're not a cult? You know Even though the ELCA, which was mentioned earlier in the show, is uh wildly heretical at this stage, nobody should attend that church anymore, really. But it's a brand. Oh, Lutheran, it's probably okay. Even if it's not, the assumption is it's probably okay. And I think the assumption with the house churches is oh it's probably not okay And I gotta say though, I don't know what percentage. It's been discouraging as I've 'cause we've we were trying to grow a a house church network similar to what you're doing, Samuel, in North Carolina. And we had some people that were you know approached us and said, Hey, we wanna be you know part of what you're doing and You know we had a bit of a vetting process, go check 'em out and that sort of thing. I'm telling ya, I would never belong to those churches, some of 'em. You know Others we would. And so they we started partnering and doing things with some other churches. But I mean there's some real wack-a-doodles in the house church movement. So and if those are the only ones people are familiar with, then those are the ones that those who are involved in house churches are saddled with. Uh we only have a couple of minutes left, but I want to ask, you mentioned the um the three churches. I guess that count yours and two others, if I'm understanding that correctly Did those two others spring from yours, or these are other people who also were kind of independently deciding to do house church and you found each other and you're working together? Yeah, they came from ours originally. Um one more than the other. But yes, uh we started the house church here in Greenville, North Carolina, and then we multiplied that house church last year last year and so we had a house church in Greenville and we had a house church meeting in Beaufort County kind of next to us and then those that house church is becoming two house churches, one in each of the cities that it's in. One in Chuckawinnity, North Carolina, one in Washington, North Carolina. Okay. So that's the voice of Samuel Schleif, correct? You got it. Okay. Uh you also heard the voice of Daniel Razby, correct? And I'm Troy Skinner. Is that correct? I don't know. Uh this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 W S M D. I encourage you to Find us online at WFMD. com. There still is a faith debate page there. However, I will say the radio station is uh kind of downsizing our ability to be uh on their website as well, so you can still find the podcast there and you can find old episodes. But if you want to see the descriptions for the newer shows or the the teases, if you will, the the forward promotioning of what's coming up on the faith debate, you're going to pretty much have to go to household of faith in Christ dot com or find me on social media, those sorts of things. Uh you know, this it's a changing world. Uh the quick stand right beneath our feet on stuff. But for now we're still on the radio, we're glad for it, that's for sure And you can follow uh Daniel Rasby and and connect with him at concordbylove. org and you can connect with uh Samuel's wife at Wholeheart Move. Um we're gonna pick up this conversation, talk more about house churches, maybe we'll talk more about some of the upsides and some of the things to think about if you're going to Explorer House Church, I think maybe we'll do some of that next week on the Faith Debate. We'll pick this up then one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from right about now. God bless