Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB. I am your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Follow me online at householdfaithinchrist. com. That's household of faithinchrist. com. Of course you can follow the show at wfmd. com. And if you've been paying attention, this year WFMD. com has undergone a bit of a facelift, a bit of a streamlining really. Uh they must have felt that they were getting a little bit, you know, um big in the middle, and so they trimmed down a little bit. And so there's a lot of stuff on the faith debate section of the website. that used to be there that isn't there anymore. So we're still there, but you can't go as deep, deep, deep into the archives and the old blog posts and stuff as you used to. So if you want to get the the full faith debate experience, then I would invite you to go to Household of Faith in Christ dot com where you can connect to uh sermon audio, odyssey, the Christian podcast community. All the different places where the radio show, the Rumble channel for that matter, all the places where you can watch the show, because we do record videos on occasion for the show, and all of the audio podcasts And the radio station has, I don't know, a hundred plus episodes, I think at least, of the program available via podcast scattered over the last decade or so But that's good if you go to the Wait Radio Station's RSS feed. If you go to the RSS feed that you access through Household of Faith in Christ or all of the places that Household of Faith in Christ links to, like sermon audio and so forth, Christian podcast community. There there are hundreds and hundreds. Not sure exactly how many, but I would say that there's at least five hundred Faith Debate shows waiting for your listening enjoyment or for the tomatoes to be thrown at. I'm not sure which So we have a couple of guys who have been on the show a number of times in the past, one more frequently than the other. The one more frequently is David Forcey. You can't find him online, so if you want to get in touch with David, you've got to contact me Uh David Forcy has been on this show now it's gotta be five, six years, something like that. He's he's uh Yeah, I think pretty close. And and he's still looking good, I gotta say. And Elijah Dirksen is uh on the show. He's been on, I don't know, maybe a dozen episodes of the show or something like that over over the last number of years. I'm I'm guessing. I don't know the exact number. Um maybe Elijah knows. How many shows have you been on, Elijah? Yeah, probably. Eight or ten, something. Okay. Well after uh after these cycle of shows run it might be a dozen, so maybe I'm prescient. Uh Elijah Dirksen is um a theological student, a theologi uh s at a seminary, uh Whitfield Theological Seminary, and uh he's doing a lot of church history and hermeneutics and Maybe Greek and Hebrew, I don't know. Yeah, he's getting into over this stuff. And so I guess I don't know. The topic suggestion for tonight was Elijah's. So was this prompted by something in one of your classes or one of your colleagues and in one of the other students said, hey, what do you think about this? And you're like, I don't know. Let's ask the knuckleheads in the faith debate what they think. But he wanted to talk about soteriology. Just I love the I love the topic. It's How is mankind saved? It's And not only is it the heart of so many theological doctrines, it's also at the heart of a lot of controversies within the church, and it has it prompts a lot of discussion. And has a lot of issues that are associated with it. I would say it's the core of the Christian message because how you get saved and all that is is about the gospel, right? So it's uh it's It's everything these days is a gospel issue, but in this case it really is a gospel issue because we're talking about people getting saved. Maybe we can start with broader terms, and we're going to be drilling down, if not this week and next week's show on the idea of eternal security, you know, what some people might playfully call once saved, always saved. Say playfully because some people believe in eternal security, but they they frown upon the once saved, always saved moniker for it Um but that was on our to do list. It came up somewhere. Maybe it came up when Elijah was on the show uh earlier and we but it was on our to it was on our to-do list Well let's start with a broader idea of you know what the uh gospel, what the so soteriology questions are. David, you know, when you think when you hear soteriology, um what comes to mind? Uh when I think of soteriology, I think uh specifically the doctrines surrounding uh uh how uh God goes about saving an individual. Um what that what that looks like, how how scripture describes that. Um what what is the what is the process sort of veal and what and what all is involved in that? Like what what does that mean for you know, my my past, my present, my future as an individual. Um so that's that's that's what I think of when I uh uh hear the term Uh soteriology. And does that square with what you generally think about, Eliza? I think so. And so what is it specifically you're that you would like us to try to steer toward today? Like what what prompted you to say, hey, I I really want us to wrestle with soteriology? What what were a couple of the things maybe that you had in mind? Um just the I don't know, answering some of the the or at least giving a voice to some of the the debates within it because it it is a very controversial issue and some people they they're just they they go to their particular church and all the other views on that topic are Co th they're not even brought up in in some of those circles. Some sometimes they're brought up too much. Um but just a kind of a a discussion of where the view where the views originated, where um how the views interact with each other, the the different presuppositions that lead to the the kind of the the particular endpoint that that's can I can I give it like a simple framing Uh and then I don't know, can you? It's hard mayon. Well, can I is uh is yet to be seen, I suppose Um so uh so I I guess I would frame the you know all of all of the discussions around soteriology and and and disagreements and all uh I I would generally when I think of that I I frame it in terms of what what does God do to save an individual and what does what is the individual's part in that salvation. And you know, you could there there may be a number of different ways, different pieces of or aspects of of salvation that where you know different positions may vary, you know, for instance, uh Um you know, when it comes to uh the uh the point of salvation, I think there would be, you know, some would would say there's there's more or m more or less ways on God or weighs on the individual and then when it comes to, you know, um my my life Well, m maybe maybe just the the two main key things are then, you know, uh keeping my salvation, you know, uh how much is God keeping my salvation, how much is me keeping my salvation, maintaining it? Whatever. Um anyway, so I but I think in general there there seems to be like a something of a of a spectrum uh as far as that goes. And in general terms, there's the broader uh theological questions of basic Christianity versus everything else. You know, everything else is going to have some sort of a work you have to do. You have to earn your sort of your way to paradise or to nirvana If you there are things you have to do, there's the oh eightfold path or the four steps to this or the twelve things of that or or what have you And there's all these rules and if you uh something it's sometimes you don't have to follow them perfectly, but if you can be at least fifty-one percent versus forty-nine percent, you know, fifty-one percent good on the following of the path, then you've made your way In some cases it it's you know just a capricious sort of a god where y you can do everything perfectly, but you still not might not make it uh to paradise. or what have you. And the Christian message in in contrast to that is it it's not really about what you do, it's about what's been done for you and you accepting that gift. And then so now you're talking about more specific biblical categories, and in within that category, you get into the debates about what does it mean to accept the gift. And so the the Protestant versus the the Catholic debate, you know, is it is it merely um accepting of that that gift of salvation? Or is it accepting that gift and can and doing some sort of a work or accessing God's grace by the the um you know the sacraments and the different things that have been put in place and And Protestantism uh rejects that idea of so of a faith faith plus works. Um Roman Catholics maybe would cringe at me characterizing their view as faith plus works, but um And the Eastern Orthodox is a little bit different, but they they don't agree with the Protestants either, and they've got some real bugaboos with penal substitutoriate substitutionary atonement, unfortunately. And um and I'll throw this back to you guys in a second, but I think it's interesting we're having this discussion. I'm wondering if part of what was going on in the background in your mind, Elijah, when you thought about this A lot of people are jumping to the other side on things. A lot of Protestants over the last couple of years have decided that, you know what, I kinda like the traditions that you find in the Roman Catholic Church or in the Eastern Orthodox Church. So I'm going to go there for the traditions But they gotta be careful in my view because th they're embracing a different idea of soteriology, a different idea of the gospel when they do that. So anyway, what's your reaction to anything I've just said? So in my mind, you can divide soteriology broadly within two categories. There is the synergistic view, which is going to be to accomplish salvation, both parties need to work together to to to bring that about. And then there's the monarchistic position, which is I guess it could be man working himself That could also technically be monogism, but traditionally monogism as it relates to soteriology is God accomplishes salvation alone. Mankind still has a response, but the the act of salvation is something that God accomplishes by himself. Um to help the the the uninitiated, the the non-seminary students It'd help you remember these words. Synergism, S Y N, by the way, is you know, the sin. It has nothing to do with committing sin or anything like that. Yeah, it means with or alongside or together. So you're it's something that's working in tandem with something or in combination with something else or someone else. And mon, we get that from like m you know, uh we all kind of know what mono means, I think, in the American culture, right? It has to do with one. Like like m like like monopoly. So monergism is one one person has to be a problem. Exactly. So monergism is God alone save someone and synergism is God along with the individual is does something to to make somebody saved. And that's a big divide. Even Within Protestant circles there's some divide there because you then you get into some of the Calvinist Arminian debates or th or the traditionalist debates. But the traditionalists must feel like the redheaded stepchild because they never get included in these debates about Calvinism and and uh and Arminianism, but there is a there is a third option uh that that's relatively popular with some Christians Christian circles and Protestant circles in particular. So where where do you guys fall? I fall on the monarchistic side of the scale. Where do you guys fall? I I would also be marg monogestic. And I'm pretty sure David is, right? Yeah, we're we're not gonna have an interesting discussion So I'm gonna have one of us, maybe me, I might have to take up the the cause of our our of our Armenian friends or something and our synergistic friends and and see if we can So what is it that you find most attractive about monogism? Monergism, easy for me to say. Why why are you drawn there? I think that's a cop out answer. Mic drop. Beat that one, why don't you? Um I I there's there's so much Were you always monarchistic? Or did you come to be monarchistic over time? I I think for the for the most part I I was always monarchistic. How about you, David? Yeah. Yeah, I grew up I grew up monarchistic. I uh I tried tried wrapping my mind around other other ideas and Nothing nothing nothing ever stuck that they ever seemed to line up as as well with scripture. Yeah. I I I grew up a denominational mutt and I was very confused for a lot of years and I ended up being pretty Arminian. I didn't know the phrases and the labels and all that sort of stuff way back when but uh I came to understand what those labels were and I was like, oh I think I might be Arminian. But I was kind of a you know not a real consistent Arminian uh as time went on and I became increasingly inconsistent and then I kind of became an inconsistent monarchist And then over time I'm becoming uh quite a bit more consistent and now I'm I'm definitely staunchly in the monergistic camp on things. For the same reasons, you know, as I examined scripture, it just it felt like the most consistent way to have all the text work together, you end up with a monarchistic s uh soteriology. Uh obviously the synergists would disagree with me. But uh seriously, we've had these discussions on this radio show for years and years and years. And if you go back and listen to some of those Calvinist Armenian type of shows Um I'm telling ya, it's easy for me to say as a monarchist, I'm gonna sound like Elijah here for a second, but it's more you know, Elijah Dirksen that I mean by that. Uh you know, it it's more biblical. It it it it it's at least more consistent. That's what I found to be the case, is that the arguments that support monogism from the Bible is uh you're using a more consistent interpretive grid, a more consistent hermeneutic. uh to get there. It's you you have the Bible telling you God is the author of our salvation. He's the author and the finisher of our faith. How how is God the author and the finisher of my faith when I'm helping write the story Where I I'm I'm I'm a a co-writer in my salvation. I always found the the synergistic arguments to be more about what is uh oh uh it almost like describes more what is my perspective of of salvation rather than like what is my experience of salvation rather than what does the what does God's word tell me is actually happening. Well I think that's helpful. I think inside time, from our perspective, it would appear to be synergistic at a certain level, right? Because that's our experience. We we made a decision at some point, or we we recognized our sin at some point, or we acknowledged Christ as Savior at some point. So in time, like I was involved in that But God is not bound by time the way that we are. So when you look at things from an eternal perspective and in the mind of God, then you start looking at, oh My experience was in time, but when you look at things from a God perspective, which the Bible provides for us, you can see that God did all the saving. God did all of the work Um and yeah, we are saved by works in a sense, but we're saved by the works of Jesus Christ that are applied to those who are his. So yeah, there's not a lot of disagreement there. I'm wondering if we can get, you know, some disagreement potentially on getting into the weeds. Um what would you say are the core elements of a monergistic gospel presentation? So I I would say that Honestly, monergistic monergism, uh monergist and synergist, at least the Arminian synergist. They do agree on a lot of what takes place in salvation. A lot of the core elements are still the same. They're just understood differently. So with the the monogist view of it, God foreknows he has the the uh A preconceived relationship with his children, and he predestines them to salvation. And then he brings about that salvation through regeneration And then because the the hearts of that person is regenerated, that person has a desire to follow God because their heart of stone is taken out, their heart of flesh is put in. They have an entirely different personality that they didn't have before, to make a choice that they couldn't have made prior to that act of the Holy Spirit Now David, if there's anything with that answer that you would take issue with, then feel free to do that. If not, then why don't you answer the the common retort from those who wouldn't share the monarchist view as Well what about, you know, human responsibility and the idea of human free will? Where does that fit into what Elijah has been talking about just there? Yeah, I think I mean the the basic Uh what what seems to be clear over and over to me in in scripture is that There the the will isn't actually free, uh that the will is bound and enslaved uh to sin in sin. If only Luther had written a book about that or something. You know, in in uh in you know we're uh w without being set free, we are uh just just trapped uh in that in that slavery descent So and that and that's that that's not just I I was just gonna say and that and that that bears itself out. Um You know, I mean I mean Israel shows that picture continually in the Old Testament, um and and we're clearly told that about uh about individuals as well, you know, that that all are in that uh in that uh slave camp to sin until until being set free And I think one of the things that uh that I've mentioned a number of times in talking to people who disagree with me on these sorts of issues, because they you know they it's very common. They say, well You're gonna tell me that nobody has to like make a decision for Christ? Like you don't have to make him your Lord and Savior and commit your life to live Well one, they might be making a category or error about uh justification and sanctification. We maybe can get into that later on as well. But I would agree with them that the decision has to be made, let's say, let's use that language, make a decision for Christ But the question is where does the impetus for make and the ability to make that decision, you know from whence does it come Yes, we have to repent. We have to turn from our sin. We have to embrace Christ. But how are we able to do that? Do we do that from within ourselves? Because there's some part of our will or our mind or our heart that is then unsullied enough by sin that we aren't dead in that aspect spiritually that we can respond? Or does God quicken the person, giving them the ability to do what it is he commands of them to do. And so yes, our experience is I made a decision. But God gave you the heart of flesh, replaced your heart of stone to give you the ability to make that decision. Without him replacing your heart, that doesn't happen. And that's where the real debates come down, right, about where um where the regeneration happens. That's a very common debate on this question is is somebody regenerate and therefore they're able to make this decision, if you will, or do they have to make the decision in order to become regenerate? And it's maybe not even a temporal question. It might be merely a logic question of what logically comes first, because temporally they probably happen simultaneously in time. But logically speaking, how could the person in rebellion, dead in sin, do anything that's saving when they're in rebellion against God. Somebody's got to change that for them, which would be the that would be the monarchistic argument. And I find it incredibly compelling, which is why I am a monergist. Uh it's interesting by the way, all three of us have been very careful to steer away for the most part from the the Calvinist label uh on this. We're not we're talking in monarchism terms as opposed to Calvinist terms, which to be honest, I appreciate that. I think that's good I I think this doctrine preceded Calvin by a brown fifteen hundred years, so at least. Yeah, well yeah, I think the Apostle Paul teaches it. And once you understand that it's in the Bible, you can actually see it throughout all the pages of the Bible, so it would predate Paul probably. But the articulation and the clarity of it, I think, is found on the pages of the New Testament. And then Augustine, he was inconsistent as a theologian a little bit, but I think the more consistent aspects of Augustine's writings and teaching uh and particularly as he had a chance to think about things more clearly, uh he ended up becoming increasingly monergistic in his in his understanding. And that's the kind of stuff that was influencing guys like Luther and Calvin. um back in the day, five hundred years ago, which is what you meant by your fifteen hundred year thing, right? Right. Yeah. So uh we've got about, I don't know, a couple of minutes left in this episode of the Faith Debate. Next week, I think we do want to talk specifically about one of the doctrines that ties closely to this, and that is, okay, you got yourself saved. Or God saves you or whatever you want to say. Somehow you find yourself being saved. Could you ever then find yourself not being saved? Can you lose it? I think that's going to be the topic next week. But the next couple of minutes we have Um I think I asked David early or no, Elijah I think responded first, right, about how you would explain the gospel. Which one of you did that briefly? I uh we did yes, eteriology. Did we did we touch on the gospel though? Yeah, that's uh I'm not sure. Maybe we didn't. So David, you want to touch on the gospel? Well, yes, I do. Um the the gospel is Is is the good news. And um I literally means that very good. I do think it'd be interesting to I think we could probably spend an episode actually talking about just exactly what is the gospel because I I don't think it is just um individuals can be now be saved, right? That that Christ died for uh for individuals to be saved. I I think that the gospel also is um that uh that Christ is Lord of all and so that there is uh a You know, th there's an aspect you know, we're we're told that uh Jesus he he died, he rose on the third day, and he ascended. to the right hand of the father and he's he's there until all of his enemies are are are made a footstool under his feet. And so the the good news is not just that a I'm saved, but that Christ is saving me and a people uh and a world and there will be a new world that is untainted by sin where he and he alone rules. You know, there's an aspect of uh of you know a communal idea there that you're not allowed to have because you were born and raised in the West. So I'm going to rebuke you sharply because people from the West don't understand that at all. So you're not allowed to say anything. So so I'm told. Anyway, that's the voice of David Forst. The other voice you heard besides mine on the show today is Elijah Dirksen, I am Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD We'll be wrapping things up here and we will continue. Maybe we'll unpack the gospel more fully next week for those that aren't really sure what it is, and trust me Most people are sure what it is, sadly, even the churchgoers, so we will do that and we'll talk about the once saved, always saved, eternal security kind of questions or preservation of the saints kinds of questions as well. So we'll do that next week Follow me online at householdoffaith in Christ dot com. That's Household of Faithinchrist. com. Of course you can find the show at WFMD. com as well. Thank you so much for taking time out of your busy schedule to spend some time with us through Three knuckleheads like us today. We'll pick up this conversation one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from right now. God bless