Welcome to the first time. The Faith Debate where I think our uh theme music was cutting in and out there for a second. I'm not sure what that means. Satanic attack. Spiritual warfare on display on the faith debate now. Operator error, I'm sure. Uh anyway, I am Troy Skinner, this is the Faith Debate. Thank you for spending part of your valuable time with us today. If you're listening on Sunday morning, uh hurry up and get yourself to church, why don't ya Or unless you went to church yesterday, you know, then uh get on your knees and prayer and uh think about the the things you learned in church yesterday. Uh don't just stop there. Make disciples of all nations. That's right Weird talking about that's a little uh kiss back to last week's show. That was the voice of Daniel Rasby. You can find him online at conquered by love. org. I am Troy Skinner. You can find me online at household of faith in Christ dot com. And we are joined this week, same as last week, Samuel Schleif. He is with Wholeheart Ministries, although it feels like he's going undergoing like a name change or something. Wholeheart movement, I think, although it still says Whole Heart Ministries on the website, so I'm a little confused. And so that you don't get confused, there is another entity, I think, in Texas that calls themselves Whole Heart Ministries, and that's not Samuel He's in North Carolina. Anyway, you can find him online at wholeheartmove. com. You know, budgets are tight. He couldn't afford the letters for Ment. So he just went with whole heart move, he couldn't do whole heart remove meant, it just wasn't in the budget. So wholeheartmove. com So we're talking about house churches because uh Daniel and I have uh some experience in that area. If you've been listening to the show for a while, you know that. And Samuel does too over the last handful of years. He was in a more traditional church model uh in the past, uh as was I, and I'm not sure about Daniel on that front. But anyway, he's now in the house church thing and kind of like what we've talked about here in the Frederick area where we're working to put together a network of you know, partnering house churches. You know, Samuel's working on having a network of house churches in North Carolina. And so that was kind of the context of we're picking up where we left off. We talked a little bit last week about some of the challenges or or risks or downsides to do on a house church. Why don't we pick things up with the benefits, the positives? Who wants to go first? Daniel, you want to go first? Sure. I I think it's great. I think you have much better fellowship. generally speaking, in a house church model. Um in fact I mean most of the house churches that I've been involved with and visited and so on, they uh as you mentioned last week's I know as well, they they all seem to involved not just a worship service but also some sort of fellowship meal, a lot of other Bible study that's ancillaries of the service and just uh people being involved with with each other's lives. Most church services in a brick and mortar They wrap up and they head out for the day, they just go you know, go watch the game or whatever and i if they don't have to just scatter for the next service which is coming in a few minutes later, then they even this even for a church is small enough to just have one service they're just still just all scattering at the end and not really sticking around and being involved in each other's lives. And it it you know, I I feel like i it as a pastor in in a in a house church you have a limited space because it's in a house. So you could have a really good big house, but you're still probably not gonna have more than a hundred people that are regularly attending a house church. Um it's gonna be unusual to for that to be the uh the case So it's a lot easier to be intimately involved in everyone's life and to actually shepherd the flock, I would say, in a house church environment than it is in a brick and mortar because you have to have all this extra staff and and a lot more s uh segregated responsibilities and so on. One pastor cannot really know the lives of a five hundred or a thousand member church. It's it's just too much to to keep track of. So I think that's that's really uh just small churches in general I think are are very important and I'm a big fan of the House Church movement because that's feels like we're going back to the New Testament times. That's how they always used to meet in each each other's houses. That's right, I'd agree. I'd say there's a major enhanced community when it comes to house churches, right? There's a closeness that's naturally naturally developed and In homes and then in smaller groups of people, I'd say there's an accountability, a higher level of accountability when you're with one another in that close way, and even in people's homes, like that's a personal space. And there's insights into people's lives that are received through that space and and being there. So I'd say there's an enhanced community that's closeness, accountability. And even that hospitality gifting and just being there to host every week is really something special, and that's something that the Lord has called us to. to be people of hospitality and something that often the church I don't think we do as well um having people in our homes so enhanced community for sure. Now the more traditional churches that we're we're used to seeing in our neighborhoods around us in our communities uh they would try to handle some of these same things you're talking about that we are talking about, uh, through their small groups that meet, you know, on Thursday nights or Saturday morning men's breakfasts or you know, ladies' Bible study on Tuesdays or whatever it is they do, and they're trying to foster that sense of community and some mutual accountability and giving each other opportunities to have, you know, iron sharpening iron uh moments in their lives and those sorts of things. And and and me being a little bit cheeky, but of of course they were meeting in houses and starting small back in the first century because it was all brand new, Daniel. Yeah well they were all there one day for the festival, right, but they didn't all live in Jerusalem Right? They all when the festival was over, they went back home and you know they didn't all live in the same town. Right? So he also says later that multitudes were coming to the Lord in Jerusalem, so even after Pentecost there were I'd imagine thousands of people in Jerusalem who were believers and they didn't meet from house to house. Also says that also says that they met in the temple, though. They were meeting in the temple courts and from house to house in Acts 2. 46 and Acts 5. 42. So there were both both of those things, but it seems like the real consistent meeting was a house-to-house thing. I want to say to say because Troy bought this counter argument a lot of brick and mortars would say, well we have these Bible studies and we have Wednesday evening or Thursday night services or whatever. And I thought that was interesting because from what I was remembering when we talked off air Your church actually doesn't meet necessarily on a Sunday morning or even a Saturday if you know, for those th that that like to worship on Saturday. You actually do treat it more like a Bible study on a Monday or Tuesday night or something like that. And so m some of your congregation actually does go to other churches or mem maybe even the act of members of of other churches. So can you kind of break down why would you why do you call yourself a church and you c you call yourself a pastor And it's not a Bible study, and how is how is that different? Why why is one different or better of a term? Yeah, our church meets on Monday nights and and some of the our church members are members of other churches or at least attend other churches on Sunday mornings. Yeah. And how is it different from a small group or from a Bible study or or from something like that? Yeah. Um yeah, it's a it is uh we believe that we're an outworking of the body of Christ, a local body of Christ, right? Um all the things that are I don't know, if you could if you could get like theological or biblical that are, you know really happen in the church, happen in our church, things like uh, you know, church um church discipline, right? The teaching of the word, communion, um, baptism, things of that nature, right? Like ruling elders, deacons, things like that. So it's more to it than just a Bible study, which is a part of a church that has other leaders and meets on another day. It's like All of it is encompassed and yes, we have a consistent meeting weekly, but it's not just a Bible study. We're a body beyond the Bible study The membership question is a theological debate all itself about whether churches should have members and all that sort of thing. But y you talked about people in in your church, they're members at your church, I think you used that word, and you specifically did say that they're members of other churches. So How how do you navigate that where you're y you know, you're shepherding s a portion of somebody else's flock and they're shepherding a portion of your flock? So are you uh in conversations with those other pastors so that you can mutually disciple and train up the people that are cross-pollinating between the two churches? Um yeah, I I use the term member kind of loosely um but you know I don't know that like what the you know membership kind of practices and that all the churches that our people that maybe s some of our people attend. And we don't have like a formal, you know, membership, you know, list, uh, things of that something of that nature. But Um we believe that our people are free to attend other churches and to, you know, go to other churches on Sundays and we Do in general want to know like what churches they're going to, but we don't have sort of a authoritarian um I don't know control or or need to be, you know, overly informed about what's going on in those other churches. If I knew that one of my church members was going to uh you know, the the the going to the L L D S church, right, or was over with the Jehovah's Witnesses, I would have a problem. Or if I knew that there was, you know, some for particularly heretical church that my members prefer part of that would be an issue. But in general, like I know our church members, I know what their theology is, I know like what they believe and uh other if they attend other churches on Sunday, like it generally reflects that also. So they're attending churches that would be somewhat like-minded, they would be charismatic and you know socially active social justice perhaps even involved and and believe in the fivefold ministry and all the kinds of things that that you guys are about that so they're similar in that regard? They're often similar in those regards. Um but I wouldn't have I but some go to, you know, Baptist churches or other churches that are not, you know spirit filled or as theologically similar to us and I don't have a problem with that I think. For those of you listening, when he says spirit filled, he put air quotes in the air, he's not I don't I don't uh not to put words in your mouth but I I don't I don't think you're trying to make an argument that other churches that are not as charismatic don't have the spirit necessarily, it's just that they don't put as much emphasis on what you call the spiritual gifts like tongues and and and uh uh healings and things like that. Yes. Correct. That's why circles there. So when people who are attending your Monday uh gathering, if they were out out and about in town and they're talking about their faith and their witness thing, whatever they're doing uh and somebody says, oh, so where do you go to church? Would they say, oh, well on Sundays go to this church and Mondays I go to that church? Or like how how how do they navigate that? Um, I'm not sure how they how they navigate that exactly. Um, haven't really had that conversation with those people. I think in general, like there are there may be people who attend our church who consider it really their their church and their home church and there are others who might attend our church or occasionally attend their church but they really consider their Sunday morning church more of their home church. So it's kind of just dependent upon like where their heart's at and which one they believe is is more of their church. I'd imagine they would reflect that in their conversation. But I don't think it's it's really a problem. I think that um there's too much competition between churches and sometimes there's too much um legalism and sort of us against them and we intention We don't the reason that we do house church, there's a few reasons we do house church on Monday, but one smaller reason is um because Some of our church members worked on the weekends and it worked out that way when we were starting early to meet on Mondays when we were starting with a small group and people had jobs that were conflicting with that. And then we are okay with people going to church on Sunday at other churches. And some people would say when a house church is starting, it's better for the house church to start during a weeknight. um than it is to start on a Sunday morning, maybe even not to have competition with the Sunday morning churches. Yeah and I have some experience with that dynamic where you know I'm pastoring a house church and you know half the people in the room are attending some other church because uh you know we're meeting at off times uh compared to when the typical churches might meet that sort of thing. Uh but I gotta say those that were part of uh meeting with us and also meeting with some other church Um the it there was always a sense, it some it seemed to me, that they kinda had, you know, one foot over here, one foot over there, and they weren't really all in Uh and there wasn't the same level of commitment to the the to the to the the local expression of the body that was household of faith in Christ. They were regular attenders, uh hopefully they're gaining value from what we were doing, but I don't know that they ever felt you know as plugged in and locked in with us because they had this other church they were also involved with. Do you Have any sense of that with your people? To an extent, yeah. Some somewhat. Some of some of our members like are, you know, the hus like the wife comes to our church, but the husband only goes to their Sunday morning church, right? Something like that. So I think that's I think that is a true reflection sometimes. But others they would really consider our church, you know Their church, I think they're devoted, I think they're, you know, on mission with us and very loyal, but they do have another church that they are attending or that they did attend. um for a long time and it's not necessarily the case for everyone. So I see that for some, but I don't think it's always the case. No, there's two things I mean I just mentioned that's one of the challenges of the house churches, you know, if people are uh cross-pollinating with other uh congregations. That can be a challenge to navigate uh when you're in leadership. Two other things that are challenges that didn't come up last week, I'll bring them up here and uh Daniel and Sam you guys can can talk about them if you like. Um when you only have a handful of families uh meeting in in your home, for example, um You know, you could have one difficult family that could represent twenty-five percent of your church, for example. Uh whereas if a you have a larger church of a hundred people, let's say, that one difficult family is, you know, two percent of the church. Um and so it's easier for a house church with one difficult family to have everything just blow up. Particularly if that one family chases other families away or gets other families to join and kind of go into cahoots with them and they start recruiting and and they only need to recruit one other family and all of a sudden half your church uh is at war with the the rest of the church and the church leadership. So that's a that's a a challenge that house churches have. It doesn't it takes just one to really blow things up. It takes more than just one in a larger church. So you guys can talk about that in in a second if you can talk about it now. I'll save my other one. You guys have any thoughts on that? I think it is definitely a a danger. Um and You gotta have the fortitude as the pastor, the leader of the church, to say that this is the way our church is. We have our theological beliefs and you know, we're uh it's one thing to fellowship with somebody is It depends on what you mean by difficult, by the way, Troy. If you're talking about somebody who just has a s strongly different theological belief, not all of that is salvation specific, sometimes I mean something like I'm sure Samuel would not this fellowship with me, if I come in there and say the gifts have ceased, he probably isn't gonna want to convince me otherwise. But if I as long as I'm the believing the that Jesus is the only way to heaven and the you know, Jesus is is the Son of God, he's God in the f in flesh and and so on, we're probably gonna be able to fellowship together. So d having a different theological brand now if if uh he's probably not gonna let me preach at his church saying the gifts have ceased. And that's a little different, right? So that's the uh and you can correct me if I'm I'm wrong about that, Samuel, but that's kinda how I feel too. believes then I I might not want him to to to be a guest speaker on that subject, but I'm not gonna say we can't fellowship and but you do have to have the fortitude to say, you know what, there's a time and a place for this and that and you know this is just not acceptable. We can't continue in the way we are here and yes it is. Half the church, you know what half the church ends up leading, the whole church ends up leading? Okay, God is the one that controls who comes and does it's not my job as the pastor to make sure everybody is there every single time and we have the right number of people attending. It's who the Lord sends and yes we do our best to act in accordance with his will, but there's only so much you can do. I think it's just more noticeable in the small church, but in the big church People talk too, they just maybe don't talk to the pastor, and there's a lot of other division that's festering that isn't really as visible from the surface Yeah, with the with the division and the smaller amounts of people and you know like one person or one family being able to cause disruption in the church. Um yeah, I think that's a That can be an issue in a way. Uh, but I think also there's more there's more potential for unity uh in a smaller group. too. You know, in a big church when the, you know, one person or one family gets disgruntled and I'm the pastor, like I might not know that person is disgruntled, you know, like no one tells me and this could go on, you know, for months or even years in some cases. But they're just, you know, in the back row or they just stop coming quietly and then they're gone. But in a house church like You know, if that one family leaves or that one family causes an issue and a certain service, or like I can just sense that there's a bitterness brewing underneath the surface, like I have If I'm proactive about it and if I'm willing to engage that and talk and probe and just reach out to them and figure that out, I think there's actually better potential for unity in the small group than in the in the larger group, though yes, maybe small a smaller amount of people could disrupt the group. So I like the dynamic the smaller dynamic and I think it helps with unity if we are proactive. I also think that in the smaller group and in like fellowshipping so closely all the time there may be more conflicts, right? Like when you just come in, get you know, and sit down in some chairs for two hours and then go home and leave. There might not be as much potential for conflict as if you're, you know, in there and you're talking and you're praying together and it's in somebody's house and you're eating together and it's a long time that you're together, you know and your kids are playing and there's I think there is in some ways like there's more potential for conflict and in some there's less but I think the c closeness of the small group And an intentionality in that closeness ultimately provides for a greater potential for unity. The other thing I was going to mention and when I was going to give you both at the same time, and then I realized the foolishness of that The the the second half of what I was going to mention is the challenge of developing leadership uh fast enough. It's a it's a leader intensive model to do a bunch of small gat gatherings. You know, if you're in a church that has, I don't know, two hundred people Theoretically, you could get away with having one pastor, never would recommend that, but you could have one biblically qualified person leading that congregation. In most cases, if it's you know as big as 200, they've got at least two, if not three or four. people in pastoral kinds of roles. But still, okay, let's go with a bigger number there and say they have four. Four people for two hundred. Well if you got two hundred people in house churches and there are only like ten people per house church Well, you need 20 leaders, not four, you need twenty. And it's hard to identify those who are apt to teach, that uh have any sort of a call in their life to be in ministry and leadership to begin with And even if they do, taking the time it to kind of move them along to a place where they're ready to take on those challenges uh that's a real challenge for house churches to try to to grow uh quickly enough to to achieve their their aims and their goals. Uh at least that's that's my view and it has been my experience. I'm wondering if that has been your experience. Uh Samuel and Daniel. Yeah. Um trying to think and and just uh Make sure make sure I'm with you and reflecting this right. I wonder if house churches should grow quickly, Troy Um I had a good I have a a good friend who was part of a house church movement um up in the up in the Raleigh area and they sort of blew up, you know, like in within about three years they had Three thousand people in one day. Well I'm not not that much in a blow up like that, right? Or not, you know. Um I don't know the a church in Atlanta they got twenty thousand people over five years or something. Not like that. But they had like twelve house churches and about two hundred people in about three years and so they they grew very very quickly and they were multiplying. But but it it turned out very difficult for them and they're they ended up kind of um disbanding disbanding in the last year at least was the beginning of twenty twenty five, you know, because it got watered down and because they didn't have qualified leaders sort of like your like what you're saying. Many church leaders and many even house church leaders, they want to blow up and it's their dream that a lot of people start getting saved and they get all these house churches, but I I'm not sure that's That's not often sustainable. We don't really in our mindset and our model we don't really want to develop leaders quickly. We want to develop leaders slowly. We've had our house church for almost five years and we have three house churches in that five years and they each have like maybe ten people when they meet. You know, our ideal size for a house church is like maybe twelve, right? Um and the people that are leading the house churches are people that we have walked with. Um ideally, uh our idea of leadership training is like about three years, you know, maybe three and a half years. I want to walk with someone closely and just really know what's going on in their life. I want to know their secrets. I want to pray through things. I want to really be a brother to them and for them to really, you know, be proven and be tested, right? When Paul talks about elders and deacons, they're supposed to be tested, you know, and I don't think that happens overnight. I think we have sort of a a quick model of leadership development in a lot of I don't know businesses and things like that. But I think God's model of leadership development is often much slower and even the three years doesn't necessarily cover it, but I think Jesus had his disciples for about three, three and a half years, and what we've seen in our short time is that it's taken about that long to really get to know people well. We've got maybe sixty seconds left, Daniel. So if you could offer a brief thought if you have one on that question. I just I ag I agree. I don't think the house trash needs to grow fast necessarily. I think it's good to have a core group of ideally, you know, three or four families that are regularly attending um, you know, three or four households would be it would be nice. Um you can one is fine, two is is better, you know. Once you get too large. I mean I I I really don't know that it that house church is is super sustainable for the size house most people have, once you're past, you know, forty or fifty regular attendees And if you're homeschooling families, that could be four families already, it'd be forty people. Right? Um so i The size is not really the important thing. I think God will send who He wants to send. I think that's actually one of the major failings of the Western Church at at large is that we have to grow the church as in membership. Well God will send the ones He sends. The church is really for discipleship of believers. We'll grow the congregation of believers by witnessing outside the church, but the church itself doesn't need to necessarily continue to grow by leaps and downs and as far as attendance goes. Um Uh if you have to support a building and you have all these expenses to pay, well that's one thing, but we don't have the expenses because we're in a house. Uh so that that does cut down on the on the uh desperation for resources. Yeah, and I wasn't specifically talking about having a motivation for growth. I was just talking about the practical realities of, you know, the the boots on the ground situation. Let's say you live in a community that has ten thousand Christians in it And we're all believing that, you know, these these small nucleus twelve ten to twelve people groups is the ideal to try to get to that ideal in any sort of a reasonable within our lifetimes. To go from 10,000 Christians uh not meeting in house churches to all within our lifetimes meeting in house churches, you would need like a thousand leaders. And we have a leadership vacuum politically. We have a vacuum in business leadership right now. We have a vacuum of leadership within people's homes. But we don't have leaders and so practically it's a r it's it's it's a challenge. All the more reason maybe to have these intensive discipleship things we are sewing into somebody's life and training them up so that we can start to get a foothold So that maybe maybe not our uh lifetime, but perhaps our grandchildren's lifetime, uh the reality could be lived out in our communities. Anyway, I I'm gonna steal the last word for this one. I try not to do that too often, but um we're out of time So Daniel Razby, find him online at conquered by love. org. Samuel Schleif, find him online at wholeheartmove. com. I'm Troy Skinner, find me online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com And you can of course follow the faith debate at WFMB. com. We're going to continue. I'm not sure what the topic is going to be next time, but we'll be back next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.