Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 W. I want to thank you for spending so much of your valuable time with us over the years and particularly today. Thank you. I do appreciate it. I am Troy Skinner. Follow me online at household of faith in Christ. com. That's Household of Faith in Christ. dot com. And you know, um we got all inside out and upside down and sideways and more ways than one. Inside joke there uh with the faith debate in recent months because of all the changes that we've had to to deal with and we've been talking about that on the show, so I'm not gonna belabor that now. But I realized I like to give little shout-outs to some of the holidays as they come. And we didn't do that, so uh very belated um happy Groundhog's Day to you. Uh and President's Day and Valentine's Day and uh um Mardi Gras for that matter. Um uh and uh belated uh happy Palm Sunday and Resurrection Sunday uh for that matter. And you know, I hope you remember to string your clocks ahead, because otherwise you've been having a hard time in recent weeks, that's for sure. Um glad that tax stays behind us now, aren't you guys? So glad about that And um by the way, this is special for David. Um happy happy just this past week. So we're we're kind of you know o up to almost real time now, but I hope you had a really enjoyable happy Earth Day and a particularly good Arbor Day. Did you have a good Arbor Day, David? I always do. David Forcy is an Arborist. He's a uh production arborist, I think, is how he's described it. Which tells me he's a capitalist at heart, so that's good. I'm not a consulting arborist. Oh, okay, that's the difference Or a hugging arborist, but that's that's different. So you didn't celebrate Earth Day as a jelly telling me on that one, okay. Uh and uh so I don't forget in future in uh not too far, I think next week is Mom's Day, so happy Mother's Day to all you. Moms out there. Um that's a that's a really bad radio thing to say, by the way. All you out there is something you should never say on the radio But I just did twice. All right, so you heard the voice of David Forcy, uh longtime pastor in and around the area over the years and family of uh I don't know a whole bunch of little ones who he's homeschooled so he's big in the homeschooling movement and that sort of thing and comes from a kind of a essentially reformed perspective on things And Elijah Dirksen, he's a student at Whitfield Theological Seminary, and he tends to come at things at uh pretty much kind of a reformedish uh direction as well. And um I already introduced myself Troy Skinner, but and if you've been listening to the show all these years, then you know that at least in the last decade or so I've been coming at things at a more reformedish view. So where's the debate gonna be Well, if you listened two weeks ago, even reformed guys can can really tussle on some issues. So maybe we'll find reason to tussle in a faith debate today. But we teased last week about people not really knowing the gospel I'm going to give you just a real quick like 40 seconds or less and if we want to expand on it more we can. But I think these are some basic building blocks that are important to keep in mind. when we're thinking about what the gospel is and when we're sharing the gospel and looking for an entry point to start a discussion about the gospel with those that we're interacting with. I call it a five-fold gospel presentation. And they don't have to go in this order, but this is kind of a chronological sort of a way to do it. So the first of those five would be that we have a creator. We have a maker who made us, and he is Lord over all because he's the maker of all. All that has ever come into existence, he did that. Not only did he make everything, he made the space within which to place it. Okay? And he made you. And he made you special. And you bear his image. He made man and woman in his image. And unfortunately though, we are now marred image bearers because we stand in rebellion against him because of our sin. There is a righteous, holy, good God who made everything, and we are not righteous and holy and good all the time. And so we s We have a problem. How do you stand on the face of the sun? Right? We need some help here. And we can't unsin ourselves. But God, as an eternal being, He made us, He can remake us. He can recreate us. To coin a phrase, we could be born again. And so how does that happen? Well, that happens because of the person and work of Jesus Christ His act of obedience and and he lives the holy life we did not and do not live, uh and he's able therefore to be the sacrifice for us. And um he pays the penalty that we can't pay because we have an eternal offense against an eternal God, and he's an eternal being, because he's both man and God, he can pay that price. And so we have this m maker who made us in his image, but we're in rebellion against him, but we're rescued from that. So what what's the natural response? What should be the right response to that? One of gratitude. And so you live a life of what we would call fancy fancy He terms sanctification. You wanna you want to grow in the fruit of the Spirit. You want to live an upright, uh upstanding, obedient kind of a life to bring honor and glory. to your Maker. Not because it's going to earn you your salvation, you've already been given that, but because you love your God who has saved you so much and you want to honor His Lordship overall so much that you want to live a life of obedience and you want to call other people to live that life as well because as was hinted at in the tail end of last week's show, we live in a community and Christ is the head of that community. He's in charge of that community and the Bible calls it the bride of Christ is one way that the Bible talks about it. And we want that bride to be pristine and gorgeous when Christ returns to spend eternity with his people, including those who accept the the salvation has been won for them. So that's the the five fold, by the way, of creation, fall, redemption, gratitude, and glory. Those are the things that I think are are important to keep in mind. And it there's an individual salvation. I am saved Uh but I'm not alone in being saved because God has a people and I'm counted among them. So he saves a people and that's something that David was driving home last week, if you were lucky and fortunate enough. We don't do luck, right? We were fortunate enough to hear that last week. So I think that that's the gist of how I would explain what the gospel is and the import of the gospel. And I think all of Scripture in one way or another is touching on those aspects of what the gospel is Um so not every single word and verse necessarily, but I would say every pericope to use a fancy word, every standalone passage that could make sense to preach as its own text. uh I think lends itself to examining aspects of what that gospel is all about. So that's my two cents on that. And I'm going to add this last thing because this might be the thing that'll get the fire started God knew from before the creation. Now that's again, that's a temporal term because the only way we can frame things, we we can't understand things eternally. We're not eternal beings We're temporal beings, but we have to use temporal language. But before there was a time, before there was a space, before there was a creation, God in his own mind knew those that were his. Because God's eternal. He doesn't change his mind nothing. He knows all things. He knows the end from the beginning. So when was I saved? Well, I was saved before the creation in one sense. Uh when else was I saved? Well I was saved well with the active uh and passive obedient uh obedience of Jesus Christ. Uh you know, two thousand years ago. I was saved then at the cross because all my sins were nailed to the cross. I could say that. Or I could say that I was saved when I came to recognize that I was saved in time, in my life now. Or you could say that I'm still right now being saved because I'm working out my salvation with fear and trembling. I'm working to improve myself and and and honor my God by by sanctifying myself. That's just a fancy way of becoming increasingly holy with the fruit of the Spirit. And then I will ultimately be saved in the future at Glory when I will no longer even be able to sin. I won't have an evil thought enter my mind anymore. And then I will be fully saved in a way that I can't even fully comprehend right now So when was I saved? At all of those points in time. And so with that being the case, how can I lose it? God knew from the beginning of of everything who was going to be saved, including me And he's not going to change his mind on that. So I'm saved. I can't lose it. And so God preserves those who are is. He sees to it that we make it to the end. And yes, we partner in that, but God equips us for doing that partnering and um and and and because he's a good God and takes care of those who are his, I can have absolute confidence in my salvation. I can't have confidence in Elijah's or David's, but they can have confidence in theirs, and I can have confidence in mine. So I put all my cards on the table right there, so the rest of the show is up to you guys. Go. Uh who wants to go first? Well, what about uh uh That's the voice of David Forcey going first. I mean uh am I am I sure that I can be sure about my salvation? Because I couldn't I couldn't I think that I'm saved But maybe I'm not actually saved? You know, and so so if God is gonna save me, he'll save me. But if he is not gonna save me, but I'm just Thinking that he will or just hoping that he will. Well we'll we'll I'm sure we'll probably get into this during the discussion, but The Bible does tell us to look for evidences of our faith, to work out your salvation, and a truly changed life, a truly saved person will produce genuine good works It's not not to say someone who's not saved can't um I I would say create false imitation works that that look like good works, but true genuine fruit can only be produced by a changed life. You know, the work of the Holy Spirit, the fruit of the Spirit, can only be produced by the Spirit. And I would say this in response to what you just said, David, there's a couple of aspects to it I think. One, yeah we the heart is deceitful and we can be self-deluded into thinking lots of things. A lot of people think they're chickens, you know, and they're not chickens, but they're per they're completely persuaded that they're a chicken. Okay. Uh so yeah, the we we can we can fool ourselves. Um but when we've when we've tasted of uh the the the the the fruit of the spirit, we've we've tasted the good gifts of God and we come to recognize that He is who He says He is and He is uh reach down and in in into time and space to to select me and say, you are mine. Um once you come to that place, if you end up walking away You know, John says in 1 John chapter 2 that well if you you never actually were saved, you were deluded from the start. So if somebody isn't sure and then they end up saying, Yeah, I'm not really a Christian anymore then that's evidence that they never actually were a Christian. They never actually possessed what they thought they possessed. So that's one aspect. The other aspect though is for those that actually possess it Uh, I think we get ourselves into trouble, we start thinking about what I have to do and am I living a good enough life? Am I honoring God well enough because all of a sudden then it becomes a works thing? And I'm taking my eye off of Christ. If I'm focusing on, look, I know I'm saved, not because of me, but because God is who he says he is And God says that He has saved me and and and I've I've been convicted of that in my heart. Uh I'm not trusting in my experience of that. I'm not ex trusting in the burning of my bosom. I'm not trusting anything other than the God who has revealed Himself to me. And as long as I'm staying focused on God and His provision then I can have absolute confidence. I I would never have absolute confidence in myself, but I can have absolute confidence in him. So I don't know if that answers where you were going with your um question or query or pushback? Um yeah, I I guess my um uh y you know so I I I I don't I don't really buy into the idea, which if you're um some some center some people in the center just say camp to uh go back to a term we we used last week to describe um you know, the uh a partnership in salvation, right? You know, like I do my part and God does his part and that I'm saved. Um so but some some people in that camp would uh would say, okay, because because I can do a part to be saved, I can I can do a part to be unsaved. Right. So but I'm I don't uh I don't I don't buy into that because then what you know, what what's God gonna do with with his part. It's just gonna, you know Right. I I think if you really dig into the the theology of the ability to lose your salvation from your actions. A lot of times it it's a a sneaky doorway into workspace salvation. I've heard a lot of people say I'm saved by grace alone, through faith alone. That's how I'm saved, and that's how I gained my salvation, but my salvation is maintained through my good works. If I do enough bad works, or if I don't do enough righteous ones, then my salvation is not maintained and I lose it. And so it is, you are still saved by your works, even though you don't believe that you're saved initially by those works. You're saved till the end because you're doing the right works. Are there any Bible passages that come to mind for you guys when you're uh I've had to deal with this a few times as a pastor. I'm not sure if you guys have had to deal with this uh well Elijah's not a pastor, I don't know if you plan on ever being a pastor, but you're not one uh yet. Uh but maybe just friends or something, family members or something have had And they have a crisis of confidence in in their salvation, like how do I know I'm saved? If you've had those kinds of conversations, where are some places in the scripture that you would point them to to say, you know, you can have confidence and here's why? Any come to mind or there's there's a lot in the book of John that really sti stand out to me. John 6, John 10. Here, John 6, starting in verse 37, All that the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will by no means cast out And then skipping on to verse 39, this is the will of the Father who sent me, that of all he has given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day. And now th those who are synergists, th their one of their arguments for that is going to be okay, he's not going to cast them out, but you could jump out Uh he might not lose you, but you could rebel again and force yourself out. He's not he's not losing you, you're losing yourself. What would you say to that? Either one of you who might want to jump on that one. I mean, Elijah, you just spoke. But David, do you have a thought on that? Um well I I mean I I think that uh I I I I think s I think some of that has to do with G going back to the the will. Um and and also I I mean when God saves us. He is making us we're we're made alive in Christ. We were dead before that. And I d I don't think that there is any indication given to us that we can uh that we can undo that enlivening. And the the verse itself is comprehensive. It's of all that God has given me, I should lose nothing. It's it's not that well someone be will be able to to take him out and he's accepting your your human will. It's If you come to God, everyone who's given by God, the Father, to the Son, will not be cast out, will not lose their salvation. And that's an important hinge point there because i if there if somebody's going to say, well, I the person could jump out, they could lose themselves, well that's presuming that somehow they maybe jumped in. Uh because it the the very beginning of the passage you were just citing there, Elijah, it talks about how the Father gives it to the Son. So the the Father gave it. And so you're somehow going to be able to take away the Father's gift to the Son? You have it within your power to take away the Father's gift to the Son? Like it wasn't your gift. You didn't gift yourself. The father gave you to the son, and you're gonna make the father an Indian giver? Well, that's probably politically incorrect these days. You're gonna make the the father reneg on on on that promise to the sun, you have it within your ability. You've got some real theological conundrums if you want to go down that path and really parse out what's being said. I I think there's an even bigger problem with this. It's the whole the whole idea of how does our soteriology square with the the penal substitution aspect of Jesus' death. Ah, you should have been here two weeks ago. If Jesus died for a certain group of people, he died particularly for me and took my sins upon himself, how is it that I was saved and had all those sins taken away and paid for? And now I suffer the consequences for those same sin by falling away. Yeah, a couple of weeks ago there was like a two or three week stretch where uh I was just hammering home on the importance of penal substitu So if you didn't catch those shows, you're gonna want to catch those. I think this is the crux of what I what I was saying before. Here's a good verse that I would use. Second Timothy chapter one, it's verse twelve. And and Paul is saying, I know whom I have believed. So what is he saying there? I know that I made a good decision, or I know that uh I turned my life, I repented, I did something. No I know whom I have believed, and I'm persuaded that he, the one he's believed, is able to keep that which I committed unto him against that day. So he's believing God. He's not believing his own decision. He's not believing in it. I do believe as a pastor, sometimes you gotta grab somebody by the scruff of their baptism, you know, and and kind of pull them back into obedience. You know what I'm saying? But that's that's different. Getting them to walk the walk and talk the talk and and live the life that they're called to live is is not exactly a salvation question. If they're not, if they're going to end up someday not proving to not have been saved, it's not because they lost their salvation It's because they never had it. Again, 1 John chapter 2. Is it verse what, 18 maybe somewhere around there? I forget the exact verse. It's somewhere around. Anyway. I always have to prod David because uh you know he'll just sit back and comfortably listen and take it all in and be a gentleman and so I have to kind of take a risk that I'm not putting on the spot by asking him to jump in. But what are your thoughts at this point Well, I what I think we should probably also get to is to say, okay, say somebody you know, totally totally monologistic, but they are yeah, I I think going back to the um right the I I'd I would just call them the the doubting Christian, right? They have they have doubts that they're saved. You know, everything else would say to an outsider that they are. Uh you know, they they think they are, but they're they're not sure. Um You know, I I uh you know that that that happens to monarchists. And um you know I think I think that is worth uh delving into a little bit. Um, you know, how do we How do we how do we encourage those people or because they're they're obviously already really cautious, uh And I seem to have in my memory bank memory banks a uh story that R. C. Sproul used to tell. I I think I'm getting this right, where somebody one of his congreg congregants play had a hard time spitting out full words today. I gotta start drinking more. Um That's just what we need. Alcohol I'm joking, I'm joking. Um The congreg one of the congregants came to him and said that they were really concerned that you know that they were uh not living the life they needed to live and And therefore they probably maybe weren't saved and so he was examining their life with them and saying, Well, you know what, yeah, you're not living perfect, but that doesn't mean necessarily if if you h maintain a heart of repentance, you try to turn and uh stuff you that doesn't mean you're not saying just say, Yeah, I I just can't be sure. It's like, well no, you can be sure because God is is a God who he you know, he's sure of what he decides. Well I'm still I'm just not sure And then so R. C's advice was that well, they needed to go pray and ask God to forgive them. So well that's the whole point. I've been praying and asking God to forgive me over and over for all these sins and I'm just not sure I'm forgiven. And that so if I'm not forgiven, I'm not saved. But I keep praying. He said, No, well you need to go pray and ask me forgiven. He said, RC, you're not hearing me. I am praying that I be forgiven, but I don't know that I believe that I'm going to be forgiven. And he's and so RC makes the point, like, no, no, you need to go and pray and ask to be forgiven for doubting that God is who he says he is. Not for the sins of, oh, I I sassed my parents or I I was rude to the driver next to me on the highway. I mean yeah, ask for forgiveness of those things too. But you need to ask for forgiveness for doubting God's word If if you truly are uh thinking you're one of his, but then you're going to doubt that he's somehow not going to save you, then you you're having a doubt of a crisis of conscience in God Himself. And so um one of the pushbacks, by the way, we only got a couple of minutes left, but one of the pushbacks you will hear from the synergists is All once they ball be saved with the preservation of the saints or the Secure eternal security of the saints or you know those those sorts of phrases that are used. It can if you're not careful, possibly lead to an easy believism where, oh, I've I'm saved, I said the sinner's prayer, I got baptized, you know, I hey, I even go to church, you know, every third week. So I can do whatever I want and I'm still saved. What would you say in response to that? I think this is kind of a layup question, but uh I think it probably needs to be addressed. Well there there's a whole book about this. It's the the book of James, and it it's so strenuously against the idea of having this kind of dead faith that it caused confusion even among the reformers like Martin Luther at at for a period of time didn't like the fact that James was part of the canon because it was so clear that you can't have your faith without works accompanying accompanying it. So faith without the works that accompany it is dead. We're saved unto good works And even though salvation doesn't belong to me, it doesn't come from me, the proper response to my salvation, a truly changed heart, is going to be I desire to do what's right and what's good and what's holy. Right, that's the gratitude I was talking about earlier. So uh we're not saved because we have gratitude, we're not saved by our obedience, we're not saved by those works But if we don't have those works, which would be evidence of the gratitude for what God has done for us, if we don't have that, then that's evidence we don't actually have what we might be claiming to have. So, you know, right? Salvation always is accompanied by works. Uh but the works aren't what does the salvation. You guys agree there is the existence of a dead faith in the Bible of just, hey, I believe in God. That that can be an outward expression that isn't necessarily something that saves you by itself. Alright. And uh David wins the prize, he's gonna get the last word. I was just gonna say if you go to uh I think also first John uh almost looks at it i it from another perspective, which is uh, you know, if there isn't uh A a life that is devoid of seeking to be obedient to God in all things. is a life that's devoid of love for God and love for one's Savior. And so, I mean it we we'd Anybody would say like it it's very would be very natural and logical and it is biblical that uh that we would be fully and entirely devoted in every part of our lives to the one who has uh set us free and and saved us And there you have the last word from the man with the face for television and the voice for radio David Forcy. Before that was Elijah Dirksen Uh I'm Troy Skinner. Again, follow me online at household of faith in Christ. com as household of faith in Christ dot com and of course WFMD. com. And we're going to Continue with a different topic, but maybe the same panel. We'll have to see next week here on the Faith Debate. We'll do that 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.