That doesn't make any sense. Oh, we're back. Alright. We're having signal issues, but I think hopefully we fix it. I don't know. So if you're confused you watch the first thirty seconds. I think we got booted because I used a taboo word So maybe I shouldn't use the word sin anymore. Facebook for you, there's a full FBI CIA. If that uh if we get kicked off again. Sin, sin, sin, sin. Sin. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WM The authority of Scripture is a key issue for the Christian church. To stray from Scripture in faith or conduct is disloyalty to our master. These are words from the opening paragraph of the preface to the Chicago Statement on Biblical inerrancy, and that's what we're going to be talking about on this episode of the Faith Debate and possibly we'll see how much progress we can make, how quickly it might spill over into more than one episode. If you're as old as I am, God bless you, but if you're as old as I am, you have lived during an era where we have been blessed by a number of really thoughtful, careful statements of faith Hundreds of years ago, they did they had church councils and they would have these these big big creeds and things and confessions that we would all uh in many cases still subscribe to. We don't have that anymore because the church is going off in a bunch of different directions. But we do have men of faith who come together to put together very careful things to meet the needs of the controversies of the day. And one of the big controversies of the day that's now decades long is the question of, did God really say? Is the is the Bible trustworthy? Does it make errors? Is it fallible in some way, shape, or form? Back in the 1970s, a bunch of men got together from around the world, I think, mostly from America, but around the world they met in Chicago. That's why it's called the Chicago Statement And they put out this statement on biblical inerrancy. And they had two more such sessions on hermeneutics and biblical application, I believe. Whoops. Say that again? Define hermeneutics real quick. Oh it has to do with uh interpretation. It's a fancy word for interpretation. But we'll get to that with if we get to that point. Uh that would be a a a But anyway, there was a string of them that took place from the 70s into the 80s. And we've had another string of statements that came out in recent years actually as well. In the last 15, 20 years have been quite a few that are rather interesting and I think helpful. I don't know about you guys, but I've been dealing with, I mean you always have it. I've I have my whole Christian walk, it's been an issue. But it seems like lately By lately meaning the last few years, it has been a much bigger issue, not just with those outside of the church, but those inside the church who don't trust their Bible. They don't even know their Bible a lot of times, but even those that would know their Bible to some degree, that they're willing to have a lot of fudge factors built in. So I thought it'd be good for us as the Faith Way panel to talk about these things. And so on the panel this week, I'm the one who's um Talking the most so far is Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. You can find our church's website online at household of faith in Christ. com. Also on the panel, Imran Razvi. You might hear him referred to as Raz on occasion because that's uh his nickname. But uh I don't typically call him Raz on the show because we've got two Razves and there's lots of Raz and Razvis going on and it just it discombobulates my uh easy to So Imran Raz Razvi. He's pastor of a church in Thermont and uh has a ministry that's a couple of decades old at least. Conquered by Love, ConcordbyLove. org is the website there. His son Daniel, also a pastor at that church in Thermont, Daniel Razby. And then uh David Forcy. I'd give you a website uh link if I could, but David doesn't believe he's a Luddite. That's the odd strain within Christianity apparently? No. I I don't know what that is, Troy. You don't know what a Luddite is? Sorry. Technology. Yeah, people who are resistant to new technology. Anyway, yeah, if you want to get in touch with uh with David, just reach out to me and all my contact information is on uh the website of gave your household. So I'm going to start with a short statement of the inerrancy, the Chicago statement. They they begin with a five-point short statement. I wonder if it's five points because a lot of the men involved were Calvinists. I don't Can't prove or disprove that I don't know. I do know at least one of the high profile guys involved in this was a Calvinist because R. C. Scroll was involved in this. John MacArthur too, I think. Was he? Okay. Yeah. Anybody who's like either recently died or is really old now probably was involved in this back then in the 70s. All right, so I'll read the first couple. God, who is himself truth and speaks truth only, has inspired holy scripture in order thereby to reveal himself to lost mankind through Jesus Christ as creator and Lord, Redeemer and Judge. Holy Scripture is God's witness to himself. Point two, Holy Scripture being God's own word, written by men, prepared and superintended by His Spirit, is of infallible divine authority in all matters upon which it touches It is to be believed as God's instruction in all that it affirms, obeyed as God's command in all that it requires, embraced as God's pledge in all that it promises. I don't think anybody in this room disagrees with any of those words. No. Have you had interactions with people who Took issue and you had to try to defend words like this with those who doubt that it's God's word that uh what is it you know maybe we should talk even about death defining these What does it mean that he prepared and superintended by his spirit what these men wrote down? How do we understand the inspiration process? Who wants to tackle that? Well, I mean the simple way is how you would how you would would you explain it to a baby, right? I have a baby, an infant, and when I talk to her about the body Bible, I say God wrote the Bible. I don't say Paul wrote the Bible or John wrote the Bible. I say God wrote the Bible. And later when she s can understand And that men wrote the Bible, it was God told them what to write down, but God's the one that wrote it. It is God's word, the word of God. That's why we call it that. Right? So we It's at the point now I, you know, eighteen month old when I uh uh you know get time to do family worship or family devotions. She was like, read the Bible. God wrote the Bible. And so she only knows God will divide God's word. And that's important because i if God who is is who we claim him to be, I mean God is a truth teller. God does not lie, doesn't make mistakes, everything he says is true by definition because he's God. Not everybody would agree with that though, right? God can make mistakes. I mean the gods of the Greek pantheon, they all made a lot of mistakes. But the God of the Bible, the creator God, we would say uh does not make mistakes. And so if it is his word, then that's the that's the ground we're standing on, right? We do I do get squ questions from people sometimes. of well what is his word like which bible or we talked a little bit about translations last time that's not usually the question that I'm talking about but okay Well, how many there's sixty-six books. Well, some people have seventy or whatever. And also what about this other word that God said could have that You get the Mormons and they got a whole nother Bible to add to it, the Book of Mormon. So there's there are groups that may or may not be actually saved that that will say you know, there's these other books also that are part of the scripture. And how do we determine whether they are or are not the same thing? judge. And that's where some of the pushback comes from because some people that believe in parts of the Bible wouldn't would reject Jesus. So that can be part of the issue. And the other thing is in point bullet point two, it is uh infallible in all matters upon which it touches So I think that's an important thing. Who wants to address what's being said there? Looks like Imran's leaning in. Well Uh I'm I I come from a Muslim background and one of the things that uh helped me understand who Christ was, uh I was taking statistics at the time and we found out that there's over three hundred, actually three hundred and twenty-four prophecies. that Jesus fulfilled. So that in itself is a testament of truth. Because anybody can make one prophecy and come true. I can say this chair is going to break and the person that sits in it, when it breaks, is King Eventually, maybe you took a hundred years, but somebody's gonna sit in it. It's anybody can do that. But if there's three hundred and twenty-four different prophecies from different time periods, from different people about one person Uh it's infallible. It was all fulfilled. It is not possible. In fact most Muslims say that uh the Bible is mistranslated. That that's why the Quran had to be written Well, then why does the Quran say if you want to know more about God, go to the Bible? If it's mistranslated, they wouldn't send you there. So God's word is inerrant. And There's there's too much evidence, but we can rationalize. First we rationalize got rid of Genesis by Darwinism in schools and oh it took thousands of years of evolution. The God worked through evolution. Millions of years. Millions of years. Millions years. Sorry. Thousands. What school did you go to? Millions of years. But again, once you eliminate the beginning the the genesis and there's nothing else to stand on. So little by little they've been shipping it away and now the uh people, even the people that claim to be Christians, have no Christ Christ worldview. Yeah, one of the things that comes up of course as a as the the as a supposedly the polar opposite of what the Bible says would be science. Faith is science. And but this the bullet point too you're talking about all those things upon which it touches. The Bible doesn't instruct somebody how to do heart surgery That's it doesn't it's not a manual for you know uh anything like that or technical understanding of things, how how to use your smartphone. The Bible's not gonna tell you how to technically use your smartphone, but As a moral guide, it might tell you when it is or isn't appropriate to do heart surgery. It could inform some of those kinds of things. It could inform uh the way somebody uses their smart device, because there's certain things that people do with their smartphone devices that are at the very least unhelpful. And it and it does speak to that. So I I would put it maybe this way. The Bible does not speak explicitly about every topic. But every topic has biblical relevance. There's some kind of part of the Bible that is relevant to understanding or applying And when it makes a historical claim or a geographical locator or things like that, things that it touches upon, it is accurate in those things is what this statement is saying. And we all feel good about that, right? We we all agree with that here, this this show. But that's also some somewhere where you get a lot of people to say, Oh well, we have this proof or this evidence that disproves something. claiming the Bible. Science is y is as you say, that's mo most often what they say. Uh 'cause evolution disproves the Bible. And I think for the most part my instinct on wanting to, you know, go in this direction with the show for this period of time is less about talking to somebody who's made up their mind for now God's not real, the Bible's all a hoax. Christians are idiots. Like I'm not I'm concerned about those that would claim to be Christian. Might even go to church. A lot of people claim to be Christians who go to church. But might even go to church, and yet they wouldn't agree with some of the things. And so I'm trying to to shore up their understanding of what the Bible is and their faith in the sufficiency and accuracy of the scriptures. So I'm going to move on to the next couple. So this is bullet point three and four. The Holy Spirit, Scripture's divine author. both authenticates it to us by his inward witness and opens our minds to understanding its meaning. Being holy and verbally God-given scriptures without error or fault in all its teaching. No less in what it states about God's acts in creation, about the events of world history, and about its own literary origins under God, than in its witness to God's saving grace and independence. individual lives. So is anything as I was reading that that you put out as yeah, that's something that seems noteworthy that we should talk about. How about the illumination of the Holy Spirit? But his inward witness opens their minds to understanding. That's that's why I'm not as concerned about the people who aren't believers. They don't have the illumination of the Holy Spirit. Of course they're going to reject it. Right. The Bible is a love letter. It's written to those who are God's people and if you're not of God then you're not gonna understand it. It's not if it's not to you, it's not gonna be understood understood by you. It has to be somebody that's to who If somebody uh in your church on uh well David's church meets on Sunday, so in your church on Sunday, during your discussion time, somebody says, I I know as believers we're supposed to believe that this book is true. But a lot of my friends say it's not. And growing up I had my doubts as well, to be honest. What do you have to say to me, Pastor David? Uh to help me understand this. What are some practical things you might say as a pastor? Uh well, I would want to understand, you know, why it is that they're friends are are saying that it isn't true or you know what what exactly their doubts are. Um yeah I I I guess there's uh when I think of inerrancy um I think one of the things that we take into consideration is so it it by inerrancy also we should say, like what what do we mean? Um and I would say if the Bible is inerrant, that means it's it's in essence it's it's true and not false, right? So the things that it's It's trying to say and communicate. I'm not sure. I noticed something that wasn't didn't look like it was rolling, so I'm not sure if we had a a glitch and it stopped Record I'm not exactly sure. I'm not sure if I should stop down and check or if we should move forward as though we were doing it. I'm gonna throw forward. In case that is what happened, we're in the middle of talking about biblical inerrancy and the Chicago State Line inerrancy Uh I have gone through I'm gonna just touch on some of the things you already just in case as a review, in case you've joined us. It's radio too, so people jump in and out of the radio all the time. So the uh Chicago Statement on Biblical Inerrancy was uh written back in 1978 And it uh in its preface it says the authority of scripture is a key issue for the Christian church to stray from Scripture in faith or conduct or conduct is uh disloyalty to our master. So it's an important thing. We've got to take this seriously. If we reject the Bible, we're rejecting God's word and that doesn't come without consequence. So they begin with a short statement of five bullet points. One of them is talking about how God is the truth, and so he reveals himself in the Holy Scriptures. They are therefore truth since it's his word and it testifies to who Jesus Christ is. uh as uh creator, lord, redeemer, and judge. Uh and then it goes on to talk about uh the word it's written by men but it's superintended by the Holy Spirit as these men write it. Um and because the Holy Spirit is involved we are to believe it. It is for our instruction. It is to be obeyed. God is making commands in it, and it makes promises that we can trust. And then it talks about the Holy Spirit, that it authenticates his word by illuminating the minds and hearts so that those who are believers, who are Christians, followers of Christ, can understand the Scriptures. And it talks about being holy and verbally God-given, that it's without error, therefore. Might want to talk about some of that. There's no fault in its teaching. Everything that says about history or about geography or those kinds of things uh are accurate. There are certain things that wouldn't maybe touch upon. It might be silent on those those things, and we're not going to try to make a biblical argument about those things. over which it is silent, but where it does speak, we need to take it as authoritative. Holy and verbally God-given is a phrase in one of those bullet points that we uh did not talk about Um the verbal plenary inform uh inspiration of scripture is sometimes a phrase that's used. Um anybody want to comment on that? So I'm not just doing this little case. Not only for doctrine, but for reproof and instruction and righteousness. So it's it's very important. All of Scripture is inspired by God. And it says um a holy man moved by God wrote down the scripture. That's in Hebrews I think, right? Uh and Timothy chapter three is uh a a noteworthy passage along those lines as well. So there's there's several passages that talk about that the Bible is inspired by God. God told what to write. In fact, in the Old Testament it's quite explicitly stated many times, and the word of the Lord came to so and so saying, Write this right, so Ezekiel, Isaiah, Jeremiah All these prophets, even Moses. And the Lord spake and said unto Moses it th all this uh it's very clear that God is the one talking. And almost the entire Bible is i i it's that explicit, and even the parts that aren' specifically stated there. They're covered by Peter and and the apostles saying all scripture is inspired by God. Now this final point on the beginning, opening short statement before they get into the articles of affirmation and denial. is really kind of the crux of the matter here. This is why it's important. The authority of Scripture. So the statement claims. is inescapably impaired if this total divine inerrancy is in any way limited or disregarded or made relative to a view of truth contrary to the Bible's own. And such lapses bring serious loss to both the individual and the church. That's strong. It's very academic and scholarly and winsome, at the same time very strident. Right, there there's a line in the stand drawn here. If you're gonna say the Bible has errors, you just lost the baby and the bathwater, right? You lost everything. Even one error. Because even if even one Iota is wrong or untrue in the Bible, then God is a liar, first of all, but also imperfect. And that cannot be true and the and cr uh Christianity be a fa b be a faith. But why can't there be like just one mistake? I mean, everybody, everything is entitled to at least one mistake. What what do we mean by a mistake? I think is also also a good question to ask. Okay. And and how are we You know, how are we uh are we able to demonstrate that it's a mistake using um If it is a meaningful mistake, right? Are we are we able to demonstrate that it's a mistake because of a of a higher authority? Right, because the there's differences in translation which you could call a Translator's mistake, but no one's arguing that the so-and-so translator in 1926 was inspired by God. He may have been a very godly person of whatever translation he's translating, but that can still have an error or a mistake. That I think is not what we're talking about, Troy. We we discussed differences in translations a couple of months ago. Right, yeah, we're not saying that those men uh who were involved, it's almost all men. There might be some men Some more along, I don't know. It's pretty much all men involved in the translation of the Bibles that we read in English today. They can make a mistake, but that's not what we're talking about because they're not God. We're talking about what God wrote directly through men, that being without it, because God doesn't make mistakes. Right. I mean it's akin to having a clear cup of water. You drop a a drop of cyanide in it. Would you drink it? No, the whole thing's com contaminated because it has poison in it. If the Bible had any error, any mistake then none of it's worthwhile or anything. It's just a f it's a fable and a fiction. That's what the culture has been trying to do for hundreds of years Or even thousands of years, trying to disrupt and say this cannot be true because that's the devil's play. The devil is trying to discredit the Bible to show that it is not true but whatever means necessary but throughout the history it's been proven over and over again all these people that said oh this is not true because of this they've been the one that have been discredited and shown that this what they said was not true. The Bible was in fact true Let's talk about the uh where hair splits might happen when we're defining terms, because David said, well depends on what you mean by mistake. So what could we mean by mistake? What do we mean? What you know when we might use that word So I I mean there's the right there's a a big kind of mistake which is something is uh is not as it says it is. So if there are Um you know, if if there are no such thing as miraculous happenings, right, then that would that would be a mistake. That would be a a huge mistake. Right, if if things only happen naturally. I mean the Bible claiming that they're supernatural would be a big biblical mistake. Correct, yeah. Yeah. Um Or if if the world was not in fact created in six days, that would be a mistake. The Genesis says the earth was created for the in six days, the earth and everything in it. And if it in fact took him six months or six years or six millennia, then we start to get into areas of some interpretational differences there. I think because there are some. I will not say so. Not about Genesis. Well I will say that about Revelation. We talked about the thing. Uh I don't stake a hard claim on that particular issue because I have too many brothers and sisters in the faith that are inerrantists inerrantists. They believe the Bible is the authority of the Word of God. They trust everything it says. but they're more uh they w have a more open view about how to interpret the Genesis passages. And I would argue that if they interpret it differently, then they are not in line with any Oh see, I would disagree with that. Because, you know, what about because they would make arguments, and again, I'm I don't stake a claim on this one. I'm I'm And bivot's a strong word. I I think somebody can also I'm not gonna die on that hill, I guess, is what I'm saying. Or misunderstand. You can believe that the scripture is an errant and be wrong about something that scripture says, you can believe it to say something that it doesn't actually say. Um w what I'm saying is that doesn't contrary to a passage like Revelation, which is very widely different interpretations, and it's also a prophetic book and is is very explicitly said to be symbolic in many ways. Genesis is not such a book. It's a it's a historical record. And so you have to be able to say this is what happened. And things like the Adam and Eve, the the fall, the flood, everything that happened, literally happened. Yeah, but those who would disagree with that view And I'm uh appreciative of the arguments that they make. I'm not sure if I fully agree. Like I said, I I haven't staked a claim for sure on it, but there is an argument to be made that the first couple of chapters of Genesis are a hybrid of of prose and poetry. that there's that there's a structure where the days correspond, where one corresponds to four, two corresponds to five, three corresponds to six, which just echoes that poetic instinct Um there's day-age theory, so they're saying six days, but they would argue that each day could be an age and they would use a scripture that says to the Lord a day is a thousand years. Yeah, but I would argue if there was no such thing as evolution then what you just said would never even come up. Because of the big push of evolution, people are trying to justify the Bible say, well I believe the Bible's true, so because I I believe you know science and evolution, then it must be this way. But if you use just the Bible to translate the Bible, the Bible to use to um to prove the Bible, you would never come up with that situation. Ever. But if that enters your field of vision, somebody brings it up because they have a motivation to try to defend evolution. And and they put that thought in your head, like it could does the day have to be twenty-four hours? And you're like, huh, now that you got me thinking about it, let me examine the text afresh and say, you know what It could, or it could not, it doesn't explicitly say. So I thought we were going to get into hermeneutics in another second. Yeah So anyway, I but that's a this is a good practical example of uh where lines sometimes can be drawn and how we're trying to define our we well you started with the what is a mistake. It's your fault then. I'm so sorry. So I think I think the heart of the matter is uh There's uh there's a difference between uh we make a mistake in our interpretation and God makes a mistake in his interpretation. writing. Correct. Yeah. Whatever your interpretation of Genesis, what God said is in fact true, the way that he said it. That is that that and that would be yes that's the heart of it. That's the heart of it. Okay, so let's move on to the articles of affirmation. But we'll get into it from a new day and maybe the Genesis thing will come up again. Or maybe that can be a whole lot of separate shows. So I'm going to do a couple at a time because there's uh there's like nineteen or twenty articles and some of the interesting of time we'll just try to tackle a couple at a time. And if that seems like it's too much, then I'll I'll slow down. But uh Article I, we affirm that the Holy Scriptures are to be received as the authoritative word of God. We deny the scriptures receive their authority from the church, tradition, or any other human source. We affirm that's very that's very important. I want to pause Well, I think the second one actually echoes it to some degree. We we affirm that the scriptures are the supreme written norm by which God binds the conscience. and that the authority of the church is subordinate to that of Scripture. We deny that church creeds, councils, or declarations have authority greater than or equal to the authority of the Bible. Now all that while making a declaration by the church. All of our uh all of our Roman Catholic friends are uh are are not happy with that part of the articles. Yes. And I've had discussions with Catholics, including very recently, where, you know, that is one of the One of the two most important differences between the Protestant Church and the Catholic Church. One is the inerrancy of Scripture and that Scripture supersedes the Pope and church tradition and the other one is justification by faith. But in this case, y yeah, uh if other people can change what Scripture says, then These people are more important than God. And that's the problem. Church tradition is made by people and and people are fallible. So that's really, really important that the the truth Church is not more important than God. Um I am not a cessationist. I don't believe God has stopped speaking to people or uh giving prophecy. But if and when, and and this you know many people are I do believe that when the canon was closed there are no other prophecies, there are no other other um inspired words of God. I'm not gonna rule out that there couldn't ever be any other inspired words by That God s says, but if and when those are shown to exist, they cannot contradict Scripture, because if they do, then they are wrong. Scripture does not contradict itself. Um and any and then that would just be a tradition of the church that you know you could say this is a good thing you do, but it's not scripture. And just along you know, in reference to prophecy, like there's a there's a difference between uh you know uh and uh with the Holy Spirit indwelling us, right, God uh God does work through believers. right to uh to accomplish his his work in the world. And so uh we may say things that are from God for the moment the people who are present. That doesn't mean that it is a word for all of God's people for all of time, which is what the biblical scriptures are. Right. And I think what what's not being said here is that uh church councils or creeds or you know, authority structures of the church, traditions within the church have absolutely no value whatsoever. They're not saying that. They're just saying whatever value they have, and I think the men who are involved in the writing the statement would have a high view of those things. They're under scripture. Subordinate. Right. Everything has scripture at the top and everything else is underneath that. And yeah, I I understand nobody in this room is a Roman Catholic to defend their position. Uh and I'm not going to get bogged down in the in in the textual transmission. questions and all that sort of thing. If we can get a Roman Catholic to join us, we could have a debate specifically on that perhaps. Because that could be a series of shows all by itself and I don't want to get bogged down on that. We got bogged on enough on the um what's the mistake question that David threw up there I'm gonna let him wear that one for a while. Article uh three and four. Three says, We affirm that the written word in its entirety is revelation given by God. We deny the Bible is merely a witness to revelation or only becomes revelation in encounter or depends on the responses of men for its validity. And then four, you can keep We affirm that God who made mankind in his image has used language as a means of revelation. We deny that human language is so limited by our creaturliness that it is rendered inadequate as a vehicle for divine revelation. We further deny that the corruption of human culture and language through sin has thwarted God's work of inspiration I think these two actually kind of go together to a certain degree as well. It speaks against a very common practice in American church quote-unquote Bible studies, right? What does it mean to you? Yes. They're kind of speaking against that, aren't they? Yeah. Well if you think they're speaking for and again. Well uh you we have heard in and many religions practice this thought, and this is again the the Catholic Church. Um to some extent uh uh Islam as a religion also believes this that God is because God is so great and so perfect that even our own language is insufficient for him to express anything to us. Which is a different thing. What they're not saying here is that our language the you know, doesn't limit God at all. Uh obviously God does have to fit whatever he's saying into something we can understand. Uh so there's a lot that we don't understand still. But what he does intend to convey to us is conveyed the way he wants it to be conveyed. It's not changed or diminished by Right. We're limited, he's not, and he accommodates our limitations. Yeah. Yeah. And the other thing I think I might be talking about here is postmodern reading. Where it's uh it's it's it's reader response. It's it's authorial intent isn't what matters. It doesn't matter what the author thought it meant, I as the reader get to decide what it means. That's you know, that's uh we see that politically with the Constitution as well. Right, that whole I think they're speaking against that too. Well, and it would be good if people understood that in terms of the earlier conversation on mistakes. No, to to put our own interpretation or come up with our own idea of what the scripture is saying is to is to make a mistake. All right, Article 5 and 6. We affirm that God's revelation is the Holy Scripture, in the Holy Scriptures, rather, was progressive. We deny and I don't I don't uh don't don't confuse political labels here. It didn't pretend it once, it has to be. We deny that later rev of revelation, which may fulfill earlier revelation, ever corrects or contradicts it. We further deny that any normative revelation has been given the sense that completion of the New Testament writing. Now this talks about what you were talking about before. So the first thing in uh in that Article Five is uh like there's no law of abrogation in the Bible. You know, if if Paul wrote uh something uh in 1 Corinthians, he doesn't then correct himself in in 2 Corinthians and say, Oh, I got it wrong. This fixes that mistake. There could be a progression in thought Building upon itself but never to the point of having to go back and fix a mistake. And then I would actually agree with that second uh statement. I don't think it actually just uh it speaks against what I was saying. We deny that any normative revelation has been given since the completion of the New Testament writings. Meaning we deny that there's any anything meaningful that actually applies to all of Christians that God has spoken specifically that we should be keeping and and treasuring and reading and memorizing and all of that. Um but what it does not say here is that that Right. God might actually write now. God might actually write a third testament. That's what they're saying it is it he hasn't Nothing that's been written to date qualifies as that, but we're not going to limit God just by under our understanding that He won't do that. I mean we we don't think He will based on scripture seems to be completed. But the God is able, capable, and and may in fact speak more And they go out of in Article 6, they go out of their way to make the point that it the very words themselves, so it's not just the concepts or the or the overall moral teachings or the general historical Presentation of things that's true. Those are true. But each word is right. It does get down so you can't just be well, generally speaking I believe the Bible to be true, but some of these details here and there, they're they're arguing against that. I would agree with that argument. All right. Looks like we're maybe ready to move on to seven and eight. All right. Uh we got a couple minutes left, so uh we'll see how quickly we can do seven. Maybe we'll just do seven. Time for seven eight. So seven, we affirm that inspiration was the work in which God, by his spirit, through human writers, gave us his word. The origin of scripture is divine. The mode of divine inspiration remains largely a mystery to us. We deny that inspiration can be reduced to human insight or to heightened states of consciousness of any kind. Yeah, we got like maybe A couple of minutes. So who wants to talk about uh even have some sort of heightened state of consciousness in order to really interact with uh the scriptures? You only understand it when you're Right. Except for that by the Holy Spirit. Okay. All right. Yeah, they didn't have to go up high in a mountain necessarily to be able to uh to understand what God was saying that they should write down kind of thing, right? Right. They didn't have to eat mushrooms to find out what God was saying. Right. All right, yeah. So we'll we'll photorep. So there are, let me just make sure. We made it through seven. Uh and we also made it through some of the opening statements as well. So we probably made it through the equivalent of let's say eight or nine or ten things. There's nineteen we might have to do maybe the next two shows finishing these out, so we'll see. And we'll see if if we we can give ourselves some room to to to argue a little bit of hermeneutics, uh some practical application of some of these debates, I suppose. You're right. We don't want to get too far afield, because we can talk about those things later on. So let me uh I'm just I'll discombobulate now because of that uh technical concern earlier. I think we're back on track. So this is the fake debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. a panel this week, uh the the two Razby gentlemen. We got Daniel Razby and his uh proud papa, Imran Razvy, also known as Raz. They have uh a website that you can go to and check out some of the ministry things that they're involved with. It's called Conquered by Love, and their website is conqueredbylove. org. uh pastor of church uh up in thurmont. Uh he might be listening in Pennsylvania like, oh, it's down in Thurmont. Uh and uh I've been saying for a long time that David's uh church that he pastors is um in southern Frederick County, but it's not technically true. It's more like southeastern Washington County, right? We met we met over in Harper's Ferry last Sunday. Oh, West Virginia. Wow. You're like multicultural now. Anyway, and uh I'm Troy Skinner and the church I pastor is Households of Faith in Christ and we are uh smacked up in the middle of Frederick County in uh based in Frederick City. Household of FaithInChrist. com is our website. So we're going to tackle biblical inerrancy some more next week. I know you can't wait. Until then Wish you all the best. We'll be back about 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless. You changed the music, huh? I don't think you've ever heard the end of it before. Uh Yeah, that was uh I'm not sure what was going on with that. But it it it it's gonna be what it's gonna be. Bit of an emphasis on the one three. That uh two and four. Yeah. Uh uh the bad the bad bees. Th there was a bad beat as well, but The melody is cracking on the one and three. be the there's there's melody, harmony, and rhythm. The rhythm was much stronger on on two and four. So I can point it out and play it again. Oh no I heard it. I heard it. But uh every I would say every everything has r a rhythm though. But you don't want stronger ge generally speaking you don't want a stronger beat on on the s on the second or fourth beat of a four beat measure. Well, you might. I don't. Okay, so see I would I would call the backbeat a uh a harmony of rhythm, a rhythmic harmony. Well you can have uh you can have rhythm and there's plenty of I think I think there's tonal melody and harmony and then I think there's rhythmic. Oh, okay. I mean there's a lot of uh so the uh so then that's a um the the melody should be always priority and harmony should always be And generally speaking, that doesn't mean always. Okay. I mean I d I'm okay with a little bit of syncupation as well, just that shouldn't be the the theme of the song. be based around say patient. If that makes sense. Just like when you tell a story, you can have a good guy and a bad guy, and they're both in there. But the good guy's gonna win. So I'm gonna just kick us off actually by just reading Article eight, so you might wanna Okay. I want to kind of lock in on do you need a scratch paper or anything? Just Google the the Chicago statement is the first thing that I'm saying. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management. We affirm the propriety of using inerrancy as a theological term with reference to the complete truthfulness of Scripture We deny that it is proper to evaluate Scripture according to standards of truth and error that are alien to its usage or purpose. We further deny that inerrancy is negated by biblical phenomena such as a lack of modern technical precision. irregularities of grammar or spelling, observational descriptions of nature, the reporting of falsehoods, the use of hyperbole and round numbers, the Topical arrangement of material, variant selections of material in parallel accounts, or the use of free citations. That was a mouthful. Welcome to the how to I almost had my churches now. I I'm not drinking enough these days, I think. This is this is the faith debate on News Radio 930. WFMB I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Households of Faith in Christ, which is what I almost said a second ago You can find our church online and all my contact information online at household of faith in Christ. com. Of course you can listen to this show every week on the uh AM at 9. 30 a. m. You can also listen on the FM on the HD2 channel of 99. 9. And until they finally collapse this beast known as the Internet, you can hear us on the World Wide Web at wfmd. com. The panel this week, picking up with the uh where we left off last week on the show with the Chicago Statement on Inerrancy is Daniel Razvy, Imran Razvi And David Forcy, all three of them are pastors in the area, the Razveys of a church up in the Thermont area. I say up, I've got to stop saying up because I don't know where you are Up geographically speaking, assuming north is up from where I am right now, but I don't know where you are right now, so I apologize for that. Anyway, you can find out more about them at their website um conqueredbylove. org. David Forcey doesn't have a website, so if you want to get in touch with him, just get in touch with me and I'll put you in touch with him. And his church is uh uh uh the south end of Frederick County and Washington counties and sometimes West Virginia we found out last week. So what I started the show off was Article eight of the Chicago statement. Um And we touched upon some of these things overlap just a little bit. Some of the articles are offering more clarity or more specificity. That's a fun word to say specificity. It's almost as fun as hyperbole. Hyperbole for the educated among us. Um quick story by the way for what it's worth there was a guy I used to work with years ago and he was, you know He might have been from West Virginia or something. He had this this very thick kind of country accent, you know, is that kind of guy, you know, very homespun, earthy kind of guy. And we had a Christmas party uh at the place I worked way back when and uh they wanted to make it a really, you know, fancy kind of affair, so they encouraged women to wear their fanciest evening gowns and men to they owned a tux to wear it and if not to wear their best suit and their best tie, that kind of thing. And it was a really nice uh uh gala, really cool event. And the invitations went out and and uh The guy he was so excited he'd never been invited to anything like this before. And he's showing off this th you know, I look what I got I got here at the invitationist party and they got this and they got that and they're everybody's going to wear in their finest clothes. They dress to the T's and the nine, whatever, blah, blah, blah. And look at it, they're going to have there some uh some horse doomers I don't know what that is, but I'm gonna give me some At least uh at least at least he knew phonics. So Uh horse doers, in case you're wondering what is horse doers or d'oeuvres. But if yeah, if you see it written down, it's like, how do you say that word? What is that? It must be a foreign language or something. So uh and the Bible can feel like a foreign language to us sometimes, and maybe we're not exactly sure what it is, but we're gonna get us some So let's get us some let's get us some Bible here. Um what what's being said there in Article 8 that you guys would want to pick up on and talk about Well, that this kind of explains why different books of the Bible don't feel like they're necessarily written by the same person sometimes, because they have a different style of writing or different persons. is is showing forth. That doesn't mean that God didn't write it, just means he used chose to use different people in their own gifts, whatever uh their strengths were. Yeah, I think it's accurate to say God wrote it, but let's say you're talking about the book of Romans, I think it's also accurate to say Paul wrote it. Both are true. It's it's kind of Paul did not decide what to write. God decided what to write and he told Paul and Paul wrote it down. Well he didn't say I mean God didn't dictate to him. He didn't sit down in the corner and say, Hey Paul, write these words down for me Maybe, maybe not. That's what Article seven last time was saying we don't know. The mode of divine inspiration remains largely a mystery to us. So we don't know exactly how that went about. We know in many cases it does say God said write this Oh yeah I think yeah there are yeah and there are times when the when the scriptures themselves explicitly say God gave a particular message that go say this. So yeah, I would agree with that Um but I'm not sure that I would be comfortable going so far as to say that God was told Paul, okay, now write this down, Paul. Now see how I write with such large letters in my own hand. I don't know that You know what I mean? I feel that's an instance, uh indication that it's Paul and his personality. Uh I I think it's both and I don't think it's I I I don't um I don't think it diminishes the reality that it's God's word because he chose to perfectly use imperfect vessels, allowing them to have their own personalities and their own brainwaves involved in the process. I don't I don't I don't think that that's uh that one has to cancel the other. You're looking very pensive over there, David. Anything you wanted to add or uh no, I was just gonna say right it'd be like uh like an artist using Using different brushes, different colors, right? Different pens, different strokes, right? It's it but working through the medium, right? We are a medium through which God expresses Himself. Right through that God uses, right? Uh and so so we we are still that medium Yeah, oh absolutely. Yeah, and I agree with that. Yeah, yeah. I'm affirm affirming what you're saying. There's a little bit of a difference in that analogy though, in that the brush has no free agency. Right, whereas humans it doesn't doesn't have a brain either. Right, that's what I mean. Yeah, but anyway. Anyway, sometimes smoke would wonder whether I do. So maybe I'm more alike With those paintbrushes that I like to admit. I think I think part of what Article eight uh here is saying, uh so right, like things like reporting a falsehood. So just because uh the Bible records a lie that somebody told doesn't mean that the Bible is lying, right? And uh like use of hyperbole, right? It it means that And uh it's also saying, all right, there are different types of literature. There's there's poetry, right, there's there are figures of speech. that are being used. Yeah, idioms that that quite the challenge for the translators. And so it uh so so they're almost saying here, right, that uh that the Bible is Not always to be taken literally, right? Unless it is it wants you to take it literally. And that's something that I if we get into her sound album but it's a good idea. Right. If we get into hermeneutics at some point. Right. And we almost have to to to define literally, because what what is the literal sense is something that's debated like crazy. And I would argue that the entire Bible should be taken literally, but then we have to be careful about how we're defining literal. Literal meaning taking it literarily. So you take it within context. No word has meaning outside of its usage. So how is the word used in context that tells you what it means? That is taking it literally. That's like the the like a precise kind of technical way of thinking about literalism. And I would agree that that's how we should take the Bible. That's actually the task of the of the person who's doing the herbictivity, who's doing the interpretation, the expositor of scripture, use some fancy theological words all in a row here on the faith debate. Uh uh that's part of what has to happen there. Anyway, in the interest of time, let's do uh nine and ten together. Or uh nine and uh page. at the wrong page. Here we go. Not the brief. Did I do something wrong? What I what did I do? I think I did them out of order for a second. Did I do eight? Yeah, you did eight. Or did I do thirteen? You did eight. Uh what page am I? Did I read nine for you? Man, pick it up if you want. I think I think I read eight and then part of thirteen. That might have been why you guys were looking at me funny. You guys were looking at me funny. The thing was we affirmed God and his work of inspiration utilized the distinctive personalities. Right? Did I say those words? All right, let me do nine and ten. My New Year's resolution is definitely gonna have to pick back up. I promised myself I was gonna drink more. And So 9 and 10. We affirm that inspiration, though not conferring omniscience, guaranteed true and trustworthy utterance on all matters of which the biblical authors were moved to speak and write. We deny that the finitude or fallenness of these writers by necessity or otherwise introduced distortion or falsehood into God's Word. Article 10 looks lengthy, so let's stop. That seems a repeat, a redundant com uh from what we've just read. Seven and eight. Are you pointing out an error in the statement on inerrancy? What do you say? No, it's not an error. It's just a repeat. Well we can move on then. It's a two or three sentences per piece. They got the affirmations and denials. So the affirmations. We affirm that inspiration, strictly speaking. applies only to the autographic text of Scripture, we'll define that in a minute, which is the providence of God Which in the providence of God can be ascertained from available manuscripts with great accuracy. We affirm further that copies and translations of Scripture are the Word of God to the extent that they faithfully represent the original. We deny that any essential element of the Christian faith is affected by the absence of the autographs. We further deny that this absence renders the assertion of biblical inerrancy invalid or irrelevant. This is a big one because you'll hear I hear this on occasion. This is one that I've actually been confronted with, you guys probably too. How can you say it's the word of God? We don't even have the originals. The autographs are the original text. So you can go to get somebody's autograph, that's they use a pen or whatever to write on that paper themselves an original signature It's their autograph. So we're talking about the original writings. Those em probably, I mean, they're lost to us. I'm assuming they're lost to us because they degraded and disintegrated over time into dust. They they we d I don't think we have access to them. It's not like somebody displaced them, we lost them. I think they're lost to us because they just they don't exist. They degraded back into dust. So, how can we know we have the Bible? This gets into textual transmission questions and all that sort of stuff. But they're they're but without getting into all that, they're saying you don't need that We have enough to know what that was. Right. I agree with that. I think you guys agree with that. How do we try to maybe persuade somebody or what do we say to somebody who says, Yeah, you can't know that for sure and I'm just This kind of comes back to what Ray said last week. You can see a lot of proofs for scripture. Vodie Bakham has a really good talk on this if if you're listening and you want to Google uh uh uh or go on YouTube and type in Why I Believe the Bible by Bodie Balkham. It's like half an hour. He's given the talk several times. It's a very well done explanation of why uh And and what are all the reasons for you know, it's a reliable question collection of historical documents written down by eyewitnesses during the lifetime of other eyewitnesses which reported supernatural events that uh took place the fulfillment of specific prophecy and claimed that their writings were divine rather than human in origin. That's his statement, and then he spends half an hour explaining each word in that statement. So you understand why he's saying that. We don't need to go into that now because he's done a very good job of that. So Google that. But that's kind of what they're saying here. You can tell uh we know the scripture is true because everything in it can be tested independently and verified. And what lit what we do have remaining of the original manuscripture is called as we can get to the originals does not change or alter what the church believes in any of these things. It's all there. It's saying all the essential elements of the Christian faith are there. Anytime we find a newer and older manuscript, uh well, new newly found more old manuscript, somehow, like the Dead Sea Scrolls they always back up what we already believed the Bible said. So we it's never been the other way around. And I sometimes wonder if I mean I couldn't prove this scripturally, so it's just my opinion for what it's worth, but I sometimes wonder if God did us a favor. By superintending things in such a way that we don't have access to the autographs, because wouldn't our propensity be to worship those parchments? Wouldn't that be our instinct like ooh we're gonna bow down and what this is the word of God after all and we start to worship in a as though the paper itself is is deity. I think that that would probably be the case. Well we saw that saw that for Well, still see that. It's been going on for millennia in uh certain church traditions. I mean even uh now there are certain sects In within Christianity, I mean they'll have a Bible. You've heard about the the bleeding Bible or the or the the oil bible. You heard about that one? Or there's this Bible that supposedly keeps clean And they fill buckets with it. And the churches made it their whole doctrine where they take the Bible around and they fill buckets of oil from this Bible that miraculously drips everywhere and this Bible. Um we can probably use some of that right now with the Ukraine war going on. Just saying. All right, I'm going to do eleven and twelve together. We affirm that Scripture, having been given by divine inspiration, is infallible. So that, far from misleading us, it is true and reliable in all the matters it addresses, we deny that it is possible for the Bible to be at the same time infallible and errant in its assertions, infallibility and inerrancy may be distinguished but not separated. We affirm that Scripture in its entirety is as Number twelve now is inerrant being free from all falsehood, fraud, or deceit. We deny that biblical infallibility and inerrancy are limited to spiritual, religious, or redemptive themes exclusive of assertions in the fields of history and science. We further deny that scientific hypotheses about earth history may properly be used to overturn the teaching of Scripture or creation and And the flood. This is exactly what I was talking about last week. Where I said that you cannot have a quote unquote modern scientific view of creation or the age of the earth and believe in the innerity of scripture. You would be wrong at that point. Yeah. Well as we talked about last week, I don't I don't think I'd agree with agree with going quite that far. So you would not agree with the Chicago statement here then? No, they're saying that scientific hypotheses about earth history shouldn't be used to overturn the teaching of Scripture. Right. Right. Evolution did. People no, but people who we were talking about the day-age theory and and we didn't mention it, but the framework hypotheses h hypothesis, things like that that relate to the first two chapters of Genesis are advocated by people that are staunch uh advocates of biblical inerrancy and they would agree with this Chicago statement a hundred percent. They just have a different hermeneutical idea, which we'll get into that maybe we talk about hermeneutics later. But I'm not gonna say that I would still push back on that. I would say that no. They are try they're they are separating in their mind inercy from Well, except in this spot, because in this spot science really uh modern science really explains what the Bible means. Well what if they have a separate show probably on on Genesis? Um Because I I I totally agree with the instinct to want to defend biblical truth and the inerrancy. I totally agree with that. So we're on the same page. I'm not so sure that somebody who wants to say that uh the six days could have been six one thousand year days or something, that they would necessarily be in violation. Well let's post pause. Are you making a distinction between the theory of evolution? And I reject evolution a hundred percent. And so do these people that would hold to that view. people that try us often. And I have friends that would also believe in an old earth, but wholeheartedly reject the theory of evolution. Exactly, yeah. No well To be honest, you don't even have to have ever read the Bible to reject evolution as a separate size. Seriously, it doesn't withstand its own weight. It collapses in on itself People are refusing Darwinian evolution is basically dead. Most people don't know that. And so it's been replaced over the last 20, 30 years by scientists who know that it's dead. with newer versions of evolution theory that are not Darwin. Aliens and those fail too. So it does not sustain its own argument. But that's a separate argument as well. We keep going back to Genesis. Do we want to talk about the difference between infallibility and inerrancy? Anyone feel equipped to split those hairs of what those words mean? I think um it's very important. There are two different words. Infallible means that what we know now could make the Bible false because we did it didn't know before. And that would be infallible. So it cannot change. People tend to say, well, that part of the Bible is really for people of that time, not for people of today, because we have different understanding standings. That would be infallible and that's not true. Inherency is that it was it just had a mistake that it was wrong. And Or errant. And inerrancy is it it never did. So not only is the Bible for all peop people at all times, it is also the truth and will never be false, it will never be wrong, and you'll never find a mistake in it And I if I understand correctly, I'm really going back to my old training. I haven't studied on this in a while, but I believe Infallibi infallibility, as important as that understanding is, that it's actually uh lesser than inerrancy. Inerrancy is a bigger, stronger Position to take that the Bible is without any error at all. It has nothing to do about whether it's frail or can fail in some way in circumstances. No, it it has no error in it. Right, whether it will um yeah error error inerrancy so it doesn't have in there are no errors in it. Infallible means it won't fail. And the next several uh talk about an ERC specific. So I I was just gonna say so so that means that right, it it's infallible, which means that anything future that it says will happen will happen. So I would almost say inerrancy can s to some degree have to do with what has happened In fallibility also covers that man cannot do something or invent something that could make the Bible fail. Right. Yeah yeah. So nothing in the future could happen that could that could fail, make the Bible fail. It cannot fail. So for people that are trying hard to mix species and Or we can't we can't design a technology that will make us go to heaven or help us to live forever or you know that type of thing. Right. Now to clarify any confusion I brought to the table, please I I do I think I blended eight and thirteen last time because my Roman numerals got all messed up So just to clarify, for the record, Article VIII said we affirm that God in his work of inspiration utilized the distinctive personalities and literary styles of the writers whom he had chosen and prepared. We deny that God in causing these writers to use the very words that he chose overrode their personalities. We actually had a bit of a discussion about that earlier. And now thirteen, which I read part of it earlier but out of context. So this is Article 13. We affirm the propriety of using inerrancy as a theological term with reference to the complete truthfulness of Scripture We deny that it is proper to evaluate Scripture according to standards of truth and error that are alien to its usage or purpose We further deny that inerrancy is negated by biblical phenomena such as a lack of modern technical precision, irregularities of grammar or spelling, observational descriptions of nature, the reporting of falsehoods, the use of Uh hyperbole and round numbers, the topical arrangement of material, variant selections of material in the parallel accounts, or the use of free citations. So meaning there's some latitude depending on the purposes of the author of how exact they're going to be. So it says there were 12,000 people, there might have been 12,002 people There could have been 11,997 people, but they were rounding off, and that is okay if that's what that becomes important because there are different parts of the Bible where the numbers One might be more specific, one might more rounded, and say, ah, see, the Bible doesn't even agree with itself. Well, no, one author was rounding and the other author wasn't. So Or maybe there is just an an uncountable number of people, but all twelve tribes were represented. And it it's meant as a symbolic reference. Yeah. So we do this all the time, right? But people get squeamish about wanting to to uh allow this for the Bible. People speak in with hyperbole or round numbers or uh Uh we might use what seems to be um less educated grammar. That doesn't mean it's not making a solid good point and and maybe you're using the less educated grammar on purpose. But no one is ever sarcastic, Troy. Like I might make the point. No? I guess Gotta get myself educated. I gotta get myself educated on that then. And God is sarcastic in several spots in the Bible, so that's That's the interesting I think we talked about that a few months ago. So and like the observational descriptions of nature, I think what they might mean there is a lot of the things that are talked about as natural observations are from the point of view of a human being So we still do this today. We talk about the sun rising and setting. Well we know or we think we know anyway, if if the scientists if we believe that the sun's not going anywhere, that we're going around it You know, we're spinning. But from our point of view, it looks like the sun is rising and setting. We use that language, and so the Bible authors are using that kind of a language as well. Right. Alright, so we're gonna have to arrest this. I'm sorry. No, I'm just repeating what you said. I appreciate that, but you weren't gonna say it better than me anyway. Exactly. This is a faith to fate that's the Daniel Razby won't give him a hard time. Before that was uh David Forcey's voice. You also heard Imran Razby today. Check them out online at um conqueredbylove. org. You can visit my church online, household of faith in Christ. com. Of course, the website for the radio station is WFMD. com. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless It believes in a in a flat earth or a or a um Well the flat earthers who happen to be believers make that argument. Yeah. Actually. And they'll say they'll say that. Uh um four corners. Right. Well, but the the thing is about the sunset, well that's a word in modern English. And an astronomer will also use the term sunset. and sunrise, but he doesn't believe the sun is rising, he just calls it sunrise because it looks like a sunrise. Um so when an astronomer writes a book he would use that word sunrise and he doesn't intend for you to believe that the sun is rising. Same thing when God writes a book. And it's no more you know that's no more dumped down than that. Or the the the other passage where God's talking to Job and he says, See, I made Orion move in his path. Well oh are you saying that that's actually the god Orion up there? No, that's you know, God's using man's term for that star that we made. God's not admitting that the star is actually a god Um yeah. He speaks in a language so that we can understand. Right. Yeah. There we go. Alright, this next one is gonna get Actually, the first Sunday in February. Where we are down to the wire, we're out of chosen This was actually the first one this weekend. No, no, no. We the the uh I wasn't sure how quickly we'd be able to get together right after the holidays and stuff, and so we made sure we had a couple of shows into the year, and so the very first show isn't gonna air until uh The twenty second of January is when the first one that we did today is gonna air. Okay. And the twenty ninth was the one we just did. And now this one's gonna be the fifth of February. Uh okay, that's all Correct. We should tell people to pull out their copies of the uh get it ready of the Chicago Statement. Read along. Time for a study session. All right. I'm gonna do what I did last time. I'm gonna just open with uh Article 14 at the start of the show The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management. Get your personal copy of the 1978 Chicago Statement on Inherency ready, because we're going to do a read-along, follow-along study of these words from What, 40 plus years ago? No, 40-ish years ago? Yeah, 40 plus years ago, right? Yeah, forty 45-ish almost. 45 years ago. It is Forty five years ago Man! I don't need reminders like that of how old I am. Anyway, Article fourteen of the Chicago Statement in Aaron C says we affirm the unity and internal consistency of Scripture. We deny that alleged errors and discrepancies that have not yet been resolved videate the truth claims of the Bible. Anything that uses the word videate is all right with me This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner and joined by the Faith Debate panelists. Our regular panel, kind of the irregular, regular panel, but this is supposed to be kind of the regular panel actually pulled together for uh for a series of shows on inerrancy. David Forski, pastor of the church uh that's in the well he he's all over the place. Somewhere He's all over the place. Sometimes I I think they they just the it's a house church and I think they just different houses for their part of the church just host on different weeks. I think that's what they do. That's uh that's an interesting way to take some of the pressure off different people. And guess you've got to have good communication skills so they don't show up at the wrong house on the wrong week. But other than that, that's David Forcey's story. The story of the Razbies can be found at conqueredbylove. org. Conquered by Love Ministries is the organization they founded probably 25, 30 years ago now. Not that long ago? Forty five years ago. So uh Imran Rasby was around for that founding. I'm not sure if Daniel was around for the founding or not. That I don't know But uh uh Daniel and Imran they they share a last name, but they're not related at all. Now that would be an example of errandcy. They are related, they're father and son, and uh they pastor a church in Thurmont, and I'm not sure if I mentioned it, but I do want to mention in case I didn't, uh the church I pastor is Household of Faith in Christ. And our website is Household of FaithInChrist. com. That's important in this contest because if you want to reach me or these guys, the easiest way to do that is to go to that website, household of faith in Christ. com. All my contact information is there, and then I can put you in touch whoever it is you want to yell at. So and that word apparently is with an SH sound in the middle, vitiate, vichate, according to the dictionary I go to. Oh, so I demonstrate some fallibility in my pronunciation. Yeah, I mean. Some horse doobers. Some horse doobers. V-I-T-I-A-T-A. Did she a Did she a Did she eight? Did she A? Did she eat? Fifty thirty-eight did she eight? Yeah, be uh yeah Something like that. It means to spoil or impair the quality or legal validity of Yeah, the main point here I I guess on Article 14 is look, the whole Bible holds together. So you can't take one part of the Bible and use it as some sort of a crowbar against other parts of the Bible to split them apart. Like it all holds together as a one cohesive truth. In fact, they don't really say this here, but the the The real fact of the matter is you use Bible to interpret the Bible, Scripture to interpret scripture. It uh far be it from being at odds with itself, it's holding itself together as one cohesive Yeah. Main truth, right? All right, so I'm going to do Article 15 and 16 together, and we can comment on those. So Article 15 We affirm that the doctrine of inerrancy is grounded in the teaching of the Bible about inspiration. We deny that Jesus' teaching about Scripture may be dismissed by appeals to accommodation or any natural limitation of his humanity. Actually I'm going to stop because that feels like we almost need to understand what's being said there. So we affirm that the doctrine of inerrancy is grounded in the teaching of the Bible about inspiration. So what's being said there, this feels redundant, right? So how is it not redundant? That's what I think. What's the specific thing they're saying? They're saying it's inspired. And therefore it's inerrant. They kinda were saying that earlier, like in show one when we were talking about this, I think. But they're they're putting a fine point on that. To its own inerrancy. Right, right. Okay. Article 16. We affirm that the doctrine of inerrancy has been integral to the church's faith throughout its history. We deny that inerrancy is a doctrine invented by scholastic Protestantism or is a reactionary position postulated in response to negative So here they're specifically talking about the naysayers that have challenged this and they're speaking directly to these academic types. Some would argue that up until about 500 years ago, there was a period of time maybe a thousand years or more where the church wouldn't have held to this view at all. Then the Protestants came along and they they made a big a big deal about it. And they're saying, No, no, no, it was always a big deal. It was a big deal to Paul, it was a big deal to to James, a big deal to Jesus to s you know, to say nothing of uh of Jesus. Uh but it's it is true that there was the reasons one of the reasons that reformation was necessary is because the church by and large had stopped believing it's a chance. And he started to drift yeah inerrancy. It sort of is uh I mean inerrancy and the way they're talking about it here, they're sort of saying it's it's sort of like the word Trinity. Like it's not in the Bible, but that that is what scripture teaches. Right, because by definition, if it is God's word, it has to be, even though it doesn't use that word Yeah. And by definition if you have Father, Son and Holy Spirit, one God. Yeah. You have a Trinity. Alright, so we're all good with that one? Sure. Alright. 17. I'll try to see if we can do 17-18 together. 17. We affirm that the Holy Spirit bears witness to the scriptures. Assuring believers of the truthfulness of God's written word, we deny that this witness of the Holy Spirit operates in isolation from or against Scripture And then Article 18, we affirm that the text of Scripture is to be interpreted by grammatico-historical exegesis. We'll define those terms. Uh taking account of its literary forms and devices and the scripture is to interpret scripture. We were talking about that a second ago. We deny the legitimacy of any treatment of the text or quest for sources lying behind it that leads to relativizing. dehistoricizing dehistoric that's a hard word for me dehistoricizing or discounting its teaching or rejecting its claims to authorship. So that first one, Article 17, uh talking about the uh we deny that the the witness of the Holy Spirit uh that which bears witness to the scriptures operates in isolation from or against scripture. That's an important one these days, it seems Well that goes back to what I said a couple weeks ago is that when w when or if God speaks to you a word, listener, who You are listening, if God speaks to you specifically and directly, when or if He does that, audibly in your mind, in your dream, however he does it. It will not contradict Scripture, and it will not be against Scripture, and it will not be separate from Scripture completely. So if it is from God. Right. So if you think you have a word from God and it's different than what the Bible says, I'm sorry it wasn't God talking to you And that's what we're trying to say here. And and we would encourage anyone to not just say off the top of your head, does it contradict scripture to your knowledge, but If you think you have a word from God, search the scriptures to affirm that it is. now this era, right? Particularly in American Christianity. I had a feeling. say that a lot. Yeah, the Holy Spirit told me. And that becomes a problem. I mean some things you can't tell, right? The Holy Spirit gave me a message, I should move my family to Arkansas. Okay, I can't really prove or disprove that from scripture. That's a that's that's a hard one to test. Uh and so I'm not sure exactly what you but You could have an impression from from God. I mean there's a a story actually uh a couple of years back, two, three years ago maybe, probably three or four years ago. Jeff Durbin, it's a pretty well known name in a lot of Christian circles, pastor as a church uh in uh Phoenix called Apologia. Um and um as the story goes, he was in the middle of talking to his congregation, like at a church meeting or something, about there was this need, there was this family this woman who uh was about to get an abortion, and Jeff and their team that were witnessing at the clinic were saying, please don't kill your baby, please don't kill your baby. And the woman said, Well, uh the baby has spina bifida. I I can't care for it from you know the baby when it's born. I I just need to do no we'll find somebody who will adopt your baby. So he's sharing this with the congregation, saying, somebody here needs to step forward, you know, and help this woman, like kind of thing. So we're going to find somebody to help you so you don't have to kill your baby And as he was sharing with the congregation, I don't know the details of how he would articulate the gist of it was, he basically felt God tell him in that moment, as he's talking to the church You and your wife need to adopt that child. Right. And so he in the middle of his thing said, you know, I I feel like maybe I'm supposed to I don't know, I th and they prayed through it, they tried to They sought additional counsel from other people in the church and stuff and all it did was just confirm, yeah. I I I think maybe that's God talking to you. So they decided to go ahead and move forward like God told us. Now there's no way to specifically say that from the Word, but here's the cool thing about that story. They're doing all these um uh what do they call it what they do the the the imaging ultrasound thank you I don't know why I was losing the word they're doing ultrasounds and all these tests And yeah, baby had the spina bifida and it wasn't looking good. And so it's time for the birth. The woman's giving birth and they have a team ready in another room to operate on this child immediately upon birth. So she gives birth, and they're ready to rush the baby to the other room for surgery, and the baby is completely healthy. Nothing wrong medically with the child at all. And the doctors, they're dumbfounded because they have all these series of ultrasounds and these test they they knew for sure it had spina bifida like a couple days before the birth it had spina bifida and then at the moment of birth didn't. Now that tells me That Jeff Durbin heard from God at such a time and in such a way that it would bring such glory to his still working in the world today Because it was a high-profile situation where he felt this impression that I need to adopt this child, so it wasn't a secret. And then it wasn't a secret because he's asking me to pray for this child because of the problems that it was going to be facing. And they weren't sure how they were going to financially care for all the medical bills and stuff that were going to be coming their way, but they were just trusting God. And so everybody's praying, everybody knows this is going on in in that community. And then boom, this happens. So God does still uh move and speak, but we but when when we get into troublesome, well the Holy Sc the Bible clearly says something And then somebody says, well, yeah, but the Holy Spirit told me. Yeah, but what you think the Holy Spirit told you is going against what it says on the written. the written words of the page, that wasn't the Holy Spirit. So there's some times when we can know for sure that what we thought we heard wasn't God. Because you've got to test it against the actual inerrant authoritative word of God. Anyway, I went off with a long story there, but I think that's a cool story. I'm not sure how well known it is, but it should be better known than it is, that's for sure. Um and it'll be easy e it's easier to tell whether God's speaking the more time you do spend talking to God. If you never really pray or you just occasionally open your eyes And then all of a sudden you hear this word, you know, it's gonna be harder to tell whether it's actually God talking. But if you're constantly immersed in the Word of God in prayer and and scripture reading and fellowship with other believers, then it'll be easier to tell. I mean look at Abraham. God said, go up to the mountain and sacrifice Azically And it's new. And it's like the story they say about how they train bank tellers to recognize counterfeits. They don't try to show them all the different counterfeits, right? They try to make them expert at recognizing what authentic hundred dollar bills look like. like and twenty dollar bills look like. So they can they're so familiar with the authentic that they recognize the frauds. So you've got to be in the Word, reading the Bible regularly so that you can recognize more readily God's voice. And then if He's speaking to you uh in a more direct kind of through a vision or dream or something, because I think that can still happen. How do you know it's him and not something else that's you know something bad you ate for dinner or some sort of spiritual uh attack on you. There's other things that could be going on there. But if you're really familiar with the authentic word of God, I I uh you'll be able to suss that out quite a bit better, I think. Did I don't think I read Article 18 yet, did I or did I? We affirm that the text of scripture is to be interpreted. Oh yes I did, so we have to define these terms. So uh interpreted by grammatico-historical exegesis You're smart. You want to define those terms, Daniel? Well grammatical historical exegesis. Exegesis is the idea that you're going through line by line in scripture, not just searching for a topic or a point and it's and going high and low to find a little bits of scripture that that talk about it. You take a passage and you read it for what it is in context. which is called isegesis as opposed to exegesis. Isegesis is reading in, exegesis is reading out of the actual text. Right. So you don't come in with with your own presupposed uh notions of what it should be. I know we just spoiled everybody's reading plan for the year right now because that's what you've been doing. Come on, let's be honest. You're reading the Bible in a year and you're doing all sorts of eisegesis. Stop it. Well you could argue that isegesis would be a day age day. We'll get to that later. You could also argue that insisting on a literal twenty-four hour time frame could be egesis. That could go either way. You could suggest that. But you were errant of Troy. You suggested that. And I'm okay with you being in error on accusing me of errants. So grammatical historical. What is grammatical historical means? Meaning uh look looking at what the grammar and and a is saying and what the style of writing and the time in which it was written and who it was written to originally and not that it doesn't apply to you, but the the context of uh what what was the story around how this text was But what did those words mean when it was written? Right. So in American jurisprudence we c we we have a term called uh you know traditional uh traditionalist or um um te uh you know the the uh what do they call it um a constitutional uh traditionalist where you're you are interpreting the constitution based on what the founders thought as they were writing it, not what based on what you think would You read the same words today. It's a similar thing in the Bible. You should do look at what it would have been understood at the time. And how I understand some of these terms too, like grammatico gets to what I was saying. I don't know if I'm getting confused when I said what I said now. I think it was last week's show about how to define literal. And to me, the way I define literal is this Grammatica. Grammatically, what is it saying? What do the words mean in their in the context of their usage? In the broader context of that author, in the broader context of of the whole Bible, uh and also in the historical situation. And I would even put a fine point a finer point on that. And I don't think that the writers of this statement disagree with me necessarily. They might, I don't know. But history meaning what? I would say an even finer point is redemptive historical context. is really uh an important thing to keep in mind. How is this talking about the progression of God's revelations that points to uh the the need of and the provision by Jesus Christ at the cross? Because there's this redemptive history, there's this arc, this meta-narrative throughout the Bible that is centered on that point in history. And when we understand that, that helps us to really grapple with what the scriptures are meaning to say. You know, Jesus uh says in John chapter five and then echoes it in Luke chapter twenty-four. The old t the whole Bible, including the Old Testament, is about Him. So if we understand this about him and his redemptive purposes in history, and we bring that to bear on what we're reading, we can much better understand. Oh, so we don't make the mistake of thinking, oh, it must be saying this and the Bible's wrong. No, it's not even saying that. It's not talking about that It's talking about the redemption of God's people. It's not trying to make a a scientific claim. It's trying to make a a moral claim or a or a a redemptive historical claim. That can help us to put the right context. That's how I understand some of that. What about this last thing, all these efforts we see of people who are trying to disprove the Bible and then, aha! We found a tablet buried 18 feet under the sand in the Middle East that uh says that uh you know King David was actually the third king of Israel kind of thing. See And they're trying to delegitimatize the is that a word? The uh the Bible uh with something like that. But when they've done something like that, if you just wait a little while, those get debunked every single time Right? There was a misunderstanding or they didn't find what they thought they found, or it was just an outright hoax. A r a really good example of that is the idea that the timing of Jericho and the uh Coming out of Egypt is all off by a couple hundred years, and the Bible was wrong by a couple hundred years. There's a really great documentary that came out recently called The Patterns of Evidence. Exodus patterns of evidence, which I highly recommend and it goes through that. And it turns out they were wrong, God was right and you know I was just gonna say yes, and not not only can we we make mistakes in our interpretation of scripture, but uh you said like scientists and historians can also make mistakes in their interpretation of things that they see and observe. And that if that hasn't been demonstrated very clearly particularly over the last three years, then nobody's ever to admit to that. That's just the way it is. Alright, final article, 19. We affirm that a confession of the full authority, infallibility, and inerrancy of Scripture is vital. to a sound understanding of the whole of the Christian faith. We further affirm that such confession should lead to increasing conformity to the image of Christ. We deny that such confession is necessary for salvation. However, we further deny that inerrancy can be rejected without grave consequences both to the individual and to the church So they're saying that this is not evidence of whether somebody's actually a believer in Christ or not. Somebody could be could have a lower view of scripture than they should have and they could still somehow be saved. But boy that's a tenuous, uh dangerous place for a person to be. That's kind of what they're saying there. Do we agree with that? I think uh I think John one gives me that impression when Jesus is the Word and the Word made flesh. And so uh Right to hold the Word of God and any less uh and any less value than Christ himself is. Real dangerous. The important thing for us to remember the gospel is that we're all made with incredible value. This is why we tend to be, as Christians, very uh very very active in in uh the abortion issue. Uh yet we're all broken, frail, fallen, sinful people. And so therefore we need to uh uh have that rectified and it's done in Christ. If we understand that, you're a Christian You can get a lot of other things wrong and still be a Christian. But what they're saying in this statement here is, do you really want to get all those other things wrong though? Like you want to really have the fullness of what Christian teaching is, the fullness of what the Word has revealed to us about Himself. Then you need to trust what these words on the page of the Bible say. That's how I'm reading what they're saying. I think part of what they're saying too is that uh right, the only way for us to Know about Jesus is through the Word. And so if we are not saying, Yes, I believe that the word is true and all of it, then you know, it's it's hard to say, do you do you believe just the right parts are true in order to know Jesus and be saved? That's I think that's what the the grave consequences could be. Yeah, the word but it could be I think a caveat maybe it could be the word preached and heard as opposed to the word read, right? Somebody could come to a saving understanding and acceptance of Christ based on hearing the word spoken as opposed to reading their Bible and trusting it as an errant. Right. Right. Right. I think you could certainly be saved without having read the Bible. I mean people could have a response to a missionary preaching. Yeah. And they haven't read the Bible and they may not even be able to read. I yeah, I'm I'm saying just that then when we do encounter scripture We should treat it as absolutely You don't have to uh read the Bible or even have heard the Bible necessarily because God saves who He's gonna save. Regardless. Scripture is necessary for salvation. In so much as there's very little that's necessary for salvation. You have to affirm that Christ alone, through his blood, is what saves you, right? This is it that's how you're going to have it. It's by faith in Christ. You're justified by faith, not by works, not by anything else. And that's what you have to believe. But if anything you know, i i is important at all in addition to that it would it would be this, the inerrancy of scripture, because that's all what everything else hangs. And you'd be a very sad Christian indeed if if you are somehow saved but don't believe in the inercy of Scripture. And I think that once somebody comes to a place where they recognize that they're trusting Christ and his provision for their salvation, they want to learn more about him. They want to read the love letter that you referred to as being uh early on, right, Daniel, a couple of weeks ago. It's a love letter. You you want to hear from this this God who made you, who loves you so much, so that you can honor him better and stuff. So you're gonna be drawn to his word. that sort of so I didn't mean to say that oh the Bible is irrelevant. No no. I if you're a Christian you should be drawn you should want to read it. If you if you call yourself a Christian and you don't really make time, you don't want to read his word like at all ever Something's a little wrong there. You need to kind of check yourself and see what's really going on in your heart, maybe, with your money. Anyway, we gotta we gotta wrap it up. We've got like less than 30 seconds. This is the faith debate. The one who does an agreement with me was David Forresty, pastors of the church south of Frederick. If you want to contact him, contact me. The Razvis, Daniel and Imran, have a church in Thurmont. If you want to contact them, you can either go through me or go to concordbylove. org. If you want to contact me, it's household of faith in Christ. com. Till next week. God bless All right, well that we got through all the inerrancy ones and it timed out well as far as finishing up at the end of A show. We could actually now get into some of those hermeneutical arguments. If you Google Hermeneutics uh d uh uh the Chicago statement permanent so they're all available online like public domain even kind of stuff just PDFs and because they weren't trying to hide this stuff. They wanted out It's not a code. You don't have to join to get the uh hand subscribe to get the details. I don't know. Hermenutics forced dovers. Felt pretty similar though. You're probably never gonna look at the word or d'oeuvres the same again, are you? I certainly don't. Every time I see it if I look at it, I see horse dovers. But That's actually gonna be the uh Sunday right before Valentine's Day. Speaking about love letters. Another pagan hallmark thing. Let's see. to So you do not believe in Valentine's Day, huh? Yeah, I'm not militant if I like to believe in I don't go out of what does that mean. I don't go out of my way. I don't go out of my way to recognize it or do anything special on it. Oh you don't love your wife? Because I love my wife, I don't reserve my demonstrations of that love to four or five Hallmark days out of the year. Good answer. You must not have any hallmark uh stock. Unless I accidentally give some of the mutual bonds over there, yeah. Yeah, I'm thinking it mu it might make sense to uh move all of your money and stocks into like gold shares. Just get out of the trading market and go with gold shares. I disagree. Now you think the market's gonna No. But I just I just don't think you should be in the market or in gold. Oh, okay. You can only store so much food in is that the advice you give people? Yes. So what should they be in? Something that has a a contract, something that's contractually guaranteed. Like rental property or something? A bank account is another example. You're not gonna lose money in a bank account. Until they turns to digital digital currency currency. If you have an emergency fund in cash of six months but you don't have six months of food in your house, then that's a bad situation. Yeah. Um whatever w however long of an emergency fund you have in cash, you should have at least that long or more in actual supplies because if it's just not not available to purchase then you know the cash in the bank's not going to do you any good. So we yeah we do tell our clients that. But for longer term stuff Yeah. Alright. Maybe another topic for today. Put a pin in that 'cause we're gonna ask about that in uh let's let's see how we go on this one I'm not exactly sure, but we'll figure it out as I go. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. If you've been listening the last few weeks, I want you to uh step into your vehicle, set it for 88 miles an hour, buckle up, and transport yourself from 1978. To nineteen eighty-two. If you get the baccular future reference there with the eighty eight miles an hour? Yeah? No? Yeah. Right? All right, so we're all on our delirium. We are not condemning breaking the speed limit laws here. It's gotta be legal to go eighty eight somewhere. With it reaches this radio station. I would think this radio station works at reaches around the world. It's on the world wide web. There you go. All right. So um this is the Faith Debate. I'm Freud Skinner, pastor of uh a church uh in the area called Household of Faith in Christ. You can find us online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. You heard Daniel Razzi's voice. You're going to be hearing Imran Razzi's voice as well. They pastor a church in Therma and have an organization called Conquered by Love Ministries. Their website for that is conqueredbylove. org. And David Forcy, someday he's going to have a website, DavidForcyCool. com, but it doesn't exist yet. So he's just plain old David Forcy, pastor of a church south. of Frederick that meets at multiple locations. So if you want to track him down and figure that out, reach me and then I'll figure out to connect you with him and he'll tell you It it's like whack-a-mole. I mentioned this before at this church. It's like playing it's like playing a game of whack-a-mole, you never know exactly which mole to whack on any given weekend. So We spent the last few weeks working through the Chicago statement on inerrancy, on biblical inerrancy, which was put together back in 1978. And the same basic group of people, may have had a few players change, but the same basic group of people got together four years later and put together the the Chicago statement on biblical Hermeneutics. Now this doesn't mean the people in Chicago are smarter than everybody else. I think it ended up being kind of a centralized location for a lot of people to get to and they've got a big airport that's easy to fly in and out of at O'Hare. And so I think they just they all met there and so they called it that In fact, it was called the summit of the International Council on Biblical Inherency and blah, blah, blah. So they have a opening couple of paragraphs on their biblical hermeneutics statement. And part of what it says is, while we recognize that belief in the inerrancy of Scripture is basic to maintaining its authority, the values of that commitment are only as real as one's understanding of the meaning of Scripture. Thus, we herewith present these affirmations and denials to clarify hermeneutical issues and principles. And we, practically speaking, already experienced that. We're talking about inerrancy and hermeneutical questions popped up recurringly during our discussion. So they do kind of go hand in glove a little bit. So when it comes to uh inerrancy and hermeneutics, if it doesn't fit, you must acquit. But it does fit, so they go together. Well uh right the inerrancy is a uh just sort of a basic assumption about scripture and then the hermeneutics is Okay. How do we how do we make fewer mistakes? God has not made any mistakes. Right, and we're gonna make some mistakes. But hopefully not too many. And when we do, hopefully we learn from them and we're correctable in those mistakes and don't keep making the same mistakes. over and over again. So maybe this is a point to bring something up. I wasn't sure if I was ever going to find an opportunity to s to bring this example up or win the right place. I think this is the place for it actually. We talked about last week on the show, and if you missed that, it's available on the podcast, go check it out, about the danger of saying that God spoke to you, and so I've got this word You know, some people in church, uh, I've got a word from the Lord for you. They might, or they might not. Right? But when they say they've got a word from the Lord, God spoke to me, and I've got a word from God for you. That's a big deal. And if they prove to be wrong, like it says, Daniel, I got a word from God. He spoke to me last night. He told me you need to buy a lottery ticket this week because if you do, you're going to win the megamillions You gotta go buy the ticket. And Daniel's like, I don't typically play the lottery, but if it's a guarantee, God said, I better go buy that uh uh that that uh dollar or five dollar uh gamble of the roulette wheel of the lottery and he buys his ticket and he doesn't win. Daniel Daniel should really ask, what did God tell me to do with the money? But in that case where they say something that's not right, that person saying that they spoke for God? We just got done spending three shows. God doesn't make mistakes. God is inerrant. His word never fails. So that person bore false witness, claiming to speak for God when they provably did not. That's a huge deal. And I bring that up in this context of hermeneutics because some people would want to make an equivalency, I would argue, is a false equivalency. One of us as a pastor is is preaching through a passage of scripture and we get something in our hermeneutics not exactly right, and so we're trying to expound God's word, teach the truth of God's word, but we get something wrong And they're going to say, you're just as guilty as a person who's claiming to be a prophet from God, saying, I got this word from God. No, the one person is claiming to be like the voice box for God. The pastor, the preacher, is merely saying, I am applying hermeneutical principles to give you my best understanding of what God's Word says. There's a difference. And so it's a higher level of responsibility. Somebody's going to say, God said, Wow, they better be right. If I say preaching that in this text, you know, God says There's a lot of times a lot of my wife says it's my understanding that it says this. Other times I'm more emphatic than that. But there's an implicit understanding that when you stand in the pulpit, to deliver a message or you're giving a teaching of a Bible study, it's your opinion, your understanding, your interpretation. That's kind of implicitly there. I'm not going on It should be rather a couple months ago we talked about how many Many churches don't subscribe to that. They'll they'll say, you know, you just just trust whatever the pastor says. Um insofar as it agrees with Scripture. And you know what? I think that we should have a default to to want to trust a believer pastor, because if you don't have that relationship and trust level with your pastor, you probably should find a new one. Yeah, you should go in feeling like my pastor's probably gonna get this right, but you still check everything against the Bible. The problem is it's really hard to find another way That is true. That is true. Contact Troy. He can set you up with a good church. It's one of the reasons I'm a pastor. No other pastor was good enough for you had to be your own. No pastor. No, but realizing there's there's not enough. There's not enough good pastors. We need more good, faithful men who understand the truth of the Bible, who will teach it and preach it and take the accountability of the tones with that. We need more of that. We don't have enough. Anyway, so Article 1 in their articles of affirmation denial in this hermeneutic statement says, we affirm that the normative authority of Holy Scripture is the authority of God Himself. And is attested by Jesus Christ, the Lord of the Church. We deny legitimacy of separating the authority of Christ from the authority of Scripture or of opposing the one to the other. I'm going to do the second We affirm that as Christ is God and man in one person, so Scripture is indivisibly God's word in human language. We deny that the humble human form of Scripture entails erranty any more than the humanity of Christ, even in his in his humiliation, entails sin. So this is where we get into some of the mysteries of what this all means. We touched on this. a little bit here and there in our previous conversations on inerrancy. But just because men are involved in writing it down, so well to error is human, right? So there must be some mistakes of No, no, no. This is superintended by God in such a way, because if you were to apply that same standard to Jesus Christ, you would have to say, well, the error is human, and Jesus is human. He's God and man, so he must have sinned. No, there there are unique exceptions that prove the rule kind of thing. Christ is that exception. um person speaking. Because he was fully God as well as fully man. Exactly. That's the difference. And I think that's what we've we I think that's what we're kind of saying about the words on the page that we read in our Bibles, at least in the original autographs you read The Word of God, it is written by men, so it's fully man's words, and yet it's fully God's words at the same time. I think that's kind of what they're saying here. Yes. So I I don't know that this is uh some of this almost feels like we've touched on it a little bit in previous shows. So let's go on to three and four and see if that gives us some fodder for some back and forth. We affirm that the person and work of Jesus Christ are the central focus of the entire Bible. We deny that any method of interpretation which rejects or obscures the Christ-centeredness of Scripture is correct We affirm that the Holy Spirit, this is Article 4. We affirm that the Holy Spirit, who inspired Scripture, acts through it today to work faith in its message. We deny that the Holy Spirit ever teaches to anyone anything. which is contrary to the teaching of Scripture. We touched upon this a little bit, I think, as well already. I mentioned it last week how the whole Bible is about Jesus and that's what they're saying. in Article 3. Um anything that you picked up on there that you want to talk about before I move on? The Bible is about Jesus. That's the whole point. Then Jesus is also God. And it's like a joke, right? Whenever in doubt, just say Jesus Right. Must be Jesus. Well it's it's about Jesus because the Bible is about uh God and man together. Right. Right. Not as equals, right? As creator and created in image. And God's plan for man, which centers upon Christ. Yeah. And I mean we have a a lot of church tradition There's this uh Christmas time you have the Advent, right? The four Sundays of Advent, and the first Sunday you're supposed to read especially the scriptures about the prophecy of Jes about Jesus and some of my si uh younger siblings uh you know would ask well well which prophecies are we going to read this week? And sometimes we kinda kinda half jokingly answer, Well just open the Bible any any spot called prophecy about Jesus. you know, I mean obviously they're they're specifically talking about the prophecies of his birth that they w they want to talk there, but it's the whole the whole Bible is about Jesus, so yeah. And then then Article Four um is kind of what we said earlier as well, that the Holy Spirit will never teach anyone any So if and when you do get a word from the Holy Spirit, it will not contradict Scripture. It may not be found in Scripture, but it will not contradict Scripture. Yeah. 'Cause he m he might tell you to go move to Virginia or Arkansas like you said, and that's not in scripture at all, whether it's contrary or not, but if he tells you something like to go uh get married to another I I would say that also that that scripture will will affirm it, right? So it will be a in alignment with it. Right. You know, so if uh you know if uh if someone you know gets a word that they should move their family closer to their parents and scripture says well you should take care of your own household as And that's something that is need you know needs doing, then sure. Yeah. And I know of people who have actually said to me, they're not married. It's a woman. God told her that she should get pregnant with this guy and live with him, you know, not get married God told her. It's like, no, he didn't. I can show you. You you heard maybe you heard from somebody, but it wasn't God. But uh I've heard that from more than one person You know, so maybe you have too. That's pretty common these days for people that claim to be Christians and they do things and you ask, well, why are you doing it? Well, you know I feel like the Holy Spirit or God told me or I feel like I need special permission from God to do this because of this reason. I can marry somebody a cr somebody who's a believer, knowingly marrying somebody who's not a believer and saying that well God told me because this is how they're going to come to be saved. That's not what it says in Scripture. You can't, you're not gonna you can't be in disagreement with scripture like that. 5 and 6, articles 5 and 6. We affirm that the Holy Spirit enables believers to appropriate and apply scripture to their lives. We deny that the natural man is able to To discern spiritually the biblical message apart from the Holy Spirit. We affirm that the Bible expresses God's truth in propositional statements, and we declare that biblical truth is both objective and absolute. We further affirm that a statement is true if it represents matters as they actually are, but it is an error if it misrepresents the facts. We deny that while Scripture is able to make us wise unto salvation Biblical truth should be defined in terms of its function of this function. We further deny that error should be defined as that which willfully deceives. So we're getting into defining what we mean by error and how we how do we uh define our terms. That's part of permanent index is defining terms. So Article 5 ties back into four, which is interesting. Right, it's saying that uh that uh we need the Holy Spirit in order to understand scripture Yeah, because the b the Bible tells us that those that that don't have the Holy Spirit, you know, they haven't been given hearts of flesh, they still have hearts of stone, and so they're the the truth is they're right in front of them when they They can't see it because they're they're, well, they see it, but they don't take it in. They don't understand it because they've hardened their heart so that they're they they're self- self-deceived, that they choose not to see it. So they have a moral inability or a spiritual inability to recognize and appropriate the truth. So that's not an excuse. That's what I'm trying to get at, I guess. It's like, oh well, they can't know any better. They can, they should know better, but they can't because of the rebellion against God. So they need the Holy Spirit to get rid of the rebellion so they can actually see the truth. Anything on Article uh six that I read? That's a kind of a long that's one of the longest articles the whole whole shebang here. No? I can move on. Objective and I'll move on. We can swing back to it if uh you decide to Article seven. We affirm that the meaning expressed in each biblical text is single, definite, and fixed. That's an interesting one. We deny that the recognition of the single meaning eliminates the variety of its application. True. What does it mean to you? Yeah. We talked about that a couple weeks ago. So how is that different than you were speaking against the common Bible study phrase? What does this mean to you today? Um but here it seems to say well there could be a variety of applications even though its primary meaning is is one thing. What would be how how does this apply to you? How does this truth work out in your own life? It says what it says, but how you apply what it says could fit a variety of situations. But it's interesting because I think that sometimes in its saying what it says, it's actually saying more than one thing. For example, there are some uh prophecies in the Old Testament that are pointing to something that's more proximate. Like it's it's it's it's pointing to Christ as an ultra fulfillment, but it's also pointing to something that's going to happen before the cross. It's also f so there's like a double thing that are both true. A great example is Passover. Pass Passover is both an actual event that happened and also pointing to Christ. Another event is is talking about the virgin birth of Christ, where shortly after Isaiah had a son and God talked to about say some of these things are actually fulfilled in your in your son, but really we're looking forward to this virgin birth of Christ that's coming, you know. And it was a couple of weeks ago David brought up Revelation as an example of parts of Scripture that can be difficult. Revelation, you read a passage in Revelation and it means something. It means something definite. But we sometimes through our limitations aren't exactly sure what those definite understandings should be. So we'd be honest. Right? So if we're teaching or preaching a revelation, I say, you know It seems like it could mean this, it could mean that. I'm not saying it means all of these different things, but really smart people have disagreed over these things and it it seems possible it could mean that and out of humility, I don't know I'm going to share with you what those possibilities are, and none of them would be heretical, but are any of them exactly what it's intending to convey? I can't say with certainty. I think that we have to admit our frailties on some of these things. All right, Article 8. We affirm that the Bible contains teachings and mandates. Ooh, mandates. I'm tired of that word. Which apply to all cultural and situational contexts and other mandates, which the Bible itself shows apply only to particular We deny that the distinction between the universal and particular mandates of Scripture can be determined by cultural and situational factors. We further deny that universal mandates may ever be treated as culturally or situational So who wants to simplify that in like regular English? So maybe a good example then. there there are some things the Bible says which are true and and require that the Christian obey it at all times. kill anybody, uh or don't murder, rather. Um, or even more basic, love God, that's a command, it's a mandate for everybody in all time, not for specific Jewish people or whatever. Um and if there are certain commands which God said, you know, whatever, like he told this person to go wash yourself in that pool. That doesn't mean every Christian everywhere always goes and washes in that same pool in Jerusalem. You know, and we have to all make a pilgrimage to wash. No, he was specifically talking to a person And it's very clear from the context that he told this one guy to go wash in the pool. Not he's commanding all my followers go wash in this pool. And it's not that God like well uh I'm thinking like circumcision. It's not that God has abrogated his word, but the the purpose and reason for circumcision has met its end. It's it's been fulfilled. The reason that that they had to be circumcised uh i is no longer relevant. So God didn't change his mind about that. It was it it it was in place for a time for a reason, and that particular time and reason is not the practical situation. The uh the particular situation uh had changed. So God's word didn't change, the situation changed. I disagree with the circumcision as an example. You think we should still be circumcised? Yes. Not to be saved. And you never were to be saved. But I think it's a good thing to be doing. Wow, that's interesting because Paul is pretty strident against no He specifically said it for being saved. As Daniel said, it has nothing to do with being saved. Okay. I don't see any reason for it then. Well there's a lot of medical reasons for it. Oh so a wisdom issue, not a moral issue or an obedience issue to God? Everybody. Yep. That's that is the same thing. I'm going to write that down as another topic. So write it down. So we have Genesis from a couple weeks ago creation. Right? And now we got circumcision. Okay. Alright, I don't know if we can read that later. Alright, whatever. Alright, that's interesting. Yeah. to be disagreeing on, but there's other ones that you know people can disagree on whether this one still applies to everybody or not. But that's why I was giving for our listeners a very clear example. Jesus goes and tells this one person go wash yourself in the pool. Well that's a that's obviously a specific situation and he's not commanding everybody to do that. Well that's not a and he s and he told one specific group of people to be circumcised. Those that are followed God no no those that are followers of God No no no no no no no no no no special time special time we'll get to that. uh eventually on this show. So uh in in the spirit of staying true to the stay today. Yeah today. Right. It it does not say here, right? I I think then that's part of the point in this article But it says that it we affirm that the Bible contains teachings and mandates. It doesn't say which ones those are. It doesn't say all teachings and mandates in the Bible. I'm going to try to quickly do Article 9, and then that'll be the last one for the show. I'm not sure if we'll have time to give it a whole lot of treatment, but we'll see what it says. Because I just did eight, right? Yes. We affirm that the term hermeneutics, which are historically signified the rules of exegesis, may properly be extended to cover all that is involved in the process of of perceiving what the biblical revelation means and how it bears on our lives. And then the denial is we deny that the message of Scripture derives from or is dictated by the interpreter's understanding. Thus we deny that the horizons of the biblical writer and the interpreter might rightly fuse in such a way that what the text communicates to the interpreter is not ultimately controlled by the expressed meaning of the scripture. You can't just pick your own meetings. Yeah, and a lot of people do. And uh and uh even highfalutin the you know, lots of credentials behind their name, uh theologians do that sort of thing. And that's part of what they're speaking against here. is uh people with fancy approaches will try to change uh through their own understanding of what they're allowed to do. Um Yeah, we I wish we might have to pick this up on the uh I gotta get my music going here and Uh we're running out of time. We've got like a minute and a half, two minutes left. So we're gonna have to cut this short. But do you have anything you want to say before we wrap up this? Yes No, I mean the it's really distilled in that that you can't just choose your own interpretation. It's it's not based on I mean You you can use your judgment to try to figure out what God's saying, but it's not gonna be based at all on what you think. Um, you know, you can pray for guidance by the Holy Spirit and and till God And that's really what the church today has done about culturally assuming uh the meanings have changed because the culture has changed and because it is not appropriate for today, the woke culture. And that's what this is against. Yeah, so we're going to uh wrap up there. We did the first nine. We'll pick up with Article 10 next week then. And um I don't make a big deal about it, but maybe you do. And in the spirit of uh being friendly to you, enjoy your Valentine's Day celebration. With your little cupid dolls and whatever you do, your boxed candies and Walmart cards. Valentine. There you go. Yeah, read about uh somebody who was in the faith and and and learn about that. That's a good idea. I like that. That's David Forcey with a good idea. Um the guys judiciously, smartly being quiet on this issue, the Razzies, Daniel, and Imron. I'm sure they have a lot to say, but they're they're gonna hold that for another time. And I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. You can connect with all of us through my church's website, household the faith in Christ. com. That's the easiest way to do that probably. Tell next week, 167 and a half hours from right about now. God bless You guys up for doing one more? It's up to you. I mean uh I like to be done around nine so we can get home and do family worship with kids, but if you I mean when we need to do one more we can stretch it out. It's up to you. Let me see. We did four. Yeah, well I mean I don't want to keep you from doing what you gotta do, so um uh if we were to do one more we could have we could make sure that we're like you on the road by like nine twenty-five or something. something if that works. But if not, then you know your family devotions and all those plans are. If you think we need another Or if you uh you know even want to uh you know with ten minutes left just bug out. There you could go. Yeah First Corinthians seven eighteen. Neither circumcision availeth or much or or a minute or circumcision. No. Was anyone at the time of his call already circumcised? Let him not seek to remove the marks of circumcision. Was anyone at the time of his call uncircumcised? Let him not seek circumcision. Yes. In the context of whether that makes you in the faith or not. That's that's the whole context of the scripture. Uh of the of the whole passage. It's all talking about these Judah Jews that are are saying So that isn't uh only let each person lead the life that the Lord has assigned to him. And to which God has called him. Right. I I I there's no indication that he doesn't say, you know. But you should get circumcised when you can or 'cause it's not a priority. Uh this must be on a show, man. But keeping the community guys the Fort Way program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMB. Here's some fancy words for you. We affirm that Scripture communicates God's truth to us verbally through a wide variety of literary forms. We deny that any of the limits of human language render Scripture inadequate to convey God's message. Like that one? How about this one We affirm that translations of the text of Scripture can communicate knowledge of God across all temporal and cultural boundaries. We deny that the meaning of biblical text is so tied to the culture out of which they came that understanding of the same meaning in other cultures is impossible. What the heck was all that? Those were Articles ten and eleven of the uh 1982 document called the Chicago Statement on Biblical Hermanudex. That's right. Last name nudics. First name Herman. He wrote a statement back in 1982. And we are talking about it here on the Faith Debate. I am uh currently much amusing David Forcy. Uh he pastors a church uh south of Frederick. North of Frederick, you've got Imran Razvy and Daniel Razby, pastor a church there, and I pastor a church pretty much dead center in Frederick. My church is called Households of Faith in Christ. You can find uh me and my contact information. Therefore me reach out to all these guys if you need to or want to. Uh, through that website is household of faith in Christ dot com. If you want to go straight to the Razi's website, they have one. It's called uh Conquered by Love Ministries, and their website is Conqueredbylove. org. So we've spent a few weeks talking about the Chicago State Mount on in Errant's Eve, which was from the 1970s, and then we got in our DeLoreans last week and we we motored on at 88 miles an hour to 1982. and uh met Mr. Nudic's uh Hermann to his friends. So Hermanudic's fancy term for interpretation, basically principles of how to uh understand uh what's written written in the Bible kind of thing. And so we went through the first nine articles in this statement last week and I just read the the the next two, articles ten and eleven. It's talking about um The variety of l l literary forms. A couple of weeks ago when we were talking about inerrancy, I think David Forcy uh brought that up. that some of the Bible is poetry, some of it's history. I can't remember what other examples you gave. You gave those two, and you might have given a couple more. But there's there's legal code, there's genealogy. Uh there's um apocalyptic, uh there's gospel, which I uh I view as a separate literary genre all its uh all its own. There's epistle. I mean there's all these different kinds of literary forms. And it's all still the word of God. I don't think anybody really argues that. The problem though is misunderstanding that that's true. trying to interpret scripture. You shouldn't interpret historical passages though it's poetry, right? Or vice versa for that matter. Some of them are um differently than you interact with, you know, First Corinthians. They're different literary forms. And so you need to recognize that that's the truth, right? We all I think we all get that. Is there anything in the next one, uh Article eleven you wanted to talk about? Yes, in fact I am not gonna disagree with it, but it's it it's not quite the way I would have wanted to worded it. Um especially the second part says uh well the first part we affirm the translations of the texts can communicate knowledge of God across all temporal and cultural boundaries so it does it can be translated so that other people understand it. We deny that the meaning of biblical text is so tied to the culture out of which they came. No, I wouldn't say it's impossible, but it is extremely tied to the culture out of which it came. specific people to a specific people group that was that has their own distinct culture that still exists today that I think is extremely helpful in understanding what the meaning is. Not to say that it's impossible uh to understand Say it in any case, but that it is r uh I would say necessary to fully understand it is to understand the culture to which it was written Yeah, and I don't know that the authors of this would disagree with that. I think that's a good thing. That's what I said. I don't necessarily disagree with that. And be that that's true, the other cultures can still understand it. Yes. Right. But it's important. to the to view it through the web of the Jewish people and and their culture. And I'm assuming I to be honest, um I I'm not sure where it's coming up, but I'm sure they're gonna be talking about that. And this reminds me of uh the Peace Child, I don't know if you're familiar with that. Um you know, the culture just felt that hey, um, Judas was a hero 'cause he was able to betray somebody and that was their culture. So yes, culture does matter. And so we had to they had to explain well, Jesus was the peace type You can't betray the peace child. And then they understood what the Bible was trying to say. So culture does have a strong meaning and as Ang said it's not that it's impossible, but it it should be culturally appropriate. I think practically why this is an important thing and why it's, you know, made it at number eleven here on their list is too often the habit is the culture isn't going to understand this word, so we have to change what the scriptures say to meet the culture. Right. And they're saying, no. The scripture can meet the culture as it is. You don't have to change it. You shouldn't change it. God forbid you change it. context of each culture, only those functional equivalents which are faithful to the content of biblical teaching should be employed. We deny the legitimacy of any methods or and of methods which are either insensitive to the demands of cul cross-cultural communication or distort biblical meaning in the process. There's a really good example of this, which is of the opposite of what Raz was saying about the peace child is another missionary story. Um I think Buchko is is the name and I I I do disagree with this this man's uh process. He came across this culture who um likes to uh uh uh you know, li likes to eat pigs, for example, and so he would translate that the pig is a healthy animal i in the old testament. Well you can disagree on whether you Christians should eat pig or not, but that's not what God said in the in the Old Testament, right? So you can't just change it because the culture likes eating the And then the the other one was while he was reading, the wise man builds his house upon the rock and the foolish man builds his house upon the sand. And the villagers told him, No, no, no, no. Sand is stronger, you should put it deep into the sand. If you put on the rock it'll flood and and and wash away because in in their topography of that climate where they are, that was a true statement that they were saying. So he just changed the translation of the Bible to say that a wise man builds his house on the sand. And that's i I think what this uh statement is trying to say. No, you can't do that. Just because there you know, you c you you can take a little bit of liberty in in translating a figure of speech, for example But it still needs to say what God originally said in the context of which he said it. Um and so then you just need to educate the people saying no what But where God is talking about in that climate there, it really would be a foolish thing to build your house on the sand and you're just gonna have to take my word for it. It's kinda like translating things about snow and uh if somebody who's never seen snow, well you could explain what snow is. And I think that's very important. Yeah. Okay. I don't have anything else to add to that. David? Raz? No? All right. Article 13 We affirm that awareness of the literary categories, formal and stylistic of the various parts of Scripture is essential for proper exegesis, and hence we value genre criticism as one of the many disciplines of biblical. study. We deny that generic categories which negate historicity may rightly be imposed on biblical narratives which present themselves as factual. Yeah, these generic categories negating the historicity, basically this would be those that are saying it's all a myth. Right? It's it's it's no different than all the other myths that are out there. It's religious literature, what do you expect? And they're saying no. If they're saying it's factual, then we didn't treat it as though it's factual. That's right So we have nothing to add there. So far we're not arguing about these at all. Other than wanted to clarify in Article 11 a little bit. Article 14. We affirm that the biblical record of events, discourses, and sayings, though presented in a variety of appropriate literary literary forms, corresponds to historical fact. We deny that any event, discourse or saying reported as scripture was invented by the biblical writers or by the traditions they incorporated. This is probably a little bit more of the same, uh uh said differently from the previous one, the way I'm understanding. Well if they're not saying they're not making it up. So even in passages where it's not like a written like a history book It may speak to a historical fact which didn't did really happen. It's not, you know, just you know it's if it's a no by the way, like you could read some passage in a poetry book And i um in fact that's um a a good ex great example of that is in Psalms where it says there's paths of the seas. And it sounds very poetic and all that, but some guy reading that is the one who discovered the ocean currents 'cause he's like, well God said there's paths in the seas, maybe there really are, and there actually were. Um so just because that psalm wasn't a historical passage or or a scientific textbook doesn't mean that when it speaks of science it w it's true. article recorded events, historical events that are recorded as this is what happened. This is the sequence of things that happened. Names of people and places. Yeah. And dialogue and what so and so said to the other person, Article fifteen. We if we should get like uh a little like a announcer voice with all sorts of bells always all fifteen fifteen fifteen We affirm the necessity of interpreting the Bible according to its literal or normal sense. The literal sense is the grammatical, historical sense, that is, the meaning which the writer expressed Interpretation according to the literal sense will take account of all figures of speech and literary forms found in the text. We deny the legitimacy of any approach to scripture that attributes to it meaning which the literal sense does not support. Everything I would have to say about this I said a couple of shows ago. So I have nothing more to add. All right, Article 16. We affirm that legitimate critical techniques should be used in determining the canonical text and its meaning. We deny the legitimacy of allowing any method of biblical criticism. to question the truth or integrity of the writer's expressed meaning or of any other scriptural teaching. This this is almost like inside baseball, I think, because they got people in in academia saying You guys you you don't you apply any sort of critique or critical method to understanding the like no no we do just not the way you guys do because the way you guys do is wrong Right. Well they're saying you you can look through logically to figure out whether it means what you think it means, but that's different than coming at it with a with a chisel and trying to chip away at at the meaning of the text. I think we're up to 17, right? Yep. We're going through these faster. I think we we already covered so much accidentally covered some of this ground in the previous shows that we don't have to talk about this as much. We affirm the unity, harmony, and consistency of Scripture and declare that it is its own best interpreter. We deny that Scripture may be interpreted in such a way as to suggest that one passage corrects or militates against another. We deny that later writers of Scripture misinterpreted earlier passages of Scripture when quoting from or referring them. That's um that last statement like um The virgin birth is an example, talking about, you know, Matthew says that oh the virgin will give birth and they're saying, ah, he's paying playing fast and loose because virgin in the Old Testament it could have been just young woman and Well, first of all, there's all sorts of textual analysis there that would militate uh mitigate or militate or whatever were there against that. But let's just say For the sake of argument, okay, fine. Matthew wasn't changing the meaning, he was choosing one of two possible meanings at the very least, and using it as context. actually what the meaning was. Yeah. In case there was any doubt. So because Matthew said it, we know that that's what the meaning was. And this is important too because there are a lot of people that I you know seems of late. I don't know why, I'm not sure what's in the water. Maybe I'm just traveling in slightly different circles than I used to Well, people who want to insist on something Words includes but is not restricted to the understanding of those words by the Prophet and to necessarily involve the intention of God evidenced in the fulfillment of those words. Some of these articles are easier to hear and understand. Some of them almost have to read them to understand what they're saying. This might be one One of them. The denial here is we deny that the writers of Scripture always understood the full implications of their own words. They don't have to have understood the full occasions of their words in order for it to be scripture. Yeah, I would I think that we can know with well, the writers. Yeah. that the writers of scripture always understand. Yeah. I mean so you think about prophets in the Old Testament, did they always understand everything? You know that would that their words were saying would come to pass. No, I not necessarily. Yeah. I I think I think that we know that they certainly had a uh a vague idea, right, of the Messiah and what the Messiah would be like and do and but uh Yeah that's a whole interesting study by the way if you want to do a really, really deep like uh uh particular kind of a study, you can see if if if you are open-minded about it, you can see ample evidence in the uh uh what we call the Old Testament scriptures, the Hebrew scriptures of indicators that are pointing to the the Trinity Knowing what we know to be true about the Trinity and shining that light on it, you can see it recurringly throughout the pages of the Old Testament. But did the people who wrote it understand the Trinity I'm gonna guess they probably didn't, but I don't know. Maybe maybe those particular individuals were given a special insight so that they would know. I think I think there was maybe a lot more understanding than you might think. I mean just look what Job says Oh, I know my Redeemer liveth, and he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. Okay, well that's a pretty clear indication that he had it had a good idea of who Jesus was or he is. Um so it wasn't just that they were looking forward to some future day when everything would become clear. I think godly men were did have some understanding. But yeah, the full implications, I mean we even now understand the full implications. We don't even have the full implications, right? Well much fuller, but there are certain I mean we're not God. We are always going to be finite. There's only there's going to be some limitation on what we can know and understand. I think what they're trying to say is that If you if you're gonna say that they have to have understood everything and if they didn't, then it i i it wasn't really God speaking to them. No, God doesn't just give the entire plan. It's a need-to-know basis. So they may or may not have understood that that's kind of irrelevant to whether the description It would be important uh uh an important consideration if we were going to say that the well if the author doesn't even know what he's talking about, then we can't trust it because he didn't know what he's talking about. But we have to understand that the human author isn't merely the author, God is the author Right, so God knows. God knows the full implication. And and and just like a general may give an order to a corporal and the corporal doesn't understand the order, but he has to relay the order word for word It's still in order. Yeah. Uh uh I don't think I read nineteen yet, right? We just did eighteen? No. So nineteen, we affirm that any pre-understandings which the interpreter brings to scripture should be in harmony with scriptural teaching and subject to correction by it. We've kind of touched on this already a little bit in the last few shows. We deny that scripture should be required to fit alien pre-understandings inconsistent with itself, such as naturalism, evolutionism, we've talked about that, scientism, secular humanism, and relativism. All of those are problems today in the world, right? Not much has changed since 1982. It's only gotten worse actually. Naturalism, evolutionism, scientism, particularly scientism. Uh secular humanism and relativism. Everything's relative. No absolute truth and all that. Yeah, yeah. in essence this article is that uh right scripture is not subject to something outside of itself. It stands alone and above. And everything else is subject to it. Right. Yeah. Yeah, it's fine to have a s a science understanding. Right? But we don't read the Bible through a scientific grid. We look at science through a biblical grid. That's that's the difference. Double S Dok Dose Dose. That's a beer brand, I think. We affirm that since God is the author of all truth, they're not a sponsor of the show, by the way. All truths, biblical and extra-biblical, are consistent and cohere. Also affirm that the Bible speaks truth when it touches on matters pertaining to nature. history or anything else. We affirm, further affirm that in some cases extra biblical data have value for clarifying what scripture teaches and for uh prompting correction of faulty interpretations. We deny that extra biblical views ever disprove the teaching of Scripture or hold priority over it. We kind of dangerous ones Yeah, and we kinda talked about some of this already, but talk about the the other aspects. Well the further affirm is a little bit dangerous, right? We affirm that in some cases extra biblical data have value for clarifying what scripture teaches Okay? And for promoting correction of faulty interpretations. You can if you're not careful, you can take that and run with it to an extreme that's a problem. And a lot of textbooks and most seminaries these days really take that So scripture is always the most important. That doesn't mean there isn't So you can tell things about God just by looking around you without scripture. And that is helpful, um, but scripture is still the most important and the priority. Um correcting faulty interpretations I I think I have a little bit of a problem with They might have had like Galileo in mind or something. Galileo was correct. Right, but the a lot of people in the church were teaching the centrality of uh everything revolving around Earth. Which it does. Oh where you stand. Was it Galileo's view? You're right. Galileo was the heliocentric model and then uh s supposedly other people believed in the geocentric model. They're both true actually, uh from a from a relative uh standpoint, depending on where you stand. We had this discussion a few years ago. Um but but the y yeah, they may have had some things in here in Mars But it's a dangerous road to go down to say that you could correct a faulty interpretation based on some other observation of the world. And I I I don't think that's a good place to be. I I I'm I'm not sure if I agree because you have false interpretation, okay? The earth is flat. That's false interpretation. But then you get other uh information and you realize that the false that's false interpretation. And that other information may be from extra biblical scriptures. sources but now you know that that interpretation was false. So that's what this is talking about. That you could have a faulty interpretation, but as information comes up with it may not be biblical, but as it comes up up i it doesn't change the bible, but the interpretation that was faulty can be corrected. And the if and and that new information isn't correcting scripture, right. It's correcting our understanding that, oh, because we're all Yeah. We're all uh victims of is what I want to say, of our surrounding culture, right? We all have influences on us because we're Yeah, the the the the fish doesn't realize it's swimming in polluted waters because that's all it knows. We're swimming in polluted waters all the time and it's having an effect on us And then if you happen to get into a stream of water that's cleaner and so you have new information, oh, I realize I need to m my vision was clouded before, it's not as clouded now. I have a clearer understanding. The camel going to deny the needle. Right, if you read that and you don't know what that means, you might think that he was talking about an actual needle, which would mean that it's impossible for a Rishmeah to be safe. But we know there are rich men that were sav rich men that were saved, so it's not that i you know that's the case. There seems to be a A a a spot in the wall, a passage that was called the eye of an eagle. Or um or maybe it's just a figure of speech, possibly. But uh uh you could have originally had that interpretation that It's a literal needle. And in that case, you know, I think that's a faulty interpretation. Um, I think where we where we are now, we've got like um like a minute or so left. Um uh in the show. So we're going to wrap over Scaffold Article 20. So we'll do the rest in our our next show. Um and there's actually uh some really interesting statements in their exposition section on this uh uh on this. And I uh there's pieces of that that we might touch upon too. So we're going to do at least one more, maybe maybe a couple of more um episodes of the Faith Debate on this statement. And then they've got a statement on application that might be maybe we might whip through that more quickly because we've we've covered a lot of common ground, but we'll probably touch on that too and put all of these Chicago statements behind us. I know that this can be a little heady and academic for some compared to some of the things that we do on this show, but we've been academic and heady in the past on the show as well. We will try to be a little bit of everything for all people in different seasons. So if this is heavier lifting, hopefully it's been of benefit to you. And if you appreciate this heavy lifting, I can't promise we're going to be heavy lifting all the time. Sometimes we're silly and goofy and talk about things that are relevant to the news around us and those sorts of things too. Anyway, thank you gentlemen for making another nice series of shows. David Forcey, Daniel Razme, Imran Razby. Find the Razbeys at conqueredbylove. org. Find me, Troy Skinner, at household of faith in Christ. com. Till next week. God bless. All right, you guys gotta get out of here. Well we do have one question for you. After we get off the Yeah, and I gotta say goodbye to you guys. Goodbye and for you who are watching, Paul, Melissa, I'm not gonna try to scroll up of analogy. Later, but anyway. Thanks, I'll uh see you later couple