Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ, the live stream portion of what we do during our worship gatherings. We'll be in Revelation chapter 22 today, so I encourage you to get your Bibles ready so you can follow along. Revelation chapter 22 verses 16 through 19 specifically will where we'll be camping for the most part today. A message that is titled Come, Come, Come. Incidentally, I want to remind you to visit our website. You can connect with all of our sermons, the Faith of Eight Radio program, which also lives on as a podcast are decorating date night episodes, blogs, all sorts of other resources that are there to edify the church and to answer questions for those who are wondering about the Christian faith. So again, that's Household of Faith in Christ. com. So, let's get into the sermon. The Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. These are merely three of the couple hundred titles belonging to Jesus. And they come at us in rapid succession in Revelation chapter 22, verse 13. And we see three more then come again in rapid succession as the last half of verse 16. This is the verse where we ended last week's sermon you might remember. And it's the verse that starts us off this week. It says, I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you and to give you assurance of these things for the churches. I am the root, the source, the life, and the offspring of David, the radiant and bright morning star. I am reading again from the Amplified Translation of the Bible for our look at Revelation chapter 22. But whatever translation, as well as a good one, we can have confidence. We are reading the Word of God. The original autographs, as they're called, what was written by John back then in the Revelation. It is the very Word of God. Written by him is carried along by the Spirit. So it is trustworthy and true. It is the soul-inspired standard by which we have to gauge what it is we are to do with our lives, how we're to live, what we're to believe, and why. So I encourage you to receive it as such. At the start of today's passage, here in verse 16, our Lord informs us that he has sent his angel, his messenger to the churches. Most particularly, this is likely talking about the messengers of the seven churches of Asia Minor. But more broadly, this is talking about all local churches throughout all of church history. And so that means it's for you, as a Christian, to have assurance about the testimony regarding the source of life. When Jesus says to you, it's in the plural, we talked about this last week, Christ and his angel, doesn't just testify to John. The message is delivered to y'all. So hear ye, hear ye. Interestingly, the name Jesus, by the way, here, it's used In this verse, it's used fourteen times in the Revelation. That's an interesting number. It's seven times two. It's the only time that Christ Himself uses his own personal human name in This book. In fact, the only time in the entire New Testament that the Lord uses this personal name, this human personal name to identify himself. So it's actually the only time therefore in the entire Bible that Jesus calls himself Jesus. It calls himself something else in this verse. Jesus says, I am the root. Now this is an allusion to Isaiah in chapter 11, where in verse 10 it says, In that day the nations will make supplications to the root of Jesse who will stand as a signal for the peoples, and his resting place will be glorious. And when Jesus says that he is the offspring of David, this also is an illusion. To that same chapter, Isaiah chapter eleven, which begins in verse one with these words Then a shoot, the Messiah, will spring from the stock of Jesse, David's father, and a branch from his roots will bear fruit. And so the lamb is the source of David's life, just as he is a source of life for all of us. And Jesus is also in the line of David's descendants, the lineage of royalty. This teaching is a famous part of Matthew's gospel account. We read about it in chapter 22. The Pharisees, they were gathered together, and Jesus, he asked them a question. What do you, Pharisees, think of the Christ, the Messiah, the anointed? Whose son is he? They said to him, the son of David. Jesus asked them, how is it then that David, by the inspiration of the Spirit, calls him Lord? saying, The Lord, the Father, said to my Lord, the Son, the Messiah, sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet. So then, if David calls him, the Son, the Messiah, Lord, how was he David's son? No one was able to say a word to him in answer, nor from that day did anyone dare to question him again. Now during this Q<unk>A, Jesus he quotes the opening verse of a psalm, Psalm 110. And so we can see here that it's not only the New Testament knits together. So many Christians say they focus on the New Testament, but this tells us that the Old Testament is knit together with the New Testament too, that together they form one cohesive whole, one Gigantic canon of 66 books. And in this canon, we see confirmation of both the deity and the humanity of Christ, as is the case with Ruth. And offspring, these words they also hint at an illustration. Root, of course, the root of life, so that points to his deity, and offspring that points to his humanity. It comes from the lineage of David. But here's the illustration. If you're like me, sometimes you do some yard work. And when you're doing the yard work, you know, sometimes we notice there's a young tree, it's shooting up somewhere in the yard that really doesn't need a tree, or even worse, it's a place where You don't want there to be a tree because if it continues to grow, it's going to like you know destroy the fence or something like that. And so you gotta you gotta deal with it. If you're like me, you deal with it by trying to pull that seedling up by the roots And there are times when the effort is successful. You get it up by the roots, but other times, boy, those roots are stubborn. And so it seems like the best option in that situation is to simply just cut that Trunk of the tree down at ground level. Make it as flat as you can with the ground. And this kind of works for a while, it seems. You would think it would work forever because I mean that tree is little more than an oversized weed at that point. You chop it all the way down to ground level. I mean that should kill it, one would think. And yet I gotta tell you, I'll be darned how many times Shoots spring up from that root that's buried under the ground from you can't even really see the stump, but I guess there's still a stump there. So I just keep cutting those shoots off. Until finally I'm weary of cutting those shoots off and I realize, you know what, I've got to end this cycle, and there's only one way to do that, and that is to kill the tree at the root. And this isn't Satan's approach with God's people. Devil tries chopping us down to size. And when that doesn't work, well, the enemy again cuts us off with the knees. He just does it time after time. But the remnant continues to persist. And so the ancient serpent of old, he tried killing the root itself appeared to have happened when the Son of God hung upon a tree. But then Jesus rose from the dead as the radiant and bright morning star See, sometimes the situation on the ground, it looks bleak. I mean consider the crown of Judah as an example. It had been taken from David's line, it had been passed into other hands. Other dynasties like the Maccabean, the Herodian. But that whole time, the root of David was still there And the house of David, it would flourish once more. In fact, because of the person and the completed work of the Messiah, David's throne right now As a king seated in rulership. He's seated there today. He is seated there forever. So it feels as though you've been brought low. Fix your eyes upon Jesus, the morning star, the very brightest star, the one who shatters the darkness and heralds the arrival of the glorious new day Now technically what Jesus calls himself is the star, the bright morning one. That's the wooden translation. And this phrase it ties to the ending portion of the letter. Uh that is it ties to this ending portion of the letter that is the Revelation all the way back to another letter that's near the beginning, back in chapter two. The letter within the letter, the message is the church in Zyatira, there's an encouragement there for the church to conquer. How? By remaining faithful That's how we conquer. Remain faithful. And then for the one who does this, the Lord says, I will give him the morning star This comes in the context of a portion of the revelations talking about seven stars and seven angels to the seven churches. But this is a morning star. This is different than those seven stars. It's the star that was anticipated in Numbers, chapter 24, where it's written, A star shall come forth from the descendants of Jacob. A scepter shall rise out of the descendants of Israel. That's verse 17. In the words of notable theologian Robert Mounts, died actually not that long ago back in 2019, I think he was 97 years old, he wrote, The morning star is a promise. That the long night of tribulation is all but over, and that the new eschatological day is about to dawn Hang on to that hope. And just a moment ago I read from Numbers 24, verse 17. Now let's read from Revelation 22, verse 17. The Holy Spirit and the bride, the church, believers, say, come. And let the one who hears say, Come. And let the one who is thirsty Come. Let the one who wishes take and drink the water of life without cost. As you might have guessed, this is the verse from which we get the title for today's sermon. Come, come, come. Since the word appears three times in verse seventeen. The final one is addressed to the people, the initial two, they're addressed to Jesus, first by the Spirit of Christ and the Bride of Christ, and then by the individual saints belonging to to the church. And we see here I'm kind of forecast of this last week, saying that we see here in this verse Mentions of the Holy Spirit. Now, mentions of the Holy Spirit aren't as prominent in the Revelation as are mentions of the Father and the Son in the Revelation. And so it's intriguing to me at least That one of these rare mentions, the Spirit appears in connection with the body of believers. Which is variously identified by John as the bride or the wife of the Lamb, the new Jerusalem, the heavenly Jerusalem, and so forth. So, this could be emphasizing not only the divine status of the Spirit, which is true, but also the powerful work that is done by the Spirit in purifying sinners who are made part of the Holy City. There's an infinite connection between the Spirit and the Holy City, the people of God. Those who have citizenship in the city, they are the ones who respond, come, Lord Jesus. They're the ones who hear. Now one meaning of the word hear is obey. It's like when we talk to our little kids or you overhear some parent talking to your little kid and they say, Do you hear me? In other words, is it clear to you right now that you are to give me obedience in this matter? So if you hear, you will obey. And if you obey, you will bear witness to the world. The message you've been given, the message that you are to bear testimony is provided right right here, directly from the Word of the of God Himself. Let the one who is thirsty come. That the one who wishes take and drink the water of life without cost were to bear witness to this message Jesus, he said the same thing at least once before in John's Gospel account in chapter 7. Jesus stood and said in a loud voice, Let anyone who is thirsty come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as Scripture has said Rivers of living water will flow from within them. Now, as Jesus indicated here, he's quoting Scripture. Which scripture? Isaiah 55. It was common back in ancient times to quote just the opening line of a passage and then assume that your audience they would be able to from their memory fill in the blanks for the remainder of the passage. It's not as common today, but we actually still do this to a certain extent sometimes. For example, we hold these truths to be self-evident. That calls the mind something more than just that one line, doesn't it? We the people of the United States, dot dot dot You can fill in the blanks from your memory. Four score and seven years ago. Oh say, can you see? There's a couple of additional examples of what I'm talking about. So now with this in mind, Here's what we find in Isaiah chapter fifty-five. Come, all you who are thirsty, come to the waters, and you who have no money, come, buy and eat. Come, buy wine and milk without money, without cost. Why spend money on what is not bread and your labor and what does not satisfy? Listen, listen to me, and eat what is good, and you will delight in the richest affair. Give ear and come to me. Listen that you may live. I will make an everlasting covenant with you, my faithful love promised to David. See I have made him a witness to the people, a ruler and commander of the peoples. Surely you will summon nations you know not, and nations you do not know will come running to you because of the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, for He has endowed you with splendor. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call on him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake their ways and the unrighteous their thoughts. Let them turn to the Lord. And he will have mercy on them, and to our God, for he will freely pardon. My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord As the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts. As the rain and the snow come down from heaven and do not return to it without watering the earth and making it bud and flourish so that it yield seeds for the sower and bread for the eater. So is my word that goes out from my mouth. It will not return to me empty, but will accomplish what I desire, and achieve the purpose for which I sent it You will go out in joy and be led forth in peace. The mountains and hills will burst into song before you, and all the trees of the field will clap their hands Instead of the thornbush will grow the juniper. Instead of briars, the myrtle will grow. This will be for the Lord's renown. for an everlasting sign that will endure forever. Now reading an entire chapter of the Bible within a sermon that is addressing a totally different chapter of the Bible. It almost feels strange. But here's the thing. They're not totally different I mean, sure, one's in the Old Testament, the other's in the New Testament. One was tended by Isaiah, the other is tended by John. One was revealed prior to the first coming, the other is revealed prior to the second coming. But do you hear all those riffs that are borrowed from the pre-cross prophet by the post-cross apostle? It's like one of those songs that you hear, you never heard it before, but it sounds so incredibly familiar. It's like, I've heard this song before. And you realize the song is using the same bass line from that earlier song. Same tempo, maybe the same chord progression. Heck, sometimes they even sample elements of the melody. They're not the same song, but they are the same song. It's like Ghostbusters and I want a new drug or Purple rain and faithfully, ice, ice baby, and under pressure. We find more of the same thing in Revelation chapter 22 in verses 18 and 19. Now before I read those verses from Revelation 22, though, I want you to hear these words from Deuteronomy chapter 4. Now, Israel. Hear the decrees and laws I am about to teach you. Follow them so that you may live and take possession of the land the Lord is giving you. Do not add to what I command you, and do not subtract from it but keep the commandments of the Lord your God that I give you. And now here are words from Deuteronomy twelve. See that you do all I command you, do not add to it or take away from it. In Deuteronomy chapter 18, I myself will call to account anyone who does not listen to my words that the prophet speaks in my name. But a prophet who presumes to speak in my name anything I have not commanded is to be put to death. For good measure. Let's hear from Joshua chapter 1. Be strong and very courageous. Be careful to obey all the law. Do not turn from it to the right or to the left, that you may be successful wherever you go. Keep this book always on your lips. Meditate on it day and night so that you may be careful to do everything written in it. So now with that backdrop, here is Revelation chapter 22, verses 18 and 19. I testify and warn everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book, its predictions, consolations, and admonitions. If anyone adds anything to them, God will add to him the plagues, afflictions, calamities which are written in this book. And if anyone takes away from or distorts the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away from that one his share from the tree of life and from the holy city, New Jerusalem, which are written in this book. See, those who give the message contained in this book, ill treatment, will receive ill treatment from God You add to the contents of the good news, and God brings down a curse on your head. Those who reject the message of this book will be rejected by God. Deny the gospel by means of omission or distortion, and God denies you entrance into the home of eternal life. This is so very serious. Deny the gospel and you deny the Christ. Proclaim another gospel, you proclaim another Christ. You change the words or confuse the words, and you are quite literally playing with fire. The lake of fire. Sincerely, this is a matter of eternal life and death Somewhat akin to this, it'd be like altering or ignoring the words of a medical directive, how that can be a matter of physical life and death. You know, we've all heard stories, I think, about horrific errors made by medical professionals professionals at the hospitals Many times these disastrous situations they happen because a doctor or a nurse or an orderly, somebody there, ignored a directive. In a sense, this kind of almost happened to me. It's a few years ago there was a contagious illness that was making around. Maybe you've heard a little something about that. And there was evidence that Certain so-called treatments for this sickness were doing more harm than good. In fact, the pharmaceuticals being poured into the veins of patients were shutting down the people's kidneys. And this led to congestive heart failure and a trip to the ICU and then being hooked up to a ventilator, and this was practically a death sentence. Four out of five people. These poor souls. Four out of five in this scenario died. And it all started with a very expensive multi-day infusion of drugs. Now I knew all of this before I entered the hospital And so I gave the entire staff a medical directive of my own. I said, none of that toxic garbage for me. Thank you very much. And my dear friend, Sister in the Lord, she gave that entire staff the same exact medical directive on my behalf. None of that toxic garbage for my friend. Thank you very much. He even printed a sign, hung it on my hospital bed. It essentially said, don't give any of that toxic garbage to this patient. Is that clear? Well apparently they decided that written directive and all of our verbal directives. Not clear. They ignored our directives. They wrote a directive of their own. orders that I would be given all that toxic garbage. Unfortunately I found out this was their plan and so I was able to intervene. I gathered my strength and I said to them, look, you give me this stuff. I will sue Not just the hospital. I'll sue you, doctor. I'll sue everybody, personally, directly. I'm not playing. Now it seems a directive which includes language about lawyers, is a somewhat more understandable directive to those who wear white jackets and stethoscopes around their neck. So make note, it just might save your life. In all probability, it likely saved mine. The point is, don't mess with directives like this. It is deadly. But just look at the deadly consequences that we're all living through each and every day lately because of grifters pretending to be public servants. They corrupt, distort, and take away from the Constitutions the words were written by the framers when this nation was being founded. Ignoring, twisting the directives found in even this human-authored document has resulted in a great many plagues, afflictions, and calamities. Now, if you agree at any level that bad things can happen when deconstructing important human words How much more dark will the bad things be when daring to deconstruct the inspired word of the eternal Creator? Don't do it. The importance of this, it's one of the primary reasons I am personally so earnest in advocating for truth and calling out lies. It's to protect the sheep for sure. And on top of that, it's it's also an effort to give warning to those who appear to maybe be wolves. Be warned. And I believe this is also the aim of the Apostle John as well, with the words he has written, words that purport to exhort and encourage the faithful by bidding them yet hold on to persevere. For the time of recompense, the Lord's coming, is at hand. Now that's a quote from a commentary on the revelation of St. John the Divine, written at a time when there were no airplanes. No cars. It's a time when the Statue of Liberty was still a shiny copper color. It's a time when if you wanted sliced bread, you had to slice it yourself. There's no internet, no television, not even radio had been invented yet. How times have changed. And yet, the things that matter the most, they haven't changed at all. This includes the character of God and the Lord's written word Hasn't changed. And therefore I can read to you these additional beautiful thoughts from that same old nineteenth century book that I quoted a second ago. And it's going to feel as though these words were written sometime last month. If men will be wicked, they must. But let you, righteous and holy ones, be righteous and holy still. Your trial will soon be over, and your day of reward have come. He that is righteous will go on doing righteousness, whilst he that is filthy will go on making himself yet more foul Both will have it so, and it comes to be so. Yet if the church indulges in terrorism rather than in invitation, she mistakes her mission Not one voice is to be mute. The air is to be ringing with their voice, and everyone who hears the sound is to add his voice to theirs. Yea, it is if a grandly perfect peal of bells. were hung aloft, and as our Saviour would have their chimes ever filling the air with the music Come, come, come, let him who was athirst Come. Let's pray. Father, you are so good and so patient with us. We are such a frail people. Still dealing with our brokenness as we progress in our sanctification. We ask that you would call us to ever-increasing levels of holiness. That we would recognize our need for you and how you rescued us from our own sin and how everybody else has the same need and for us to use this as encouragement to warn those the peril that they face. And at the same time to encourage those, by reminding those who already recognize the truth of the gospel, embrace it, that there's a great hope. There's a wondrous future that awaits. And the world seems to be a dark place. All the better, a place for us to see the shining light of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Help us, your people, be encouraged, and to be encouragers, to proclaim the truth diligently But at the same time to do it with grace and mercy and love in our hearts. Seems impossible from our worldly, fleshly perspective. But we know that your ways are not our ways. Your ways are higher than our ways. And we know that with you all things are possible. And so we humbly ask for these things. In the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord, Savior, and King. Amen. So I'm going to shut down the stream now. I want to uh encourage you to I think the glitch is now over. I think you've experienced a glitch on the video stream. Anyway, Household of Faithinchrist. com is the website, HouseholdTofFaithInCrist. com. Until next time. God bless you.