Article 20? Article 21. So welcome to the uh live stream, the behind the scenes peak at the Faith Debate. We record the shows in advance, so tonight you're gonna be if you're watching the stream You're going to uh get a sneak peek at the shows that will air the last uh Sunday of February and probably through the all of the Sundays in March. That's probably what's going to get um recorded Is that right? Yeah, I think I think that's what we're aiming for. So anyway, saddle up, here we go. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. We affirm the harmony of special with general revelation and therefore of biblical teaching with the facts of nature. We deny that any genuine scientific facts are inconsistent with the true meaning of any passage of Scripture. We affirm that Genesis 1 through 11 is factual, as is the rest of the book We deny that the teachings of Genesis 1 through 11 are mythical and that scientific hypotheses about earth history or the origin of humanity may be invoked to overthrow what Scripture teaches about creation. Those are articles 21 and 22 of the Chicago Statement on Inerrancy as we continue our series of looking at this historic document from 1978. Welcome to the Faith Debate. I am Troy Skinner. You're listening to us on 9. 30 a. m. on your uh transistor radio, or perhaps you're listening to us uh at 99. 9 HD2, or perhaps you're listening to us on the the live stream or you're listening to us later. Not live, you're listening to the podcast. However you're listening, welcome. We appreciate you uh taking time out of your your busy schedule to um uh to pay any attention at all to what we have to say. I'm Troy Skinner and uh been hosting the Faith Debate Show for a long time and now as the regular panelists for a pretty long time. We've got Imran Razby, also known as Raz. We've got Daniel Rasby, also known as Daniel. And David Forceby, also known as David. I'm not sure if you guys took the time between the last show and this show to uh freshen up on on these uh statements on inerrancy. So Hopefully you guys did because I I did not. So I'm I'm kinda doing this a little bit cold. But it's interesting as we read these touching on some things you've talked about in recent weeks on the show. Right. There were two statements. What wasn't the original one about inertial? Oh, did I just read a hermeneutics form? Yeah. You did You made the hermeneutic one, that's what we're on. Oh, is that what we're on now? Correct. Oh, hey, we're finished in Aaron C. We did. Finish an air and C I definitely should have brushed up when we started the hermeneutics. This reminds me of a story when I was uh in in high school. It was my biology class. And uh we were going to be doing a test on like chapter 31 of our biology textbook or something. And I studied hard and I was ready for this test and the the test comes out and I realize as I look at the first couple of questions I have no idea what the questions are talking about. I studied chapter like thirty three with the test was on chapter thirty one or something. Oh man. And so fortunately it was one of those fill in the oval with your uh number two pencil kind of thing. And apparently I'm a pretty good guesser. Because I was like, I don't know, I'm gonna go with A on this one kind of thing. And it w I think there were like thirty five or forty questions. Uh say you're blessed. I got a ninety plus score, highest score in the class. And the guy that was my kind of my biology partner on all the little, you know, slicing up the the frogs and all you had to do He uh didn't study at all and so he decided to take the high road and said, you know what, I'm not ta he told the teacher, I'm not taking the quiz, I didn't study, uh, I don't deserve a grade on this test. So he took a zero. Stupid He he took a zero. Yeah, I was like, what do you have to lose? So I uh I did take uh take the zero. I ended up getting the highest grade in the class and he was so mad. Well there's no graves giving out today, right? Uh well you know I don't know why you should be mad. You worked really hard Just on the wrong sub. Yeah. I did, I'm telling you, they should have given everybody a fifty because uh you know, that way everybody w is fair. And and to be honest, I wonder I mean I I really didn't know what I was doing. But having studied materials somewhat related to it, I think gave me some clue as to how to try to guess. So I didn't know what I was doing, but well you had you had studied into the future and so Yeah, exactly. And it and it explains my life, right? Because I never really know exactly what's going on because I've I've I've been focusing on the wrong things, but those wrong things give me some insight into the right things on rare occasions. So Alright, yes, so we are onto hermeneutics. So all right. Anything in uh this that we take issue with? Um not not that I take issue with um I would just clarify, right? I mean I think it's really important in twenty-one it says we deny that any genuine scientific facts are inconsistent with the true meaning of any passage of Scripture. There are plenty of quote unquote facts of science that are inconsistent with the Bible. Um we would just say if if that can be shown, then those are not actually facts. right? Any true fact would it would be consistent with the Bible. Now in the next part where it says Genesis one to eleven is factual and there any scientific hypotheses about Earth history or origin of humanity, um, they have to kind of mesh with what Scripture says, meaning that they had to follow what Scripture says and not the other way around. Um and so I I would I would say that uh I would go so far as to say be specific about which theories that the theory of evolution would be not consistent with scripture at all. I think we all agree on that. earth would also not be in Bible scripture at all, but I think we had we had some disagreement on that that last time. Yeah, I I I don't think that somebody that holds to a young earth is uh is anti-biblical at all. But I well I was I was starting there. Clearly th there's an argument made for that Um but I don't know that the the text demands that of the reader. And so if somebody wants to go with a day-age theory in the earliest part of genesis. They they wouldn't be making that decision based on any sort of a commitment to evolution, Darwinian or otherwise Uh they're just saying, well, the text doesn't explicitly say and I'm gonna leave room for the possibility. I think that they could still be an inerrantist and they could be faithful in in the in And how the hermeneutical approach, we probably should define that. It's just a fancy word for how you interpret things. So they could be faithful interpreters of the Bible and they're just not trying to press the text any further than They in in their good conscience feels like it could go. I don't think so. I think they would not even come to that conclusion without outside information. Without somebody from science, somebody from evolution saying saying it took millions or billions of years of doing this, th that would not even come to their mind if they just read the Bible. If they just read the Bible, that long period of time would never have existed. But if somebody asks the question, we're covering some ground we covered I covered a couple of shows ago, I don't know. If somebody has a question posed to them by a skeptic or a scoffer that gets them thinking, huh, that's an interesting question, let me re-examine the text. see you know if your scoffing or your skepticism is warranted and because of that challenge to their view they're like you know what I don't agree with your evolution. I don't agree with the premise from which your question is coming or your a or the attitude behind your question. But now that I've examined this in light of your question, I think it's fair to say that the text maybe isn't quite as explicit on that point, and so I'm going to allow a w wider booth I th berth on that. I think that we can be okay as brothers on that and sisters on that. In the faith. I think there are plenty of places where the text is not quite that explicit. Uh I would say Genesis just isn't one of them. And I if you're gonna be consistent and logical about the way that you apply the Herman index then the And if you really do believe in a narrow scripture, there's no other way to read that text other than it's it it's it's a young earth. But uh and we probably aren't gonna come to a a total Well but yeah, because we f almost probably need to do a genesis creationist narrative kind of maybe even a series of shows on that and go through the text. Right. That might be an interesting show to do at some point. So this that this show isn't that. Anything you wanted to add though on these points, David? Um No, I uh I again I I I agree with Daniel in the sense of I think um I I think that if uh that that if somebody is making allowances for that then they're um They're not doing a very good job with their hermeneutic. So but we would have to do a show on those passages. At the very least, I think that this statement leaves that open. Somebody could subscribe to this statement, sign off, and say I agree this 100% and be uh really older. I think I think it's I think it's vague enough that that's true. And I think that's on purpose. I think the people who live in order to be inclusive. I think we can all be categorically emphatic about evolution is not a biblical concept though. And so we do want to make that clear And I think I said this uh one or two shows ago. It I I would also emphatically say it's not even scientific. So uh I wish we don't mean microevolution, we mean the one kind of animal changes into another kind of animal. Yeah, your dog isn't gonna turn into a pigeon. That's just you know, or vice versa, that's not gonna happen So all right, Article um 23. We affirm the clarity of Scripture and specifically of its message about salvation. We deny that all passages of Scripture are equally clear or have equal bearing on the message of redemption. We affirm that a person is not dependent for understanding of Scripture on the expertise of biblical. scholars. We deny that a person should ignore the fruits of the technical study of scripture by biblical scholars. So these aren't exactly related to what I need to take them one at a time. Yeah. Well scripture is clear about salvation, but not all parts of scripture are equally easy to understand. That that kind of makes sense. I think a lot of that has to do with the style of writing, right? Because some passages are very clearly historical in nature, like it's it's a reads like a textbook or a history book. book rather than a you know much more uh vague or prophetic type of uh of book that can be uh a lot of a head scratcher sometimes. So I I I don't think that's a And also your your your position in in history, I think. There are certain things that we're at a disadvantage when we read uh something that was written thousands of years ago, there was some assumed knowledge that they just knew You know, imagine talking about, you know, Frederick County and uh today and we just take things for granted and somebody has a recording of that discussion two thousand, five four thousand years from now, and they're like, Okay, I don't n I d I don't know what a Fitzgerald Automole is is. What are you talking about? You know what I mean? So that's the one which does connect to the the next point here, which is essentially the the article is saying and you know any normal reader can understand scripture, but uh there are some who have uh devoted a lot of time to try and figure out some of those those historical contexts and things like we're talking about. Absolutely. And th and those are of value and those should not be, you know, set aside. Yeah, and I think that's important in today's day and age Uh so many people it's me and my Bible. I don't need to go to church. I don't need to listen to any of m any pastors or any scholars or whatever. I uh you know, the the Bible's perfectly clear and I can And there's a truth to that. And that's what makes it you can you can easily go to one extreme or the other, right? Because then you get a lot of Catholics that are like, Well, I don't need my Bible. No, uh Muslims will say something similar depending on what sect of of of Islam they're in, that oh I don't need my uh Quran reading, I I I I mean I I should do it, but really I get from the Milana what would tell So in a lot of religions and a lot of cults of Christianity, um it's really the local leader or the the overall leader that that tells you what to believe. So I think either extreme is a bad thing, Troy. So you you uh mentioned the other extreme where you could say, Oh, I don't eat any pasture at all. Well they're both are important and so we want to have a balance. Yeah. By the way, the hist the history point I was making before, I realize that works in the reverse too. People from thousands of years ago don't have the advantage that we have because they were pre-cross. and a lot of things that were pointing to in the future, they might not have fully understood what that was pointing to. We can now, to the benefit of hindsight, look back two thousand years and be like, okay, now I know what that passage in Isaiah is really talking about So that works both ways. Article twenty-five is the last one. Let's see if they say the best for last. We affirm that the only type of preaching which sufficiently conveys the divine revelation and its proper application to life is that which faithfully expounds the text of Scripture as the Word of God. We deny that the preacher has any message from God apart from the text of Scripture. I I'd have to have some clarification of what they meant by this the last phrase. We deny that that the preacher has any message from God apart from the text of scripture. I don't think that's that's all necessarily true if it's as so w what I understand that to say is that there's not going to be any other message or word from God outside of what Scripture has already said. And I don't think that's correct. If it's if they're saying we deny that the preacher is going to contradict Scripture or give something that's completely against Scripture in the message Okay, yeah, that that's that I can be on board with, but I am not a cessationist. I believe that the gift of prophecy never went away and there are people that do give prophecies or or may let let's say may give prophecies uh or or a word from god direct word from god for a congregation, a person, uh a nation. whatever reason in the future, it will match with scripture, so it will not contradict scripture if and when that happens, but I want to leave room for the possibility that that would happen. And I think that talking about the charismatic uh movement in the church is possibly part of what's being said here, but the way I'm mostly thinking they might mean it is that when you're preaching the Word of God that you should be preaching the Word of God He should be preaching the text of Scripture. It shouldn't be some sort of uh, you know, uh Tony Robbins Feel Good, How to Be Successful in Life kind of a message. It should be a message that is not apart from the text of Scripture. The preaching is rooted in Scripture. That's how I'm mainly meaning uh thinking they're meaning this, but it I think also, yeah, it could be something about uh charismatic revelation. And then maybe distinguishing between uh preaching in particular and you know other other times in which uh Um you know, people are are interacting um with one another about, you know, maybe what God would have them to do right in their lives. uh which you know uh where you bring biblical principles to bear. Um but uh Yeah, so does that does that line up with what you're you're saying, Daniel? Yeah, I mean I d I just would w would want to clarify it because if what they're saying is that you cannot give any new revelation and that no new revelation would ever exist then I I would say I disagree with that. I don't think scripture supports that. Um Yeah, I don't think that there's I don't know that they're saying that because I think that yeah this is talking about Uh interpretive principles uh as you're preparing for and presenting a sermon. This is this is meant for preaching this particular article anyway. is is specifically talking about preaching. Right. So I don't know if that's if that's the case, as long as they're not prohibiting any idea of uh additional revelation that may come in the future, uh then then I I don't have a problem with the statement. I agree with it. I think yes, you need to be based in scripture and expounding scripture uh really expositorily is is really the only right way to Yeah, and expositorily that's a a fancy word. You want to uh provide some definition for that? The two main methods of preaching are topical versus expository, right? Where topical we mean I pick a topic, I have a theme, and my theme might be um God's love. And we might want to go and look through all the verses about God's love and pull them out one by one and put 'em all in a row and then read them all and say here's all the to teaching about God's love versus just reading a passage of scripture and saying, okay, verse number one says this. Okay, what are all the contexts? Are there similar passages that talk about the same thing, bring those in. Okay, now go to verse number two. So it you may deal with a specific topic, but you are going through in context rather than just pulling verses out of your hat in different spots to fit a narrative that you've made up to to do. And so that's why uh a lot of times if you look at like you know um And sometimes it it's not immediately apparent because somebody can be presenting an expositional message This sounds topical because the passage, you know, the paragraph of the Bible they're preaching on is basically there's one main topic and point to that And so it's like, oh, this must be a bad preacher. He's doing a topical message. Well no. Was it was it the topic from the text that was that day's you know was the examined that day. And I don't think that there's no place ever for a topical You know, I mean you might have an event that you're speaking at and you want to bring what does the Bible have to say about this event? You know, marriage would be a very good thing. You know, you have a pastor's gonna s Speak at a marriage, um then you might want to bring in verses about marriage specifically, but they should still be in context if that's gonna be the case. And I think that should be limited in in nature. In general when you have preaching it should be Yeah. And one of the good benefits of doing that sort of approach is you're working through the Bible kind of in order, you're picking different books of the Bible and working through that book in order, is you can't skip the hard controversial passages. forced to deal with them. You can't cherry pick. So now this uh International Council on Biblical Inerrancy, uh and I said nineteen seventy eight earlier, uh that was the uh Uh the original statement on biblical inerrancy is 1978. The uh Chicago statement on biblical hermeneutics came out in the uh 1980s, uh about four years later, nineteen eighty So I misspoke earlier, so just to correct the record because I know there are some fastidious types that they give me a hard time on social media when I I flub. And unfortunately I give them opportunities almost every show. So I wanted to get ahead of that one. So they also include though an uh a portion that's called exposition. And I'm not going to read this whole thing, but there are some parts that jumped out at me I thought would be interesting fodder for conversation. So the second paragraph of their exposition, it starts and ends this way. The living God, creator and redeemer, is a communicator, and the inspired and inerrant scriptures which set before us his saving revelation and history are his means of communicating with us today. So it is of vital importance to do to detect and dismiss defective ways of interpreting what is written and to replace them with faithful interpretation. interpretation of God's infallible word. I don't think any of us disagree with that, but I'm wondering is there a practical application point as pastors, preachers yourself? Is there anything in this, particularly the importance of detecting and dis dismissing uh defective ways of interpreting What are some ways that you guard against these defective ways? Um things that are tied to emotion. I think uh Especially in today's modern church, there's a lot of emotional um experiences that they're trying to prove the Bible through emotion. Feel a burning in your chest or or you have some kind of emotional emotional testimonies. And I think that is taking away from God's Word. So you're saying as you're looking at the text and you you as the as the person who's going to be preaching it might have some something burning in your belly or burning in your bosom to quote our uh LDS friends. Uh and and so you want to not just run with that, you want to test that and make sure that you're you're you're you're you're also being in uh intellectual, not just emotional. Right. But I mean I've I've uh heard of churches also uh saying uh Um that you know, you're not saved unless uh you're speaking in tongues. You know. That's not biblical. But they're using extra biblical things to try to get you to have an emotional experience and uh try to tie you to that church and that preaching, I think that's not correct. You were gonna say something too, Daniel? Yeah, I just on a different note of you know what things that you look at, what are some examples of of a defective way of interpreting what's written? One uh easy trap that people fall into is taking a single verse uh either out of context or having an entire doctrine that either stands or falls on a single verse. Um got uh I I was just talking with somebody the other uh day about how There's a verse famous verse in verse John about the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. These three are one. Right? And there's it's famous be not because it qu uh accurately describes the Trinity, but it's famous because many Many people have claimed well there's not a good manuscript support for that verse and some manuscripts don't include it, so maybe it was added by a copyist and it really isn't part of the Bible. And the point my uh I was making with my um my friend brought up, he said it's um it doesn't matter because the doctrine of the Trinity doesn't need that verse. Right? If you get rid of the verse, there's so many other passages that deal with the Trinity. Yeah, it'd be nice to have that verse too, but you can't have a doctrine that stands or falls on one verse. So I think that's a really important point. when you're interpreting scripture. If you're reading through your Bible and you see this one verse that stands out and you're like, oh that's weird. Hey, you know what? I'm gonna build a whole philosophy around this idea that just came to me after reading this one verse But make sure it's supported by the rest of the scripture and it weaves throughout all the rest of the the you know the context of the where you found the verse and also other passages. So that that's just Uh one trap that you can fall into. congregation things that you're not falling prey to some of these uh defective ways of interpreting the world? Some of the unlisted defective ways or are they they might be in there somewhere. But uh um yeah it I I think one I mean we've sort of said this already, I think one thing that's super important is to to seek to become as as familiar with all of scripture as possible. Uh I think that helps to to guard against um you know reading a small portion and uh interpreting it in light of uh um my own personal experience rather than uh you know the whole council of scripture. Yeah, and it's not and not just our own personal experience as as as one person, but our own personal experience as a collective of persons. Sometimes our traditions can get in the way. You know, you grew up in a particular denomination or or or or the school of thought within the faith and you become blinded to other things and sometimes it's good to test yourself against other traditions that are also trying to argue from the Bible and say, you know what, a 'cause I've had this happen Yeah, my tradition actually I think might have gotten that one wrong. I think this other tradition is better on this question in that point. I think that's good to to allow ourselves to be exposed to some of the giant that came before us that are biblically faithful but outside of the the tradition that we most often find ourselves uh subscribing to. Well that's gonna do it for this week's uh edition of the Faith Debate. I wanna thank uh David Forcy and Daniel Razvi and Imran Raz Razvi for again being on the panel with me, Troy Skinner. You can find us online at WFMD. com. Go to the Faith Debate page You can also find uh us through the Household of Faith in Christ website. That's Household of FaithInChrist. com. Household of Faithinchrist. com. All the contact information is there and information about uh uh the church and and uh my church specifically and uh pictures actually a couple of these guys in addition to mine. So you if you're curious what we look like, it really is i it's not all that much. Anyway, till next time 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless Alright, I'm gonna jump up and see if uh they're done recording and I can get headphones. Yeah, they were reporting pretty late today. Yeah, I'm not sure what that's about. You're probably recording things to fill your show with when you get kicked off the air. To be honest, if they haven't kicked me off by now, I'm not sure when that would happen. It is. Maybe they're maybe they're doing pre-speed. Yeah. No, I I fain to go to bed. Okay. I'm paying a lot of I may I may listen to some. Summary or commentary later. Yeah. Be sure to watch CNN's commentary. You'll think you'll agree most with what they have to say. CNN's commentary, you'll probably agree agree most with what they have to say. Probably not. Uh you know that's that's interesting, you know, in the in the context of like how do you interpret things. Right, that whole discussion, right? How do you Uh do you do you depend on someone else to interpret current events and uh Right, and and political speeches like for you, right, which a lot of people do. Right. And so they end up uh you know, on on all sides. I mean that's a common human. It's all about interpretation. Mm-hmm. It's all it's all opinion, right? Right. Not not just not not That's why if you look at a wide enough variety of opinions, then where they all agree is probably the facts, and then you can decide which opinion you like best Um but where the where they all agree and uh that that'll be kind of the baseline facts. Yeah. There you go. Yeah. I I mean I I do think there are occasions when uh you know, I I think some people get caught in the trap of uh you know, the the smallest minority opinion is is probably the right one all the time, right? And they end up down all kinds of crazy crazy rabbit holes but But uh you know, I I do think there is an there are occasions when you know the consensus is not Right. Is not real. But but that generally means that the you know, it's the the the spirit of the age is ruling the consentus, whether it's conservative or liberal people, you know. We all get both sides get caught up in the same sort of you know, I idolatrous issues. Okay, let's uh So are we gonna continue with this then? Yeah, because I've got uh we've got enough here I think to do one more show on this. The exposition is quite long. It is and it's but you don't want to actually Yeah, no no. It's the yeah, it's the their background as to why they came up with the articles it looks like like sort of fleshing out. There is a spot that talks about isegesis versus exegesis and I that's probably worth talking about too. And if it doesn't then we'll we'll bring it up. Oh there is a spot yeah okay It's been a while since I read through this, so I can't remember what's all in there now. Quite quite a bit. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or members of WFMD. The God of the Bible uses many forms of speech. He narrates, informs, instructs, warns, reasons, promises, commands. Explains, exclaims, entreats it, and encourages. Preach it, brother Though God is revealed in the natural order, in the course of history and in the deliverances of conscience, sin makes mankind impervious and unresponsive to this general revelation. Those are a A couple of really cool sentences that are found in the exposition portion of the Chicago Statement on Biblical Hermeneutics from 1982. For those reading along at home, it's in the subsection that's headed The Communion Between God and Mankind. I know you're reading along at home. All good, faithful students of the Faith Debate read along at home. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 9. On your AM dial at 930, on your FM dial at 99. 9 HD2. On the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. You can live stream or you can catch it later in podcasts. All of these shows eventually make their way over to Sermon Audio as well as Odyssey and other social media platforms if you want to connect with any and or all of that. Easiest way to do that is go to householdfaith in Christ. com. I know it's a mouthful, but that's the name of the church, Household of Faith in Christ. And so the website is Household of Faith in Christ dot com and gave some thoughts of making the website be like hofix. com. Just also but that that that just seemed weird. So we didn't do that. On the panel again this week as we continue our look at the uh uh the the state of biblical hermeneutics in the church today. Uh Daniel uh Razvy, his father Imran Razvy, also known as Raz, and uh David Forcy. I again I'm Troy Skinner. And uh thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here. uh on the show. So um I think they tried to cover everything in that first thing I said at the at the very beginning of the show, right? The God of the Bible uses many forms of speech and then they list a whole bunch of different kinds of forms of speech I think we agree that that's true. And I think this is an important point to make because we we've got to understand what is the form of speech we're dealing with when we're interpreting uh a particular passage. Is it um is it some sort of an instruction? Is it a promise? Is it an encouragement? There's sometimes if you understand what is being communicated it's going to alter slightly how you're interpreting the words that you're then going to be preaching on or studying. And and also to whom is it being communicated? Amen. You know, looking back through uh uh you know, is it is it being communicated to the the people of God at that time in history? Is it being communicated to uh the the enemies of God's people at that time in history? Yeah. Anything else that you want to add on that point? The the other thing was talking about, you know, we can learn about God through nature. The general revelation tells us about God. Um but people are not always responsive in the way they should be to that. Doesn't give an excuse, but they're not responsive, and so we need to uh look to the special revelation, the written word of God, and and interpret that and apply it to the what we know to be true about the name natural order and all that sort of stuff. That's what the gist of I think that is saying. I don't think we have anything really to talk about there. Sure. Yeah. So now the next section of their exposition is uh has a subtitle of The Authority of Scripture. And that begins with, Holy Scripture is the self-revelation of God in and through the words of men. It is both their witness to God and God's witness. to himself. Any issues there? We actually had a something come up that alluded to this that we had some question from Daniel on a previous show. I don't know if this is something you wanted to talk about some more now. The isog isegesis versus exegesis you think? That's that's talked about further down in here. Yeah yeah, no no no. You were talk uh I'm uh my recollection is a few shows ago uh about how the how the Word of God came to be, whether it was, you know, God basically uh using a scribe to dictate his words directly through them or if it was God's word and the human author's word at at one and the same time. It seemed like you weren't necessarily going to automatically uh grant that point. I don't know if that was something you wanted to do. No, I I would I would just uh it's the only thing I would say further about that is that it's It doesn't really matter. What matters is that the words that got written down were exactly the words that God wanted. No more and no less and no different. Yeah, I I yeah I think that that's uh what all Christians should believe to be true. And I think this was a cool insight for me. Like when uh when it dawned on me Uh I'm not sure if it dawned on me or if somebody, you know, said it and because of what they taught me, it dawned on me. Um the Psalms. It's like Uh Psalm 27, of David. You know, well that's true. It's of David. I think Psalm 27 is going off the top of my head. I'm pretty sure that's a Davidic Psalm. But r regardless, it says who the human author is But Christ is the word. So there's a sense in which it's Psalm 27 of Christ. Like the Psalms are about Christ But they're also written by Christ. And when we sing these Psalms, or we study, you know, well they're meant to be Psalms ultimately. When we sing the Psalms, Christ is singing them with us. And because he's the origin he's the author. When that resonated with me, the Psalms took on a different kind of a of a life uh for me. Right. So I think it's good for us to remember that, yeah, there are human authors. But ultimately there's one author of all of it, and that's why you use scripture. to interpret scripture and it all ties together because there is the the one mind of God that is behind it all. All right So nobody wants to uh push back on that. Good. Uh the Holy Spirit and the Scriptures is the next section of uh of this exposition And um the second paragraph in this is the part that um that I wanted to uh read and see if we have any comments. The Holy Spirit's illumination can only be expected where the biblical text is diligently studied. Illumination does not yield new truth over and above what the Bible says. Rather, it enables us to see what Scripture The road uh to Emmaus is a very good example of that. These disciples knew all the scriptures, they had memorized in all likelihood, uh quite a few of them. And so when he met them on the road to Emmaus, he didn't tell them anything new. He showed them what they already knew, what was there all along in a different light, and then they all of a sudden the light bulb went off. Oh, okay, yeah, now I get it. Right So it's it's the same type of thing, right? There's not j uh just because the Holy Spirit is exp helping us understand or is explaining to us, that doesn't mean there's anything new that that we're gonna get out of it other than what's already there. Yeah, I think some people nervous about the diligently studied part. I don't know if we wanted to get that at all. It looks like David was about to say something actually Actually. Well I I think it's interesting that they uh or they include the the term uh expected, right? Spiritual illumination can only be expected where the biblical text is diligently studied. And uh so I I think what they're getting at there is uh that you know that that without uh Without diligently seeking to know what God has already said, we should not expect to Right, yeah, to to hear to hear anything from him. And I think this would be a nice reminder for uh Uh I know there's at least one person that's going to hear my voice right now that has done this at least once in their life. They don't really read the Bible They're not really much of a churchgoer, but they grew up in the church or they understand the Bible has some value and how they get a crisis moment in their life. And so they open up their Bible to somewhere in the middle and they usually end up landing somewhere in the Psalms And they read a psalm and and they're looking for like that instantaneous like message from God to speak to their moment. And sometimes they feel like they found one. But should they expect that what they found is actually what that text is saying? Is it coming by the by the illumination of the Holy Spirit, or are they uh doing what these preachers who do topical sermons are doing? They're trying to find uh proof text to to to to address where they are at that moment in their life kind of a thing. So I think what they're saying is that you should expect that the Holy Spirit's revealing what the world is really saying if you are actually diligently studying and not just picking a verse at random and saying, oh there's my life verse. And you know, it's not unreasonable for uh For God to say without saying, but you know, when we were studying a a portion of scripture, if we have other scripture available. You know, it's not it's not unreasonable for him to say, well, you should read the other things that I've written for you to help you understand this portion of scripture. Yeah. God's written more than one verse. You know, you want to avoid the trap uh which I've heard some people say before, yeah, me and God are okay. Like we you know, we we talk a lot, like I pray a lot and you know, to spend time with in with him. Well, do you read your Bible? Oh well I mean I mean the Holy Spirit is indwelling in me. He he tells me what I need to know. Well, okay. Yeah, not really. I mean you need to be reading the Bible. Yeah, we can't follow our heart. We have you know we have to uh we can only follow our heart in so far as we've had the Holy Spirit leading our heart. The Holy Spirit's leading our heart, well then you can follow because you're really following the leading of the Holy Spirit. But you can only know if you're doing that against God's revealed will in Scripture. Yeah, if you're if you're saying That doesn't mean God won't ever speak to you outside of Scripture like audibly or in your head or anything like that. That that does happen Yeah, but if somebody's gonna say, Yeah, I'm good with God 'cause I'm talking to him all the time, you know, well okay, but it sounds like a monologue. Like are you ever hearing him back? Are you ever reading what he has to say? You know. The next section, uh I didn't have anything that I highlighted here, the idea of hermeneutics. I don't know if there's anything in there we're going to want to talk about it so we can swing back later because the next It's just one paragraph. The very next section is multiple paragraphs and it's got the subtitle The Scope of Biblical Interpretation. And there's a few things here that I wanted to uh to read and uh see what we think. The interpreter's task is to understand both what scripture meant historically and what it means for us today First comes exegesis, extracting from the text what God uh by the human writer was expressing. Second stop there for a second. Oh, okay. So exegesis, it's really important. The difference between exegesis and eisegesis. Exegesis, as it says here, it's looking what the text said and and and Just starting with the text, say what does the text itself say, rather than isogases which coming with your own preconceived notions notions, your own glasses to look through the text from outside, some other things that you were taught. Whether it's as we talked about last week, science and evolution is totally this and then you can put that grass on and you'll find evolution in the Bible if you really, really want to. It won't be there if you're honest, but it but you can find it if you really want to or whether it's some other some some doctrine, you know, maybe it's from the Catholic Church or something, somewhere you grew up in a denomination that maybe wasn't that biblically sound and you're starting with that lens and say, you know what? I need to find the Catholic confessional in the Bible. Well you can probably find a passage that sort of alludes to that if you really try. But if you start from the text itself you won't find that because it's It's anti scripture. Right. So that's uh you want to avoid eisegesis. Don't start with your own precise. Yeah, I think uh I mean a a pertinent example based on some other conversations we've we've had recently would be to say, uh You know, um, I I believe in evolution. Therefore, when I come to Scripture, I should see evolution There. Right, right. And and you you don't want to read scripture that way. You want to read scripture with kind of a blank slate in your mind. Say God, what do you have for me here? And this Read the text. Okay, I think the text is saying this. Well that kind of matches with some other thing that I heard before. Well that's okay, great. If it doesn't match, okay fine. It it doesn't have to. So that's what it's saying by exegesis is start with the text and just look at what the text says. And as a memory device to help you understand the difference between the two words. Isegesis, by the way, is E-I-S isn't start does not start start with the letter I. It's E I S. It has to do with inputting something. And uh exegesis says it says here extracting. So think about like if you wanted to extract yourself from building you follow the exit sign. Right, you you're exiting the buildings, you're you're extracting from, you're pulling out from the text what it's actually saying. And that's what you want to be doing, uh, rather than uh pushing your ideas in. So I said, you can Yeah, and uh and uh exegesis doesn't have anything to do with race or X from speed race or anything like that I'm not sure anybody thought so, but now that I planted that seed in your in your head, you'll never lose it. Uh so then continuing because that was first. First comes exeges, then second comes integration, correlating um uh within the frame of reference of uh uh uh of what's in the text. So we want to we want to uh figure out what the text is saying And then how this fits within the larger context of scripture, right? How it how it integrates within the whole biblical meta narrative kind of thing. We mentioned last week about don't have a doctrine standard fall on one verse or even one passage. It needs to be supported by other parts of Scripture. And then third comes application for the correcting and directing of thought and action. So this is where a lot of people start. You know, you go to a lot of local Bible studies and stuff and they want to jump right into the application. What's it mean for you? How is this going to change your life? I will apply it to my life, which is fine. We should be applying scripture to our life, but not before we figured out what exactly the scripture is saying, what it means, and how it fits within the broader scope of all of Scripture so that it can accurately apply it into my life. And then we try to find scripture that will teach us how to solve that. Rather than just starting with scripture and seeing what God wants us to do. It says that all preaching should be based on this threefold procedure. And you'll actually see a lot of pastors preach sermons with this structure. Right? They've got the uh the the the unfolding of the text itself, uh and then they're gonna show you how it connects to the rest of the Bible, and then they end with their ten-minute application about how you can live a better Christ-filled life and that sort of thing. the very uh almost stereotypical way that uh a lot of sermons are are structured. There's nothing wrong with that. I didn't mean to say that stereotypes are bad in this case. But in case you're wondering why your pastor always seems to end with the application, well he's trying to follow this this idea. Doesn't mean you have to. There's been times like myself, just to kind of for a change of pace to to catch somebody off guard, I'll open with a bold application point. Right off the bat. And there and um you must do this. The Bible says now let me explain to you why I said all those things Our text today is, you know, I've I've uh I've I've done it that way as a presentation style, so you don't have to end with application, but the application should be part of it. And I mean that's that's what we see teachers doing in scripture, right, is speaking the word of God, right, and then Connecting that to what God has already said. Uh yeah, I mean we see Jesus do it, we see Paul do it, right? And then than giving application for that truth. And so we should see ourselves do it. Right. Yeah. This is the Faint Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. That was the voice of David Forcy. You've also heard a lot of Daniel Razby. Not so much of Imran today. He's kind of laying in the weeds today. He's he's sitting back there j He's got his own report card, he's scoring. I'm giving Daniel a B plus on that answer. Troy F. Don't play favorites. Formal rules of biblical interpretation is the next section. This is a lengthier section, so I'm going to break this up into pieces. They got an ABC and D. So uh right at the very beginning of this section. By the way, in case you're wondering, what are we talking about? This is we're talking about the Chicago Statement on Biblical Hermeneutics that came out in 19 So just a little over 40 years ago. Let's see. The believing interpreter will use his mind not to impose or manufacture meaning. but to grasp the meaning that is already there in the material. Interpretation should adhere to the single literary meaning which each passage carries symbols and figures of speech must be recognized for what they are. I'm going to pause there. So the already the first part is basically saying don't do eisegesis. Don't impose your ideas. into the text. The next thing is saying to make make sure you're understanding what kind of literature, what genre are you reading? The next ver uh the next um sentence is a little The work of scholars who, though not themselves Christians, have been able to understand biblical ideas accurately will be a valuable resource in the theoretical part of the interpreter's task. What do you think that means? Uh maybe maybe it's just saying that we shouldn't uh Well we shouldn't throw out, you know, historical research, you know, that has been that has been done by non Christians. Sure. You know, and say that it's it it's useless because, you know, the the spirit's not in them. Yeah, I mean you know oh you know, a blind squirrel finds an acorn once in a while doesn't mean that you wouldn't eat the eat the acorn is because the squirrel is blind. uh in the biblical narrative. So uh I wouldn't put it past him to continue to do that. Maybe that's what they're making. Um so the symbols and figures of speech must be recognized for what they are. I think this is where we sometimes get into trouble and we get into disagreements as believers where somebody's going to say, no, I I I I'm taking that as a figure of speech. I'm taking that as symbolic and somebody else is going to say No, it's in black and white right there. You know, take it at face value and it and so that's where we can that's where iron strepens iron, that's where you have shows like the Faith Debate actually have a reason to exist, uh is because of disagreement. over those kinds of things and sometimes those are issues over which brothers and sisters in Christ can disagree about how you're going to understand some of those things. Yeah, right. So uh subpoint B in this section sa begins with the literal sense of each passage should be sought by the grammatical historical method. That is, by asking what is the linguistically natural way to understand the text in its historical setting. This is so important and most believers are not equipped to do this very well, which is why study is important, having a faithful pastor is important. uh having discernment about which online resources to trust is important because we're not real good uh uh collectively at doing this in in in my experience. Right. You want to know what it meant you know it's it's similar to the method of constitutional interpretation in the US Constitution, you want uh on the conservative side of the of the aisle. Usually people say we want to know what the framers and the writers of the Constitution meant when they wrote that, not what it means to us today in the new context of how English has evolved. Right. And we're challenging this area for for both of those words, the grammatical, historical. So the grammatical, I mean we we live in a kind of a postmodern sort of an age where it's reader response theory and uh I get to decide as the reader what the text means. Yeah I'm not basing it on the the genre, on the grammar, on the linguistics. None of that matters. I get to decide And and so that's the that's the that's the the the the the tone, the general tone of the era within with which we live. And so we we're we're not trained through the school system how to properly interact with literal So we're at a disadvantage for that reason. And then the historical, there are people that don't know who won the election in 2020 in this country. That's not even ancient history. So trying to go back twenty years, two hundred years, two thousand years, are you kidding me? We're such a deficit. We don't know our own history much less the history of the world and how it all fits. So that's where we need the people to help us. And even language changes, right? Modern Greek and modern Hebrew is not the same as it was in the biblical times. Well yeah, the the Hebrew and Greek of the Bible are basically dead languages. Nobody speaks those anymore. And even look at a living language like English. Take the King James, which uses the word meat a lot, M-E-A-T, um, to mean food in general, not whether meat or vegetable Um but in in modern English, meat really only means like animals. And so you might uh read a passage that says, Don't eat meat and what passage might be saying to fast But you're saying, Oh well he wants us to be vegetarian. No, w if you're reading the King James in this case, right, this is even in the space of four hundred years the w language has changed enough that sometimes it's difficult to understand. So definitely put it in the context of what it meant to the the time it was written originally. Um and and and how the grammar would work, but also the culture of the time and what what people would have understood from the from that uh passage. And the next um section on here is interpretation should adhere to the principle of harmony. We should look to scripture to interpret scripture. We've kind of already touched on those points either this show or last show, so I don't know if we need to to to to to hammer any more on that unless you have some straight thoughts you want to say. Alright, in the next section here, interpretation should be canonical. That is, the teaching of the Bible as a whole should always be viewed as providing the framework within which our understanding of each particular passage must start. be reached. Valuable as an aid in determining the literal meaning of biblical passages, it would be include the genre, for example. Since mistakes about genre lead to large-scale misunderstandings of biblical material, it is important that this particular discipline not be neglected. So it should be canonical, so it should be within i if if you think you found a brand new fresh insight that nobody in the church has ever thought of before It's possible you're the only one in the history of the world that got it right. But odds are really good that you didn't and it's outside of what is considered canon, part of the teaching of true biblical uh understanding of things Um as part of the way I test myself when I'm preparing a sermon, you know I I kind of I'm studying the passage and trying to figure out what I think it it it it truly means and how to apply it in my congregation's uh in the in our setting of as a congregation, those sorts of things. But then I'm reading a a bunch of other people to check myself and see, does anybody agree with me? And uh also does anybody disagree with me? And if so, what are the merits of their arguments? Because it might not be so much that they're gonna change my mind, but maybe they also have a valid point that is also true that I somehow missed. But uh I I I'm trying to think if there's a time when I can I don't think there is. There's a time when I was like, man, I totally missed that. I'm so glad I did my study because I got that completely wrong. I don't think I've had that happen, but I'm open to the possibility of being corrected uh in such a way. And I think you're less likely to have that happen if you keep in mind the genre, which is the the last point in that section is talking about. I think we almost have to start almost have to start there. By the way, talk about starting here. We now have to end there. We we're running out of time. We've got less than a minute left in in the show. So uh sorry, I got the last word, guys. I'm Troy Skinner giving the last word. That's a rare treat for me, I gotta say David uh uh Forcy and Daniel Razvy and Imron Razvey. He's here, trust me. I don't know if he said anything too much. There he is. He gave us an attaboy. We all get eight pluses for today. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find us online at householdfaith in Christ. com and also WFMD. com Uh but really uh even if you go to Household of Faith in Christ dot com, that'll connect to the the the website for the radio station as well. So that's uh can be a one-stop shop So we're going to probably finish this up, I think, next week. Looking forward to that. That will be 167 and a half hours from right now. Until then, God bless. Yeah there was another point I was gonna make but uh I realized I didn't start the end music and I was taking care of that and in the process I lost my train of thought. I was like, I have no idea what's going to happen. And it was brilliant, trust me. Okay. Oh I think um Yeah the stuff we're talking about here is not really controversial. I mean it's pretty pretty well. That's to us It's controversial out there. Right, but that's why we can't find good churches. Yeah, but that's but we don't have somebody in here arguing that, so it's not Yeah. I can try to play double advocate I could do that. We're kinda through it all now, right? Yeah, we got yeah there's uh I don't think we have a whole show left of it at the rate we're going through it. Yeah we'll see. We'll s yeah, I mean we'll see. Maybe we could uh Not go back through and give highlights, but maybe just go around and give it closing dots. Yeah. Okay, okay on this. Yeah, there's something interesting in encountering God through his word. Last last part of the centre. Oh three, twelve, right? Yeah. So we wrote down twelve. Three Um three twelve Should we go use the restroom now or wait? Oh yeah, you know do it. Yeah, see we got one, two, like four more talking points that are highlighted. And then eventually I was gonna go into biblical application, but that's a whole nother set of shows, I think, of The reason I wanted to do these shows actually was because uh uh there are so few uh pastors that are abiding by it. Right. You know it's like this is this is kind of the standard. This is what we should be aiming for And that's not what we're finding. So I wanted to remind any pastor that would listen, but also the people who are going to church. Like this is what you should expect from your pastors. what you should be getting. If you're not getting this if you're eating a lot of Cheetos and Cheese whiz, you're not actually getting, you know, meat. Oh, I remember what my point was now. I'll I'll save it in case we need it for filler on this show. Otherwise I'll forget again. Okay. All right, you ready? All set up. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of W. Jesus Christ and the saving grace of God in him are the central themes of the Bible. Any way of interpreting Scripture which misses its consistent Christ-centeredness must be judged. Erroneous. Amen. Ain't that the truth? This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here on News Radio 930 WFMD, also on the FM at 99. 9 HD. to and on the World Wide Web, of course, at WFMD. com. If you'd like to connect with the show, with me personally, or with Imran Razvi or Daniel Razley or David Forcy personally, go to household of faith in Christ dot com, contact me and um And if you're contacting me, then that's simple enough. If you're trying to contact them, I'll put you in touch with them. Because the they they oh uh you probably can get contact information at conquered by love dot org as well, right? Yeah. We've reached you guys on that. That's the uh ministry the Rasvies have conquered by love dot org, uh uh family uh uh matters, parenting, marriage, those kinds of things is really the the the the the core of what they focus on there and they've got some good materials for you. I encourage you to check that out. So we're working our way through the um 1982 Chicago statement on biblical hermeneutics and this will probably be the final show on this subject matter before we transition to something else next week because we're heading down the home stretch here. What I read at the beginning uh was uh like pretty much like on the second to last page of what what did they call this portion again? The exposition They have a section of that that's basically explaining why they did what they did, why they said what they said, why they think what they think. This is kind of flushing that out and giving you some background in into their into their into their brain and how it's wired. Um it should go without saying what I read at the start of the show. But it needs to be said. Which is why they said it here, and which is why I said it at the start of the show. Jesus Christ and the saving grace of God in him are the central themes of the Bible. Any way of interpreting Scripture which misses its consistent Christ-centeredness must be judged erroneous. So when uh when the people of God in the Old Testament who who lived then, uh when they were hearing the word of God, were they misinterpreting it if they were not thinking uh But this was about Jesus. Yes, it in fact says it says an example. Right. Well, it actually goes into that specifically a couple sentences earlier, right? It says Old Testament believers well let's let's say the office uh it's worth going through actually. The types and prophecies in the Old Testament anticipated his coming, his atoning death, his resurrection, his reign. And his return. The office and ministry of priests, prophets, and kings, the divinely instituted ritual and sacrificial offerings, and the patterns of redemptive action in Old Testament history all had typical significance as foreshadowings of Jesus Old Testament believers looked forward to his coming and lived and were saved by faith, which had Christ and His kingdom in view, just as Christians today are saved by faith in Christ the Savior, who died for our sins and now lives and reigns and will one day. to each other. So So I I I don't disagree. I guess my question is, right, in the Old Testament, what how is it that believers thought of and rightly w what was in their minds that allowed them to rightly interpret. I think they recognize that only God forgives and only God can say And that he will be providing salvation in s in some manner. I don't think they necessarily had all of the pieces in in of the puzzle. They have pieces in it. But they were they understood that the sacrifices never atoned for any sins. They're just, you know, symbols. Yeah. I I think it's in good address. I mean they were looking for the Messiah and the Savior. Mm-hmm. So they recognize that they needed that. And some are still looking for the Messiah and the Savior and they missed it. Um so, you know, what do you say o about those? Are uh are they living by faith because they they didn't recognize the coming. Right, yeah. We actually did a show on that recently. Uh rather contentious show as I recall. It was a fun one. Uh I think I I think it's uh I mean I think part of the answer is in in the name of right in Jesus' name, right, which means God saves. And so right in the Old Testament is the the people of God interpreted his word and it can be through the rubric of God says. Absolutely. And it can be helpful to understand for the uninitiated that Messiah and Christ are the same word just in different languages So Christ is the you know the the English version of the Greek, you know, Messiah is from the Hebrew. They're both talking about the anointed, the Savior, the one who's to come. Um so uh if you read Messiah in in one part of the Bible and you read Christ in another part of the Bible, it's talking about the exact same thing just using a different language. I think that can help to to clear that up for some some folks. Yeah and and also the you know the understanding that uh Um but the anointed ones in the Old Testament were and this is sort of what it was saying here in what you read, Daniel, like we're we're priests and prophets and kings, right? We're uh had all the authority, right, had the ability to bring God to man and to you know bring man before God. All right. The next section, we're heading down the home stretch here. This is in the subheading Biblical and Extra-Biblical Knowledge. A portion of this paragraph says, God, the author of all scripture, is also the Lord of all facts. There can in principle be no contradiction between a right understanding of what Scripture is says and a right account of any reality or event in the created order. This was talked about in the articles themselves, so we kind of already talked about this a little bit. Was there anything else you wanted to say to to flesh that out? Oh truth is God's truth is kind of what this is saying, right? And it says what to do if you find such a contradiction. It says any appearance of contradiction. would argue misunderstanding or inadequate knowledge either of what scripture really affirms or what the extra biblical facts really are. Thus it would be a summons to reassessment and further scholarly inquiry. inquiry. So if you find uh if you find a verse in the Bible that says um the sky is red and you look up and the sky appears blue Well either your eyes are not seeing the sky correctly or you didn't re understand what the Bible said, maybe red means blue, or some something is i is is incorrect in your understanding, but it's not God, because God doesn't make mistakes. That's what they're trying to say. That's the takeaway. If you see an error, that's you. That's on you. That's not God's error. We're all good on that one? Should I Yeah, I well I I think it's I mean I think it's a point worth talking about in in the day and age where Um and this has always been the case, I guess, but we we think very highly of uh tend to think very highly of of experts and And thus we think very highly of the thing. Right. And and th you know thus we think very highly of the abilities of of mankind and the the mind of man and and So an rational thought. Yeah, no so there's a yeah, there's a great temptation in today to um yeah, for uh a a great pride, you know, in and Hebris to think. that uh man can somehow uh out outthink, overthink God. Yeah, and it's okay to say I don't know sometimes. Yeah, and the challenge to echoing your point that we're really facing today with this Yeah, I call it the credentialed class. You know, if they've got credentials behind their name or some fancy diploma on their wall, oh they must know what they're talking about. We have to understand the the environment within in which so many of these people earned their credentials, they didn't learn truth, facts, you know, actual history. They learned alchemy. You know, it's like it it it everything's a fabrication. They it it It it they learn things that aren't real. And we're living that now. Listener, you ever ask yourself Nothing makes sense anymore. Nothing's real. It started out years ago with the the the the slogan fake news. But now it's fake everything Right. It's virtual reality, augmented reality. Nothing's real anymore. Everything's photoshopped. You got these deep fakes that they can do, they can make people say and do whatever they want in a video now Uh the people speculating the balloon thing that went across the country from China. Is it really a balloon? Maybe it's a some sort of this or that. I don't and You you you question everything because everything's been made to be untrue and it and flipped on its head, inside out, upside down. And so these so-called experts, they're they're experts in things that aren't real What kind of expertise is that? And and for some reason we're really excited about artificial intelligence. Yeah. Again, this this chat GPT thing or whatever everybody's been talking about lately where it's this artificial intelli I I've got to find a better term. Anybody who's been listening for a length of time knows how important I find the language wars. Other than in times like this where I have to explain what I'm meaning by by language wars, I don't use the word racist. I don't just I don't refer to the the human races. There's one human race. I don't use that language. And I because I feel like if I use that language, I've surrendered the argument before it even began. You know, where on the on the wrong scale am I gonna am I gonna be? Am I gonna be as wrong as you or less wrong than you? No, I don't I don't want to be less wrong, I want to be right. It's basically what what's passing for artificial intelligence with this chat GPT, I think that's what it's called GPT thing, right? I think that's what it's called. All it is is a supersized, really fast Um search engine. That's all it is. It's just a search engine. And it's taking all these little pieces from the internet and putting them together and presenting them. It's then programmed by actual intelligence People who have intelligence have programmed this thing. That's the intelligence. They have actual intelligence. The machine is not artificially intelligent. It's not intelligent. It's programmed, it's a machine. So don't don't look for your biblical answers using a search engine. Yeah, because I mean it's only as good as what the programmers put in there, right? Garbage in, garbage out And I don't know what a better word's gonna be for art for AI, but I'm I I I'm I'm I'm doggedly determined I'm gonna find a phrase that I can whether anybody else will join me in that, I don't know, but I'm gonna find a phrase I can use instead of that Well uh I yeah. And part of the problem is maybe celebrating artificial. You know, saying that that's somehow I think there's a fancy word for that, sumer lacra, I think it's called where the where the fake becomes the real artificial wannabe intelligence. Wannabe. But you know there's this there's I maybe I even said on the show, because I said it not too long ago. It might have been in the constant show where, you know, the guy grows the strawberries that ring any bells The guy grows builds his empire. I'm gonna give you the really short version then, in case I have said it before on the show. So this guy builds an empire based on strawberries. He's a really good farmer. He makes like the world's best strawberries and some traveler through towns like, hey, you make really good strawberries. We should market these. And anyway one thing leads to another, before you know it, they got strawberry tarts and strawberry uh soda and strawberry, you know uh ice cream and all these different things. Well then fast forward several decades and now this guy's you know the ninety years old and he's taken his great great grandson uh hey you want to see where it all began he takes him out to the field to eat a strawberry And he said, This is this is where it all started, my uh grandson or great grandson. Would you like to taste the the real strawberries? And he said I said, oh yeah. This is a kid who grew up on strawberry ice cream, strawberry soda, strawberry flavorings, red egg, all the things that were extracted from the real strawberry. He eats a strawberry and he spits it out. It's disgusting. He goes, what is this? He goes, it's a strawberry. This isn't a strawberry The fake replaced to the real. And people think the fake is real. I think it's called Sumer Lacros. Sumer Lacra, Sumerlacros, some some fancy word like that. That's the world we live in now, and these so-called experts, that's what they're experts in. They're experts in fake. Right? Got everybody's got uh uh I mean look at the runaway e even forget the the the airbrushing and all that. In real life. I mean do you see what happened to Madonna She looks like a real life Muppet now. All the plastic surgeries she's had, I mean, it's not good. But that's trying to look like Michael Jackson, right, poster boy for that kind of a problem. People they're chasing something that's ideal, that's not real, and it's disgusting. At the end of the game, it's disgusting Right. Right. And these are so we have people that are experts, so called, in disgusting things. Don't follow them. All right. I think I mean I think that's that's very appli applicable to the discussion on biblical interpretation. Right, is having some it we should go to scripture so that our ideals and our understanding of reality can be shaped uh rather than you know try yeah coming coming up with our own ideas of what is what is good and true and and beautiful and then contorting scripture to that because then we end up with something, you know, ugly and that doesn't make sense. And Yeah, there's there's reality that's based in scripture or there's whims of of culture. And that's really what we're living by these days. It's whims of culture. It's whatever the whim is and the wherever the wind blows and you're going in that direction, which is absolute craziness, which e even just a few years ago, um, it was treated as mental illness. And because there is no biblical truth left in this world. And that's where w that's where we're talking about this. This is where the truth is, this is where it began, this is where it ends. And so as long as you have this foundation, you have have an anchor. Without it, you're floating on uh on waves that have maybe capsized easily. There's nothing protecting you. And and that right, this is the this is the original temptation that we see. Right, is did did God really say that? You know, is that really what God meant? Right? That's that's the the devil leading leading mankind. I think we need Bereans, you know, from the Book of Acts and we need to test if somebody's saying something, did God really say? Like there's a a righteous way to be thinking about that question, not to challenge because the problem we've had over the last, you know know, three or four or five years uh it's I mean it's been a problem longer, but it's really been a problem last let's say five years in the church, is this false gospel, the social justice gospel, which is No gospel at all. And we've got a bunch of people out there, high profile even, putting out the this is the gospel. You know, the gospel is feeding the poor. No, it's not The b biblical teaching would tell us we should help to take care of the poor, but that's not the gospel. And so we ha so we've got these things that are fraudulent, they're fake, they're not real. So the fake gospel becomes the real gospel and uh so called in all of these churches and you got a bunch of Christians don't know what the gospel is. I'm telling you as a there's a if you actually know what the gospel is Go out and talk to people and say, hey professor, are you a Christian? You're a Christian, right? You go to church? If somebody were to say, what's the gospel? What would you say? I promise you 90% of them cannot give you a biblical answer to that question You're a Christian, right? What's the gospel? Being a good person. Feeding the poor. Fighting for justice. No. None of those things are the gospel. We're horrible with this. Just for the listeners, can you please in like one sentence, what is the gospel? Well David alluded to it earlier. Jesus. If you could expand that into two words, God saves, which is what Jesus means. If you could personally apply it in three words and say, God saved me. Um but there are there are basically five major aspects to a full understanding of the gospel. One is we have a creator who made humankind in his image, and that makes us special, makes each and every one of us valuable. That's why murder is so heinous. That's why abortion is so is such a blight on our our culture today. So we have a creator who made us special. And that's where a lot of people stop. But the next phase in understanding the gospel is it didn't stay that way because of original sin. Adam and Eve sinned, so we're all stained by their sin. We and if you don't believe that you're stained by the original sin, okay, let me just ask you about your record. Did you know you ever curse somebody out? Did you ever steal something? You ever tell a lie? You ever think lustful thoughts? So even if you don't want to buy into original sin, you're a sinner. So y you've been made special, but you've screwed that up uh with sin. So what do you do? You've got a problem. Well the problem is solved at the cross with Jesus Christ. He pays the penalty you should be paying, uh, and he gives you his righteous record. He doesn't just clear the slate He takes your horrible record upon himself and gives you his perfect obedient record. That's what's happening in the gospel narratives And then out of gratitude, we want to take care of the poor, fight for justice, right? So we want to do things in response to the gospel. And as we await Christ's return, where we will join him in glory, where there will no longer be any sin and no more injustice and no more poverty and any of those kinds of things. things. So we have a creator, but we're sinners, but fortunately we have a rescuer, a savior in Christ. Out of gratitude, we want to live increasingly holy lives. It's called big fancy word, sanctification. uh uh increase in our sanctification and then ultimately we're glorified in heaven. Well a renewed heaven and earth kind of thing forever with Christ. That that is the gospel. Now following the law, that's in the Bible, but the law is not the gospel. What we should do out of obedience to God is is in the Bible and it's important, but it's not the gospel. And so we if we don't get that right, you end up with moralism. And moralism is not the gospel. We're not saved by the law, we're condemned by the law. So we we we can't get that wrong or we've lost everything. We lost the whole game. Alright, well we've got to hurry up, but we're not gonna get through this. Got basically two small sections left. This is from the biblical statements on natural and natural science portion. What the Bible says about the facts of nature is uh uh as trustworthy, uh uh as true and trustworthy as anything else it says. However, it speaks of natural phenomena as they are spoken of in ordinary language, not in the uh explanatory technical terms of modern science, which doesn't exist. We now live in the world of postmodern science. But anyway. This is the eighties. Yeah, this is written back in the eighties. That's true. So this is taking like talking about the sunrise. Right? We we you know uh I mean uh we can argue whether that's scientifically true or not, but if you accept the idea of a uh helicent solar system. And even astronomers today will use the term sunrise even though they don't believe it right Right. So you can't put put that on God. That's what it looks like when you exact and watch it happen from our perspective. Exactly. And that and and that's why, I mean so y so you can't sit there and say, see, God called it a sunrise, he doesn't know the earth. No. Astronomers say sunrise too is just a figure of speech. Right, right. Scripture was given to reveal God, not to address scientific issues. Scripture interprets scientific knowledge. Um Uh I'll I guess I'll just stop with that point. So there is things related to science in the Bible, but it's not primarily a science textbook. That's not its main aim. But when it makes a scientific claim or or there's some truth that would have a scientific application. We can trust that, but it's not trying to tell us like how many capillaries on average are in the typical human being. You know, it's it's it's not answering that c question. I'm not sure the science is trying to answer that question either. Some scientists somewhere is trying to answer the question. So and then the last section I wanted to touch on out of this is from the norm and culture in the biblical revelation. Not all biblical teaching about conduct is normative for behavior today. Some applications of moral principles are restricted to a limited audience. Only when this distinction is drawn can we hope to see how the same absolute truths apply to us in our own culture. Now this this could be a whole show probably talk because there's a lot of disagreement within the the body of Christ question. And even probably in this room. But I think as a general rule, I think everybody in this room would probably agree that there is a a cultural contextualization that should at least be thought through to see how we would apply things in our context today, right? Like with the Bible tells you to gird up your loins, well we don't wear the kind of clothing that uh needs to be girded up. And so we figured okay, so how do we apply that sort of a phrase in our culture today? So even if something as simple as that, I think we would would at least agree there. I think the question is where to draw the line of which things should should not be contextualized so much. Right. Well I I think yeah, definitely there's specific commands of scripture that are given to a person and it's very clear it was only given to that person. You know, we're not all required to go march around Jericho seven times, like Joshua was Right. Joshua was the one that fought the battle of Jericho, uh, because it was very specific to Joshua. Right? But then there's a verse that says, Thou shalt not kill, and that definitely applies to everybody. Um And I I think probably the disagreement would just be w where you draw the line. You know, some people would draw it on uh more broadly or more narrowly, but um certainly there are specific commands given that are only for one person or group at in that time period. Alright, so so we did it. We made it through the uh the hermeneutics thing. The thing I was going to mention last week that slipped my mind, uh uh Daniel made the point about how language has changed and that sort of thing. If you want to see how true it is that languages can become dead over time, like the the original versions of languages, how they just fall into a different kind of a usage, try to read Beowulf. Hm. It's English. Right. Okay, yeah, right, it's English. You know, that's a really good example even pilgrim's progress can be challenging. But Beowulf, I mean, just something like that. Wait another few hundred years, assuming Christ doesn't return in the meantime, and try to read Shakespeare. And so the the So English continues to exist, but it it morphs so much over time that the older English is now dead. And so yeah, Hebrew still exists. But the Hebrew from many thousands of years ago, that version is basically dead, except for those that specialize in studying. that as as a particular specialist discipline. So it's not dead in that regard, but as far as general usage, you you go to the Middle East today, they're not speaking the Hebrew of Exodus. They're j they're just not. And the same with Greek, the Koine Greek, that's not if you go to Greece today, they're not going to be speaking Koine Greek. You know, they probably could have a s take a stab at understanding the New Testament. If you gave them a Greek New Testament, they could probably do pretty well. About as well as we would do with reading Beowulf probably is what what I would expect. Anyway. So we're gonna wrap up the show. I got about thirty seconds left, so uh this is fun. We're gonna transition into something else at least for a week uh next week before we uh tackle some additional uh statements from the church in i in recent decades. Uh stay tuned to find out what that is next week. Uh Daniel Razvy, Imran Razvy, David Forcy, thank you so much. I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you for listening, spending part of your Sunday with us. Here at 930 WFMD and um the Faith Debate. And find us online at householdfaith in Christ dot com. That's Household of FaithInChrist. com until next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless Yeah, you uh saying so what's the gospel? That chewed up uh good time. I was I was hoping I was hoping for like a one or two sentence version. instead of that long a version but I knew we had time to think oh this is my opportunity to kinda it was it was perfect. But but you had just gotten done saying he nobody can an answer what the gospel is. Well then you just told most of our listeners that they don't know what the gospel is, so we gotta really tell them what Yeah, no that was a perfect spot for it. And you use you had said at one point we should actually give the gospel in every Yeah. And and we were trying to it it's it's sometimes it so difficult we only have, you know, twenty four-ish minutes to do the show. It's hard to dedicate but we don't have to it every time 'cause we you know we don't have to do such a long introduction either. Oh, for the gospel you mean? No, no, for the show. I mean you you spent a long time introducing us, put our website, our ministry, our church names, all the different websites. I I don't know that it's necessary to have that long of an introduction each week. But uh what about for the first time listener, Daniel? It can look us up. All you need to do is Google my name, you'll find my cell phone number. It's not that hard. Yeah? Oh no. So it's it's not like they won't be able to figure out who who you If somebody wants to. For now. Like the other arborists I know, Jason Gillis. You're an art bridge too, it's like I couldn't get you separate from Jason. I kept thinking of you as Jason. Okay. I couldn't think of David. Uh, yeah, you guys really enjoy talking with him. And he does actually speak biblical Greek and Hebrew. God gave him a gifts of language. I mean he taught he taught it himself Like within a year. Yeah. Wow. Within a year. It's it's a few years. Well it was a little more than a year, but he definitely barely at this point he's fluent in in uh like he can read the Greek Bible just as well as he can read the English Bible Alright, so we're gonna do the uh Curcio uh and Chrysalis and Walk to a Mayus and all that sort of thing. Uh I'm gonna be leaning rather heavily on what you can uh remember from what you did your research on but uh I only got anecdotal knowledge of all of this. We can talk a little bit maybe about general principles. How do you know like if some event or organization that you go Some of the promise keepers. Where are they now? What what do they do? I mean there are lots of uh places that people go for retreats and and meet other Christians people how do you determine what which one to go to. Yeah on campus crusade it's changed a lot. Right. Yeah they've gone really woke. Yeah. And that's the that's the thing. So there might be individual chapters of it that haven't, but as a whole it All right, well we'll dive in and see how it goes. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. And this week the show might not agree with your views if you've gone on some Christian retreats. over the years that you thought were solid or you hoped to be solid? You might learn otherwise. We'll find out. There are there are warnings to be to be uttered and I would argue warnings to be heeded and uh that's what we'll be talking about today. On the Faith Debate, I'm Troy Skinner, joined uh by our regular panelists of Inron Razby, Daniel Razby, David Forcey. Find us online at household of faith in Christ dot com, of course WFMB. We really appreciate you taking time out of your Sunday morning, your busy schedule to listen to us live on the radio or wherever you're whenever your schedule is if you're listening to us later on in podcast. So we've been working through the uh Chicago statements. We did inerrancy and hermeneutics. We're actually gonna at some point tackle uh biblical application as well, uh, because I did three Chicago statements uh from 1978 to like nineteen eighty six ish, I believe. Uh and so uh there's one more Chicago statement for us to to work through. But before we get into that in the future We had a a discussion not related to the faith debate, the four of us, and uh Daniel and Dwar Imran were invited to a Christian retreat. And they did a little bit digging and were like, yeah, I'm not I'm not sure we're gonna go on this retreat because we're not really even sure it's Christian. So I'd like to give someone that backstory and then we can talk about broader issues related to it. Just in in general, I mean when you hear about events or retreats or organizations that are Christian in nature. A lot of things claim to be Christian, and as we've we discussed on this show a number of times, not even most of the churches are Christian anymore. So let alone some random one off events different places, you gotta be very, very careful because sometimes It can actually be uh worse to go to one of these events than not to go to anything at all, right? You're you're you're learning the opposite things or the uh at best you're learning bad theology and doctrine and at worst you actually uh run the risk of uh being uh demonically uh attacked And so there's there's several p the the the the focus of this uh this week's show that there's several organizations that are kind of associated with each other. They all started with a Catholic movement called Curcio. Um back back in the I think the seventies, um which was supposed to be weekend retreats um done by laity, not by pastors or priests, just uh to come get together and learn more about how to love Jesus more and and all that And they became very popular and so the Lutherans took initiative and created their own version of it called Via de Cristo and the Methodists created uh um walk to Emmaus and then they have a youth version called Christlius. There's probably there are a bunch of others. Those are just the ones that I know about after a little bit of research. And they're all following the same Cristill method. So it really is all the a Catholic um uh you know, uh movement. And that by itself should be a red flag and not that everything Catholics do is always bad. There's there are certain Certainly plenty of what they do in working to fight abortion is good. Um certainly from a Protestant perspective, so when you mentioned the Methodists and the Lutherans gloming onto this, it it's interesting that Protestant denominations would take I think it probably became more popular and a bigger deal in the seventies. I I uh uh I I'm trying to remember when I looked at one. Yeah. So it's been quite a while is the point. It's not a new thing. This is not something in the twenty first century, right? This has been going on a long time. And and they're all they all follow the same format, at least these organizations do. It's a weekend retreat. You get recruited or scouted by somebody that's been to them before. They try to find other people who may be uh good to join in with these events and try to But they say, oh, it's all about Christ, all about Jesus, you know. to this event and there's a lot of if if you really dig in and look carefully there are a lot of things um that are very cultish about it. And it's it's important to know though and to to stop mention, nobody joins a cult. Like nobody ever has ever joined a cult, right? You join uh some organization or you become involved in some group that you believe is doing some good stuff and only you you either realize it's a cult someday and leave or you don't and you believe it's in today's world there might be some, but I understand the point. Right? Um People are Googling right now, how do I find a cult near me? So uh to I'm gonna make the accusation accusation that this organization is very cultish, but that doesn't mean all the people all the people that are involved understand that or are terrible people, you know. Um just like there's plenty of people I think in the Catholic Church that might have uh might might be quote unquote good people but uh don't understand some of the issues in doctrine. So with the Cristo weekends or the Via de Cristo or Walk to Evaus, all they all follow a similar format where the Uh you you all the people come and they usually get dropped off or they get rides so that you can't just leave in the middle, you're kinda trapped there for the weekend. Um s and there's a lot of reports of people who had wanted to leave leave and were really pressured very strongly to stay through the weekend 'cause you won't get the full experience and you won't really be able to give a good judgment on whether it was good until you see it all. And And so that in itself is a little bit concerning. You won't know it's poisonous until you drink it down. Yes. But wait there's more. But wait, there's more. Yes. Wait, there's more. Um and so you can set a ginzu knives at the end. Right So you can make we can make as yeah acusations about uh you know things that we think is going on there having not been there, but you can also just look at the websites of of who uh what the organizations are, you know, and and They'll say things like, What is Christy? Oh, it's a series of talks that build on one another. Okay, well that doesn't tell you anything. Um but if you dig in a little bit deeper Uh sensibly it's all about God and Christ, but the talks themselves are more emotional and motivational rather than really grounded in scripture. It's it's very metaphysical, it's very emotional. It's not um substantial in in doctrine. They try to make a point to say we don't believe in different doctrines, we're just all followers of Christ, trying to Yeah, grow closer to loving him. But in fact the what is the first meeting, uh first speech that this gives? It doesn't even talk about that. In fact they're restricted from talking about God in the first introduction. meaning. Because they want to set the quote unquote set the tone for the rest of the weekend by not talking about God or Jesus. Well how is it a weekend about Jesus if you're not mentioning God or Jesus? And and so that those are some concerning things and and and even on their websites and the very because there's various websites about these organizations, you can gain a little bit of information. I mean they'll they'll say things like, We teach you new ways to pray. Most people pray with their eyes closed. But how about praying with your eyes open while focusing on an object? Well, to me that sounds very much like idol worship. Uh in fact, uh specifically what object, in many cases, it's a flame. They turn the light off and they look at w a f a flame from a single candle in the center of the room and everybody's silent and everybody just stares at that flame, that uh is is a very uh Um I mean it should i to the listener here that that should start to sound a little bit creepy just as I'm saying it, you know. If you're gonna focus on an object, make it a golden cap. Yeah. So I mean there there's a lot of things um in there those are some of the highlights and just just in general, um it doesn't seem to be well based in doctrine. So uh I was talking to a friend about uh this this whole thing. He said, look if I ever get invited to a retreat, a Christian retreat or Christian event of any kind, what is the first thing? First of all, uh uh what what questions should you ask to determine whether it's something worth going to Well number one is is anybody from your own church or your own group of uh uh uh inner circle of strong believers that you know uh any of them involved with this or would be concerned If not, that's that's not necessarily a red flag, but you want to do extra diligence, right? Um I mean the the people here in this room We know each other well enough that if if I recommend something to Troy, he's gonna have a little bit less of a of a hurdle to to decide to go just because he trusts me, we we trust each other because we know We have that kind of relationship. And we're in a covenant, you know, as far as and uh elders of different house churches that we work together. So that's number one. Number two is you should of check and see who are the people that are running the event. Do you know who any of them are? Do you are you familiar with them? Have you if you've never heard of them before, then you really gotta be searching carefully and you gotta find out what specifically are they teaching And can you be on board with all their teaching before you go and hear it? And if they're very secretive about what they're teaching, that's not really a good sign. Do they even have a statement of faith? And is it easily found the statement of faith or just uh you know But does their CEO have a statement of faith on their website? No, they don't. Yeah, I don't remember seeing it. And that and that's a red flag, right? Any Christian organization should have a strong statement of faith And so if it really is a Christian retreat or a Christian organization, then they should it should be easy to see what they believe. But by their own admission, they're very ecumenical. They want to join all the faiths together. particularly cath the Catholicism and Protestant churches. But they're open to anybody who loves Jesus and wants to know more about Jesus. Well, just saying that you love Jesus doesn't really mean that that you're actually following the right Jesus 'cause Jesus himself said there are many false Christs. There are many people that are gonna say, Hey, you know, and and when Christ returns, there's gonna be many times people say, Oh, here's Jesus. Go go see. And so that that's something to be very aware of. a and and stay away from. If somebody had invited you, David, into this thing that you'd never heard of before, you know, practically speaking, you would what would be some of the steps you would take to try to suss it out and see if it's something that you or your children or your Yeah, I I do think uh you know, first personal testimony from people I trust, right? So like you were saying Daniel. Um yeah, trying to figure out okay what is their and and also like you said their what what do they actually believe are they able to label that out clearly. And so you know those are things to to look for as far as to you know to be pro. Things that Um you know, you Daniel, you mentioned secretiveness, which I I agree with. You know, that's a red flag. Um also I think a red flag is Um if there's some sort of implication that there's um you know that that that you will get something out of it that you can't get anywhere else, right? uh that there's that you might get something out of it that you can't that you wouldn't get just from doing scriptural study on your own or from worshiping, you know uh with your church. Uh yeah, those are big. And I because of the way we were talking about how language changes over time, I think that our culture has used red flag uh so commonly in in situations that we don't mean it's a stop signal. I just want to emphasize when when David says if if it's about being secretive and all that, that's a red flag. That's a stop sign. That's a go no further. If they're being secretive, there's something wrong. It should be transparent. It should be open. You should know what they're teaching, why they're teaching it, who's behind it, who's funding it, what the organization is about. If I go to this weekend for the three days or five days or whatever the length of the thing is, what exactly am I going to be exposed to or if you're sending your your child to the Chrysalis uh version of Cristo? Uh what they will be so excited and uplifted spiritually. And they'll have such a high, an emotional high. This is this is what they what they say. So that's what they're saying. That's the pitch. Because you're gonna be so emotionally ecstatic and and happy and joyful after going to this event. And that's where you've got to go the next question, which is probably what you did, which is why you ended up not going, is okay, so I'm going to arrive at this emotional high How exactly? Well you'll see 'cause there's a series of talks that build on each other. The first of which doesn't talk about God. But the whole weekend's about Jesus. Gotta you gotta ask questions, you gotta you know pretend you've you're looking at the national inquiry in mind. that aren't good for us, right? And and I'm speaking like humans in general, as if we have uh I mean i you know I I would say idolatry, right, is the is a thing. So if uh if I if happiness is my goal in life, right? If that's what I'm pursuing, if that's my greatest desire, then yeah, I I will very easily be sucked into something if someone says, you know, you will you will have a wonderful, happy experience, right? And you know, so I uh to maybe take a little bit of a step back, right? Like our our chief guard against uh uh against being you know led astray or or drawn into to things that are that are unhealthy or bad for us is to um I'm for for us to worship, you know, God alone. Right. And um so anyway, so that's just I mean that's you know, we're talking about something specific here, but there are You know, too many things to talk about. And so many people are living their lives that way. How many times have you heard somebody can you say, Yeah, you really think it's a good idea that uh you know your your son or daughter is has made that life choice or whatever and how many times do we hear well as long as they're happy. It makes them happy. Right? All I want is for them to be happy. Happy and healthy. That's all we care about, right? We we don't want to ever die and we want to be entirely happy while we never die. And that's that's our life goal. And and and the and the obvious logical problem with that belief is that you will die Right? Maybe you'll live a very long time, but then you're gonna die and your d what happens after death is so, so much longer than anything you ever could happen in life. So And mathematical you might not be happy for that really long time. Exactly. So so the goal should be to be happy and live a long life, like after you die. Eternal life. Eternal. In blessed happiness. Yeah, yeah. Um and so uh and and what you do in this in this life is still insignificant compared to that. Yeah, I would say that yeah, one of the big enticements is you're gonna meet other people. people, other men like you, other families like you, other women like you or whatever, because we're very isolated these days. You know, everybody's working from home and And uh on the phone, electronics, uh they're not seeing a lot of the people and churches are empty. So they're not having those relationships and that's enticing is getting people there. But even organizations that at one time were great, like uh campus uh crusades for Christ. It's not that anymore. I had a personal They even took Christ out of the name of the organization. They just call it Crew now. Yeah. And uh you know that was a a catalyst for me being saved But I don't know that they are saving anybody these days. Um promise keepers, um any of these things, you uh what uh what has become of them now? What are they following? What are they doing now? just you know be discerning about it because now God can use anything to save somebody. So, you know, you could end up being a non believer and end up with Chris or Crusill and God save you and then you come out of it. That's that's can happen. Uh when I was f uh you know a new Christian a a a good friend of mine invited me to join the Masons for marketing purposes to get connected with a lot of other business owners leading And you were a thirty second degree Mason now, right? That sounds like a great idea. We give allegiance to the higher being, God, and it all sounded good. And I was all ready to join because my end result is I gotta support my family, I was a young guy and and and do that and my father in law said, No no no no, you don't want to join the Masons because of these things. Because it sounds good on the surface. You know it's for the greater good, you're gonna it's gonna be Make you wealthier, happier, connecting with people. But really what is it? And so there's a lot of organizations, we just have to say no, we don't want to be part of those organizations. And even churches now don't have safety I was looking excuse me. I was looking at some churches um over this past weekend and just researching. Many of them don't have any statement of the faith listed at all. They just talk about how great their pastor is, how he connects with the people and Right. And uh you know, what kind of stuff they do for their people and how welcoming it is. And all and all the m and all the ministries and stuff that their that their congregates are involved in and and uh and the youth ministry and the women's ministry and the and this ministry and that ministry without actually explaining what they believe. So so try to because doctrine might offend somebody. So you're not gonna put your doctrinal positions on your website 'cause you might of you might offend them and it won't come to your So let's talk practic practically for a minute. So for those listening, we just said okay avoid these organizations by name. We named several Cristo, Villa de Cristo, uh Walktomaeus, Chrysalis. for the youth and there's probably some other ones that have similar types of things. Alright, so we know, okay, avoid those. But how do I do you become more uh in depthly in depth involved and and uh uh get to know Christ better and meet other believers, how do I do that if I can't go any any of these retreats to sound Christian And I don't have anybody that I know at other churches. So what is what are some practical things that you can do as a believer to go deeper in your walk with Christ and also to meet other believers? and be uplifted. Well one of the things I'll say, years ago my daughter was uh you know, just young still living at home and stuff and uh I wasn't a pastor and I was a churchgoer and you know I I I knew as much about the Bible as an S guy sitting next to me in church. Which, you know, might have been a decent amount, but I didn't know it as well as I do now. I didn't have as much discernment about these things as as I've grown to over the years. And so somebody we trusted invited um uh or recruited, I guess the way that uh Daniel phrased it earlier, uh our daughter to go on this retreat to a Chrysalis event And uh we we uh trusted this guy and he also uh knew some other families that had gone that we knew those families not super well but we knew them so we talked to them about it and it was a great event and it made a lot of friends and you know they did the emotional kind of stuff we were talking about and thought, you know, I don't know a lot about it but These people are vouching for it. They're they're they've vetted it for us in our view. We let our daughter go, only to find out that on the back end of it, you know, we realized uh when it was all over that it was a bad thing, it was all secretive. She was instructed not to tell Uh her parents, you know, what happened during the weekend. Things like them were like, What do you mean you were told not to tell us? What are you talking no, you tell us? Now I I was only casually interested before. Now I must know. I'm going to find out what and so after the fact, unfortunately we survived that. It was fun, but it was it was very cultic, it was not Christian the kinds of things we're being taught were not biblical, let's put it that way for sure. And so the looking back, the one of the big mistakes I made practically speaking, I didn't go to my pastor. So I think start there. If it's an organization you're not sure about, hopefully you have a good pastor, you're going to a good church. If you're going to a good church, a Bible-believing church, Christ exalting church uh go to your pastor and say, hey, I was invited to this thing, I checked it out, some friends, they they vouched forth, their website seems okay. A little vague. I'm not sure have you ever heard of it. And your pastor is either going to say, Yeah, I've heard of it, stay away, or they're gonna say, you know, I'm not really sure. I know a lot about that. But you know what? Mm part of my responsibility is to shepherd you, to look out for you and your spiritual well-being. Uh I'm gonna do some digging, I'm gonna make I'm gonna make some phone calls, I'm gonna check, I'm gonna call my other pastor friends, I'm gonna go online and see what I think of it And you're getting and I didn't do that. I think if I had, it's possible, at least, hopefully probable, but at least possible when a pastor has said, yeah, you don't want your daughter going to that. And here's why. And I didn't do that, so I would say start start there. That's a good place to start. And and I would I would caution that one of the insidious things about this particular organization we've been discussing most today is they do make an effort to actually go through the church leadership as part of the recruitment process. So when they find something, this is in their procedures for what how to get somebody to come to the event is you get them to say, okay that sounds f nice then you gotta go get them to have their pastor's permission to come. So they kinda get this rubber stamp already so later they can come back and say, see your pastor approved of it. You sh uh you know if you don't like it something must be wrong with you. And so then now one guy from that church from your congregation has gone and now that pastor can point to that them other people and say, See that person went, so maybe it's an okay uh thing. So not all pastors necessarily are uh uh as diligent in researching some of these things uh and I would hope uh Troy as as you mentioned it if if you look beyond just the very big you know bare surface you will notice that these are coaches uh organizations. But that's a separate issue though, related, but separate. If you go to your pastor and he says, gives you the old gung-ho, go for it. Sounds great to me for this I don't think you have a particularly good pastor. You might need a new under shepherd to be take responsibility over your spiritual care. It might be time to find a new church. But they're sending you to a cultic event I mean, that's not a pastor. What is that? At the very least, they need they need to uh Once you find out what it's about and you go to your pastor, hey David, you recommended this and I come to find out it's this garbage, it's all secretive and stuff If they're not like ultra repentant and they don't figure out some mechanism to guard from ever making that mistake again, like it give them some grace and allow them to be human and make a mistake. But if if they're not going to learn from that mistake, oh no, it's totally fine. So what if it's uh if if it's a bunch of Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons and uh and uh and Worldwide Church of God, Herbert W. Armstrong uh uh devotees. Uh I don't know if you know who all those groups are but those are all cults. Those are all cults. And they would be welcome to an event like this. Sounds like to me. I can I'm I'm all for a a pr uh uh as as as much as the Bible allows, casting a a broad net, having a big tent. So I'm relatively ecumenical as far as that goes. Inside scriptural confines Th there's no scriptural confines. They don't even have a statement of faith. Right. And another thing that you could possibly do is if you don't know and you can't find enough information, maybe it's new organiz new organization and it sounds good, looks good, and they may have a statement of faith. Then go don't go by yourself. Take another strong believer with you, at least one more, or maybe two more, to be able to have somebody that you can you know bounce ideas off and hey I didn't I'm not sure if I got that. What did you get out of this? and you know, have somebody that you trust to go with you. Because there are plenty of organizations out there and I think I I hope there's still plenty of retreats and places where you can go and and really do grow closer to Christ. But it's harder and harder to find them, harder and harder to do that. And the thing I want to say at the very end here is just in case we're not I don't want to be misunderstood, just because somebody's been involved with this, maybe they've been one the camp leaders or something, it doesn't mean they're necessarily evil. They could be merely be misled themselves. So uh we're talking about the organization, not necessarily the individuals involved. You can also one more thing you can do, you can contact us. You can Google us and find us and And if you have a specific organization you'd like us to vet, uh we would be happy to do the research and and answer what we think. Household of FaithInChrist. com. Thank you, Imran and Daniel, and David. I'm Troy. Thank you for listening, spending part of your Sunday with us. We'll be back next week the same time. Well, not this same time. 167. 5 hours from this same time next week. Go then. God bless. Oh, okay. Okay, not my president. Hashtag not my president. Oh man. We did four, right? So we're okay for another few. Yeah, we're good. Yeah, we we did five like three or four months in a row, which got us a little bit ahead. So Yeah. This one took us through you okay with picking another date now? Would that work? So we can go ahead and tentatively until I can com confirm it with my wife's calendar. But yeah. And Steve Yorger would like to come and do it again. sometime as well and like to have some topics. He wasn't here when uh we did uh the uh um end time stuff so he wants to do some of that I don't know if you're interested in do that Again or not. Is is there s something on your calendar um like the first either the tail end of February or the first couple weeks of March? Tuesday, March Okay, that should uh as far as I can know right now that should work for me. Can we do the fourteenth or is that two uh two for uh the fourteenth I'm busy. Both Raz and I are speaking the seminar on the fourteenth. Um yeah that's okay you can get Steve here and you guys should have three faster. We can do the twenty-first though as well if you want. You're you're you're on available the seventh? So is that understanding? Okay. Today is what is today? Today's the seventh. The twenty eighth we have an event and the fourteenth we have an event. Not that we want to do it that quick necessarily, but uh we could do it really early of the fourteenth or twenty-first. Either one of those works for everybody or no next week. Yeah. Yeah. Meaning next week or the week after, like if that works for everybody, we could just record in the case. Well of course it's not before Teeth could right? We would have to move some well we'd just have to move I mean it's Valentine's Day, it probably screws up your romantic life, but I I we don't do Valentine's Day at my house, so I'd rather do March um uh seventh Either seventh or twelfth. I'm going to shut down the screen by the way. This isn't interesting for anybody who's interested in the same thing. So anyway, thanks for watching. Bye bye.