And it looks like we're rolling. Sorry for our tardy beginning, but welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ gathering here at the Skinner Home. We had a a special a gathering uh a small gathering of some friends here today and we're just wrapping that up and things went a little longer than we thought, so thank you for hanging in there with us. Okay, thank you. If you're on Facebook and this is your first time, these are the rules of engagement. You can blow out as long as you like. And you can comment in the comment section and at the end of a message, we're going to have a discussion here amongst us and if you have questions or comments or thoughts you want to share you can add them into the uh comment section uh and we will address those going on discussion time. We're going to be thinking back we took a break last week from our series on the first epistle of John, first John in the New Testament. We are gonna pick back up with that again today. So we're not gonna worry about having a joke today. Um and people are still kind of mewling about So if you hear things in the background, my apologies, but we're gonna we're already late so we're gonna get started. Actually, maybe Angela, if you wouldn't mind having us open this part of what we're doing tonight in prayer, and then I'll go right into the message. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for this gathering, Lord, and we invite your Holy Spirit to come and be with us, Lord, and guide and direct this conversation. conversation uh and uh be a pastor troy's uh mouth and say what you would have him to say and to minister to the people uh exactly where they are their every need. We thank you and we ask your kind blessing upon this gathering in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Actually I'm gonna go back over here so it feels more sermonish. Thank you so much. Alright, so uh about a month ago we began our series on first John, and we began in first John John chapter one verse one. Imagine that. And the first message we talked about the first two verses, and then the following week we talked about the next two verses. And those were really two halves of a message uh called reason to rejoice. And we went really went uh deep into the words, highlighting the specific words and what they what they mean. The Thinking there was to show you that there's so much packed. And even a short letter like this in 1 John, there's so much to be gleaned. Even sometimes So we didn't just look at the at the trees in the forest. Uh we look at the leaves on the tree, and in a couple of cases we might even look at the veins on the leaves. But then uh Two weeks ago, so we took a break from this sermon series last week. Two weeks ago we began a two-part uh series or two part message called Transparency by Trust And also chapter two, verses fifteen through seventeen. And we're gonna pick back up there. I'm gonna read those th those passages again to reorient ourselves since we we skipped a week. And two weeks ago and again today, we're spending a lot of time in different verses or different uh sections of the body Bible. Two weeks ago we spent even though we're focusing on 1 John, we spent most of our time looking at Romans and Jeremiah and 2 Timothy and 2 Corinthians uh Ephesians. The idea is to show the telescope out. Talk about going micro, looking not just the trees and leaves and the veins of those leaves. to the nitty-gritty, but now we're going to telescope out. We did this two weeks ago, we're going to continue to do it this week and look at the bigger picture, the broader picture, to show that John, the author of this letter, he's not making things up out of thin air. And he's not the only sole witness to these things. It is the witness of the entire scripture. It is consistently the wit witness throughout the New Testament and even the Old Testament as well. hammer that home while we make sure we don't miss the main point of this letter, which is the good news. The Gospel of Jesus Christ is the main point of this letter. That is the main point of the entire New Testament and the Old Testament too. The whole Bible is about Jesus and a message like what we did two weeks ago and what we're doing today is going to help us Do that. So reorient yourself. Let's look at 1 John chapter 1, beginning with verse 6. Reading through to uh verse 6 of chapter 2 and jumping ahead to Verse fifteen of chapter two. If we claim to have fellowship with him, meaning God, yet walk in the darkness, we lie and do not live by the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, purifies us from all sin. If we claim to be without sin, we claim Deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. If we claim we have not sinned, we make him out to be a liar. And his word has no place in our lives. My dear children, I write this to you so that you will not sin. But if anybody does sin, we have one who speaks to the Father in our defense. Jesus Christ, the righteous one. He is The atoning sacrifice for our sins. And not only for ours, but also for the sins of the whole world. We know that we have come to know him if we obey his commands. The man who says, I know him, But does not do what he commands is a liar. And the truth is not in him. But if anyone obeys his word, God's love is truly made complete in him. And this is how we know we are in him. Whoever claims to live in him must walk as Jesus did. And now jumping ahead to verse 15. Do not love the world or anything in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For everything in the world, the cravings of the sinful man. The lust of his eyes and the boasting of what he has and does comes not from the Father, but from the world. Lives forever. This is the very word of God. Those who have ears to hear, let them here. So in the first half of this message, it tackles this rather broad section of 1 John chapters 1 and 2. We hit upon a whole bunch of different parts of the Bible to talk about what it not only what it means to be a believer, and not only uh how Professing Christian can be sure of their salvation, although we hinted at some of those kinds of things, but mostly we're getting at what is expected of those who trust in Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior And then we spent a lot of time in Romans chapter ten, and we we hear what the Apostle Paul had to say about that, and then we wanted to see what the Apostle John had to say elsewhere in the New Testament by Looking at uh the Gospel of John chapter one. We wanted to make sure that you understood that we all understood that this isn't just a New Testament story, but it's an Old Testament story too. And so we went to Jeremiah chapter twenty nine, but then we swung back to the uh most prodigious author of the New Testament, human author anyway, uh Paul and look at Second Timothy chapter Chapter three. Um look at a couple of different places in uh Second Corinthians, we look at chapter six and chapter two and The point of all of this is that all of it is talking about our need for Jesus, our salvation in and through Jesus and his work, what he's accomplished. And then what is expected of us in response to demonstrate our faithfulness. And that's kind of where we left off last time. We we ended by by By contemplating the idea and really driving home the point of the idea that we really can't even begin to fathom the breadth and the depth of God's sacrificial love for us. So that's where we left last time. It's a good place to leave, and it's a good place to pick up this time. So please, if you would, if you have your Bibles handy, and if not, I would encourage you to go grab a Bible so you can follow along. We're going to turn to a handful of places in the Bible. It'd be good for you to have the scriptures in your lap. First, we're going to look at Colossians chapter 3. We just read From 1 John, which is in the New Testament. Colossians is also in the New Testament. And if you're not real familiar with navigating, you want to go closer to the front of the Bible. So if you're in 1 John, go closer to the front. And work your way through some of the smaller books that are written by the Apostle Paul until you get to Colossians. And we're looking for chapter three. And we're going to begin by looking at the first two verses. Colossians chapter three, where the Apostle Paul is writing to believers in Christ like us, but they live in Colossae. And he writes, Since then you have been raised with Christ Christ, set your hearts on things above. Where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things above, not on earthly things. Now what are some of these earthly things of which he speaks? Well we're told a few verses later, verses five through ten say Put to death, therefore, whatever belongs to your earthly nature: sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires, and greed, which is idolatry. Because of these, the wrath of God is coming. You used to walk in these ways in the life you once lived. But now you must rid yourselves of all such things as these anger Rage, malice, slander, and filthy language from your lips. Do not lie to each other since you have taken off your old self with its practices and have put on the new self which is being renewed in knowledge in the image of its creator. Now these are the things that should be eliminated from our lives in Christ. Well what are supposed to replace these things? Well we are immediately told in this very same passage the things that are re are to replace these negative behaviors. Looking out at Colossians chapter three, verses twelve through fourteen. Therefore as God's chosen people holy and And dearly loved, clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience Bear with each other and forgive whatever grievances you may have against one another. Forgive as the Lord forgave you and over All these virtues put on love which binds them all together in perfect unity. So doing all of this and being called to all of this, does that mean automatically that Christian doesn't ever sin. Sadly, absolutely not. Even the Apostle Paul himself He talks about himself in Romans chapter 7. And you don't have to turn here. I'm just going to quickly read through this part. chapter 7 the apostle paul says I do not understand what I do for what I want to do I do not do but what I hate I do. I know that nothing good lives in me. That is In my sinful nature, for I have the desire to do what is good, but I cannot carry it out. For what I do is not the good I want to do. No, the evil I do not want to do, this I keep on doing. So Paul here is he admits to continued sin. However, note a critically important thing about this sin of his. Paul's sin Is something that he does not understand. It's something he hates. He attributes it to His sinfulness is attributed to his his sinful nature, his his flesh, meaning his old self, rather than his new self in Christ. And so he does not do the good that he now, as a believer, wants to do, but instead he does the evil that he does not want to do. Paul is telling us that he wants to do the right thing. He desires to please God. He wishes to Be obedient, he is sorrowful over his sin. This is the picture of a man at war within himself against sin. This is the picture of everyone who professes Christ. Everyone who has Christ as their King. Believers in Christ are called to fight against sin in their lives. Now non-Christians, they are, to be sure, sinners. Christians, to be sure, are also sinners Sinners. However, the difference is that followers of Christ are rescued from the eternal condemnation. That is due to them for their sin. Once a person is saved by God, that person remains saved by God forever, as the popular catchphrase. He says, once saved, always saved, and this idea falls under various headings depending on who you're talking to. Sometimes it's called eternal security, some kind, sometimes the preservation of the saints. So Sometimes the perseverance of the saints and it can often mean different things to different people. It can sometimes actually strike a chord of controversy among people. Someone even argue that a person once they are saved. They can lose their salvation by maybe committing a mortal sin or something like that, which is then somehow described as something other than a regular sin. And again, it can cause I want to take a minute to talk here about what the Bible has to say. I don't want to venture too far down this path because our focus isn't on the loss of salvation But rather it's on the proper and loving and commanded response to the gift of salvation. But because the issues come up, I feel it's important for us to quickly clarify what it is that the Bible teaches us on this And so we're going to turn, what better place to turn to begin with than to the recorded words of Jesus Himself in John chapter 6? In fact, why don't we turn there together? Bibles. Open up in John chapter 6. Not 1 John chapter 6. If you try to find chapter 6 in 1 John, you'll be sorely disappointed because there's not one. So you want to go to the Gospel of John, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, find chapter six, and look for verse thirty seven. And we're going to read verses thirty-seven through forty, which quote Jesus. saying, All that the Father gives me will come to me. And whoever comes to me, I will never drive away. For I have come down from heaven not to do my That I shall lose none of all that he has given me, but raise them up on the last day. For my Father's will is that everyone who looks to the Son and believes in him shall have eternal life, and I will raise him up At the last day. And then flip ahead a page or two in your Bible. I'm sure how many pages will be. You'll find chapter 10 of John's Gospel. And in chapter 10 of John, we're going to read Read verses 27, 28, 29, where again we find Jesus speaking, and Jesus says, My sheep listen to my voice, I know them and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. No one can snatch them out of my hand. My father who has given them to me is greater than all. No one can snatch them out of my father's hand. Now these two passages and others like them, they should give us a comfort that once we're saved, we are saved. However, the the issue at hand for us in this message right now for us to consider is whether or not we have been once saved. It's one thing to say once saved always is saved, but let's talk about the first part of that. Once saved, have we been once saved? Now Jesus' brother James, he tells us in the first chapter of his epistle that Christian believers are blessed and yet we will face many trials and temptations. Actually that's terms of James. That's in the the New Testament as well. A little further closer to the back of the New Testament. It's a somewhat larger book by New Testament measures, and so hopefully you can find that one pretty good. Find James, chapter uh we're gonna be looking at chapter two here in a second, but in chapter one, he talks about the many trials and temptations that believers face, but that were but were blessed. And he says that because we are blessed, we are to persevere through those trials and those temptations. In fact, our perseverance through the trials and temptations they add to our blessing. And after saying all this in chapter 1, James then brings it all home. Now sure the Christian is saved purely by faith. The Christian is not saved by works, so no one can boast. James, though, asks a critical question for us to consider. Chapter 14 of James chapter two. James chapter two verse fourteen. 14 says, What good is it, my brothers, if a man claims to have faith, but has no deeds? Can such a faith Save him. So in other words, if someone professes to be a Christian But does not enter the struggle to do the right thing. As Paul wrote about in chapter seven of Romans, that I read just the most If you don't enter into that struggle as Paul did, are you really a Christian? Is a person not struggling against sin truly a follower of Christ? Answering this question, James says, three or four verses after what we just read, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, Is dead. Show me your faith without these. And I will show you my faith by what I do. So while we are saved by faith, James is saying that the proof of our faith lies in our deeds. Are we fighting against sin? Is our primary goal to please God? Do we trust him and his laws and his way and his plan? Or do we turn our back on God and his law in pursuit of Someone else's way or our own plans. If we as professing Christians continue in a life of wicked deeds We are not truly Christian. If we're not truly Christian, then we are not truly saved. And if we are not truly saved, then we are indeed truly damned. James makes it clear in this epistle, that our words and our actions they demonstrate the true condition of our heart. Merely saying that you trust Trust God is not the same as actually trusting God. James chapter two, verses nineteen through twenty-two have Harsh words for those who wish to ignore this truth. So let's read those. Begin with verse 19. You believe that there is one God. Good. Even the demons believe that and shudder. You foolish man, do you you want evidence that faith without deeds is useless? Was not our ancestor Abraham considered righteous for what he did when he offered his son Isaac on the the altar. You see that his faith and his actions were working together. And his faith was made complete by what he did. And James makes it clear in verse 24 that a person is justified by what he does and not by faith alone. We're saved by faith alone, but because faith without the effort to please God is evidence of a faith that is in fact dead, it's not dead True faith. If our faith is dead, then we are not alive in Christ, but we are rather dead in sin. For the wages of sin is death But to be clear, we do not earn salvation. You do not earn salvation by going to war against the sin in your life. However, by warring against the sin in our lives, we give evidence of our salvation. The salvation is already already been won for us by Christ and brought us into Christ. Where there is no evidence, then there is no reason to believe that There is actually faith. As you know, the picture of eternity is not pretty to put it extreme. As a quick side note though, uh well the future for the sinner with no faith is grim, it's never too late In this lifetime, for one to repent and turn back to Christ, to trust him with all your heart There are numerous examples of this, a couple of really high-profile ones in the parable of the prodigal son in Luke chapter 15 that illustrates this. In Luke chapter 23, the story of the That helps to illustrate that. These are just two examples that show this to be true. But once he repented and turned to Christ and you and you have faith, you're supposed to show the fruit of that faith. We must wage war against sin. Because all of us will stand, all of us, believer or unbeliever, will stand before God's judgment seat. All of us will have to give an account for what we have said and what we Let's turn to uh Second Corinthians. So that's also the New Testament. Hopefully you can find it relatively quickly. Roman to chapter five. Gonna read a couple of verses there. And actually there's just one more place after this that we're gonna turn to tonight. So in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verses 9 and 10, the Apostle Paul here is writing, and he says, So we make it our goal to please Him, whether we have home in the body or away from it. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive what is due him. for the things done while in the body, whether good or bad. If our faith is not true, we face God's eternal wrath Judgment. Just as I said earlier, we can't really fully appreciate the grace and the goodness of our Almighty God. Well, so too we cannot fully appreciate the sting and the vengeance of our Almighty God. We're gonna turn one more place. Hebrews chapter ten. We can take seriously this message. It's what sometimes is called a hard truth of the Bible. But it is a biblical message. Jesus came to rescue and to save. But to save from what? So Hebrews chapter ten, verses twenty six through thirty-one say if we deliberately keep on sinning After we have received the knowledge of the truth, no sacrifice for sins is left, but only a fearful expectation of judgment. And of raging fire that will consume the enemies of God. Anyone who rejected the law of Moses died without mercy on the testimony of two Or three witnesses, how much more severely do you think a man deserves to be punished? Who has trampled the Son of God underfoot, who was treated as an unholy thing, the blood of the covenant that sanctified him, and who was an Hands of the living God. Now believers whose faith is true do not face this Horrible condemnation. Believers, God tells us in his word, are to live lives that will demonstrate to the world that Christ dwells within us through his spirit. Believers are to die to themselves and to live in Christ. Now, if we were somehow able to do this perfectly through a perfect kind of a trust in Christ in God. And it seems to me that we would we would be people that other people could see right through our fallen selves and see only Christ And so maybe we should look in the mirror and we should examine ourselves. And when we look in the mirror, do we see ourselves, our old selves? our fleshly selves, our follow-up selves, looking back, or does Christ shine through so that we can see only Him? How wonderful it would be to live such transparent lives. And this must be the aim. of the believer. This is why in the New Testament, in 2 Corinthians chapter 13, verse 5, it says, Examine yourselves And see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Do you not realize that Jesus Christ is within you unless, of course. You fail the test. And this is why the Old Testament tells us in 2 Chronicles chapter 7, verse 14, if my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin And will heal their land. You are loved God loves you. Don't ignore what God has to say to you about how you are to live your life. I would implore you, please, listen To him. And don't do this for your family. Don't even do this for yourself or trust in yourself. Do it for God. God and trust Him in response to what He has already done for you Do it for his glory, always for his glory. Let's pray Lord God, we worship you. We are unworthy even to do this properly. Our worship falls so utterly short of what you deserve. Thank you, Father, for loving us, for cleansing us, for clothing us in a righteousness of your son. We yearn to know how to love you. We pray that you would show us by your spirit and in your word what we are to do in response. It's in the name of our glorious Lord and Savior Jesus Christ that we pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. So I don't know if you caught everything 'cause you're busy dealing with the dog. She is being a sketch. And she's looking at it. I was like, all right, well. That's gonna come No, that's hey, whatever. No, I didn't know. she doing an angel at first and then I see this white thing and I thought she got a tissue. She's a little stinker. Anyway. So I'm sorry for that interruption. I just wasn't sure she was gonna choke on it and I'm sorry, Facebook Lance. Well the gist of the message is that we are saved by faith in Christ. You know, God rescues us. So we don't have to do anything to earn it. But once we have it, we provide evidence of the truth of our salvation by being committed to overcoming sin and being obedient to good works. So that's kind of the the overarching So any uh initial comments on your mind? I know one of my weaknesses is I struggle with what if I'm not saved? What if I I think I don't know this for sure, but I think as I pray about it and I ask God to search my heart, part of it is I have I've not completely shed my old self in the Roman Catholic training, which was very much a fear of hell and a fear of God, not a healthy fear of God, but more of a damning fear of God. Which which could be helpful if you lean towards the other way of God love he's merciful you need some of that but when you've already when you already err on that side to then have that in your um mind it becomes condemning, which I know is not God, I know it's an a a spiritual attack from the enemy, but it's also a fleshly not completely submitting to. So it's I can't oh it's definitely the devil. No, it's me not choosing to really um obey and hear the word of God. So it's actually a sinful mindset for me because I'm not receiving the fullness of his gift. I've chosen to believe the lie. Um and so that's what I struggle against. And one of my biggest delights, and this is gonna sound really twisted, is when God disciplines me 'Cause then I feel like I belong. I'm like, oh okay, I'm still saved. How weird is that? I mean that's pretty warped. Because I know that God disciplines those he loves. I don't know, I mean y how many people have stories about, you know, coaches or teachers they've had in their life that were kinda hard on them, but they realized that they were hard on them because they really believed in them. And they knew they were capable of more and they were holding them accountable and you know fewer I mean I I think one of the worst things that a message that we would receive from somebody else is we They gave up on us. They they just they've abandoned us. And that's actually what happens in scripture, right? God turns people away for their own sin. So yeah, when he's disciplining us the evidence that he hasn't given up on you because you truly are his. Right, and that's why I'm like, Oh, thank the Lord. I'm like, Lord, search me, go ahead. Flat me upside the head If you need to, what's going on? Haven't heard from you in a while. I know it's not 'cause I'm doing everything right. So what's up? I don't know, what about for you? Well Well um there was a there was a lot of rejection in my past in in in the human sense of the uh in in and human relationships. But um for me I I I I'm grateful to um to say that I haven't really struggled with that with God. Um uh and I think the reason why that hasn't really been a struggle uh for me is because it was a while ago when I was in the book of Hebrews and you know the Holy Spirit just ministered to me about Jesus being high priest. And And how, you know, he circumcised does a spiritual circumcision of our hearts. And so, um, I believe I I got inspired by the Holy Spirit to just give you know give my heart to God every day and and ask the Lord to do a a a circumcision and you know to just to give me a a new heart because I And you know, I was remembering the proverbs the the proverb that says, you know, guard your heart because from it all the issues of your life, the wealth of your life. So my I I I I realized that if my heart was right that I would that would help tremendously for in me to think right about anything. 'Cause right the heart is who you are, the sea of who you are. So I I just began asking the Lord to circumcise my heart. And I would just I would um name sins and I would say, Lord, circumcise these I would go down I would um add that to the list and ask the Lord to circumcise it from my heart and and And then I would ask him to help me die to that. You know, to help me die to it. And because I was just so doing that over and over and over again. Right. I just any condemnation that would have come upon me to say you're not really there I didn't really happen. So maybe that's uh you know, maybe that's the thing because I I um we we can't easily get it wrong Uh between the two extremes of uh being cocky about salvation or being condemned about salvation. So um That's h that has helped me um now when I do sin it grieves me. Yeah. It really grieves I mean it grieves me deeply I'm like, oh I missed uh I'm so and I'm like I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry. You know, um but it it really bothers me. But actually that's a comfort too because It wouldn't it doesn't bother people who don't know and who don't have that relationship. True. It's like when you love somebody and you're in a relationship with them and you know you hurt their feelings, you feel so bad about it oh man I messed up so I'm so sorry. So just the fact that I feel so bad about it it gives me a strange comfort. Oh no I get that. Absolutely. Yeah there's a security in Yeah, because your conscience hasn't been seared. You haven't been turned over to yourself. Yeah. To your own wickedness. Because when I wasn't walking with the Lord I would do things and not really think much of it, you know. But it's changed now So that's that's comfort. So one regarding to what uh Dina was talking about about having doubts like am I really, you know, do I really belong to God? Am I really saved? That's something that these I I don't know if I've seen it too much in my own life, but you see it on a movie movies and TV shows where the kids are a whole storyline can be built around one of the kids having doubts about whether they're really in the family and you know, and do I really belong. And And um one of the things that can help to reinforce that somebody really belongs, they're really part of that family is they look like the parents. You know, you can point out to somebody, oh you look just you in your mother's eyes and your father's nose and you look just like your grandmother and that family resemblance provides a security of oh yeah I really do. I have evidence that shows that I belong to this family Now some people can look very different in their family, but for those that have the the blessing of looking like others in their family, there's there's they they know they belong because of the resemblance. Well, we are part of God's family or his children, right? Those who are saved are God's children. And we we are brothers Brothers and sisters together with Christ. Right? We're c and we're co-heirs of Christ. We're part of that family. And so the more obedient we are, the more like Christ we look, the more more like the image bearers we were made to be that we reflect. And so that can remind us, yes, I know that I belong to God's family because of the family resemblance. As I Increase in my walk of sanctification, I increasingly more and more resemble Christ. So when I look in that mirror, I see Christ increasingly looking back at me, and that reinforces what I know to be true, but I have those moments of doubt. And then what was the thing I've already lost it? What was the main point you were making? Circumcision circumcision of her heart. Oh my gosh, what was it now? And she finds comfort when she gets convicted of sin? I get really grieved when I just grieved. Yes, had um yes, it had to do with the being grieved. So people who aren't Christians can feel bad about the things they do too. Right? 'Cause we live in moralism. We live in a moralistic world, uh most anymore. Right. Okay, I didn't mean to sidetrack you. Yeah, no, but so everybody is everybody's trying to do what they feel like is right to make themselves Feel worthy, valuable, that have a sense of belonging. And so people who aren't Christians and us when we're not thinking and don't have attitudes that are uh like those who belong to Christ, but those who belong to the world, when when we think like the world, we end up feeling bad about our failings and our sin because we feel bad. It makes us look bad. We expected more of ourself. It's all about a self-centeredness. But the Christians angst should be kind of like the child who doesn't want to dishonor the family name. My parents are gonna kill me. They would be so embarrassed uh if they found I've just brought ill repute to our family name uh and I feel really bad that I've dishonored the family. And that's kind of a Christian's dishonor. You feel bad at I dishonored Christ. I've dishonored my Maker. I'm I'm a blight on his name. And it's not about I feel bad because I feel bad. It's I feel feel bad because I've made God look bad in a sense kind of thing. And so there's a different spin there. So we should feel grieved, but we should feel the Christian should feel grieved for different reasons than the world feel scrieved. So I mean it's fine to feel bad that you've damaged your own reputation and you should expect more of yourself because you are walking it. But ultimately your biggest disappointment should be that you have an honor Christ the way that that that that you want. And the obedience, we talked about this a few weeks ago. The obedience isn't just God giving us a bunch of laws because. He gives us rules to live our lives by because those are blessed. Right. And as we persevere through and we conquer sin in our lives, we grow to resemble God more and more, and then we have more confidence and assurance in our salvation, and that is a blessed place to dwell. That is the most comforting place to be, right? In those moments. Well but but we all wrestle back and forth. And we're actually gonna touch on this in in a in a in a within the next few messages I think in the in as we talked about first John, we forget these things. We need to be reminded this is why it's important that churches gather people come together and when they gather they actually hear the gospel, right? And that we're in our Bibles regularly. And That we have Christian friends and family in our lives to hold us accountable and remind us of biblical truth and our and our uh standing before God because we forget and we're distracted and our our flesh is weak and the and the attacks of the enemy will come after us and the attacks from the world will come after us and so we need to do everything we can to bolster that confidence and then it's not cockiness Right? I mean, I don't uh my son doesn't have to be cocky that he belongs to this household, but he can be confident that he belongs to this household. There's a different thing there and God wants to give his people confidence. Yeah. What is um if it's not too personal, what is something that is Is a uh thread of struggle for you in your walk, would you say? Or is there a thread of a generational That's a tough question on Facebook. I know, I think it's not too personal. But is there like a generational thing that, you know, it could be anger, it could be, you know, I don't know. Um Mindset that you know God has taken you from point A to point B and you're like, Wow, crazy of Jesus. Um I am well actually um you know one thing that uh rejection does it is it makes you very um It makes you timid. Mm. And um I definitely see uh so there's there's a th I'm not the only person in my family that's faced the rejection thing. There's a lot of I guess you could call it cold type of behavior okay um by parental figures and authorities toward Not just me, sure. Others. Um so uh it it makes it makes you timid because you're uncertain, you're you're un you know. So I I I I am definitely feeling a uh a boldness that I did not have before. Because I only knew you that way. Yes. I I read God very Yeah, 'cause you know, I was I was um and I'm still not overly vocal, you know, I'll kind of sit back and and um if I'm in a crowd I'll I'll try Uh be f I won't necessarily leave it jump in and leave the conversation immediately, but um I was much I was much more quiet before before and um and now I'm I'm I'm vocal to the point where I'm you know I'm saying you know I'm being vocal about my faith vocal about Christ being the answer, um and just vocal about saying what I think is wrong. Right. You know? Right. And um and and just going, you know what? I'm not trying to offend people. It might offend some people if you take this the worst possible way. I can't help that. I I I've got to say this. You know, I've got to I've got to share truth. I I I know the truth about things. I've got to share it. So that that boldness in my soul, in my inner being, is is it's Refreshing and it's definitely a challenge. Probably freeing too. It's very freeing. Yeah, yeah. And um so that that's probably the most prominent thing. Yeah. Yeah. There's something I probably should bring up. Um I didn't preach on it and we haven't talked about it so far because it's not my belief, but this is on Facebook and there's a lot of people who who might have a uh slightly different take. There is a school of thought within uh the the Protestant church that um that believes it's possible uh and Well desirable obviously but more than desirable possible for Christians to achieve perfection this side of glorification in heaven. Um I I I've I've studied it, I've read some books of those who advocate for that, and I am just not persuaded that that is a scriptural understanding. Uh our our full perfection in Christ comes upon glorified So his first return is second coming. Coming. Um so uh but in case you're watching you're like, well what about that? Well that uh that's not I'm not persuaded if you uh care to endeavor on a conversation about that in a comment Of this video, you're you're welcome and we can go back and forth on that. However, there is one thing to be said though, and and that is it's it's half right in the sense that we it is desirable and we should be pursuing Perfection this side of heaven. Knowing we're not going to get there, but our thing that we are once we are saved, we are justified, meaning we are declared just by God. He chooses to look at our record and see Christ's record. So we are legally safe. And justified. And our sanctification begins simultaneously, but the justification is once for all. The sanctification is an ongoing thing that it's progressive in nature. But it's progressive in nature kind of like if you look at one of those graphs of the uh the American stock market over the last hundred years. Right? It's it's done a lot of this, but it but if you look at it from a big picture, it's progressively going like this. It's going up and down a lot, but it's going up and down as it goes up. The trajectory is possible Positive. Well that's what the life of a Christian should be like. You're gonna have your down moments, you're gonna have your peaks and values, you're gonna have moments where you feel like your your personal spiritual stock market crashed. Mm-hmm. But then you're gonna build back up and you're gonna progress again and you're gonna overcome even where you were and get back on track. So it it's not an excuse to have those valleys, it's actually an encouragement to let you know that you Well, you're gonna have them and so that's the realistic part of it, and the encouragement is that you will, as a Christian, as a follower of Christ, you will overcome and progress in your sanctification because that's what believers and followers of Christ do. And so if you've uh what were the examples you used? You it's just the seeds for thoughts for Angela? Do you wrestle with anger or Those kinds of things. If you've wrestled your life with you know unforgiveness and jealousy. Yeah, all of those kinds of things that have been difficult for your whole life. Might not a thing. More of I'm sorry. No, that's okay. What were you saying? Well I was talking to Angel and No, jealousy is something that I struggle with and I don't mean possess discussions more of I've had to um die to the ideas of what my life would be as a mom to Tyler, to having, you know, a non-typical person. I've caught myself and had to confess to family members of being jealous of you know, them complaining about oh I've got I go, you know, take so and so to another ballgame and I'm like, Oh, must be nice to have to go to a ballgame. So th and then oh my gosh, like m the ugliness of my heart as opposed to being happy that they have that to go to. And so that has been where I've seen God grow me in such leaps and bounds where I'm so thankful Thankful because you know in my heart of hearts I want to be happy for whomever that is experiencing those things. It's just my own selfish yucky that is coming out and just my flesh and just my sin. So then just being able to confess that and knowing okay don't beat yourself up over it, just trust God's got you and he'll show you the blessing of having a someone with special needs. Like, praise God, never had to worry about drugs or alcohol or the party scene or you know, getting Getting someone pregnant at a wedlock. I mean you think, okay, but those are the things that God's brought to my mind where I can rejoice in his disability. Yeah, you can rejoice you can find the blessing in it and how God can use and does use all things uh for the good of his people. Right. You know, and the world and the brokenness can be intend things for evil and can Sure. And yet God can use those for good. Right. But it's okay to be sorrowful too. Exactly. I mean not to mourn that. You know, our our son has limitations that um in a perfect kind of a environment would not exist. You know, um, you know, we had friends there talking about, you know, their their dog uh recently die and one p family members die and a lot of times we hear things at funerals, well, you know, it's it's the circle of life and you know that's the way it goes and well, death Right? They say, Oh death is only natural. No. Death is only natural in a broken world. It wasn't natural uh creation. God created all that is the natural. He created nature and we weren't created to die. Death is an enemy. evil. And that's one of the great things about the good news of Jesus Christ is he has demonstrated that he is Lord even over that. He has conquered death, the greatest of all enemies that we all face. So it's okay to be sorrowful that we We have to face the prospect of death. It's okay that we have to deal with the realities of our own limitations, that we all get old and feeble and tired and sick, or that we have you know, uh people in our lives that have more need It's okay to have sorrow in that where we have to be on guard is to then turn that into a negative heart condition where we're gonna be just Right who have a different set of sorrows. Because if you think somebody doesn't have trouble in their life, you know what that means? That means you don't know them well enough. Yeah, absolutely. Right. Seriously, if you think your neighbors have it going on, you need to get to know your neighbors better because I promise you they don't have it going on. Because the world is broken for all of us. And it remains that way until Christ's return. And so my point in talking about those things, anger or jealousy or those kinds of things that we wrestle with, and they might rear their ugly head more frequently than we Like over the course of time our walk in our on our on our faith path should feel like we are progressing So that if you look back, let's say you're fifty years old and you look back on your life when you were thirty years old, you should be less prone, on average, as a fifty-year-old believer Um you should be less prone to jealousy or anger or those sorts of things than you were before. Doesn't mean you're perfect, but you're on the path to that perfection. And so there's no get out of jail free card on this. Just because Paul in Romans 7 says, I do the things I do not want to do, doesn't mean oh, I can do the things I do not want to do. No, you do not want to do them. And if you keep beating them down, you should eventually begin to overcome them more raggedly So you might still go to the plate and strike out, but instead of striking out ten out of every twenty-it bats, you realize over time, oh, I'm only striking out five out of every twenty-eight bats. And I'm only striking out two out of every twenty-it bats You're still gonna have your strikeouts, but it's not gonna be anywhere near as frequent. And if you're not on that path, there's something about the spiritual disciplines in your life that are lacking. You're you're not in the right kind of a situation with your fellowship gathering, with your church, with your Bible reading, with any some aspect of your life is out of lack if you're not having a sense of overcoming Th those broken aspects of your life. So are we about an hour? We are. Any shout outs or comments we have to do? Um well your sister and mom are watching and your cousin Robin is watching. Okay. All right. Do you want to close us some prayer? Sure. And then you don't get to participate because you're virtual, but we're going to actually have the Lord's Supper here in a minute. And worship songs. And worship songs. We're excited. We are. Heavenly Father, thank you so much that it is you that changes us from the inside out so that there can be an example to a broken, hurting world, so that you might be glorified. I ask that you do that for each and every one of us. You would change us from the inside out. And if it means that someone watching needs to be introduced to you for the first time, pour out your spirit, Father, and convict and cause that person to know that they need you, that their only hope is you, that they are a sinner saved by grace, that you have a wonderful gift for them. And you bestow it on all of us. It's just for us to receive. Thank you for the gift of salvation. Thank you for the gift of new life. Thank you for the gift of everlasting life May you be glorified as you change us from um from the old self to the new self to the day when glorification happens where ultimately You are completely and totally glorified, and we are home once again. Thank you, Father. In your precious name, Lord Jesus, we pray. Amen. Amen. Well thank you ladies. Thank you for joining us. We'll be back next week, hopefully on time at six o'clock. Sorry that we started a little bit tardy today. We'll be picking up and continuing our uh s series on first John, the uh the first epistle of John next week. Till next week, God bless.