If you've been listening to the show for a little while, and why wouldn't you? Sixth Sense, that was a movie with Bruce Willis once upon a time. that this God can be known through his revelation of himself in his inerrant written word. It's it's almost nitpicky and I know that it runs what I said at first runs the risk of uh right up and onto the edge of it's not properly uh defined and articulated of being heretical If we talk about a Theophany, Theo, God, so God manifesting, appearing, a Christophany, the Christ manifesting, but the Christ is a title. But the divine nature is different from the human nature. We deny the Holy Spirit uh since the apostolic age has ever given or does now give new normative revelation to the Church. The Faith of Day page is there, and you can also go to My Church's website where you can uh connect with all of the different things we've already talked about. uh the Razvies and their ministry um and a whole bunch of other stuff too at household of faith in Christ dot com. And you need to bow the knee. We affirm that churches are subject to the Word of Christ in their order as in their doctrine, and that in addition to their commitment to a local church, Christians they properly involve themselves in parachurch organizations That's the biblical marriage, right? We affirm that identifying marks of local churches are faithful confession and proclamation of the Word of God and responsible administration of baptism and the Lord's Supper. Mm-hmm. We affirm that the church has a responsibility to nurture the family, that uh to honor par uh that honor two parents is a lifelong duty of all persons and includes responsibility for the care of the aged or aged. And so they should be responsible for that. We deny that the biblical idea of marriage can be fulfilled either by a couple living together without a lawful marriage covenant or by any form of same sex or group cohabitation. And we deny that the state has the right to usurp biblically designated parental responsibility. Anyway, this is the fake debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. We deny that the sexual molestation or exploitation of children in general and incestuous relationships in particular can never be justified So this we didn't talk about in the in the affirmations, but this is really controversial, uh you know, saying somebody I I think it's actually against the law now in Canada. Yeah, but the thing that's illegal in Canada and apparently in California is if if somebody's gay and they come to you at your church and uh you can't do therapy to try to help them overcome that sin. We're going to finish finish up the uh State Under God article, Article Nine, with the denials on our our next show. We deny that religious belief is an essential prerequisite to service in civil government or that its absence invalidates the legal authority of those who govern We deny the kingdom of God can be established by the powers of civil government. It it's a requirement. Let's move on to Article 10 here, law and justice, because this might touch on some of the same issues. We affirm that God has impressed his image on the hearts of all people so that they are morally accountable to him for their actions as individuals and as members of society. We affirm that warring states should strive by every means possible to minimize civilian casualties. I suppose the very beginning part of the song. And this living, acting, speaking God entered into history through the Son, Jesus Christ, to bring salvation to the human race, and that the revealed character and will of God are the foundation of all morality. And they want to believe in God, let's say, but they don't trust that the Bible's gonna help them get there, so they're gonna do like an LSV acid trip to try to get there. I think I disagree with your what you're saying then. Sure you're not sure. You know, some people are all dung-ho, it's the greatest thing ever. So like with Trinities, not a word is in the Bible, but we have well thought out, long argued and very precise language that helps us to define what we mean by Trinity. And then apostle lowercase A, which is what we have maybe today. More about ministries, conquered by love ministries. Yeah, the thing I said about the Jesus of Nazareth thing was has not always been like my position or view on that. uh Concord by Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. Yeah. Yeah, amen. Mm-hmm. You did your darndest, you're not guilty of murder. Evaluate. Yeah, a and at that point y you almost have to are they even keeping them alive? It's just the the b the mechanics of the body you can keep them going for a little while, but they're gone. So that's you want to move on to the next one? This is awkward, but we're going to pause there. I mean complete complete complete complete liar. Uh came out back in 1986 and it's more relevant today than it was back then. Uh what are some of the other big themes? blah blah blah blah blah. Right, yeah, yeah, yeah. Mm-hmm. to stay away from the participation of government. Right. Imran Rasby, Daniel Rasby, I'm Troy Skinner. And if you want to get in touch with the Razbies, uh that's a good place to do it and it will connect to their ministry as well, Conquered by Love Ministries. Um Yeah, they're all up there, the ones that are, I'm sure. Pastor at Church in Thurmont also have a ministry called Conquered by Love. You're denying the denials. for praying in her head, not bringing her glory. We deny that any person or any society fulfills God's standards so as to justify himself, herself, or itself before the tribunal of God's absolute justice. That was just for Israel. or grasping for power are compatible with Christ's call to dedicate our rights to his service. Imran and Daniel Razby, thank you for being on the show again today. website wfmd. So the biblical inerrancy statement came out in 1978, and then the biblical hermeneutic statement came out in 1982, and now the biblical application statement came out in 1986, and these are And that the notion of God should be accommodated to modern thought, which has no place for the concepts of sin and salvation. And so in the in the spirit of Vince Lombardi, who apparently the the as the folklore legend goes, he would start training camp with the very basics and he would gather the team around, he would hold up a pig skin and say, Gentlemen And so I I agree with the statement. Right. We affirm that the invisible union of full deity with all with full humanity in the one person of Jesus Christ is essential for his saving work. And that the uh the proper understanding of the love and justice of God warrants the hope of universal salvation. in existence before the creation? He did, but he always is in about that time. It could have been well it could have been human or it could have been uh I guess a spiritual apparition that appeared to be human. to uh to circle back and and think about 'em. the word of canonical scripture, of which he is the primary author. We affirm that the church's uh vitality in worship and fellowship is faithfulness it's faithfulness in uh in confession, its fruitfulness apart from the Holy Spirit. probably just going to say that the Holy Spirit does all the work also. Still a major point of distinction and I don't know that you are unsaved if you necessarily disagree with that to a certain extent. Yeah. uh constant many hourly long weekly long prayers um but the teaching discipleship was not there. We affirm that the inspiration of the Holy Spirit gives the Bible its canonical authority and that the role of the Church was and is to recognize and affirm it this authority. Make sense of that. And God God used them and Paul was very clear in that uh uh he didn't want anybody to say, I'm of Paul, I'm of this apostle or that apostle. Clearly there's something different between Paul and whatever pastor you didn't know. And then it's like, okay, but dress like means they're writing scripture today. I have no notice for we 'cause we met people that would that would have claimed something very similar to that and usually those are people who don't believe in the deity of Christ And that's obviously not you. That Christ sends the church into the whole world to summon sinful humanity to faith, repentance, and righteousness, and that the unity and clarity of Scripture And there are the majority of the affirmations from Article 4 on the church and its mission in the Chicago Statement on Biblical Application, which came out in the 1980s, and we started talking about it last week and we're continuing to talk about it. this week on the Faith Debate. Joined this week on the panel again by the Razvis, got Daniel Razby and his proud papa, Imran Razvi, known as Raz, to his friends, and they have a church in Therma and a ministry they started many years ago called Uh and we have the denials still. We deny that the Church is constituted by the will and traditions of men, that the Church can bind the conscience apart from the Word of God, that the Church can free itself from the authority of the written Word of God and still exercise valid discipline in Christ's name. The church can accommodate itself to the demands of a particular culture if those demands conflict with scriptural revelation or if they restrain the liberty of Christian conscience And also I mean seemed to baptism. But none of those things, especially the last one, have any basis in scripture. And we deny that differing cultural situations invalidate the biblical principle of male-female equality or the biblical requirements No, the scripture doesn't say that. Again, I I'm not I don't think I'm disagreeing and and I don't think the article is disagreeing with you. I agree with that. And then so let him eat and drink, right? Where we can you know, and really so to manifest the oneness of the church in Christ, seeking to resolve doctrineal differences, as they said in this Right. And if in the process of trying to save both, one of them dies, you're not guilty of murder because you're trying to save both. They said life of the mother is the only exception to abortion being called murder. Because there is no situation where the continu where uh where the the baby is threatening the mother's life. By the way, for the list those listening, nineteen eighty six when this is written. We deny that killing is self-defen uh in self-defense, in state-administered capital punishment, or in wars justly fought is Uh so basically they're saying capitalist punishment is fine, self-defense is fine, wars are fine. There have been some big news stories on some of these topics. And deny that allowing death without medical intervention to prolong life is always a violation of the sanctity of human life. If uh somebody broke into his house and and a rapist and was uh was raping his wife that and and he had a gun, he would not shoot the intruder because he shouldn't kill No no not no self-defense, no nothing. We affirm that since marriage is a sacred covenant under God uniting a man and a woman as one flesh, church and state should require faithfulness to God's intention that it be a permanent bond. And we affirm that the family should perform many services now commonly assumed by the state. to death. They have the power to destroy it. But the state getting involved or the church, you know, getting involved. uh the institution of marriage predates the existence of the church. uh biblically that the state should be punishing. You know, and they won't be able to do it. We deny that the state has the right to legitimatize views of marriage and the family unit that contravene biblical standards. The last part, sure, same sex does not count, and group uh cohabitation uh to cohabitation without marriage, no. The question is what is a lawful marriage covenant? We affirm that God unites husband and wife in every covenanted and consummated marriage and will hold covenant breakers morally accountable. We affirm that God hates divorce, however motivated. Uh not really on Facebook because we're talking about Falcine Wuhan. We don't want to go to war with China. We deny that any contradiction exists within Scripture on the subject of divorce and remarriage, and we deny that it is sinful to separate or live apart from a promiscuous or abusive spouse. Conquered by love. Right. Yeah, well I I will say this, it is something that local churches, uh the leadership teams tend to grapple with. Marriages on the cusp of divorce deal with that more frequently than you care to have to deal with it. What is clear, there is a specific type of remarriage that's very explicitly condemned in Scripture. Right? We affirm that sexual intercourse is legitimate only in a heterosexual marriage relationship. practical real world examples of how we would try to navigate through scripture to address what some of those specific examples are. Sexual deviations I don't know what that means. We affirm that human fulfillment does not depend on satisfying sexual drives, hedonism, and related philosophies encouraging promiscuous sexuality are wrong and lead So pornography is unfortunately. And that's still true today. homosexuals not not because they're homosexual, but does God love all the sinners? Right. And one of my sins was I was a thief and I've been delivered from all that. And God, through his grace and mercy, is going to demonstrate demonstrate love towards you. No, you say God made me a sinner. I guess I'm not a prophet. and how they might have changed things and how they said things. Uh isn't as airtight as we would like it to be. For somebody who does good. If you don't think uh God has called you to vote, I I I maybe disagree with you, but that that's doesn't that doesn't mean that you're not saved. So anyway. or neglect the God ordained responsibilities of Christian witness. enforce laws that accord with God's moral law as it pertains to human relations. thus jeopardizing the well being of their members, the state may rightfully intervene. What they were trying to say is you got you got uh someone molesting uh uh somebody or uh uh uh or beating them up and and and putting them in hospital or whatever in the state sh can then go and intervene. Because the government was saying, look, if you open up for church, you're jeopardizing the well being of your of your members and we're gonna stop you from meeting it's like the abortion clause Either take that out or rephrase it because the problem, this is this kind of uh what this opens, I don't think this is what they're thinking necessarily, but it opens a door to thinking that we saw in 2020. that were crafted with, oh, the well being or the life of the mother. Because they feel that homeschooling is against the well being of the person because they're not well rounded enough and that's what caused Nazis. Most of us now consider banking abuse. Right. Let's see if it'll do How many of these people are still alive today, I wonder. We deny that the kingdom of God can be established by the coercive power of civil governments. deals with the state under God. So you're saying they don't go far enough that it should be a prerequisite. Yeah. Uh if you're not going to be able to do that. the lawlessness that you have today because there is not no stability, there's no black and white. She has no basis 'cause she has no belief in God. the the Lord's Supper. He is saying many things that are against Christ and against the the Word of God. Okay, you may be wrong, you may be Jewish, you may be Muslim, but you believe there's a creator of God, so you know that there is right and wrong. We affirm that God's revealed law, the moral nature of mankind and human legislation serve to restrain the fallen political order from chaos and anarchy and to point humankind to the need for redemption in Jesus Christ. Like all the states had black head laws. Theoretically I kind of agree. But what are your preferred pronouns in this section? The indiscriminate slaughter of civilians can be a moral form of warfare, and we deny that the circumstances of modern warfare destroy the right and duty of the civil government to defend its territories and I think you you would uh you would be obligated to take out those even if they're not uh combatants. So I also agree, uh not sure I agree with that first statement. But he didn't say that that that wasn't a command of God though, it didn't know. Taking over more territory. and condemns wars of aggression. were certainly sad and terrible in and in in in that sense, but and I I'm not opposed to a nation going and aggressing and taking over territory to bring peace to that area. th those those things that happened uh you know three thousand years ago uh uh th in in a very specific context for for a very particular reason with very particular people and apply them more broadly Well I'm not sure. Several times during that. But I'm saying that when they go further and say it's never moral, well then I I'll disagree with that one. Right. Yeah, I I I tend to lean in at least lean in the direction of what they're saying, but it sounds like you're kind of at least maybe leaning in the opposite direction, like um And the Israel thing, the time and time and place, by the way. And so our inheritance is is the entire cosmos. We affirm that Christians must uphold and defend the rights of others while being willing to relinquish their own rights for the good of others. uh has granted to all human beings fundamental rights which are to be protected, sustained, and fostered on the national and spiritual levels. They're just copying and pasting like Civil Rights Act type stuff. Yeah. But enjoyment of human rights is you know, some people say, Why oh hey, you know, toy why can you enjoy uh pissing against the wall and I can't? Stewardship of the environment could possibly be a whole one just because that is so uh But but I don't know, I actually The first several And there's four of them left. debate page or you can go to household of faith in Christ dot com and you can link to the faith debate and all the social media that I'm involved with and my contact information all that sort of stuff is there as well as Household of Faith in Christ were concerned about the direction that the church was going and not taking the Bible seriously and not not understanding how to interpret the Bible and how to apply the Bible. And I think it had a positive impact, uh at least in certain circles it did. the articles in order one at a time, the affirmations and denials, and then Imran and uh or RA. We deny that the human language of Scripture is inadequate to inform us who God is or what he is like, that the doctrine of the Trinity is a contradiction or is based upon an unacceptable ontology uh something the human can comprehend necessarily. Um just nature of the rocks themselves will scream out about God. And so I'm just it's just interesting because Jesus is the name of the is of the human uh character or or whatever the that that came to be. So when people say that, oh, the language is not sufficient to have us understand God, no, God will give us whatever we need because even if there is no language There was a time when there wasn't a Jesus of Nazareth. that those who die without Christ can be saved in the life to come, that persons capable of rational choice can be saved without personal faith in the biblical Christ. That Jesus Christ through his vicarious suffering, death, and resurrection, is the only Savior and Redeemer of the world, that salvation is by faith alone in Jesus Christ alone, that Jesus Christ, as revealed in Scripture, is the supreme model of the godly life that is ours. So any interaction with any of the f fathers from before with God would have been in a human It was always the Sun. out of time before and he visited with um the his people. He existed and so I would actually uh challenge that to my belief is not that he became alive through Mary. But the human being, Jesus of Nazareth, did not exist. thought all the way through, but I am trying to defend the integrity of the idea that there's a separation between human nature and godly nature. We affirm that the Holy Spirit is the third person of the Triune Godhead and that His work is essential for the salvation of simmers sinners. in witness and its power in mission depend directly on the power of the Holy Spirit. And the denials regarding the Holy Spirit and His work. of renewal should be given to any movement in the church that does not involve a deepened sense of God's judgment and mercy in Christ. And through that decision God's you know sent his Holy Spirit and gave me the gift of faith and that's how I came to so right. Um if we think in terms of timeline, we get ourselves into some trouble sometimes. uh operative word there. throughout history and will continue to do so. say that he will not ever give new normative revelation to the church. And I think that uh th there was there wasn't a consistent uh presentation of that at Asbury. Christ the Lord has established his church on earth and rules it by his word and spirit, that the church is apostolic in uh as it receives and is established You know, is the Holy Spirit really at a at play? define revival because they don't want to admit they needed to be revived. upon the doctrine of the apostles recorded in the scripture and continues to proclaim the apostolic gospel. Uh I I w I would think so, but y you're not sure that you want to say that? They are just people that God is using and and to for the Yeah, I I I guess okay, I I think I most people certainly I would hope would agree with that. Oh, is that right? for specialized ministry. Encourage us to seek to resolve doctrinal differences among Christians and so to manifest the oneness of the Church of Christ. You know, if anybody ever wants to know if you're really a dad or not, I'll just point them to that joke. We deny that the church is constituted by the will and traditions of men. Believers should be doing that, but the local church doesn't need to necessarily organize it. that the church has to administer the Lord's Supper in a proper fashion. end up doing what the Catholics did, saying the priest has to be involved in everything. And I would say the first one may be uh of a church, but the second two are not necessarily of the church. I if if a group of uh believers gather together uh to form a local church and they irresponsibly administer baptism in the Lord's Supper, then that would be a mark that they're a mark of a baptish. Um this is how you'll tell if it's a if it's a church, if they're responsibly ministering the word Well, yeah, who's they? And responsible administration of baptism and the Lord's Supper. And so it's possible that's what they meant, but they don't actually say that, so I'm I'm willing to give them uh a a wide berth there for what that's worth. A lot of i in this in scripture is just any believer anyway. not in fellowship if they're to be treated as an unbeliever. spiritual discipline in somebody's life so that they will recognize their need to repent and turn back to the faith kind of thing. echoes of the Roman Catholic positions and it and a lot of our stuff is probably still affected by that at some level. And uh and so that's why I wanted to bring it up. Yeah, but I I think this can also lead to unnecessary um judgment from an elder or pastor saying, You're not saved or you you didn't repent enough Yeah, well the other spirit of iron sharpening iron is why we do this show and it's kinda not to steal language from the from the other side of uh i the uh ideological spectrum, but you know, we we want to create a safe space particularly with male and female. Amen. I don't know. That's right. Infanticide, suicide, and euthanasia are all forms of murder. To my knowledge, I think the archite the most common scenario would be where the baby doesn't fall all the way and it gets caught in the fallopian tubes kind of thing, right? And did the garbage disposal or something like that in your pharmaceuticals. We affirm that withholding food or water in order to cause or hasten death is a violation of the sanctity of life. necessarily a violation of the sanctity of human life. We did what we can, there's n nothing else we can do. You know, it's he he's great, but boy, he he couldn't be more wrong on that particular question. this issue quite a bit uh the past year or so on the faith of Aids. Yeah, we need to understand that what is really meant there is you shouldn't murder. And extends his kingdom on earth in an institution that provides for chastity, companionship, procreation, and Christian upbringing of children We affirm that loving, nurture, and discipline of children is a God-ordained duty of parents, and God-ordained obedience to parents is a duty of children. Yeah, there's a lot of things that are countercultural. for their entire lifetime. Now society at large should hold you to that. But I do agree that the state should require faithfulness in marriage. or the two people they say we're married now. But that's not the way things are now, right? four four-way or eight-way type of multiple husbands and wives type of thing. Clarify again here. Uh action in relation to a marital breakdown should at least initially aim at the reconciliation of the partners and restoration of the marriage compassionately restore those who repent and faithfully minister God's grace to those whose lives have been scarred by marital disruption. Holding that room. The because they want us to hate China right now 'cause we're about to go to war with China. with uh the affirmations from Article 7, but we didn't have a chance to talk about them yet. And so maybe we can be Some of them may be remarried. in agreement that there is no contradiction in scripture. And so are you openly living in adultery if you're remarried? Or you're forced to then come up with some sort of, okay, this is how we understand it. Uh I wanna say it's messy. uh be they heterosexual or homosexual, and the church must assume responsibility for restoring such members now you're starting your new life, you are a new creature. to a life that honors God. just as other temptations can. to ruin. to seek to check its production and distribution. And they don't follow through with, and you can resist that temptation just like you can resist other temptations. God loved the world, right? Right. Right. Because our the language, because of all the things you just mentioned, there's like uh sixty plus different uh genders supposedly and all it's it's very confusing. Or was he using it as a as a label for particular kind of sin? forward can be problem and they they're right on the cusp of doing that in the way they've already but somebody today would read this as an identity thing, right? Uh uh you as in he created them gay, which is not what we want to say. We deny that it is hopeless to look for deliverance from homosexual practices or other forms of sexual deviancy. Uh yeah I couldn't say that that's okay we'll probably uh I don't think we did the uh the denials yet, so I'm saying on this same theme That's true. and promote the general welfare. Particularly in early twenty twenty we were hearing the argument of unless it's a direct violation of God's moral law, you must do what the government says. Such confusion will compromise the purity of the gospel and will violate the conscience of individuals. I don't think so. a a a a good and valid biblical form of government. giving this uh affirmation that the the the state has the right to come and take my kids away because they feel that I'm not teaching them the social justice, that's what they're using. Yeah, I don't think that's what they meant there. phrase. And they will. listening to this. You're welcome. 'Cause again at a certain point you become a conspiracy theorist and they're like, We'd want to s we want to stay in the mainstream. But what you you read you focused on that well being word. And say, hey, um, you know, what do you th what what do you think? And some of the stuff we nitpick, right, about was Jesus the person born before he was born and and and stuff like that Except now. social media and all that stuff sort of stuff through household of faith in Christ dot com. That was a requirement. to and and this is gonna this is gonna date the recording of the show, but whatever. If you do not believe in God. I I obviously there's no practical way to make that happen right now. uh a an adherent to, you know, the Bible and be a Christian. I mean, I think they don't they don't go far enough to link church and state. Sure, I deny that the state has the right to have a public school. Standing, still. cannot be legislated and the law cannot save sinners. That's not possible because that's the work of the Holy Spirit. Certainly. four or five affirmations. Uh well, actually like all legislation in the Bible is based on morality, right? isn't just fantasy land 'cause that's the thing of how do you practically 'cause this is about biblical application, right? I'm not sure I even know what that means, or any other humanistic philosophy of law is able to satisfy the need for absolute standards of law and justice original sin or capable of offering a utopian solution or substitute for the perfect society which Christ alone will establish at His second coming. Mm. and we're or we're uh not the second we're actually in the millennium where we can fix the earth enough that Christ will come back and I think that is and uh uh really against what the Bible teaches. and oppression by other powers, including the provision for an adequate civil defense of the population. Citizens. And so that that's certainly a war of aggression. The one tribe that stole it from the other tribe was stole from the other tribe. And so I think that's a good thing. Yeah. But that's yeah, I think I think that now we live in a time when uh all of the earth, all of the planet is i is is what's supposed to be in view as the promised land. multiple times where the slaughter of indiscriminately of civil civilians was a commandment of God. It's like it's that's why it's the so silly of the woke argument, oh we should give the land back to the Indians. You know, states have a right and duty to defend their territories against citizen and citizens against a great. And their their language should be. Uh so that might be an interesting maybe I'll make a note about about that as a future topic. uh merely a an ethnic nation state any longer. Uh let's see what time. helping to bear the burdens of those whose human rights have been diminished. Sex used as a basis for discrimination can ever justify denial of the exercise or enjoyment of human rights. This is a human right. But discrimination is a godly and moral thing and you should be discriminating. uh i on the front lines, right? And I'm going to hold the line on that. Because and the base uh description says the exercise of their enjoyment of human rights. Are we out of time? to uh uh as a homeschool project. I I when I read them I I don't know that I disagreed with them necessarily. Recording sessions we're doing tonight are going to air the last very last part of March and into April. Uh demonic uh there we go I probably should have said that the delightful Raz and his equally delightful Daniel or something makes it seem like I'm playing favorites or something. This statement is the third and final in a trilogy of summits sponsored by the International Council on Biblical Inerrancy. old by by you know to today's standards if it's more than like three days old it's really old. This seems pretty boilerplate. I know where they're going with that, uh, is that, you know, we can get all that we need to know. Um but there are more aspects to God, he's greater than you can put into words and uh that's just not Um I think one of the things is there's no limitation in God. extraterrestrial kind of experience. go off on two bench of a tangent here, but it's interesting the way they phrase this. Um ge but Jesus Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today and forever, and he identifies himself as as I am, as the one who is who was and who is and is is to come. Until until the Holy Spirit comes upon Mary and he is conceived in her womb there is no Jesus of Nazareth. We affirm that Jesus Christ is true God, begotten from the Father from all eternity, and also true man, conceived by the Holy Spirit and born of the Virgin Mary. in and through him. Uh so God the Father was too much for a human to comprehend and that's why g uh God spoke to Moses through a bush and then and g and Moses not experienced God the Father. He wasn't he hadn't come into existence yet. Yes. It doesn't say in the mind of God there in that passage, it says he was slain before the world. Um and you wouldn't want that unless the Holy Spirit had opened your heart to receive that. uh purported to be the third tessanate. Because the Holy Spirit does give direction and I would say audible advice and and and commands to many believers Um but if you count, you know, just many, many hours of many, many people praying as a revival then it was. Well the uh I I I hesitate to place the apostles on a pedestal, and I think a lot of people do, and I don't know that this statement does, but it it sort of implies that those apostles were the special ones and nobody else has anything good to to say about doctrine. unique and special about the the the prophets of the Old Testament and the and the twelve in the New Testament, right? Right. Yeah, because I would hold before before the foundation of the earth kind of thing. for their roles in the church. that are adamant that the elders are responsible for administering the Lord's suffering. I I understand them to mean the leadership team of the church, the p the elders and the organizations of the church doing this. So was another one you said or no? to not make it that you have to be ordained by the leader of your organization. you know, who makes that call, how is that how is that done? Um we're not the able to discern what's in a man's heart. uh f felt further need to clarify that there are only male and female, um and then nothing in between. I don't think that the Christian biblical view is that, okay, well you kill the baby to save the mother. It's only presumably it was okay for him to protect the house, right? We affirm that in the marriage pattern ordained by God, the husband as head is the loving servant leader of his wife, and the wife as helper in submissive companionship is a full partner with her husband. I think that's important. And I agree, I think this is going a lot farther than a lot of Christians would go today to say, Oh the government should say stay out of it altogether. And so uh adultery would be a violation of this marriage bond and that should be a crime that's prosecutable by the government. hyper relevant this feels ever since the Obergefeld decision and uh every all the nonsense that's followed from that. um because the covenants between the two people before before God. Um, but that would be multiple wives, not multiple husbands. Well I guess a lie is when you know it to be untrue and when you say it you forgot. Well proclaiming that those people just broke in with us. Imran Razby and Daniel Razby back on the panel to continue to work our way through the Chicago Statement on Biblical Application. But they've realized that murdering their babies is counterproductive because they need babies. Um because they would consider that you are living in adultery currently. prescriptions for how remarriage should work if you're gonna do it. So there's a there's God's best plan and then there's all these other things that sometimes happen that God's not saying like this is definitely you're gonna go to hell if you do this, but commits adultery and if you divorce somebody that did not cheat on you then you're causing her to become an adulteress. Mm. That's that's interesting to me. If your solution, as the Mennonite church often is, is to make them separate separate forcibly. But doesn't say anything about it in mentioning it. um there are still consequences. Yeah, I it might seem like a cop out. Um I don't know how often that scenario happens, but often enough for God to think it was necessary to put it in scripture. So if somebody does divorce and comes to understand that there was sin and repents, it's not an unforgivable sin Right. already saved at the time was was it a was it a uh a marriage of two saved individuals originally and if they weren't, you know Let's talk about sexual deviation. Fifteen years ago. God loves homosexuals as well as other sinners. We affirm that God loves homosexuals as well as other sinners, and that homosexual temptations can be resisted in the power of Christ through the glory of his grace. Uh and we've we've gotten very careful, I think a lot of people in the church have begun to see the need to be very careful of how how are we using the word homosexual? No you're not. Um, no, I mean there are different people struggle with different temptations. At the time they were probably uh yelled at for saying that it's just a slippery cur a slippery slope. The healing of sexual deviancy is aided by condemnation without compassion or by compassion without the application of scriptural truth in confident hope. Uh all right, we're gonna what did you say about this recording session not being so controversial for earlier? Otherwise you're you're breaking their law, they'll put you in jail. Who are we kidding? Oh, so you're defending them against the bad guys and this th therefore provides encouragement to those. We affirm that it is proper and desirable that Christians take part in civil government and advocate the enactment of laws for the common good in accordance with God's moral law. Right, but if that is preventing you from witnessing, that is a big deal. with uh respect to uh punishments and uh and crimes and and things like that. had a chance. That that's more nitpicky I think but but in in the major stuff they have gotten correct. Eight and a half of them. at an appropriate time in the public school. Religion's belief in one God, the Creator. Boy, in in in today's world, I don't know how we would function because we would have no civil servants, right? Um so yeah, uh for in that sense I agree with them, right? crazy way because there is no right and wrong for these people. Um, you know, the last one that says we deny that the government has the right to prescribe specific prayers or form of religious forms of religious exercise for citizens. then these two two don't match. You know you can read the Bible and you can you know r read from the pulpit, be the pastor and uh be the leader of a church, but you don't actually have to be saved. We d as far as the length of it, it isn't so bad. You know how I know it can be a moral formal warfare? God commanded to kill every man, woman, and child, all the civilians in Jericho. So it can be. Actually, yeah, I I think definitely it can be. uh the moral thing to do in this in this situation. I think I would. And that's the thing. You know, um I'm an imperialist and a colonialist. uh a a a a good thing or a moral thing to do. God did that. another person's natural or spiritual life by violating that person's human rights and there are two more denials. Don't know that I agree with the discrimination uh statement. discrimination can ever justify denial of the exercise or enjoyment of human rights. Age, no. And environment, stewardship of the environment. way even way back in eighty six. I mean and uh w without defining well what you're saying is there's gonna be a lot to say about these. 912, yeah. Stick that into that. Um we're on the uh live still, so if we're gonna stop then we can shut off the live we're gonna do that and we wrap this up. Okay. But that doesn't mean that we can't know who God is. Jesus of Nazareth is both fully God and fully human, but the fully human part is not eternal. Uh yeah, but God is outside time and he predestined all of it to happen. Um from our point of view on earth, it seems the earth the sun is rising and falling whereas it is not. You are the one that initiates rather than God, I think. The the last the next one, we deny that the Holy Spirit since the Apostolic Age has ever given or does now give new normative revelation to the church. Um and I would agree with that. But uh yeah. uh that makes what they did and what and the I mean we read the writings to this day in the New Testament um because they were used in this unique special way. Almost I guess exactly half a dozen denials. the person didn't exist until this such and such time are usually people that don't believe in the deity of Christ. But in in the mind of God I was saved before he even before he spoke everything into existence. I I do see uh hairspoke but I just parsing there. Are we blurring the line between the divinity and humanity? Well that's like saying God can choose uh to to only partially call some people. So it's gonna be April second apparently. the the idea that it has to be organized or approved. Church is a group of believers that are uh led by uh elders that they've that they've appointed, um or elected or whatever among themselves. So that's what I was saying. Deny that the church is constituted by the will and traditions of men, again, I think another shot uh at the Roman Catholic tradition. traditional as in we do these traditions this way because we said so and because we've always done so. Um so uh uh but definitely uh the the biblical requirements as men and women are different in the church. But you go in there and get the baby up with the intent of doing everything possible to try to still somehow save that baby. But abortion is evil and um you can just not get treatment at all if uh i you know, th that would prolong your life, but you can't say, Well, I'm refusing to eat Um, you know, so that that that'll be what there's the I I I I don't know. A I because I I hear all these politicians lately, even conservative politicians, I'm pro-life from birth till death. That said, church and state should not uh officially start a marriage. uh a timeless document here. Yeah. In the denial they mentioned that there's any contradiction, that we deny that any contradiction exists within Scripture on the subject of divorce and remarriage. um it's not what he wants from us. But it does say, you know, the the the statement is too truthful. They're not separated out. Let's see. designed for this purpose. where you really need to kind of agree with. point of view, because there are different ways that people define theonomy. The state is a the state can decide what is their well being. that I completely missed the whole thing about oh the well being of the R see. citizens. uh if because of your religious beliefs as long as you really do believe in God and that human beings are accountable to him. But what if we live in Saudi Arabia? Again, with the first affirmation, scriptures are the only infallible record of unchanging moral principles. Yeah, there seems would seem to be a bit of an incoherence or maybe an inconsistency. welcoming to people that don't believe and and no. Need to put some flesh on those dead man's bones. as far away from the dropping of the bombs that ended World War Two as we are now. Um, I I think war is uh sometimes what happens and there really isn't a lot of biblical teaching about all war is bad or anything like that. Yeah, and I yeah, I I I I could live there. Um catering to Well it's like when they said the the state has the right to come take the children when there's n when their the general well being is not cared for Approximately a month ahead of time. And we're going to continue that because there were three of them. This is a football. from Jesus to say that he had a because that's that's what people uh like Jehovah's Witnesses want to say that oh he had a start date. But I also don't want to make I don't want personally anyway, I don't want to make the mistake of thinking that the humanity of Christ is eternal. You guys are not agreeing? It it's one of those things like the Trinity itself is difficult to comprehend, three and one at the same time. But Christ is not a human being until there is a human being that wears that mantle and carries that title. God is outside of time and inside of time. Well he he knows that he is Lord. We haven't, as a the church over its 2000 years now, has not really taken the time to define what are we going to call a revival. Um get to that eventually. Depending on what that is, I guess, because sometimes you can be just on a ventilator with no consciousness. No, no, no, no, no, no. Yeah. I mean that's insane. um surprise because they seem to have tackled every other topic or they didn't uh I mean they they'd say Um that I I think all Christians would agree that you they need to be separated, so you still have the same issue. You know, and so that's m i it's tough and then you're you wanna be you wanna be sure you're right because it's there's so many ramifications. And I think this would be a day. Yeah, or maybe. run by Christians and uh those should be the ones that are uh leaders in government and the government should be following the biblical form uh prescriptions for what in the Old Testament the the government is commanded to do, the civil government. um uh portion of the state constitution that says, look, you cannot be disqualified as a juror or whatever, uh serving Yeah, I don't know how we would enforce it. Uh uh sam same issue that's plagued a lot of false understanding of separation of church and state. Here's another one. And this last one, when we affirm that the gospel cannot be legislated and the law cannot save sinners, this is often stated as, oh, you can't legislate morality. There are those. What is good for? Okay. follow that Christ Jesus Christ did exist from the foundation of the of the world. Um, so very cool. Uh we're at agreement there. Article 5. Okay. Rather dramatic start to the faith debate, huh? I encourage you to to uh find out more about what the Razdys do with their ministry at uh Concord Bikes has to do with divorce and remarriage and mar saving marriages and those sorts of things and family dynamics. But then the flip side is, well then that's because she was already adulteress if you divorced her for that. That's that's the idea. Right? um angry and also you can't have compassion without the application of scriptural truth, right? And and I think the verbiage reflects that. But it's not just Christian. any uh well-formulated thoughts one way or the other. Um well we deny that the human language of scripture is inadequate to inform us who God is or what he is like. There's two more. Humankind is eternal. Jesus, who is the perfect human. Well yeah. The affirmation that I uh we affirm that identifying marks of local churches are faithful confession and proclamation of the Word of God What did I just say? Hundred percent. China wants to take over America though. So they don't tell you what their position on it is, they're just saying whatever the Bible says it doesn't contradict. We deny that homosexual practice can ever please God. Yeah. uh godly and non-secular. Government should be about one thousandth as big as it is. Yeah, but again you're talking about a Christian government. We affirm that God desires peace and righteousness among nations and condemns wars of aggression. At a particular part of time I would I would I wouldn't go with you on the time. But I I am saying that clearly there have been times that it was acceptable. So that third one, or the s the second one, we deny that any man any person can say from the heart that Jesus is Lord. So the that's all I want to say about that is I I I don't know that we disagree necessarily in this room about that, uh but I know that there are uh some brothers that might not quite see or say it the same way. Whether you existed just in God's mind or existed in reality, you weren't in the timeline until you were possible for you for God to have you in his mind and you not to exist? Baptism, yeah, one uh but then the Lord's Supper Yes If changing culture doesn't change God, you know you sure accommodate different cultures because uh it when you can, but if it differs from what God's commands are, you have to follow God's commands. They have a lot of words there and and uh it almost feels like they shouldn't need that many words for this one, but we'll see what they say. And topic presency. a as people might like them to cover today because there's a lot more sexuals than heterosexual and homosexual now. So I I I don't all that say I don't really disagree with it if but if these guys were to write this today, I think they'd be a little more careful In California. Right. So they weren't very careful there. That that's a real example. Other hand, apostle to me just means elder or leader in the church, and and so those men were leaders at the time and there's other leaders at other times. Sure, why not? That the life of a human being begins at conception, fertilization, and continues until biological death, thus abortion, except where the continuance of the pregnancy imminently threatens the mother's physical life Divorce was not at God's ever God's attention. We deny that pleasure and self-fulfillment are the basis of marriage and that hardships are justifiable cause for breaking the marriage covenant. We need to try to avoid it. I I I I guess. You could then argue, if you want to be the devil's advocate, you could argue the same is true of a homosexual couple that comes in and gets married. I think it's a good idea. I don't think they go so far as to say that um look Frederick County could pass some sort of ordinance or or rule for the county that says everybody has to be And the only thing that the only thing that differentiates us from savages is God that created right and wrong. Welcome to the Faith Debate, on News Radio 930 WFMD. But Jesus Christ isn't eternal. It says the name of God before the it was slain before the foundation of the world. Right? Well Asbury was a lot more about prayer and um so much teaching, more just a prayer meeting. To show their inadequacies and show that he can use people that didn't that even falter in the faith and and do that and place them in a position of leadership of uh of a position that influenced millions So that's what I'm swept out. Hopefully they still the next episode liar. Conspiracy theor theories. Yeah, it's it's unbelievable. But the question is now are they allowed to get married again? But nobody when's the last time you heard somebody called the cross? So that's what I started to read, but then I I paused because we had more thoughts on the last one. Alright. I I I like to think in terms of if a if the life of the child um is threatening the life of the mother So we deny that the quality of human life has priority over its sanctity. We affirm that God forgives repentant sinners, even those who have sinned by uh sundering their marriages. Find us online at householdofate in Christ. Afraid to address it because they don't want to lose half the people. Yeah. And then here we are again with this idea of the of a well-being of the that I don't think that's really the state's role. Anywhere. Yeah, I uh I agree with those and I think there are there's a bunch of Christians that believe we're already in the second coming. Okay. But God gets to define what the rights are and aren't. Well it's up to you. the way you put it. We affirm that the sanctity of human life is based on the creation of mankind in the image and likeness of God. All right. They don't want their their people to be interested. And there's one more affirmation, I'm going to pause after the affirmations. Could be we affirm that God loves murderers, God loves pedophiles, God loves like at some point, uh I think we get into the problem of people saying, well, I'm I'm a gay Christian. Okay. There are many many priests and pastors that are not saved, they shouldn't be up there. And if you don't know who Jesus is, definitely reach out. What do we think? A lot of these statements, if you don't agree with that, I'd I'd say it's I mean like if you say questionable whether they're saved or not. Yes they do. Or, you know, there was some concern as to whether this was a little too heady and academic for some people. He didn't send the people to go do that. I am Troy Skinner joined as is per usual these days, Imran Raz Razvi, and his delightful son Daniel Razvi. It's gonna be very interesting. We affirm that God established civil government as an instrument of His common grace to restrain sin, to maintain order, and to promote civil justice and general well-being. Many states m have have that in there and I think that's a good thing. We affirm that identifying marks of local churches are faithful confession and proclamation of the Word of God and responsible administration of baptism in the Lord's Supper. They're running out of space. I think they wouldn't have said it that way now, no knowing how abusive the powers uh were proven to be. And you're sitting protesting. Yeah, basic income is a human right. A lot of things should be age based. That is a reformed statement there. org is their website, Conquered by Love Ministries. In California. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now, assuming it's not daylight savings time or all that sort of stuff. Uh I was so hung up on the one pr previous where say that uh um you know, church and state can be mixed God has given territory to a lot of kings to say, go and multiply and take over this land. Uh no, we have we we have a a couple minutes so we can chat about this one. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here. Elev elevate. But there's there we don't have laws anymore. com listening to the live stream or perhaps you're listening to this later, not live at all, but the podcast. Jesus Christ to bring salvation to the human race. Well yeah, because God is both in and outside of time. Well, why? Yeah, but that's that's again the timeline and and it's it's hard sometimes to t to think in terms of the timeline and especially when we have an eternal God Yep. Now, one uh comment I would make says church and state should require faithfulness to God's intention that it be a permanent bond. What is the purpose of a government? We deny that the biblical idea of marriage can be fulfilled either by a couple living together without a lawful marriage covenant or by any form of same-sex or group cohabitation. That's very controversial these days, by the way. It's not worth the paper it's written on anymore. That doesn't even make sense to me. Biggest defender there is the denial. Lawful states have the right to and duty to defend their territories. Because the evilness of the Amorites had finally reached their their cap, and so God as an instrument of judgment uses his people to go take care of the people that were starters that shouldn't have been there because they were so evil. I think it could it could uh be rephrased in that as God commands, it could be that way, but unless you're sure that God commands it, then probably it's not a good idea You're I'm looking at your eyes and I'm not sure if you're agreeing with me. We affirm that Christ calls the Church to serve Him by its worship, nurture, and witness as His people in the world I don't know if they're clarifying or muddling. We're already at war with China, but we don't want to have a hot shooting war with China. But does d does he does he love specifically all individual people and all the sinners? This is the faith debate. In fact the Maryland Constitution and in that is one of the things that's try uh uh this session, um this past spring, they're trying Yeah, but I think the Pope disagrees, right? And but in the practical I was like I just don't know how you get there from here. We deny that presenting Jesus Christ as a moral example without reference to his deity and substitutionary atonement does justice to the uh teaching of Scripture. And if that offends you, give me a call, we'll talk about it. We've read these, but we're not going to talk about them until next week's show. You can't because now you're no better than somebody who's not married. Right? So we're we're going slower than I anticipated we would go. And that concludes the uh denials, the last half of Article 9 for the Chicago Statement on Biblical Application. Yeah, she was standing across the street, like wasn't even like next to it or anything. Did I dunno if you saw the news article uh a few months back probably by the time this airs about the lady uh standing outside the abortion clinic uh clinic in England See that's that's that's a point I'm making. We have things in our mind that don't exist. Yep, absolutely. Right? We haven't really found many things that they got wrong. So I say religious the belief is actually essential to service in in civil government We deny that the state has the right to forbid voluntary prayer and other voluntary religious exercises at an appropriate time in the public school. I think they do a good job here. Is it usually? Article twelve, discrimination and human rights. I don't like that the w we use the word race, by the way. Yeah. So uh that's a Catholic tradition. And you're right. That's what we should be doing. And so if if the baby continues to grow and mature, uh the mother's not going to survive. Well Jesus even Jesus said, right, if the strong man knew what time the guy would come out, he would have protected the house. So I don't know what else I have to say about that other than Yeah, and it's interesting that they you know in the article title itself it says Article Seven Divorce and Remarriage. I'm a Christian, but I'm gonna be. I'm I'm for uh theonomy. That's like a double that's like a double negative. I would like to, but maybe we'll do that next time also. I I uh what they're saying I think is that there's no third testament that applies to all believers that we all need to start obeying. Yeah. The website is conquered by love. Um so that I was trying to make the distinction, but it's it's hard because I haven't heard that argument from a believer before. Let me just read those now and we'll deal with this whole section as a group. Anybody can baptize and be baptized any place. It just says, Do this as often as ye drink it or eat or eat it, it being the Passover, so once a year The the the social safety net that the government runs uh is responsible for that. But the overall establishment of civil government, the purpose of government is that I think. So, okay, let me hit okay on this one. Does it distract you when we keep talking with the other thing? We deny that the state has the right to usurp authority of other God-given spheres of life, especially in the church and in the family. So count yourself lucky or cursed. That's not gonna help us at all, is it? That's what I'm saying. What's interesting is they did not mention remarriage and how that should be dealt with in the church. I think they're saying what uh right if you're uh uh if there's abuse, for example, then the state may intervene. So again Does that fall in the category of warfare? So I'm yeah, I agree with that for sure. And I think these same people that that signed the other statement saying women can't speak in church also signed this and And now the denials for Article 2. So uh Imran uh Raz Razvi and uh Daniel Razvi, they uh uh lead a house church in Thurmont and also have a ministry called Conquered by Love. That's how I'm reading what they're saying. It's interesting that was the one thing they included in this um thing. We affirm that God, the Creator, is sovereign over all human life and mankind is responsible under God to preserve and protect it. And I a and I say that as somebody for a lot of years has had a lot of respect for his wife. That was the design of God. And they have. No, the next one is ties to some of this. Oh, okay. But yeah, I think that would be it. Uh uh what this is saying we affirm that we can and we should, but it's not a sin not to. That gets into the should a church have been closed when it's important to be closed for COVID, right? They have been specific examples about refrigerators. There are consequences. I mean at least in on my personal radar, it wasn't something I was thinking a lot about fifteen years ago. Whether that was sin of homosexuality or sin of murder or sin of adultery or any other type of sin Right? But what expanded the definition of well-being well-being to being, oh, you're teaching your kids that there's two genders and therefore you're endangering their well-being and take the kids with the people. Well I hit the wrong button, that's what I duh. Uh I think the way they phrased it was very woke. There is no situation in which killing the baby actively saves the mother's life. Those are two completely separate things. You can't kill. And other things are countercultural. We try to save the marriage. The drafted the statement don't have a clear answer on it. And the problem is it there was a naivete. So there is there are times to discriminate. So we'll do the the the rest of Article IV on our next show. No. But if you go in there and and and then you know take the baby out and and and crush it and throw it into the, you know Oh, sorry. Because again they don't define it. Uh well it's just as prevalent inside the church as outside the church. Um but oversimplified, but that's basically what it means. So I think yeah, I think we want to be careful that they have a particular mission for a particular purpose in a particular part of the world at a particular time. Okay, make sure this screwed it up. Oh, okay. We affirm that Christians must ex must exercise a compassion, kindness, and forgiveness in the ministry of God's grace to those whose lives have been scarred by sexual deviations. I don't know that's enforceable. Well it did it specifically with you know the Israelites taking over the promised land. Well I'm not I'm not trying to apply it more broadly in the sense that like on the civilian thing, right? Well I guess we we could I mean it sounds like what you're saying is that maybe each one of these articles could almost be a full show. So you can take this from David and We could we could pause on this. I mean they're saying basically the Book of Mormon is not of God and the Quran is not of God and you know all these so-called Third Testaments, right? It can and then I think it's always wise to then compare that to the normative revelation to see if it's in accord with what he has said before. I don't I don't think the statement necessarily means they're disagreeing with me, but I I've again I'm reading into it because I I know a bunch of pastors that would would dis disagree with me on this. One is murder we talked about earlier, and w uh rape you talked about that a minute ago. They've been putting sleeper cells all over the place. Anything that needs to be touched on that hasn't already kind of maybe tangently been touched on previously because of similar topics? Yeah, I think they're trying to i there is a sense in which the fullness of God is incomprehensible. Anyway, we're already halfway through this show and we've only done two. And we like to be disagreeable. The church doesn't discipline regarding the Lord's Supper. I must do our theme standard a little less than that. All right. The way things are going to be a flat earther pretty soon. But but and so that so I guess that's the that's the question though is is wha what happens I mean to to remarry 'cause there's two ways to read that passage, right? Yeah. I'm a murder I'm a I'm a murdering Christian. That's a quote. One right after another. Absolutely nothing. No. You're so close. Yeah anyway I I I am nitpicking a little bit but I you know I I I would not say I th I think that's actually a little bit dangerous to to try to to separate that A lot of um uh uh many people would maybe. I think what this this statement is saying that when you're saying from the heart that Jesus is the Lord is meaning you want him to be your Lord Other people are like, uh, it's a it's a fraud, and other people are so you know, take a wait and see attitude. I don't know. No, that was really the main thing. We're not gonna kill you, but we're also not gonna artificially keep you alive. Government is to you know, protect the civility and the orderly of of society. So there's that aspect. It's in a creator God. Yeah. Welcome uh Internet Land. There's one thing uh I might uh make note of, but before I do that, I'm curious if you have anything. Again, I think we're back to the same uh um challenge we had with the relativity The last one I think is important actually given what's uh gone on this year with the the the uh uh quote unquote revival with Asbury. Um and you know, it is a permanent bond. Well you're married, then you need to act married. As generally defined. I mean, no, God made me uh in the way you know the uh then when you make how you say it. Here here they're saying you shouldn't just condemn it without compassion. Thank you for listening to the Faith Debate Today. She believes in her and her power and only her power. I mean these could be so wealthy. And Jesus Christ in his divine nature is eternal, but Jesus Christ in his human nature came into existence in time. Alright, so this one's not gonna air on April Fool's Day, darn it. We assure. Well Schiff did the same thing when it came to the Russia collusion stuff. And now we know better. So that's how we check it. I think they're keeping a c a clear distinction between gospel and law. We deny self and be self and we deny that any political, economic or social order is free from the deadly consequences of They got their kids taken away. Well, I don't know like almost a whole recording evening. But what they're trying to push back against, I think, is the whole new agey oh well you can't really know anything. I disagree. And his human nature came came into time. Yeah, the denials are interesting, right? Hey. Well, good luck. Is it most of the time? Clearly there have been times. Jesus of Nazareth, you know, he there was no Jesus of Nazareth until there was a Jesus of Nazareth. I'm I I again I'm I'm splitting it here, but I think uh uh it's uh and I'm not sure that uh I have it exactly um We deny that any view that disputes the essential tripersonality of the one God is compatible with the gospel. Right? com. Mm-hmm. They would have been better off if it did Article Seven Divorce. Sin Sin has consequences. And the language was different. We hear this phrase a lot. Sama. I mean what if you come across a w uh uh a w uh a coven of Wiccans that are sacrificing children. God did that. I'm Troy Skinner. And so this is the faith to base version of this is a football. Right? So th there are some practical and I think that over time part of it could be the Roman Catholic connection. Uh-huh. We deny it those who reject a divine basis for moral law are exempt from the ethical and social obligation to preserve and protect innocent human life And and so I think there's part of that. Yeah there's a lot of those in in what's called the pietist tradition that they don't think you should be involved. Because God commanded it on more than one occasion. We've been talking for the last uh for the most part, there's been a couple of uh exceptions, but for the most part the last couple of months we've been focusing on the Chicago statements So Article I deals with the living God. I don't know if I would have phrased it this way. We were made in this image, so we were. Is that what they're saying though? Yep. That's why Jesus even said about well Moses said that because the heart is in your hearts. Let's find out. This last phrase here is a quote from the preamble. Well well, uh you can protect those people who are doing good is what from people who would do them evil. We began talking about Article IX last week. They don't have any stability. Yeah, we've we've talked about that a little bit recently with uh with a difference in understanding of uh who Israel is. So I'm going to read something here and then I'll maybe we'll explain why we're doing what we're doing. Um they edited the word normative on purpose. org, so I encourage you to check that out. That's um interesting, uh, you know, that again they're not covering as much as Yeah, that wouldn't be our identity anymore. Well let me rephrase. You know, it it's great and it's wonderful, I'm not disparaging it, but it's not as airtight as we would like it to be. This is not a Christian government. So there's there's a good fact. We're going to co-rule with Christmas the entire cosmos. Yeah. Who is who is Christ? Very cool. So they're talking about these are the identifying marks of a of a of a faithful local church. Evaluate each germal case with the greatest care so as to preserve the sanctity of human life. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. Oh this coming week if the ICD's time it'll be hundred and sixty six and a half hours. But there is no bad. Um I've and I've only in you know all all my time in church leadership only only had to address this the divorce question specific not And they said, What are you doing? Because if there's there's only one place to get the um infallible record of unchanging moral principles, then how can you be in a leadership position in government if you don't have that But you should it can and should have laws regarding morality and godly living that are from the civil government. Yeah. I mean I don't I don't understand what you mean why not? I'm not sure which, but I'll we'll listen back later and see what we decide. It shouldn't just be a default situation. And the the trouble is they're they're pointing to s passages in the Old Testament where Moses clearly lays out a lot of To use coer coercive force for the encouragement of those who do good, but how would you use coercive force And then that was changed to well the life of the mother. We deny that the that God's providential establishment of a particular government confers special blessing apart from the government's just and faithful execution of its duties Health is a human right. Is there a movement of the Holy Spirit in the church? You better change churches then find a church where your pastor did write a book of the Bible. But we're not God. So you can say so you can say um happy April Fool's Day, oh April Fool's Day. I'm Froy Skinner. Well d that's but that's the negative. We'll see how many of these things have already been touched upon in recent months. Yeah. We affirm that God loves homosexuals as well as other sinners, and that homosexual temptations can be resisted in the power of Christ to the glory of his grace Like that language doesn't exist anymore. I don't know if it's a few. So um, you know, if you're gonna let Christians be in government then then you're gonna have this much smaller pool to pick from So you I go through the denials? We deny that the cause of Christ can be defended with earthly weapons. They all are aggressing. Like they're not just like, are they? Only God can. Right? I mean you c you should be able to go rent a house or buy a house together with a woman and say, We're married now, publicly. We affirm that although God hates divorce in a sinful world, separation is sometimes advisable and divorce is sometimes Daniel Razby, Imran Razby, thank you for participating on the panel again this week. Complete liar. We affirm that pornography threatens the well-being of individuals, families, and entire societies, and that it is incumbent upon Christians There are different schools of thought. I don't think that that that this says that they couldn't do that. War is all war is always aggression. Yeah. Israel is the people of God and the three of us in this room are members of Israel. Um maybe maturity based rather than age based. Yeah, I I'd like to get home. So I think they're speaking against that. Who was it that visited Abraham and Sarah? Then who did again who did uh uh Abraham talk to? I think a lot of the Catholic traditions are still in uh our churches today. Well the same Bible that says thou shalt not kill also commands stoning for certain crimes. Yeah. And I'm not sure if I mentioned uh my website, but in case I didn't, it's Household the Faith in Christ dot com. Yeah, some of them may actually prior yeah. That's what I was looking forward to. Right. We know that it can't happen here. No, no, no. We deny that the government has the right to prescribe specific prayers or forms of religious exercise for its It was a comment of that's what happens. Sometimes you have start with the end in mind. And if you're not careful you end up people who are gonna be you know they want to be Christians, let's say. Exactly. Yeah. Now we'll see in the denials they have some exceptions to that and they they say, well what if, what if, but Article seven is divorce and remarriage. Uh Daniel, what you're saying is don't drown, but if you drown there's C P R Well, I think it's clear in the Bible that he sometimes put people in power to punish Israel and they weren't You can define that to mean anything. Yeah, they're saying they deny it's a prerequisite, and I say I I I I affirm it's a prerequisite, so I'm saying the opposite. Didn't that guy get in trouble from the Pope? I think we're too far gone. We deny that any so-called human right which violates the teaching of Scripture is legitimate. And I I don't I don't think they agree. I th uh I put him on a pedestal. The people I've been exposed to that want to separate and say, Jesus Are they just artificially keeping the motor running? And so I don't think I don't like the state being involved almost at any level, but Um and then the quest about the question about the group cohabitation, I don't know if that's dealing with polygamy and things like that, which while never explicitly condemned in scriptures is clear that's not God's intention. Article seven. Now there are three more affirmations. And in certain cases God commands it. Absolutely. Um so there m maybe there were some things you guys disagree with, but we might be able to go through it all. We're getting over some some esoteric kind of stuff. Um so there will be many believers I think who would disagree with that because they uh in the Armin the Armenian doctrine is that you I'm not sure that I would say that there's anything particularly unique about uh those men. And that's kind of where the lines usually get uh get drawn. Uh and again I d I don't disagree. But that is an argument you'll hear in conversation with people, right? And also what's the solution, right? And and I think I make the distinction personally is if uh is was somebody I I wouldn't say that God doesn't love all people. It doesn't say life it doesn't say that's the trouble is defining well being, right? No. This is the Faith Debate. I agree, and I think that's a contradiction with what they said earlier, which is Yeah. I think that's that is a su uh a duty of the state is to punish certain crimes. Um but the state getting involved, you know they have these little fees and these requirements, these paperwork processing things and anything that the government can can have that kind of control over. So that that's that's the question I think a lot of i i it it is telling that even the consummate theologians But I just grabbed a pen and I circled the this article to rem remind myself maybe this would be a topic that would be good to do a series of shows with some That's how you would really say it, right? We deny that heredity, childhood conditioning, or other environmental influences can excuse deviant sexual behavior. But it's not. If you believe in Satan and and follow that religion, I think that's his own. But the kind of back to this this uh thing here Say it again. Uh so uh yes uh we're definitely not um falling in the political correctness of today. Oops, I already made a mistake. Terry Schiavo case comes to mind down in Florida about probably ten years ago, maybe. We affirm that God gives civil governments the right to use coercive force for the defense and encouragement of those who do good and for the just punishment of those who do evil. Cause even the younger guys, back in the late seventies, early eighties they w uh MacArthur and Spro were relatively young. Just no. The the I don't know. I have not really heard anybody make that case that was a believer. All right, here we go. Church. And that plays on, you know, you're not going to welcome to the the fellowship table if they're We affirm that the penalties notice what they do not say. They don't define it. When I was younger you didn't call 'em all these trans words, they were a cross dresser. We affirm that Christ's rule of the Church through his word must not be confused with the power he grants to civil governments. You can find them online at conqueredbylove. Does the government have the right to prescribe a non-Christian program? You're praying? I'll save the denials because that's a that's quite a bit right there just in the uh We deny that the indiscriminate slaughter of civilians can be a moral form of warfare. We affirm that the Holy Spirit guides the people of God, giving them wisdom to apply scripture to modern issues in everyday life I believe that I was I was saved before the final foundation of the earth. So that's not a lie, that's a that's an omission. You're just sleeping around at that point. Yeah, look if you're if you're a thief and you turn to Christ, you're a sinner 'cause you're a thief. You wouldn't go around saying, God made me a thief, but I was able to overcome it. That's Household of Faithinchrist dot com. Um they're trying to remove and strike from the Constitution mentions of God. But I would say that yeah, i if you if you want to be a good judge you should be saved. I agree with that. Um and that's it doesn't have to be a specific time. Uh if if you uh watch this and you're and you're spurred to comment, we're not be able to get to it live, but I will go back and review them later and uh and try to answer your questions there. I'm not sure which. Uh insofar as he's revealed himself and that's what we have in the Word. org. That's more relevant today than it was at the time even. Correct. Still still super over today. Now they're not hard to get them to have babies but they need more space for that. And then Jesus says, Well, God didn't even really want you to do that. We affirm that Scripture reveals God's standards for sexual relationships, deviation from which is sinful Find us online at WFMD. I don't know. Health insurance is a human right. They want to enjoy being able to teach. Thank you so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here, whether it's on the AM dial or at 99. Maybe. I think it's more of a logical exercise, like logically what would have to come first kind of thing. The priest has to decide if you can he can give you the Eucharist. It must be done by order and purpose and and properly organized by the elders. So anyway, we affirm that the penal view of social justice is compatible with the sanctity of human life And I was happy to see that the these uh people all signed the statement that capital punishment is not Now this next one speaks about the husband protecting the house in a sense, right? Will they ever will they ever forgive me? So it's a cliffhanger episode. Now, one thing I I I was a little bit hesitant on And so the way they phrased it here, it's almost like it's an identity. Now will I there was a time with the people of Israel in the promised land for that reason. How we apply it today though, um in in today's environs, um See this has this has broad philosophical implications. We've been reading through it. So I don't know. I hope it's not distracting or feeling rude to you when I'm just keep keeping my focus on. God can communicate with us through any language, any means, any way. We deny that Scripture warrants any proclamation or offer of salvation except on the basis of the saving work of the crucified and risen Christ No, the Word existed. Yeah. Yeah, so all the more true for God then. And uh And that's why it says let a man examine himself Yes, you got the right show. Article nine, uh this is a there's a lot of words on this page, boy. You can do it and should do it after you will be put in jail for it. Not aligned properly. The thing I'm thinking about is uh to me there's something exceptional about the ancient nation state of Israel Jesus is eternal. Maybe. It's like a convoy. That's why I think price is coming back. That's not really warfare. I think I think so. He is Israel. You can find me and uh everything I'm connected with, social media, all that sort of stuff at householdofinchrist. So the denials for the church and its mission. And unfortunately we've got people that are on the other side of the aisle that aren't a whole lot better in some cases. The the heat's off on that for now. Yeah. Um sexual intercourse is legitimate only in a heterosexual marriage relationship You know, in interview 'em and say, what do you think? Even people that proclaim to be uh Catholics, like Nancy Pelosi. But what the what uh I'm just hung up on uh yeah, it it doesn't say Christian belief, it says religious belief. I'd say that's all for all of Earth history and today and in the future But wouldn't give a gun to a kid. We're ending on a sassy note. And here we are all these decades later, and I think we're facing the same problem. But let me tell you, whether or not he pre-existed as Jesus Christ of Nazareth, he is the Son of God I see what's the fur so heavy. And I don't think there's such a command for scripture. It's a confession to the to the world that's a good idea. We deny that the sanctity of prenatal life uh negates the propriety of necessary medical procedures to preserve the life of the pregnant mother, which we were just talking about No. If you get divorced, marry somebody else, and then get divorced again, you may not go back to the first spouse. Identity is in Christ. No, that's different than sacralism though. So we don't have that choice. I I read what they meant to say when I said, Oh, there's abuse, there's there's molestation, yeah sure that they can We deny that the state has the right to forbid voluntary prayer and other voluntary religious exercises You know, the the the rules and laws come from someplace. Said, well, maybe in my head. We affirm that God desires peace and righteousness among nations. I think discrimination is a dirty word in our society. Sex, oh sure, women can't speak in church. In the affirmation they talk about the this living, acting, speaking God entered into history through the sun Because it's saying that we affirm this is uh the one, two, three, this is the fourth affirmation under Article IV for those reading along at home Uh we deny that the church can grant canonical authority to scripture. So today we're going to start the show talking about divorce and remarriage. Well that slope was very slippery and we slipped very far, very far. There there are there's a variety of people that would say I'm a theonomist and what they mean by that is something different than the other person who said they were a theonomist. You know, back then I think that they felt like it could never happen here. Just because the the the king is not a Christian doesn't mean you can't you don't have to obey the the you know the king Remember that song? We affirm that God who created man and women in his image This one God exists eternally in three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, each of whom is fully God. And we define that. To me a lawful marriage covenant is two people that publicly say that they're married. Oh, you're not getting along anymore. And they should have known better back then, but they you know, they got a little egoistic. We affirm that the scriptures are the only infallible record of unchanging moral principles basic to a sound jurisprudence and an adequate philosophy of human rights. So I I uh I would love for them to have defined human right a little bit more um thoroughly because that's definitely a hot topic these days. Yeah, there's uh there's wokeism that's already built into this. So Jesus died before Adam was born. No, we weren't made. So we got off onto some tangents last week that slowed us down in our progress, but hopefully they were edifying and helpful. Why not? And so they the uh so the narrative line is is finally in this It's the duty of Christian people to pray for civil authorities and to obey them, except when such obedience would involve the violation of God's moral law. Let me see if I can do all three of these at once. We'll finish talking about it this week and then move on to Article 10 and henceforth. Yeah, yeah. Um so I I don't know. And that and that's the problem is they didn't really define the right. I mean it's after nine o'clock. Well maybe you did exist but you weren't in the timeline. Yeah. And you know what? Right. Usually only the first half of the sentence we hear a lot. Like, oh good, they're protecting me. To be honest, I don't know. I I don't know if that's that's the way I would explain it. The priest doesn't marry people in in in scripture. Oh, you're just a conspiracy theorist, Troy. But there's also many Christians that would believe, and I know some churches, many churches, that you would be disfellowshipped if you were remarried after having been divorced. But those who are actually divorced and now they're like they want to get remarried or what does this mean? What is right and wrong without God? Everything is whatever you feel. That actually wasn't so bad, so I'm going to do the denials too But you cannot say it cannot be a moral form of warfare to kill civilians. And I agree. I mean general well being. So uh he wrestled with Joseph. So that's part of the Yeah, I mean God did choose them for a reason. Visit us at the radio station's website, wfmd. The church disciplines from general fellowship altogether in the church if you can see open sin in somebody's life. Only be with each other for the rest of your life. I'm not saying I agree with the Mennonite position on it, but they are consistent um with that We affirm that God's grace in Christ can deliver men and women from bondage to deviant sexual practice. And 'cause that's now we get into the reform doctrine, right? Absolutely. Um and a lot of the modern stuff that you see on the news is like this Yeah, they couldn't for murder enough of their babies, they're running out of space. We need new conspiracy theories. And I think what happened is the group of people making this uh statement couldn't agree. So you c get a couple that comes to your church with four kids, and all these four kids were born in this marriage, but they've each been married previously No, you're not. And we affirm that when families or churches neglect their biblically out uh defined duties And so she claims to be Catholic, but she does not have any uh any uh walk as a Catholic. So what they're saying is that you can't force somebody to become a Christian So how do we apply in the real world Yeah these things? And the animals. And expanding territories is something that God has has blessed in many cases. I I I think yes, you're not gonna say, oh, because he did it this time it's always okay acceptable. Anyway. Why are we talking about this? I I'm saying Jesus didn't change. So yeah, I know um Um it does have practical applications you have to think through like when it comes to some sort of church discipline. Right? We don't want to say that God created them this way, that that that he created them to h to experience that type of pleasure Yeah. I do think theonomy is is the Okay, well what makes a lawful state? So I don't think it's it's fair to say that God condemns wars of aggression or all wars of aggression There's a lot of things that are very much trying to be It's interesting because I know they're trying to clarify that Jesus Christ is the Son. I I don't know, I I think I'm going to pause there at three and see is there anything you wanted to say there, and if not, then I'll continue. This one is is is the positive saying that You have to be going to Bible college to be an elder. I'm going to pause there because there's a anything that you there's a lot of stuff there that's countercultural. Prior prior to divorce. So um in any case adultery is the result of all this. You were saying something about that? That includes their mental stability, right? I I yeah, we uh and you know, um when something decomposes, only God can recompose it. Um, I don't know that God condemns wars of aggression In fact, a family that was just doing an experiment to see how long they could uh survive without a refrigerator Play it backwards and get some If it does not involve a deepened sense of God's judgment and therefore mercy in Christ, because He forgives us of our sins and the need for repentance Yeah. They could, or they don't have to, um, but believers should be doing it The husband's job is to protect the person. Right. I think it would be interesting if you can get a poll together of of all the people that were signers to this. He might have. They're uh committing some heinous crimes. Well excuse me, native America or indigenous peoples, because you can't say Native American either now, it's it's indigenous people, right? We're gonna we had this happen before where we had like fifty topics lined up and we did like one topic a show and tried to rapid fire and we might do that again as best as we can I don't know. That part I I'm not sure that I have a well formulated thought, but it wasn't Jesus of Nazareth So uh let's go through the denials before we talk talk more about it. I just read the denials for Article 7 on divorce and remarriage. So our whole perspective on these sorts of things is very so in fairness, these guys back in the nineteen eighties, they weren't thinking about So if we've been a good speakbait to you as you listen to us in podcasts There's a a few things that that they could have written better. Yeah, so I wonder how they would come back and rewrite those in a way that On that point though, I don't know that they would argue that it's a human right for somebody to stand up and preach. Quite quite the uh didn't expect this one's direction, but it's interesting. So that's a mouthful for the affirmations. And I think we have a really hard time as a church trying to define that because we don't really have a doctrine of revival And so but anyway, but again, we're we're looking back. Might be my fault. That was never part of the constitution. I don't know if you prefer Imran or Raz. We already existed eternally in the person of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, not we. And and I think you can split hairs with an Arminian two and Yeah yeah that was very important right um So I don't know that it was a revival There's something that's that's unique about them. I don't think you know the elders shouldn't have anything to do with the War Supper or anything like that. Allowing death without medical inter intervention to prolong life That's nice of a T sh T V show by the way. If you weren't if you weren't awake yet, you are now, Article eight You wouldn't say I'm a thieving Christian. Yeah, well you know our constitution um So that's aw it coming to a theater near you. Yeah, the full preterist position is uh is zany, to say the least. So aside from that, and again you can't foresee that that becomes a really hot topic, I And the Bible says go into all the world and preach uh to all the nations. There was some of that, it wasn't consistent, and so it confused some people as to how to So I guess we're gonna wrap. Uh I think the biblical view is you do your darndest to save both. That's not what God meant when he said, Thou shalt not kill. I think that's actually not a biblical concept. Right, yeah. Oh, that's illegal. Um and in the mind of God, I would gr I would I would go that far to say yes. That that's what I'm anyway, that might be I don't know how we would position that as a as a as a as a standalone topic, but that might be interesting to Till next time, 167. Yeah, and even that parenthetical statement, I was gonna come back to it since we pause. And so most pastors are um Or and how horrible we were at living up to this standard if they got it right. But um but sure, uh i i i you know, yes, the state should not prohibit you from praying We affirm that in rightful defense of their territories and citizens, governments should only use just means of warfare We are for we affirm that warring states should try strive by every means possible to minimize civilian casualties. Uh uh the economics one, I've read that one, I I don't know that I have a whole lot to disagree with that. So without further ado, we're going to get started and see how this goes He is he is he is the perfect Adam. Yeah, I mean only God should be on the pedestal, I suppose, but there is something that's We affirm that the marriage of Adam and Eve as a lifelong monogamous relationship is the pattern for all marriages within the human race. He knew for a fact it was all made up and he was on the news channels every night. We just have power and people without power. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. org. I think uh we all should be, you know, ready and prepared and have our oil lamp full. Right. And I can I could even foresee cer uh circumstances which God hasn't explicitly commanded, but it actually is Yeah, I haven't thought about it a whole lot. I don't have a refrigerator in my house because I'm too poor to have a refrigerator. And so uh you're gonna definitely hit run into some Armenian people who are going to say that uh I made a decision And uh if I don't say something silly to get us off on a seven or eight minute tangent, uh we'll be able to make better progress than we made on today's show That's the thing, it's a false uh uh uh argument The baby's not holding a gun to her head, right? Well the Bible says you can't kill, so no capital punishment, no m no war For John Piper. I wonder why they would bother going any further than they already have. That would have made more sense. Uh either they they're smart enough to get ahead of it, like okay, what's our policy on this gonna be, how are we gonna handle that? So you can't just say, Oh I feel for you, you're a gay person, that's okay. The they're not Christians in power and Right Yeah. We would have no law enforcement. And even all the animals. His human nature is not eternal. And then you've got Jesus, which is God and man at the same time, that's also difficult to comprehend. All right. So if if if there's a church that never has the Lord's Supper, doesn't ever baptize somebody, never proclaims the gospel, is it really a church? Um but they're trying to leave room for that. And um were you guys paying attention to what John Piper said a few years back about, you know, if uh This next week on the same bat channel, you'll find out what our answers are to that and we'll go through the denials. God bless. Uh boy, these are flying by Uh thank you so much for making us part of your day or week or whenever, because now in the podcast era, who knows when you're Alright. And that falls in line with Paul talking about, you know, in Romans thirteen to obey the government, which at the time was Nero, clearly not a Christian. They fall victim to the same um And God is moral So you cannot say that it never is That's all I'm saying. In our time that's how we perceive it, but it was he was slain before the foundation of the world. The Son existed. That's Household of Faith in Christ. Well then we could end it. You can like like they used the phrase before, you can drop that truck through it and that's com, or you can find and connect with me on my social media, contact information, that sort of thing, at household of faith in Christ. They have the freedom to do that, but they're saying that if somebody else says, well we're not going to make that requirement, that they would still be legitimate Yeah, and the but the Pope is is again, uh many of you believe in Antichrist. So I I agree with the affirmations, but I'm saying that they're um in in disagreement with the previous denials So that's that's where I'm coming from on that. Find me online at householdsofaith in Christ. Uh my wife is leaving at four AM tomorrow morning to fly to Iowa Why not? And and if they had ha if they had drafted this statement another thirty years later they probably would have Because it would be artificial at that point Right. Again, this is the 1980s. But I would I would uh So s Schumer and Schiff are definitely liars. It's like the biggest industry on the internet. However, is it, do we want to say that it's true that God loves all You know, so we th the using these words in in a way that brings the identity Yeah, the denials. We affirm that all of human beings are ultimately accountable to God for their use of these rights. Yeah. For turning off the refrigerator that they still had in their house. It's kinda like it's on a need to know basis, right? Right. So And the church is not over scripture but scripture is over the church is kind of what they're trying to say with some of these other things. And it ends with, you know, the family should perform many services now commonly assumed by the state. All the old ones came true Never-ending convoy The height of the Cold War is when they are talking about this. You can connect with all those podcasts at WFMD. So let's go to Article 2, because they actually speak to all these things. He talked to a a manifestation of the Christ. What's of the church And you can find me in Connected The Show Show and my So is there anything uh in the denials that I just read that made you say I deny a lot of the denials And how how can you govern if you don't have a belief in a creator? We affirm that lawful states have the right and duty to defend their territories and citizens against aggression We affirm that the one true and living God is the creator and sustainer of all things But uh there's uh I believe that there's a there's a dual nature, right? But the church and its mission. Adultery is another one. Probably well I think John MacArthur might have been involved. I'll try to go quicker. And that's why the laws are passed in such a We deny the age, uh that age, disability, economic disadvantage, race, religion, or Yeah. Um They're arguing against sacralism, so they don't want a blending of church and state here. And I think they kind of miss it here a little bit. We're gonna arrest you Well, if you deny the previous one where you don't have to be a religious in order to be in in leadership in the government So He has done that before. Alright, let's start that over. That's good article. Who's the you know, the church when I hear the church I use You can't switch back and forth between one or the other. Well in those cases, okay, you you might have to go in there and get the baby out I think John Piper has actually been a blessing to the church. But from the beginning it was not so. Yeah, you're th you're allowed to say it finally. Is that what they mean? Right. We affirm that Christians are admonished to follow the compassionate example of Jesus So race because of age. Come back and do another session on this, do you? So I would I wanna bring something up. We've got one, two, three, four, five, looks like six more affirmations in this section and then at least a half a dozen. But the person's dead. Well no, the government should should say that the punish ad uh I mean adultery is a crime in the Bible We affirm that the local church has a responsibility to discipline those who violate the biblical standards for marriage. And so they could they could only stay And lastly, we deny that elitism Okay, that was mouthful. Did you still want to do the other topic? As you said, they're probably gonna be having that ad campaign for another few years. Did Jesus of Nazareth exist before Adam? This show Uh so it might be because of They did not say except in rape rape and incest the health of the mother And if it's not viable, okay, well God will decide whether it's viable or not. We're all idiots. I mean gets uh saved, and now they got these two kids they adopted or whatever There's fifteen other types of sexual In fairness, in nineteen eighty six I don't think this other stuff was on the radar. Um God it does say God uh is not willing that any should perish, so he doesn't wish that anybody would perish. You know, before that there was no Jesus. What's the matter? Yeah. That's God's intention. We deny that changing social conditions ever make God ordained marriage or family roles obsolete or irrelevant. Yeah. If you don't agree that you can't be homosexual, then yeah, I'd I would say your salvation is questionable Right now the leadership has no idea what's right and wrong. Yeah, I I I don't I I don't have much to add because I'm just stuck on and I Outside of that particular situation are there other times? Disability having alcohol. So you're getting a sneak preview. So those are all the aff affirmations and denials. So um was it really a revival? And that many established Protestant denominations, they're very We affirm that because advancing medical technology has obscured the distinction between life and death, it is essential to elevate each term of case. Yeah it it's it's definitely um I don't know that that's good for the kids. Sacrialism is the church is the state, the state is the church. We deny that Christians are forbidden to use weapons in the defense of lawful states. Um generally this this stuff is is correct. Yeah. Thanks for uh following along on the on the screen In the mind of God. I don't know that w anybody in this room disagrees with that statement, but I do want to point out that is So he w he wanted to make sure that it was clear that So We deny that the church can grant canonical authority to Scripture Um but I want to go back nothing new under the sun. But it also might just be Right, right. Yeah, I think a better th uh thing would be God loves sinners, including homosexuals, not This is actually kind of a quote from uh our our co uh constitution, right? We affirm that governments have a responsibility before God to establish an Because there's no scripture verse you can point to saying that it's a sin to not meet for several weeks in church. We deny that legal positivism I guess I've just kind of made some assumptions along the way, so I gotta think this through. Back in the seventies and into the eighties, some church leaders uh all all in this country but all around the world too So I'm going to read the um That the true and saving knowledge of God is given by the Spirit of God as he authenticates and illuminates And that's why I was very cautious. And when there is adultery that is breaking down the civility of society and breaking down the the bonds that God created Oh, you know what? Um Yep, it was at most a footnote or a joke in I was a sinner, but God created me. Right. So Troy, let's get together and add a denim to this. Right, exactly. Here is what they're saying. Let's uh let's see how much progress we can make. That's not right. That is discrimin. I think we're going to be able to do that. Because the word on the written page is inadequate. So it would And I think the people that are a little bit unsure, they look at this and say Because their population is aging very rapidly. Yeah, I like that they add that for it, because some so many times But this then adds that little phrase, or neglect the God ordained responsibilities of Christian witness Um and it it should it should be all a Absolutely. So the Chicago Statement on Biblical Application. Now we're talking about the eternality of of humanness. Alright. The priest has to take your confessional. Oh God loves whose God loves gaze Basically what we're saying is that the uh not participating with government is not a sin So Doesn't matter. Jesus didn't exist until Mary conceived and gave birth to him Uh to be honest, it it it Now the next one, Article Five. We should try to to fight for it. God bless. How does that stay up now? Um this state, whatever the state is, has aggressed and taken over from another state The point is there was and had have been Right Yeah well the Theophanies I would go so far as to say probably a Christophany. I don't know that I have any issue or or clarifications or I don't think with that So it's it's not a word that we see in the Bible, uh, and so we can't just turn to scripture easily and say, oh revival right there Church and admission. Yeah. But I didn't exist before the foundation of the earth Which I happen to agree with. Then you you have to be there to marry people and to baptize people and to do this and that There's no situation. We talked about that earlier. We affirm that since the essence of the marriage covenant is lifelong commitment to the covenant partner Oh, God loves gay people too. Yes, yes. Okay, I guess we'll cover that. Um jeopardizing the well being of their members No. And if you have no belief in a creator god, then what is right or wrong? It was in writings from It was never a biblical concept. Yes The Trinity existed. We deny that the name Only by somebody claims to be a We'll we'll find out anyway. Yeah, well He wanted Adam and Eve to leave just the two of them, not even have multiple wives, even though these all these prescriptions were if you have this and if you have If there are kids involved and stuff, there's so many ramifications. I don't know And and this is the same weakness with the very first affirmation, which is what I was concerned about, with the general well being Ethnicity is is is there because there's only one race I I know what you're trying to say and I don't think I disagree with what you're trying to say He I mean with uh Jacob. They don't say that. But uh and then there's a lot of arguing over that because someone wants to say, no, the apostles of today are just like It doesn't even say anything about pastors. Absolutely We affirm that the purpose of marriage is to glorify God. As long as we're happy, love is love. And actually Thank you for listening, spending part of your Sunday morning with us if you're listening on the radio, or part of your day with us if you're listening to the podcast. Because, you know, I have a whole bunch pop into my head now, we'll we'll just spend the next forever talking about it and that's not the purpose of what we're doing here. So we can say, uh, we affirm that God loves homosexuals I get nervous about the general well-being, but you could drive a Mac truck through that also. That's true. You know? But that's the distinction that often gets made as you know apostle capital A, that these New Testament author types Boy, there's a lot of mouthful in all of that, but That's the only uh institution that can really prosecute such a crime. I've I've I've I've misled our listeners. Um and I think the point of that really is you can't just keep wife swapping. And even if you want to do a define obese. I think I I I think they're uh trying to be And that was certainly a moral and godly form of warfare. We're all kind of one with the universe and the God and this whatever is your tr that's what they're pushing back against I think we should have the Lord's Supper. The the fathers get together and negotiate a marriage and then they have a party It's really interesting how We have just sent all these ships over to Taiwan. So that actually sometimes Why not? And we won't even have one That might be a good thing. The government does not have the right to prescribe anything that is non-Christian. Just shows that aired probably back in like December might have been the ones that addressed those issues Yeah. They they were moved by God in certain ways and so are other men today But but on the uh on the I just read all the affirmations uh that we didn't read last week on Article IV You can deliver the baby and attempt to resuscitate it Um all fifty states as as far as I know still have laws against adultery on the books, and none of them are enforced. The second part is is I agree with, but the first part And i in the beginning part of it was very, very good. It's a quotation from the King James Bible. com. 5 hours from right now. It it's something that kinda struck me probably going on ten years ago and I was like, you know I I've met met and talked to a lot of pastors who I have very high respect for They're gone. So they're denying that that's the case. I will discriminate in my church. Don't be April Fool's Day is Saturday, huh? We deny that any act is acceptable that would harm or diminish Scripture is on a need to know basis. We affirm that That's a definite shot at the Roman Catholic uh uh tradition for sure. com. Daniel, me, Troy, we're gonna give you our our two cents, maybe our four or six cents even So what about um a devil could say that Jesus is Lord? They already have control of America. So so I would say that if you do not agree with that, that doesn't mean you're not saved Right. There is a So One of the things that's interesting, I don't want to Yeah. Therefore I'm also against capital punishment. It was one man and one woman There's very few crimes And that's exactly what they use in Germany to stop people from homeschooling These articles Well say I'm a male, you're female. Yeah. They're still sinners. I'm Troy Skinner. According to their their um their their satanic legal code, you're not supposed to do it. Right. But regardless, let's take that part off. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from about now. So if they can come take my kids away because I don't have the general well being and have can have refrigerated food. I played the very last part of the song I just would wanted to clarify. Don't condemn it without compassion have compassion. They were Sure it can. And I wonder how they would have defined this uh because uh nineteen eighty six wasn't That's true. He's unlimited I think the difference is that they would maybe were used in a particularly special, unique way Part of it could just be practical considerations. For now. And again it does say we affirm that God forgives repentant sinners I'm Troy Skinner, joined again this week by Daniel Razvi, Imran Razvy. So Um like Jesus being born. Well on that well this is a long one, but I'll at least try to you know get us started. Well my my son is due on April 1st. The state under God. Um not the last part Race, yes. We can s So even though he was born many, many centuries later, he existed It wasn't a person. We deny that any person can say from the heart that Jesus is Lord apart from the Holy Spirit Right? I think that's between the families So I do wanna clarify there's the difference, big difference between this article and the one previous. You can't We're grafted in, we're part of that. His divine nature is eternal. It was we did another son again recently. Has never been Amen. Exactly. A lot of what he's written and and and he's one of the one of the great preachers of his generation. Yeah. I don't deny that. You know what, we need to focus on this and help people understand People don't take the Bible seriously, they don't know how to interpret it, they have no idea how to properly apply it I think that it's a Catholic tradition And then it's uh there's a fancy word for that kind of pregnancy Right? We ended last week's show We only had to deal with that one time I I think if they were to rewrite this today, they would ch change it a little bit I'm not sure. Article six about marriage and the family. Are we using it as an identity? Uh right. And disability no. So why can't a woman do it So yeah, they're they're they're grappling with that point I was making. The Bible is not that simple, is it? I just want to be careful God loves gay people too. Most of the states They're civilians, they're not they're not actively in the military. I would not deny that age, disability, economic disadvantage, race, religion, or sex uses the basis It's already what nine Yeah, they're gone. That's why I don't ask you any direct questions during it. It's almost the very the very same thing as you don't have to ha uh believe in Christ to lead the church com, the Facebook Both of those were were uh They're not my godlike. That parent parenthetical statement, it almost doesn't have to be there it seems to me, but or So God created me and I was a sinner because of original sin and because of my sin nature. It is proper and desirable, but it doesn't say it's required. Women is not allowed to preach in our church The priest has to uh baptize you and the priest has to marry you These have been since this was written You know what? 9 HD2 or at the uh God bless. Thanks for spending part of your day with us So divorce, not good. Right And is there anything you might have done differently if you I would say that those are our identifying marks of believers. Why not? Because humanity is a is is is created I guess normative would be the And and the church should work to that end. Okay, well what about spanking? But it wasn't Jesus. It it was prayer. So if a if if if somebody This is in the 80s Yeah. Not all Christians would agree with that. How can you decide what what is just and right and true We don't have the advantage like that with revival. You want to be so sure you're right And that's the that's the great fall of this country, is they don't know what is right and wrong. We are married and that's it. That's a marriage covenant. But doesn't even remark. Well how are all nations created by taking over territory But we got we got economics Okay. I'll be curious to see how this holds up given what we now know over the last few years. But like I think we want to be careful of saying, oh, that was just for Israel I mean I don't want somebody in a wheelchair serving in the military We know all that God wants us to know about him com. It's right on topic We are through I affirm that the government has the right to prescribe the Christian religion Economic disadvantage? I need some sort of You know, some people were concerned about how to understand that and You know, if you're gonna treat someone as an unbeliever Come on. Even her own uh bishop s said you shouldn't get uh uh And that's why they didn't give their people the uh mRNA shots. Couldn't quite agree on whether remarriage is ever acceptable. Alright, let's uh in the interest of time, let's do Article 11. That's Household of FaithInChrist. It says he that div marries a divorced women woman, um It does say that very unequivocally. And I think this w this statement is absolutely unacceptable in today's time. We're all idiots It's it's a human rights. Work and leisure, not so much. So you're trying to make a distinction between the man and the God part I want to go back a actually a little bit higher and it says I have evidence. So yeah, the guys that are still around are probably in their eighties. The church and state are inextricably linked and will always be so I'm not saying that Let me read Article 2. Jacob. Um prayer is good and there's How else do we do this? To take those Israel What about Sodom and Gomorrah? It wasn't a human Then um It was it was very obvious Um but You do your darnest and if the baby dies Well 'cause you're gonna deal with messy relationships. With the benefit of hindsight. Yeah and there are some people who think the second coming has already happened I mean that's the truth. Yeah, I'm not I guess this might be a little bit of a blind spot 'cause I don't have Always test it with scripture. They're saying that that's bad, I would agree. You gotta have a belief in a God Yes. My pastor didn't write a book of the Bible so And then it really doesn't address it. Um Yes. This one might be simple, I don't know. We've talked a l about There's only a couple of denials actually for this section. I have evidence But as an a there was an actual human being. But you can condemn it. We people uh establish justice We deny that But Jesus of Nazareth does That's all you need to be married You don't have to have somebody else approving of the covenant to make it a covenant. I In the spring when when kings go out to war. He should be. Might take us some time to draw it all out. Yeah But with We're not just reading it, we're actually discussing it, which is good. These are the things that are really skirting on the wokism. Yeah. Well, which indigenous people God bless That's a big part of the affirmations So I would support that Yes. So the s I think that the son Education comes to mind by the way. There's a You can't go back and forth I mean I mean that I I think the government should be You can find I'll agree with that. The Savior and His Work. And again, I n Correct. Right. No, they want to land Right That's why uh you have the crazy They have they have the duty to prescribe the Christian religion. So a again Yeah, I I mean the uh Okay, record and start that over again. You know, how do we enforce some sort of I don't think it was on our radar I would not necessarily go so far as to say Generally the church doesn't want to Should you terminate them? I would say scripture is very clear on that. Particularly I I'll I'll I'll give 'em that Jacob. The Holy Spirit in his work, Article three. Is so he's saying that through the Holy Spirit? And you know, there's Israel isn't We can't Otherwise just enjoy these com He should be. com Mm-hmm It it mentions it one time. And God loved us while yet we were sinners. We deny that They've done that. How how are we as a church gonna try to handle this? They Shan should. And we affirm that the gospel War. Um wealth and poverty. So The reason is Yeah. I agree with that. I mean he's so much passion and I was a sinner. Human right. Um But Um Human right.