Uh but if you make comments in the comment section, I will be sure to get back to those later. And if you'd like to track along with us offline, the easiest way to connect is to go to household of faith in Christ. If you go there, you can connect to the faith debate through that. On the panel this week to talk about the things that are in the Danver Statement are David Forcey, pastor of a multi-location house church. I like to joke that it's like the Wackamo church in town. You definitely want to maybe get in touch with me. If you're in northern Frederick County or southern Pennsylvania in the Adams County area, maybe that's something you'd be want to check into. It's not about authorial intent. And women are people too. The wise intelligent willing submission tends to be replaced by usurpation or servility, so we were just kind of talking about it a little bit I think what I'm going to do is I'm going to read the next two, but we might not really have time to talk about them a whole lot in this episode. He's supposed to take that leadership role. I want to uh thank the two gentlemen who participated in this week's panel, Steve and Jurger with uh the Shabbat Gathering in Adams County, just north of Frederick County. Uh he's on the show pretty regularly and in he w in the context of talking about homeschooling used a phrase that was helpful I think it fits here too, where um the father is the principal You know, we're we're farming it out to daycare. If you're farming out because it's it's a tool for training up, you're delegating, you're giving you know somebody an opportunity to to grow, to learn, to show themselves, to feel a sense of accomplishment. Rather, biblical teaching should remain the authority for testing our subjective discernment of God's will. Uh I'm going to give you guys a chance to gather your thoughts and I'm going to share something that I was thinking about a second ago. So you could do that, but that's not the design. We're going to be picking up with a Nashville statement in next week's show and it piggybacks a little bit on some of the themes that were in the Danver statement. And what I heard was moron. So I'll I'll specifically talk about ethnic groups, ethnicity, that sort of thing. Tony Perkins, D. Francis Chan, a little surprising. Anyway, if you don't know all these names, the ones I expressed some surprise at have proven themselves to be rather on the left spectrum of things theologically in recent years, and I don't know that And so this is what this is talking about. And it's just a clarifying kind of a thing. And so it gets misused and abused by people on uh a different theological spectrum than myself and people in this room right now. He's not able to hide his difficulties. And that's why we shouldn't murder them. But that doesn't change the paradigm for everything we think about sexuality and biological sex and those sorts of things because of these sorts of things in the world. Now we're doing uh the Nashville statement and finishing it up probably this week. And now we started Article 8 started off this week's show, which again this week is talking about struggling with uh sinful temptations. You know how many how many counseling sessions you have to come to grips with your what you feel like you are? You know, it's not just muscle size or muscle strength, it's like your neuronet, you know, is stronger. Trust me, I know there are men who are 30 years old that are incredibly strong. It's interesting you talk about, you know, the Methodist Church being, you know, split down the middle and it's interesting to me that there are exceptions to all these rules. And if somebody's a male who wants to be identified as like he, she or they them pronouns, that's denying the truth. And you're going to say, well, I choose to believe, I choose to affirm that I'm impervious to semi-tractor trailer trucks doing 80 miles an hour, 90 miles an hour, I'm going to step out in front of it and I'm gonna be fun. We're trying our darndest to live this insane nutty world. Forgiveness of sins and eternal life are available to every person who repents of sin and trusts in Christ alone as Savior, Lord, and Supreme Treasure We deny that the Lord's arm is too short to save, or that any sinner is beyond his reach. Uh we've spent the last several weeks, well let me back up. And so some people point to things like, over the last few years there's been the chosen TV series has come out and it's been very successful. And how the two possibly are even interconnected, because I think there is a bit of a of a of a connection of how we can think about uh what happened back in the 70s and uh what maybe is or isn't happening here in the 2020s And I think there were some things that, you know, weren't the best things, but could could God well could, is God moving even in those situations? And if you know anything about that particular ministry. I use the uh quote unquote revival. uh for this Danver statement. Yeah. Like you know, it was this think about this, seventies and eighties. I wonder when that shift problem. Uh David Forcey, uh I gotta come up with a better name than the multi-location church refer. at WFMD. They they meet all over the place. when you come up to grips with the reality of what is it and then navigate forward from there. uh Imran's phrase uh too too specific narrowly. Yeah. And so trying to come to grips with what's a better phrase for that because it gives the wrong impression. by them. Yeah. to clarify a couple of different times how this isn't because of the flaw. Yeah. So uh it's an example of uh I mean that's it's idolatry, right, to worship the to create to worship yeah, to worship the the gift, right? But they do exist. Joe Joni Erickson Tata? Uh when are you leaving tomorrow? Spending part of your Sunday morning with us. You know what I mean? What was popular twenty years ago, you don't hear the phrase quite as much, you still hear it, but it was really popular twenty years ago. Well maybe we have time to do Article 14. I ha I thought I had like fifteen more seconds than I did. Uh so I wasn't being disparaging, but now that we mentioned his name, I could see some people going online and trying to find, you know, videos or or podcasts that have his music and be like, this guy was popular? It's at a school that has a reputation for trying to almost manufacture these sorts of things. and say, God, what is authentic and what have you given and what is man made? If somebody says, Do you think it was good or do you think it was bad? that they label the rationale. and the apparent accommodation of some within the church to the spirit of the age. Uh but on rare occasion it's it's it's not down that in them their parts. Alright, so I opened up with the uh the you know the the set the stage of what the Danver statement is all about. for now to do this, but it's all kind of related. I'll read a couple because they're pretty short, so I'll read a couple at a time and we'll go from there. Distinctions in masculine and feminine roles are ordained by God as part of the created order and should find an echo in every human heart. Uh and the people that were involved in the Nashville statement, uh again, some of the names would be the would be the same, I I'm pretty sure. I can make the words mean whatever I want. It's like, okay, maybe we're pushing the envelope here, what's going on? So but so I think they were dealing with third wave feminism, which to be honest, first wave feminism, not all bad. probably ahead of ourselves on some of these things in a state. You can't if you're five foot three and you weigh 125 pounds, you can't be anything you want to be. i i i is being placed into a head shaped role because that's God's design and that's what's best for a well-oiled machine as the family. And the results of the fall of the distortion is how many men do you know that are all too willing to abdicate that responsibility of leadership? Uh in the church, sin inclines men toward a worldly love of power or an abdication of spiritual responsibility and inclines women Right. The three of us in the room, and if you're a little bit more well seasoned than the three of us in this room, your lifetime too, when you were a little kid, it was very common to to think in term to hear stories about how mom and grandma Theological liberalism, to be distinct from political liberalism, that really uh was beginning to emerge in the late 1800s in the church in a big way and had basically won the fight for the church, meeting macro speaking, right, by the early nineteen hundreds. And I can make decisions with that truth. Alright, well I I can be the fifty one, but then I end up dominating the show and I I I listen back to the show and I'm like, man, I did like eighty percent of the talking in that episode. Uh anyway, this is the this is the uh faith debate. Or they're going back to church and they're not listening to it. falling apart as a band and they had a bunch of half finished projects and they just kind of put it out as an album. Wives should forsake resistance to their husband's authority and grow in willing, joyful submission to their husband's leadership Those are, by my count, affirmations 9 and 10 from the 1987-1988 Danders statement. You know, it's not quite as deep blue, but it's no longer a purple county, it's a blue county now. Uh uh uh uh I'm I'm I'm setting I have opinions. In the church, redemption in Christ gives men and women an equal share in the blessings of salvation. and the mother is the classroom teacher. Or or do you mean that too? You know how to operate in the gospel. in the land which you are going over to possess, so that your sons and your grandsons may fear the Lord your God and keep his statutes and his commandments, which I command you all the days of your life. uh can overcorrect and they and and and they're trying too hard and they're squashing those around them because they're doing everything. Well you're trying to address a whole life's full experiences in a very limited amount of time and to qualify everything that becomes cumbersome and so you try to hear the gist or the spirit of what we're trying to convey So it's not about one being better than the other. When the people created the car, they created the brakes to help you stop, they created the steering wheel to help you navigate Anyway, so thoughts from you guys. The stresses and miseries of sickness, malnutrition, homelessness, illiteracy, ignorance, aging, addiction, crime, incarceration, neuroses, and loneliness no man or woman who feels a passion from God to make his grace known in word and deed. And if you try to do what you weren't created to do, you're setting yourself for all sorts of uh frustration and and difficulty in your life. uh by uh Stephen Jurger. Okay. You know, there's Yeah, so I'm not trying to make it awkward. Uh on location on campus if you will, although we have it set up so we have some accountability and that sort of thing so that Imran and David are also elders uh at our church. Elder pastor of the same thing. Ship and I'll just say you know one of the elders was Shabbat gathering. I'm sorry, um National Statement Coalition for Biblical Sexuality. pick on something or trying to call you out or whatever. I don't know what the heck that was. We believe that God's design for his creation and his way of salvation serve to bring him the greatest glory and bring us the greatest good. We with the Nashville Statement offer the following affirmations and denials. A rather conservative-oriented kind of group one would think, but listen to some of these names that signed off on it, and you might be surprised at names you hear sexuality. What what do we want to say to the culture as a church about these sorts of things is they put out a series of articles and uh what are there fourteen of them maybe? Or the collection of Potomac House churches. Basically the same group of folks, generally speaking, kind of got together. We deny that God has designed marriage to be a homosexual, uh polygamous, or polyamorous relationship. And that's an important thing too, because it's not uh not only post-fall but it it's it's um or pre-fall rather marriage, the idea of marriage is pre-fall. And it's uh it's it's it's it's primordial, if you will, to use uh a word that the uh the the uh evolutionists might be used for in a different context. And these kinds of statements come out when they feel a crisis moment. That doesn't matter. fire is consuming the whole house. And for the most part, I think these statements have been doing a good job of that so far. We deny that the divinely ordained differences between male and female render them unequal in dignity or worth. flourishing. So so right, and so the the gospel, right, is the is the thing that if we hold true to it, right, to to God's word and to the I don't know if it needs any more clarity. Article 5. as male or female. I mean people get Alzheimer's and die. Some of the brokenness in my life might be actually more profound than his brokenness. With all others, they are welcome as faithful followers of Jesus Christ and should embrace their biological sex insofar as it may be known We deny that ambiguities related to a person's biological sex render one incapable of living a fruitful life in joyful obedience to price. Deep dark depression came to embrace Jesus Christ as her Lord and Savior and has become one of the great proclaimers of the gospel using her her injury. and redemption. Seeking to be something other than what God has made us to be. Remember that TV show, Charles is in Charge or Charles is in charge. is wonderful. W you know what I mean? The Asbury thing maybe and I mean I don't have a whole lot of some sense of people that are getting excited thinking that maybe there's an emerging revival. I don't have to try to jam the last two in. And if you look at them, it's weird. Somebody that's got like uh autism or something said, oh, don't call me autistic, call me neurodiverse. There's great diversity in how God has wired us. communicator from the pulpit. You know, i if you alter your your your body, you you know, if you're uh if you're a woman and you g and you uh you you remove your breasts or uh if you're a male and you remove your your your uh nether regions, um you're still you you're just uh In in the first case, you're a woman without breasts. And so they uh they don't feel like men, and after a while it has a negative effect and you don't act like men. And one's feelings do not excuse sinful behavior. wedlock and so that's what the stories are focusing on how the men aren't you know sleeping around anymore and that's a problem. I don't know if that's as as pervasive as it once was. lower testosterone levels uh also has to do with probably environment, uh our food and also some of the uh Pharmac pharmacy pharmaceuticals that are being taken and ingested uh in large quantities, it seems like And then their dad or granddad who's like fifty, sixty, seventy years old, comes along and and is able to do it and they and they jokingly refer to that as old man strength. You know, 'cause we're not working the farm anymore kind of thing. I was playing pick-up basketball games all the time, f uh uh touch or sometimes push and tackle football games with the guys. uh when it's exercised properly. that the approval of homosexual immorality or transgenderism is a matter of moral indifference about which otherwise faithful Christians should agree to disagree. You say that same thing to a Methodist in Africa and they're going to look at you finally. The problem is God says, and God is the truth. And so Ben made it pretty clear that, you know, truth is truth and affirming non-truth is not truth. sin so repentance and freedom from sin is possible by the power of God. Basic identifying as homosexual, identifying as trans, whatever is sinful. iron sharpening iron so that when you're challenged in a moment you're you're more equipped. You don't have to live the life. We are completely persuaded that God's word is right and out of love we're sharing that understanding with the world, whether they like it or not. Yeah, but I don't want to go specifically about CJ necessarily, but some of the thematic things it sounds like we're getting into that, so maybe we should Yeah, that's that's kinda why I kinda Odyssey account and see videos and and even audio podcasts, even though it's a video platform. You have to say about what happened at Asbury, your thoughts about the historical moment that is represented by the Jesus Revolution movie. Uh he he he died far too young. And he's still popular uh uh among people that like the older Christian music uh to this day. you know, different um Mike Bickle, you got different uh individuals that came up and through these different ministries, and yet Maybe not the ministry as a whole, but the men of God themselves, they were starting to see uh some compromise or some kind of going off in ways that Yeah, I was around. We're talking about uh psychedelics and all those sorts of things in the late sixties or were very prominent into the short early seventies and the the folk music move and all these sorts of things. And the and people were chasing experience and the rock and roll music wasn't quite filling the void anymore and the LSD acid drops weren't filling the void anymore. and all of the wild free orgi or orgiatic sex wasn't enough anymore and they wanted a new experience and there were certain elements within that movement that were like, oh, we'll give you an experience And it became more about the emotionalism and the experience and the the spectacular and a little bit less of that in certain circles about the discipleship. have been good. With Ashbury, is it the the is it Asbury or Ashbury? They know. Like really if you I don't if you pay attention to online, I mean really critical. It's something that they try to and I would say they manufactured this, but I think once the students the the first, you know, dozen and a half students stayed late after a chapel service to pray and fellowship longer Uh I don't think that some of the teaching that was coming from the front was uh consistently biblical. And didn't maybe were put up front before they really should have been. Even my theology has been adjusted over the years on on things. And I think it's probably it I'm not going to say it's somewhere in the middle. Absolutely, God moves in all situations. There's people that have been devastated and hurt by it. uh are gonna end up getting plugged into a a Bible believing church and they will be discipled and that experience will turn into a deeply rooted authentic faith and not just some fun thing that they did for a week or two. uh on the college campus and it's just something they can check off as another cool thing they did. Some people don't like using any words that are not in the Bible. We don't know how to define it. So is it a return to God? The growing claims of legitimacy for sexual relationships have biblically and historically been considered illicit or perverse. They're controversial in some quarters, and so I think it'll be an interesting conversation. the tragic effects of this confusion in unraveling the fabric of marriage, the increasing promotion given to feminist egalitarianism, the widespread ambivalence regarding the values of motherhood The increasing prevalence and acceptance of hermeneutical oddities, the consequent threats to biblical authority We have recently been spending some time on the show going through the Chicago statement. And I think it would make sense maybe to uh pull them back into the discussion to finish that up so that they can finish what they started. Parsons would have been involved, R. The heat wasn't real hot back then and I think a lot of guys in in a postmodern world Where it's about reader response theory. Well time plays things out. of a saying, hey, you know, men men do abuse, you know, their right their strength and position sometimes. And all the women are career minded and you know, I can have one of the great lies the enemy has perpetrated on women, families in general, but particularly on women, we can have it all Right. And if he says you're not going to be the president of the United States, you can't be president of the United States. Way above twenty-five, you are not going to be a nose tackle for the you know what's a popular team? that will be placed that will create um real issues and then you have the knee-jerk response. So yeah, it's important to I go with equality, by the way. And how many women, uh, because of the distortion, and sometimes because their husbands refuse to step into leadership, uh are all too quick to want to take on that responsibility and be the ones who quote unquote wear the pants in the family. to resist limitations on their roles or to neglect the use of their gifts in appropriate ministries. your household, also the participation in God's household. Right. are really praying for you. Look at World War One, the demand of pulling the young men, uh, the draft. because of the economic things, the financial things, and so there's things there that could ride on that And then after the war they want to come back together and everything, but now you have all these things set in place and now you have an independence that probably wasn't there before the economic, the the macro shift from an agrarian society to more of an industrial society where dad wasn't home anymore. But it definitely had effect spiritually. And so then the women are back on the homestead taking care of the kids, raising the kids in charge of the spiritual formation of their kids because dad wasn't home. part of it. and women are wired to really value and appreciate those kinds of experiences. Redemption in Christ aims at removing the distortions introduced by the curse. of things. I mean it's speculation on our part at this point. take on that and if we and if that's enough we'll start with new ones next week. that from which all other sin kind of springs because he's given leadership, right? All right, so we'll we'll uh continue. application, but that'll be off in the distance a few weeks at least. God bless. And each person I probably should have known, you probably said it. I get much less I get weak a bigger sum, but I get much less than I used to. And something I I used to get people that would um that would push back and argue on um Hmm? Number nine? Number nine eye on weird. Then get this next one started. In the church, redemption in Christ gives men and women an equal share in the blessings of salvation. It is from Massachusetts. uh two our our um our social media accounts, our video channels, sermon audio, odyssey, all that sort of stuff, all sorts of good stuff at Household of Faith in Christ. uh dot com on the panel this week, if returning from last week, our Stephen Jurger uh with the Shabbat gathering and I owe him an apology, which I'll explain in a second, and David Forcy, pastor of the uh the multi-location church uh put out by the Council on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood. Uh that meets uh in and around the area given the week. over the Chicago statements recently, which you know, conservative statements. uh hardcore leftism and and an otherwise sea of conservatism. Yeah, Baltimore and Montgomery County and Fiji County and that rules the rest of the state. For men, not because men are better. And that's a hard thing in this society, particularly these days, but really over the last several decades, it's been a hard thing for our society to hear. Whenever there's a a a little bit of a dead spot in the show, my my history in radio has taught me to avoid those like the flag, and so I jump in, but it doesn't let those who are a little bit more Uh it doesn't give them a chance to to chime in and I don't want to make this uh a monologue and so um And I I think this will sort of connect in. of of the home and managing the home, they're not necessarily automatically then in charge of managing the church building. the the curriculum, the direction that the family's gonna be taught, is gonna be checking in with the wife, hey how are the kids doing in their class? You know, you look at Deuteronomy six and what what fathers are fathers are called to be teaching their children. We're farming it out to the uh the the the the government run uh pagan school systems. But he still, even though the the m the the mom is taking the leadership role in that moment teaching the children, she still answers to the principal kind of thing. You know the training up on the way they should go. In fact, let's let's create a way so or multiple ways so that you don't have to do that anymore. You know that that's the that that's the the thing that men are not given to do and are not equipped to do. And that's why it's important as parents that we are able to walk in that influence so that they will be because I get it as a homeschool dad. Kind of learn how to ride the bike. careful to not say so I uh uh don't hear what we're not saying. some grinding teeth with this topic uh among someone who's listening to what we have to say and really frustrated that they can't jump in here and just give us the business because we're wrong about this or wrong about that Same thing. your wife, your children, and you wash them with the watering of the word and you do the things that would show that you're more concerned of their welfare in life, even to the expense of your own. You know, when you try to do something that you're that you're not good at or that you're not made for, it will With half the world's population outside the reach of indigenous evangelism, with countless other lost people in those societies that have heard the gospel, with shot at Shalom, right? will lead to increasingly destructive consequences in our families, our churches, and the culture at large. the brake and the steering wheel. 'Cause I think the New Testament does. Uh an elder for household of faith in Christ, I am a pastor. This one's a walled document. Collection. Oh. to offer some linguistic correctives. There's nothing intelligent about it. conservative side of things, we surrendered, in my opinion, too often we surrendered the argument before we even had it because we use their terms. A Western culture has become increasingly post-Christian, is embarked upon a massive revision of what it means to be a human being The pathway to full and lasting joy through God's good design for his creatures is replaced by the path of short-sighted alternatives that sooner or later ruin human life and dishonor God. If they had to do it over again, they would really sign a statement like this. And David Forcy, uh he's the pastor of uh of a church kind of in the southern parts, most of the time they meet in the southern parts of Frederick City, like southern Frederick County, southern Washington County, every occasionally West Virginia And we're not just talking about the roles for men and women, but we're starting to get into like so what exactly is a man, what exactly is a woman? I don't know how many. Yeah, I mean a simple answer to the question, because in a postmodern world, like nothing feels real anymore, nothing's stable, everything's over the place, you know, we have no meaning or purpose or anything like what's real anymore What's real, not just anymore, but always, is whatever God says it is. It it's from the very, very beginnings of the very first human relationship was a marital relationship. And and Christ has one bride. Uh, I would just like to read Genesis 1-1. Was God involved or not? the the last part where it says that marriage uh is not a mere human contract, it is a covenant made before God. And you think about it, if it's not just a contract, but if they coven it before God, it doesn't matter what the government, the legal systems, the contractual language that we might want to create as humans what's uh uh opposed to God, uh as Bible believing Christians, we need to uh reject and and and aim to try to correct what the the the government is doing. We affirm that God's revealed will for all people is chastity outside of marriage and fidelity within marriage. Yeah, and they didn't have to uh deal with the roles again because they said what they had to say and I don't think they would change a whole lot of that if they had written it thirty years later, but now Because people are trying to tamp down the fire, trying to deal with it when it becomes clear, you know what? Mm-hmm. Human flourishing is what the church is all about. Yeah, we we we can't uh we we can't ignore uh the means of getting to the end and and and go straight to the end because then we we might as well just be a another secular civic organization. in order that the plant might bear fruit. the fruit that God gives as a result of just just being obedient and faithful. or female. Although that sounded mean. Uh that's an important one because that gets brought up in in uh you know debates with people. But we need to recognize that as the brokenness of sin. and creates I'm sorry creates he doesn't create but he he is involved in ways that can rob picking up and echoing and adding a little bit more even to um what you both have just now said, um all of us like we might not be you know to the best of my knowledge, the three of us having this conversation aren't hermaphrodites. know that I have a, you know, somewhat profoundly impacted uh adult son. Uh he's got some profound impacts from the the fallen world in his life. It's just the the challenges that he deals uh with in his life because of the brokenness in the world are a little more obvious to most people than maybe the brokenness is in my life. are created in the image of God and have dignity and worth equal to all other image bearers. You know, it is In my weakness he is made strong. life altering forever injury, uh and she's had a really fruitful life and Dodd has used that in powerful ways. would would would say I'd do it all over again, seeing how God has used it. We affirm that self-conception as male or female should be defined by God's holy purposes in creation and redemption as revealed in Scripture. This is a hot button. you know, of an encouragement and and blessing to to the rest of our family. Right. Appreciate it. Born again in seventy five and So we could c we could kind of connect all of those things together, maybe if it you know, we'll see how we're feeling after this one. Well it depends on how much commentary is. fruitful life pleasing to God through faith in Jesus Christ as they, like all Christians, walk in purity of life. outside the hope of the gospel. I don't think that you had a chance to opine on Article 7 last week. Up to 62 now? So if we were to boil it down, when Satan came to Eve and said, has God said? Uh which is sad because for years and years he was he was a favorite of mine. He's been really good of late on this particular question and he was asked it was like a pastor's QA kind of thing and uh he said look What's going on with that? But really, uh s almost surprising to me at this stage was really good on that answer. We deny that an enduring pattern of desire for sexual immorality justifies sexually immoral behavior. And this is a problem. We get weaker as we get older. Yeah, all those things are so true. The 50 or 70 year old is stronger than today's thirty why is that? transgenderism and that such approval constitutes an essential departure from Christian faithfulness and witness. We affirm our duty to speak the truth in love at all times, including when we speak to our to or speak to or about one another as male or female. We deny any obligation to speak in such ways that dishonor God's design of his image bearers as male and female. That's debated by a lot of people too, that there's an idea of an absolute truth. And he just said, by the way, how old are you? Because all of a sudden this young lady was caught in a moment to say there was an untruth being stated and she said, This is not a reality in my life. and transforming power, and that this pardon and power enable the follower of Jesus to put to death sinful desires and to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. We deny that the grace of God in Christ is insufficient to forgive all sexual sins and to give power for holiness to every believer who feels drawn into sexual sinful behaviors or sinful uh understandings of their their self-identity. I I think I think so. You can't just turn on a light switch. to accept the God-ordained link between one's biological sex and one's self-conception as male or female. uh to have care for those who aren't in alignment with what God has revealed the truth to be. And so thirsty, and they just wanted to hear the word of God. And online at wofmb. Connect with all sorts of podcasts related to this show, uh other teachings and sermons that I'm involved with at my church. church organization types of things that were put together over the last uh generation uh or so uh talking about uh uh last week. Uh in recent months, there's been a lot of uh hope for uh a possible sign of uh broad revival for the church. Uh and then more recently this year uh there was uh what was called the Asbury Revival uh at a um uh at a um college slash seminary campus area Uh and I thought we should we should talk to the moment and I had a chance to talk with Steven Jurger, you know, before the show about some of these things and he's got some some interesting insights and some personal experience on some of the matters that are related to this sort of issue. So floor is yours for now. um had a revival m uh there and it was uh connected to part of that movement. uh influenced by the movement in the early seventy seventy two uh time frame. You know, he came out of that movement and what a ministry he had. old school sound. consider the time frame and appreciate it for the moment when the music came out and he was incredibly talented and and and uh uh And theologically sound. uh his name escapes me, God forgive me. And there's a portion in the in the movie where uh i i there is a difference of opinion or a difference in philosophy that's starting to develop between in the limelight too quickly, uh, to be tested and proven and and through my life's experience when I see like an elder or somebody, I see somebody that through time it's not because you were appointed because you had a particular gift. or a gift a particular um uh a way of being able to motivate people and and and captivate an audience. Yeah, my take, and uh we're in the ballpark of the same generation, but you're a little bit uh older than I am, and so you can have a a a healthier view on that moment in history than I do, but I remember it uh not that much different than if I was examining something that took place in the nineteen thirties. uh the whole movement because of what you're talking about. uh where where the church uh tries to be like the culture. And then there were other elements that weren't so good. Because I think we still see it today. that are really solid for all of the right reasons and others that aren't quite so solid because of all of the kinds of wrong reasons. I think the administrators of the church who are always looking for an opportunity to try to spur a quote unquote revival saw an opportunity and at that point started to invite people to come and It became uh borderline possible anyway, manufactured event as opposed to just a true move of the spirit Doesn't mean God couldn't still move in there. as we grow in the Lord, there's things that I believe when I first got saved because I was just like this sponge and that whatever book I read or whatever it happened had Jesus on it, you know, I'm like, oh okay, you know. interviews and things that are going on. Unless you're there in person to actually judge it or to not judge it in a negative way, but to test. Now, I knew of a couple ministries that we know and trust and that their leadership is in a in a a sound biblical way where they had a representative representatives go and make observations about this particular event. And from what they could see and tell and discern in that limited amount of exposure, that it didn't seem like I'm going to mention a couple of things that have happened in the Toronto Blessing Movement and there was a lot of Was it Bradenton maybe? a lot of the emotionalism, a lot of the manufacturing, a lot of attributing to the Holy Spirit when really it was not, uh almost the power of suggestion would allow people to go on and it was it was very controversial. uh statements there, but there are things that have been manufactured by by man and yeah even in then you can hear that there are people that have been touched. that were excellent as well and we should celebrate those and we should and we should uh praise God for them and we should be praying that these young people who had maybe mostly an experience but because of that experience Revival as we sometimes think about it is even a biblical category. And the man spoke truth in such a way that he even said, you know, when the Pharisees came and they said, Well, go ask my parents. We have to be really careful that we don't say miracle because that could mean different things to different people. And, you know, one of the things we're admonished as believers is to be very accurate as a true witness and not to embellish things to make it look uh more sensational because then comes the time when the people in the world will come and verify facts, verify life. uh the actual things that were said and find out that there might have been misrepresentation or dishonesty or whatever. The increase of pornographic portrayal of human sexuality, the upsurge of physical and emotional abuse in the family, the emergence of roles for men and women in church leadership that do not conform to biblical teaching And we've also vetted a bunch of resources. Gettysburg area, uh Adams County north of uh of Frederick. A few articles left to do. Both Adam and Eve were created in God's image, equal before God as persons, and distinct in their manhood and womanhood Maybe it was a way off, but they said, hey, we gotta make some definition here and we've got to put it out there so there's no confusion I I think they were actually maybe a little bit uh a little bit late to the game uh in getting something like this out. Yeah, I think they're mostly this is it's probably more than anything a response against third wave me feminism. No, you can't. created us man and woman and you know, men can't have everything that women have and vice versa. You can be anything you want to be. of the man or the husband or the father, then you run into a real problem because then things are forced on the woman, the wife This is an important thing to clarify, which is why they put it in here. So Yeah, but it's not it the the man is not the head in the family because the woman's being punished. messes things up in the home. they've advocated that ability to test and in a loving, sharing, humble, mutual submission way go and and say, you know, what you're talking about is not quite biblical. And for ease of being understood, I know that Steve Jurger used the word progressive, but I I know him well enough to know that what he meant by that was regressive. that has been pervasive in the church my entire life. And you have men pulled out of the w out of the workforce. And they're going to work because of the war effort, because this was huge. the home to go work in the factory. uh the the mental gymnastics micro uh multitasking that they do, that sort of thing. The equally, sorry, the equally high value and dignity which God attached to the roles of both men and women. We'll be back next week to finish up the Danfir statement. folks a lot quicker to be able to do the things that you need to do within that. We aren't that close to each other. uh each and then there's some that travel as far as an hour and fifteen. The heyday for the local radio stations uh is behind it. It's ho yeah. That bastion of conservative thinking, Massachusetts. the population in and around Chicago is so massive compared to the rest of the state that it's it's it's not even close to being a purple state. Men should shouldn't be harsh. you know, when we when we look at y when in the statement what it says in the church, right? teacher and discipler, right? And um I I think that that in in some ways is is true in the home as well where the the right the husband, the father is to have the they're supposed to be the primary Yeah, I mean we we should rejoice in the things that God God gives us to do and one of the things that that the that the feminist movement has sought to to take away from Uh Steve, I'm not I'm not even really addressing what you brought up, but uh we'll we'll get around to it, I'm sure. And the fear of the Lord is something it says in the scriptures, the fear of the Lord is clean and men depart from evil. what is the role of the m the dad, the mom, the children. is obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. interintegrated with the community, do some of the other commandments come in as your accountability and your understanding mature? You know, because of the God of this world and the direction that he wants those young, impressionable minds to be influenced by. I had that weakness where I did farm stuff out at times and when I shouldn't have. And I had to repent. Look, if you don't raise your kids, somebody else will. So uh if you're picking your spots with wisdom, so the the reason I'm mentioning that is because I think uh some people that want to make sure that they're doing what they're supposed to do typically and not hanging on the little nuances because we didn't maybe say it exactly right or whatever. Combination of two. civil ever implies a mandate to follow a human authority into sin. If you're driving down the highway, it's got a lot of twists and turns and you're doing like 85 miles an hour, and you had to give up your steering wheel or your brakes Which one would you choose? But they're both different. uh Christ in the headship role is the male role, but the Son of God submits to the will of the Father. submissive in submitting to the will of his father and be in a position of being the one who submits, then women should be. So hopefully those kinds of things help to provide a counterbalance to those who are gnashing their teeth at the general topic last week and this week. And yet, uh, as being God's representative, his actual likeness, his actual uh of who if you've seen me, you've seen the Father that instead of power grabbing and and overbearing and lordship to the point where there's suffocation and They, you know, a woman would have to feel like I have to get out from underneath this. um both you know, both men and women. uh the calling and then learn and walk and be able to uh see how that journey biblically looks out looks for And if and if a man thinks that he's going to give birth to a child, he's gonna get squashed with a dump truck load full of dirt. connect and hook up with them. Until next week when we do get together, may God bless you. And they have a pretty extensive test that you take to be able to apply for this ordination. you know, different things. when people hear the public pastor or people that might hear it that know me, um they might think that's kind of strange that I'm called that because, you know, I refer to myself like an elder. Do you care for people within your congregation? they would uh I would be totally cool with even though they're I've identified the three of us are the elder board, uh I've uh I would have no issue with having my congregation refer to David as Pastor David or Pastor Forcy 'cause And then there was more definition. Because you're going in you're going into the into the fight in the rain with no gloves, no pants on, and they beat the crap out of you. Okay. The people with the Nashville statement say that we did not make ourselves. John Piper, okay. We affirm that God has designed marriage to be a covenantal, sexual, procreative, lifelong union of one man and one woman as husband and wife, and is meant to signify the covenant love between Christ and his bride, the church. Now there are other kinds of if we want to call them relationships that might exist, call them whatever you want, but if you call it marriage, you are out of line with reality. And so any uh I think it's fair to say that any distortion of that is you know it is is a post fall effect And it's speaking uh in a denial specifically about homosexuality, and I'll um I think that might probably I'm gonna guess recurrently come up a little bit. jump into that right now because I think like I said it's just in the natural flow I'm assuming. is becoming way more specific and targeting actual issues versus the one, the Danner statement was more general, more um, you know, just kind of the roles within a congregation or in within a church type of setting, uh, because the language here is much more specific. before or outside marriage, n nor do they justify any form of sexual immorality. of the church has proven to be insufficient uh in in human terms and and they're trying to call the leadership of the church back together and say, look, this is what we as leaders in the church should be teaching and preaching and and and putting out there and our people need to understand this is what we teach and what we believe. So Article 4. Uh I think it's a phrase that can be redeemed. We submit to Christ and Paul says that we die daily. They they exist, but this doesn't change um the initial design or the purposes uh put in place by God. uh deformity or disability, right? So there's a that's that's not quite right. the focus off of God for a moment and put the focus on the one who steals, kills, and destroys. But we have other problems. Um she as a as a I think late teens, like a high school student or something, uh had a diving accident, broke her neck, and uh was paralyzed from the neck down for the rest of her life. We've got like less than a minute. God bless. I should. My dad's dad. Okay. I mean, y you talk about like when you do weddings and stuff, you have, you know, the whole aspect of Christ in the church and all that, you know. Uh we we uh did the first half of the articles or fourteen of them last week's show as we continue to work our way through some of the more noteworthy uh church statements, if you will, over the last generation or so. two thousand twenty three. supposed to be before we're done there's going to be like 2,000 of them not 62 anymore. horrible takes uh on uh some of the quote unquote race issues, the ethnicity divide that we see. There's no definition because you can't get pinned down on any one thing. No matter what you claim, how you say you are or your opinions or your now what you are in in your identification We live in a culture well, you know what? Our generation is looking for anything to be able to help wake up, help to go to sleep, help to be pain free, help to be not hurting, uh blood pressure, I mean And they t basically remove God out of the equation and they become as God because they rewrite uh confusion that they're looking for affirmation constantly so that they feel comfortable emotionally There was even in our culture it was it was something that they felt like they had to be in the closet. his uh scriptures and uh make him instead of a he, they make him a she. And that's a problem. And too many are willing to stay in the closet. Yeah, a a Maryland Methodist and mention how, you know, men can be women, women can be men, and they might at some level be willing to agree with you. And a student got up in the uh took the mic and said about uh affirming the um different uh pronouns and ideology and what you are or s twenty years old, excuse me. running in and trying to affirm because this is what's being demanded of people, uh expected of people, that all of a sudden it kinda clarified the situation and the argument the argument was actually stated And it just exposes what you know, if you pay any attention at all to logical arguments, uh if you assume at some level that there is logic even. actually affirm that something is just not that reality. We affirm that the grace of God in Christ enables sinners to forsake transgender self-conceptions and by divine forbearance. that you're telling God and and man that you're not what God made you. What can you say to that? There there's some really not so good things too. um tricked by the enemy and and make a lot of uh very damaging and hurtful mistakes. in a way and that are knowledgeable in the scriptures. somebody who's probably risk uh went through life and raised their children to adulthood and might even be a grandparent to be able to speak on the seasons of life There's probably in the ballpark of I don't know 500 uh podcasts posted there, but there's there's more to come. Just as a programming note for you. probably four years to the tail end of the Jesus movement from sixty eight to seventy two, I think. incredible. all zeal and reality and um you know significant uh different uh men of God that came out of that movement. really understanding what the you know the mandate of the gospel to you know preach to the whole world. you know, sit in the church pews for two hours and worship and then, you know, go watch football and go out to eat or whatever. uh ministries and men of God that have come out of the movement and then we see through time how things were tested. And some ministries that uh did really well and some ministries kinda went by the wayside. uh you know what was the original message all about. is one of the characters in the movie, uh, which is played by the actor that plays uh Jesus and the chosen came from the initial Jesus movement, then the Vineyard movement was birthed, and you have John Wimber and uh, you know, Paul Kane, and you got uh Chuck uh Smith who a lot of this is about and Greg uh Lori Laurie because it's really their story. in an incredible way. or uh checks and balances kind of thing, so that yes you have a gift, yes you have the ability to go and and be able to operate in a particular gift but there's also you need the seasoning of leadership and the iron sharpening and iron so that there's a a balance so that if something is kind of not doctrinally correct or uh thematically correct There's men that will help adjust and encourage and move you on forward so that you can be all that you you can need to be, so that number one, the name of God And it's important that, you know, and I know I'm getting off the hinge here a little bit, but, you know, the the aspect of not being put in leadership too quickly. the wisdom of life in what you've gone through, coupled with the direction and the guidance of the scriptures that give a wholesome, rounded But you also have to have the seasons of life, like somebody that would be that have had their children, they've had their evening grandchildren and and as an elder you would have more of the season of life to be able to speak from in a way that I could fully process everything that was going on the way that I would today, for example. Um those who weren't careful, maybe they weren't prepared to navigate the challenges of ministry, weren't mature enough in the faith perhaps or whatever. Uh they were set up perhaps to fail, maybe, I don't know, but uh there were certain elements that seemed to be given over to a form of syncretism. the churches passed, um Brownsville I'm sorry, not Brownsville, I'm excuse me, I missed it. in the Asbury movement or the the the move of God or the the touch or whatever was not that emotional from what I've seen or looked at. Critical in the sense that I'm going off a second or third hand of somebody who tapes something and giving their commentary. So I think for us to judge and discern or be critical, it's gather your information in reliable sources and pray. Okay? what he actually attributes to the Holy Spirit and and certain gifts and and different things. Um identity is and isn't. understanding that there is what we would call a Trinity or a triune God or a Godhead kind of a thing is orthodox, solidly biblical teaching But revival doesn't have that advantage. All I know is I was blind and now I can see. the the son, you know, he's of age. live recording session of the Fate Debate. says, We have been moved in our purpose by the following contemporary developments which we observe with deep concern. Um maybe maybe be helpful. Pr some pretty big names were involved and it's the same group uh j basically the same group that came together uh about three decades later to do the Nashville statement. the feminist movements, you know, from a hundred to a hundred and fifty years ago. And by the way, in the context of talking about women's roles, I would just w for the record, I wasn't one was not the one that brought up the word vacuum. Five and six. And women maybe uh not living the life the way that they should inside the church. progressive ideas. the pressures of the world is encroaching within the congregation. Uh and it was put out in or it was put together in Danvers, Massachusetts. declared order. uh thoughtful, pensive, uh circumspect, uh patient in formulating their thoughts than I am Number nine as you have it. But we don't the the the women don't necessarily have to be the ones that um that are cleaning up the church. Sum it up in in one way I would say, you know, God made men to uh to build to build homes, to build communities, to build, you know, in the world and he God made women to fill those places with life. stuff that's out there whether it's good or whether it's bad but there's an influence that's trending and almost on purpose Somebody else is gonna say that. Is willing to step into his role of headship, so too we as men should be. And we actually get to see uh a demonstration where as a father or a husband to take on that role where you lay your life down for joy and and glory. need ever live without a fulfilling ministry for the glory of Christ and the good of this fallen world. Do you have anything to add, David? Um they look for at least five to seven w well thought out uh letters of recommendation If I use them, I go out of my way to say, I'm only using them because you want I want to know general want you to know generally. one man and one woman and God brings them together and says, This is very good. created the heavens and the earth. li my lifestyle in their mind is given over. One of the things that we were talking about, uh it was probably probably a couple of weeks ago now, with the Danver statement was, you know, what w what's pre-fall and what's post-fall, right? the the saving knowledge of Christ, right, that will bear the fruit of human flourishing. in some aspects as the flesh, you know, and to be able to um walk in a way that uh he gets the credit for being the one that's the killer and the stealer and the destroyer. And uh she was crushed uh spiritually, emotionally by that, and uh through some really good ministering from friends that were Christians, uh she came out of that committed to Christ, is that true for your broader family as well? Um and so so yeah, so she's she's prepared. So there's yeah, you know, there's some sadness too. Information other than what I've seen a couple of millions of. what you affirm or your pronouns or uh how many what is it personalities or two different identities? You're a biological male or you're a biological female. And and we're not we're not even in April, it's May. It's a black more black and white issue than our culture wants to make us think. That church is completely divided down the middle and you've got the conservative side that says, you know, we want to stay to our our historical uh uh biblical uh It's it's interesting how there's an interesting opportunity. Lemon. you know, everything's artificial flavoring, artificial coloring, everything's super processed and enriched and whatever and you know, all of our food you know my my wife like something one of her favorite phrases, when somebody's eating a bunch of junk, she'll say, There's no food in your food it's going to become more and more uh an issue for you to stay to the faith and uh be able to say what the truth is in this context of this conversation If you're not already in the game, um you're not developing your skills. You're gonna reach into your bag of tricks and it'll be empty. That's that's something that, you know, if that's not corrected or you're not being honest with yourself and you're not being honest with all those that affirm you. So you're basically living a lie. they were put up and then, you know, accelerated. issues of sex, sexuality, sexual role, sexual identity, sexual behavior, those sorts of things. And there are other faith-based kinds of movies that are are out. We didn't finish our total look on biblical application, and my anticipation is that probably the next episode will swing back in that direction and wrap up our look at the Chicago Statement on Application. And uh then on the heels of that there was a movie that came out this year that did surprisingly well, at least well surprising to those who are naysayers about faith-based movies doing well, uh, called Jesus Revolution Um yeah, yeah, believe it or not. um all across the country and even they mentioned in the movie uh Jesus Revolution that the Ashberry uh already becoming very popular, but still kind of what seems to me in the early stages of what was going to be a fantastically successful long career in Christian music those circles, the name means nothing to you. um, you know, that old folk kind of sound in pop music that was popular in the seventies more than they're like today's pop sound. and uh you know prepare ye the way of the Lord. is glorified. um effort to be able to help the young coming up and the young people to be able to um have a good sense of direction in the way they should go. uh personal experience with it and so I can mostly look at it through the review rear view mirror from like almost as a historical view. That's my take of uh the um and I'm gonna call it the so-called revival, and I'm gonna explain that in a minute, uh with And I don't know that the church is equipped to know how to answer that question because revival, like Trinity, is a word that is not in The Bible. a part of the the the panel or whatever and putting the Danver statement together? Um I mean I think a lot of this a lot of the issues that we have today as far as um as far as this this topic goes uh you know are rooted well well back into the the mother that she might not be necessarily equipped and an overburden stronger, more dominant, whatever, is something that happened as a result of sin distorting the world. I know it's you you're ch I'm gonna be a little more specific. And so the men didn't feel like they belonged as much. A good um case of familiarity and security and somebody's not going to go way off in the left field. So it's a combination. And I I have I have some people that will push will will interact. But because God and his providence has decided that's the way it would be best, there are women that are much more articulate, far more intelligent than a lot of the men I know. Based on skill level, there's no reason why they shouldn't stand up and preach. I I think some of these things are interchangeable here in the uh 'cause they separate out. Um you know, and I I think the roles of men and women are the same in the family and in the church. Right. Our families now, the kids especially, are being inundated with the internet and with all the And there's at least one kind of perspective that would lend itself to that and that is the what are you saying? Um in fact I think David went out of his way to talk about the importance that women bring with bringing beauty and life and those sorts of things in ways that men aren't equipped to do in the same way. that he laid his life down for the sheep. So there is a dynamic within his heart and life that he completely died to self, he died to everything that would uh in his humanity. And within that dynamic, that motive, I think would go a long way to appeasing some of the possible abuses that have happened within the church and within society uh y you you won't you won't do well. And it's the same thing that if we put more on than what we are made for, what we are designed for, what we are purposed for. it it can become problematic. You can just blame me. Yeah, we consider ourselves in the core group. God. the progressive or should I say the regressive uh religious folks they see that as a negative, you know, where we're to deny ourselves It's You should be living your best life now. where we sort of started to creep in the wrong direction is when we, you know, um when we said, okay, like everybody is, you know, everybody is you know, made the way that God in intended them to be. humans anymore. Uh when you know the disciples ask Jesus why the why the guy was born blind, so blind. We submit to God. Um, uh at this I guess at this stage. Um it's the resurrection seems to, you know, really be because that's when people realize their their frailty. Well, it's just interesting that since this uh article was written in 2017, and from 2017 to Um but still back for more uh abuse that uh hands of me. uh almost a supernatural push of uh that all of a sudden the issue of homosexuality and the transgender, the uh Every cell in your body, if you're a man, is still male. Christianity, uh conservative historical Christianity, to do the same and affirm. Uh people can't consistently live out a postmodern worldview. But isn't it interesting that that crowd is trying to uh pressure uh believers into the LSD mind altered the consciousness of affirming something, but it's it's not we're not taking LSD, but they're wanting us to We affirm that the this is the um the the Nashville statement, Article 12. You can trust God in these things, but don't test God in these things. Right, as pastors, as as elders in the in in Christ's church, we want people to experience forgiveness, to experience the fruit and blessing that comes from repentance, that you can Yeah, CJ do you know who he is? is been trying to kept under wraps, but it just seems like uh things have allowed in that darn internet just you can't keep stuff switched down Yeah, it's sad because certain people and this is what's very uh I'm very aware of this. Weave that because out of the Jesus movement uh I'm praying for Asperry and all around type of that they will be planted in solid He was put into a la very big lean leadership in l limelight uh very, very early on. Churches. what uh the uh years are. And um you you see where a young man and he's see you know and he's being elevated is when because the internet is s the vastness and that there's so many phones, there's so much recording, there's so much The intention here is to do at least three or four, possibly five recording sessions. So why do they have to put this in the in in a statement in the nineteen eighties, do you think? Surprising, right? Right. And when there is pro uh uh there is not proper understanding and proper implementation of the role. that Adam is is is has a headship role and that this headship role is pre-fall. distorts everything. Regressive tendencies in the church. Women and children. take charge, make decisions for the both of them. In a sense, it makes you wonder if that's kind of the first sin. On more substantive matters. Number are you a Beatles fan by any chance? So for our audience, how do you define those gifts operating freely as God intended and yet staying within the system of God's you know, bear life in themselves. Yeah. If we fear the Lord and we walk in his ways and we respect what he has to say, then we're going to search the scriptures and see what is our role. uh gratification and um y you know that that is where you will will find the most I'm endwined by a church out up in in New York that, you know, they have a very strict uh protocol, in other words, they go through extensive background checks. the seminary. Everything's right up here now, right? Well well yeah, and and human flourishing is the that's a that's a fruit. Uh and so um, you know, we we all bear the brokenness of sin to different degrees and in different ways. humanity, of their um how God is created in various ways, and yet we have the Redeemer set aright. Yes, our the image is marred to a certain degree, but we're still image bearers. And it seems that all these definitions and these terms and all these equations, it's almost to like accuse God and say, have you said? is pervasively through and through, if you're a man, male, and if you're a woman, female, there's no getting around that. Hookup culture seems like it's dying. Um so I was about to say, you know, we have this hookup culture that uh we we try to make excuses for ourselves when we sleep around It could never happen here until it happens here. I just think that there is a uh pressure that's coming upon biblical thinking and uh Um if you're not keeping pace, when the heat gets to the point where it's completely intolerable and you've got to be able to meet the moment In our weaknesses, there's six things the Lord hates, seven are an abomination. that you know be not a novice like it says I think in Timothy about giving somebody too much authority right because if they're a novice they can be Brownsville down in Texas. But it's certainly better than most of what you'll find out there. Um I was saying I think they're they're they're a little bit late to the game in in some respects because I think uh not testing and allowing the members within a congregation to be able to when a pastor or elder or a significant the leader is maybe coming out with some But it created an atmosphere where the home now is either watched by babysitters or grandparents or whatever, and there's an interruption in the family unit. In the very beginning. So we left off with So you only can see a half a page at a time. In the family, husbands should forsake harsh or selfish leadership and grow in love and care for their wives That part of the faith debate issue is you have the gifts that Paul talks about in Corinthians. All will prophesy. So there's a direct commandment here of influence and an actual direction from God to the fathers, to your point. Christ is the head of his church. But if you put five tons of dirt in the Volkswagen, you'll squash it. Actually that's a subject will be coming up. But also understanding the um like you said you you talked about how there's things that there's uh we can there's more to be said, more on this to be learned or something like that. So, unless uh unless we're working on god by God's definition of something, it's not it's not an accurate definition. Jesus who comes and says, I want to give you life. So again, these these rare instances doesn't diminish the value is the gist there. through those things. Not so I can jump back and forth. Yeah, well safe travels too. Um yeah, we actually made it through exactly half of them last time, so maybe we'll get through the last half in this episode. Household of Faith in Christ meets in Frederick. You die and they dig up your bones a hundred years later, they're gonna pull out the DNA. traditions and then we have the other side that is taking an emotional pull from what we feel our emotions that this is fair Because the most conservative part of the Methodist Church is in Africa, and the most liberal part of the Methodist Church is in the United States. And that's countercultural too right now. You're 60. Uh let me see if I can paraphrase any of the rest of them. Um probably more than most, but not anywhere near as much as others. And when I see the definition of a elder, I see somebody who is uh somebody who's been seasoned in life. the um gosh I'm at a loss for words right now. biblical affirmation or biblical miracles. uh equity, equality, sameness, whatever um you want to put in there. So today that's what it is, right? No, nothing. Change the name of my church all of a sudden. Now this is the commandment and the statutes and the judgments which the Lord your God has commanded me to teach you, and that you might do them, me meaning the you know the Lord the Moses. Uh final thoughts uh on on what was just read or just kind of closing thoughts on the Danver statement in general? I didn't I didn't take it as a wrong. Anyway, enough about me carrying on. Uh I I think the right way to to understand it is that uh one we um you know post post fall, none of us are ideal. We affirm that those this is the one I just did, or this is no, no, this is the new one, right? really have have a memory. Yeah. We affirm the people who experience sexual attraction for the same sex may live a rich and If you say somebody's autistic, oh, not everyone is autistic, so that means something. How many times do you hear that as a kid? Um and and I think that when we came in out of the Jesus movement, uh there was people that were just so hungry. Switched roles in in some ways. Do you guys get much response off of that? God has created men and women for particular purposes and you know, if you if you ask the brakes to steer or the steering wheel to break, I guess you could break with your steering wheel by you swinging your your wheel to the right and smashing into a tree and you will stop Now the Danver statement's talking about uh biblical uh roles for the for the for the biological sexes, the the role for the men, the role for the women, that kind of thing. I guess it depends on who is who is defining what what marriage is, right? Knowing the judgment of God and they still, I'm paraphrasing, uh go into the depraved And this is maybe the one wink and a nod to capture in one little article what the Danver State knows all about, right? God can use this brokenness for good. Everything's fake. Even if we're not right, if we are completely persuaded that we're right, we're not demonstrating a loving attitude towards you to say something other. And um uh it's uh there's quite a history and there's a backstory that uh The other big lie, by the way, that that we've all heard growing up, particularly in the American, you know, positive affirmation kind of context, is than shoot for um you know trying to make things in the image of what it was like before the fall when you know when there was perfect But at the root of it is men are all too willing to give up their headship role. Do you have a number? So you're on number eight, right? Wobbly at best, he's been really detrimental to the cause of biblical truth in some other areas This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD on the FM at HD2 99. We're glorifying Christ's name. probably came into play because there was um a vacuum of proper male leadership In case anybody ever would be confused, what when you hear progressive in common parlance, what you should hear is regressive Those are the grandmothers that were praying for the kids. All right, so that last one. A. The Faith Debate panel this week is comprised by yours truly, as well as Stephen Jurger, who is one of the elders with the Shabbat Gathering that meets in southern Adams County, the Gettysburg area. We deny that physical anomalies or psychological conditions nullify the God-appointed link between biological sex and self-conception. So what does that mean? So God has decided to make people male or female, and people have no legitimate say in the matter. Say goodbye essentially. If I call you neurodiverse, but we're all neurodiverse, have I said anything that distinguishes you from the rest of the population? It was free. I was going to church uh at that time. That's a much better question. Thank you so much for listening. We can have the career, we can have the house, we can have the kids, we can have the perfect family, we can have the church involvement, we can have everything Does it ring any bells? Uh with life, with with beauty, right? Hey, by the way, I didn't want to throw a wrench by saying what I was saying about Corinthians, about the prophesy and this and that and gifts. I I think with Article I. We deny that such differences are a result of the fall or are a tragedy to be overcome. And that brings a lot of shalom. Nobody lives that way. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week again by one of the elders at the Shabbat Gathering in the Gettysburg area of Adams County, just north of uh Frederick County, in case you're geographically challenged and don't know where that is I think probably they started seeing things on the horizon that they needed to saw the storm clouds coming. Carson, yeah, uh whatever. Yeah, you can tell it's thirty years later. All of that is uh i is subsumed under God's uh uh authority on the matter. I have a lot of and I'm sorry I've been on my phone so much and No, I mean to be honest, I'm grateful that you're able to, you know, make time to come and and do this. This is the show. Very uh, yeah. In a church context, you know, men and women they have an equal share in the blessings of salvation. We affirm that the differences between male and female, reproductive structures, are integral to God's design for self-conception as male And uh before the last couple of weeks as we've been talking about some of these articles, David Forcy was part of the panel. If there is an ailment, take a pill for it. I don't think that's it. I'm Troy Skinner. There was a kind of through the testing of time somebody's ministries started kind of missing the mark in certain areas. I mean that was very emotional, very out there. Russell Moore, I think, was involved. So the the fall is when sin enters the world and It's I think it's probably supposed to be like a psychedelic sort of a thing, maybe I don't know. Oh neat. I didn't call myself pastor. And so part of me is like, ah he said moron, uh ha you know, but it's uh that's just me being but also I am trying to be a small voice in a vast wilderness I know why so many more people have signed the Nashville statement. And so now this week we're going to shift gears and be a little bit more in the moment and speak to things that are going on around us in the church culture. Like some people prefer country music from the sixties and seventies more than they like the country music of today. Yeah, it feels a lot more authentic than what you normally see going on. com. Although I'm willing to bet neither one of your churches has ever met in Danvers, Massachusetts. It looks like you've got your Bible open. I haven't you know my all my learning and everything goes through what I've done on my own or with people that I work with. For those that have a little heart of the eyes, I love the tablet because it makes it bigger. And, you know, she's uh in a place where that equation doesn't have to be wondered or I think it's illegal. Now you might think, oh, I'm totally fine living the life. And so what we're going to do is I'm going to read the uh the affirmations and we're going to discuss. Human flourishing is a gospel issue. I think they've been robbed of their testosterone in a large measure, right? I mean it's it could be a problem for the you know, the species of men stop having sex, they're not gonna have pregnant women having babies. Interesting. Is that a revival that I don't know because I don't know for even a hundred percent sure that In the home, the husband's loving, humble headship tends to be replaced by domination or passivity. But this starts to talk also about what this means inside the church. Whatever. Halfway mark of the affirmations. In all of life, Christ is a supreme authority and guide for men and women, so that no earthly submission, domestic, religious, or I see two vehicles. Yes. But it it it allows me to be a little more efficient in the use of the time. If you want to connect with us online, of course go to WFLD. Now the church has spent centuries clarifying what we mean by the Father, Son, Holy Spirit, and uh what that There's only 168 hours in the week. You mean um a i it as as uh in in the sense of a hierarchy. Maybe Well, m maybe. So I've got some suspicions, but you know what? By the way, that was the voice of Stephen Yerber. C. The women bring their kids and the dad is feels like, well, I checked that box, my wife is taking care of that. The brakes don't do what the steering wheel does. James Dobson, okay, I expect that. Yeah, Mountain Mama, taking home country roads. So we men and women were designed to fit together, uh anomalies in a in the fallen world. It's because of my distracting uh tendencies to get people off track and they couldn't track with you as well as uh as you deserved. Yep, yep. I don't know what the differences are because some of them the identity is they're almost exactly the same words. Um and he's had a lot of really good takes and he's been generally biblically conservative uh until like he lost his mind not too many years ago. She goes, I'm not 60. It it is. What the author thought doesn't matter, it's what I as the reader think. You know I'm known for my quick comments. If you would uh like to connect with the show, you can go to WFMD. Uh so these are the last two. We affirm that divinely ordained differences between male and female reflect God's original creation design and are meant for human good and human We we don't meet the standard of perfection that there was that existed before sin entered the world. Is that what you're talking about? And probably in my generation growing up in the in the sixties and seventies, uh it was the homosexuality and stuff was in the closet because if you came out We've got some churches that uh either sprang from that movement or were inspired by that movement, one or the other. Hello streamers, whether you're watching this uh live or later on uh on delay, we welcome you to a This is the face debate on News Radio 930, WFMD, on the FM at 99. Like, you know what I have problems in my life, give me some information to help me solve those problems, generally speaking. Maybe it's ten as you have it. We're farm we we like to farm things out. Well I'd just like to add one of the first and probably foremost things that we see in the life of Jesus, the Shura Messiah. Okay. Yeah, this one's gonna take more than a show, but that's all right we'll get as far as we can while David can be with us and then what uh all right, I need to look up natural. What's real is that marriage is one man and one woman by definition. Yeah. I could say we're gonna finish up the next two next week and then have some additional thoughts on some other matters. Yes, his yes, I was gonna say that he challenged people in their Christianity, whether if there was hypocrisy or, you know, the uh standing back, not you know, being asleep and not Sprohl would have been involved, but but also some surprising names uh are in this group, like on the Nashville statement, David French. You know, I think that there was some aspect of of that with the first wave. We're all over the place. In my understanding Because the language in our group if they hear this they go, Hey Steve's calling himself pastor now But we'll start over. Why is it? Um but they w they were pretty little still. Let's see. Is it is it a rep is it a moment of re of group re repentance? I'll get you in touch with David and he can tell you where he's gonna be. Actually the last one's gonna air the Sunday after the Dr. Them's fighting words these days, so who wants to to enter the fray first? So um you know some people want to blame God for what Satan has done or indirectly through in our fallen world. Right? Wow. Those are practical matters that, you know, I don't want to just gloss over those. And so there's the residual effects of that for the older generation that might still be there. What do you what do you have to say? I think he was only like in his late twenties when he he died in an accident of some sort, I believe. People were like, you know, how do we respond to this? We'll be back at this again with you, but 166 You can connect to all the social media through that. All right, let's look at the next two. Take the world by the horns kind of thing. Nope. Household of Faith in Christ on the World Wide Web, Household of Faith in Christ dot com and you can link to the Faith Debate page through that as well and all sorts of other stuff And I had to be re-engaged and in be involved. Yeah, let and let them float that on from time to time, you know, and realize that they're not gonna, you know, die a horrible death from a skinned knee. Let's uh do the next two, uh which are uh the second to last two. When you are doing what you were made to do, you're going to have a sense of accomplishment, purpose, and you're going to set yourself up to have an experience of thriving. Uh they are pastors of house churches that meet in uh random locations all around the area. I'll try to maybe be more self-conscious about referring to you as elder, uh 'cause I actually remember you now mentioning that once before. Right. Ligan Duncan, a little surprising. That's Article 8 of the Nashville statement that came out back in 2017. Uh it's like almost like the floodgates have opened. Everybody understand? It's gonna hurt me and more than it hurts you. Define them however I please. It's the role of the congregation to kind of check that. There's nothing progressive about it. They're really praying for your salvation. You know we're the multi. That knucklehead on the radio did. It's it's programmed. Alright, till next time. I'm not even sure this is true actually. Once we hit our peak, you know, generally speaking, I'm not as strong at when I was fifty as I was at the age of thirty. Think about that as we wrap up the show. I'm I'm not exactly sure. We've talked about this before, where you can kind of make the words mean what you want them to mean. That's clever. Like mine doesn't have numbers, but I can count them. Okay. I I didn't you know, I was just thinking, 'cause some people might be thinking, well, what about that? Right, right, right. God created everything. And then you get into all the different attributes of people say they want to do because they want to, you know, you get back to the Romans 1 context. But yeah, it's i i if it's not in agreement with scripture, then it's wrong. If somebody's confused, it's not because of you. Um I heard a uh Ben Sapiro was doing a uh stand-up uh made a statement about this very issue. Whoa, I'm completely out of time. We're proclaiming the gospel. It's it's almost like a 360 view and what tack particular view from some person's particular phone and you're getting a interview. The shows that we record tonight are going to begin airing towards the tail end of April. We didn't quite finish that up in our uh last recording session with uh Imran and Daniel Razvy. They shouldn't be selfish. But uh um so in the in the Denver statement here, uh I guess number The the lead teacher, discipler in the home. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Like we're not pristinely healthy. Yeah. The different um like gender uh categorizations or whatever they call. They call it conversion therapy or whatever. You've got to you've got to exercise your faith. His name is and his character are consistently demonstrated as accurate as the Bible defines it. And the reason for that, because I've ha I've had people ask me the the very specific question, you know, Asperry, do you think it was a do you think it's a revival? Well my brother, let me tell you I'm going to give you an interpretation to what you spoke Yeah. Yeah, I think it's I think it's a combination of of a variety of things. I 'cause I think that what we're talking about uh over the past year is about as relevant as the show has ever really aimed to be. There are just these different uh entities. My church is Household of Faith in Christ. John MacArthur makes a total lot of sense. We affirm that sin distorts sexual desires by directing them away from the marriage covenant and towards sexual immorality, a distortion that includes both heterosexual and homosexual immorality. Okay, because this is the topic. com you can take us with you wherever you go live stream, or you can listen later on the podcast. His last name's Rumi. You never quite know where he's gonna uh meet. Um we'll I I'm guessing we're gonna finish the Danver statement next week. There you go. That's a sign of the fallen, broken world that we live in. We uh you know we say, no, God God made you and you know, he made you perfect the way you are. We're not exercising those muscles and that sort of thing. I is that a revival or is it a good thing? Uh my concerns with the the the aspiratory thing is um oh I think that some of the people were there for the experience because oh there's this this is happening, it's historic, I want to be a part of it. The last of the Chicago statements that was written uh came out in the nineteen eighties, and here we are still in the nineteen eighties, just a little bit later into the Reagan years And and also, you know, in the very basic sense like we have here, right? And it is interesting, by the way, this is the face debate on News Radio 930 WFMD, on the FM at 99. So Yeah, by the way, when I when I'm playful about the language and all that sort of stuff, that's not me trying to No, I didn't feel that way. No, that's not what the church is all about. He's such a big God he can use even the bad things for the for the good. Yes, that's what I was trying to do. God God is our creator. We affirm that Jesus Christ has come into the world to save sinners, and that through Christ's death and resurrection Uh I was in his church for thirteen years. And so uh yeah, some people do make the argument that that the uh you know that the man being And like, well, this is all sickie stuff that's going on in church. If he was watching over things which have bit the a the uh the forbidden fruit Plus maybe I was more entertaining and energetic years ago and I just completely stink at doing this now and nobody cares what I have to say or what anybody I bring on the panel has to say, you know. Sorry. You wouldn't want to give up either. So it's important that we understand our role, we understand our purpose, we understand Are you gonna go through the pre-amble? You know, so um we should have compassion on the hermaphrodite, the ones that exist. And we'll let that be the final word. Now I know that you and your you know your family, your household are all, you know, firmly Correct. In the other case, you're a man without genitalia without male genitalia. So and there's a name of the organization, darn it, and I'm I'm I I m I'm it it'll come up at some point. That'd be really interesting. We're going to be getting into the Nashville statement shortly after that, and we will eventually swing back and finish up our talk on the Chicago statement on biblical Do you get any feedback on the show? I I'm not but I was talking to Razie about it and he says, Do you pastor your family? We all have that problem. Thank you. Yeah, that brings a lot of shalom and peace and strength. Pray traveling mercies on you and your family and all that are traveling. Because we only got about twenty-five minutes per show And that she was caught in this dilemma, but she didn't see it because of the blindness of And my answer is yes. Okay, fine, but we need to be able to communicate and articulate what the Bible is teaching, and so sometimes you come with a label that encapsulates an entire system for thought. And so it's the point is, um when you see Thanks for buying me some time, Troy. Oh probably so. Uh but I don't know what to do w when I'm called a pastor because I haven't gone to formal We don't all interact with the world exactly the same way. We haven't had a bunch of historic church councils and a bunch of Danverse statements and national statements on these are the signs and symptoms of a true authentic revival Maybe. The Equal Rights Amendment is is big in the seventies, they're trying to get the get it ratified. I'm Troy Skinner. And this is like totally opposed to the culture today. You gonna leave some room for that to be able to talk about the next one, or we just Too many conservative Christians they do they don't want to ruffle feathers, they want to put themselves out there and they and they closet themselves. Like why can't you just love them, accept them for who they are? There's an absolute truth. But Maranatha Singers and Maranatha Ministries uh came out of that whole eight late eighties, early nineties that was indirected from the Jesus movement. Yeah, he has a TV show on cable systems called Supernatural. So we have to so it sounds like you and I are probably of like mind on this. What's done is done, but it makes you wonder if that was the first abdication. You familiar with the White Album? All will share an encouraging word. Have any thoughts on that? The other thing is we're talking about the the, you know, all in the life of Christ, we all get to play the Christ role. Right, yeah. There's been have you been paying attention, uh Stephen? Right? Uh but I I grew up at an hour away from, you know, uh Chuck Smith's church. And to be honest, I don't know by today's standards of taste that his music holds up all that well. And this is why it's important to have men in your life, to have ministries or accountability. The um Texas, I'm saying it again. In fact, if you go to the household of faith in Christ dot com, you can find a link to the Danvers statement that I just read a portion of. And um and and when you when you embrace what God has has made you for, uh, that is where the most You're part of the spiritual leadership and teaching and all that sort of stuff and you have a church matter, discipline matter, or something you're involved in together and we work out those disciplinary because But I I I think what we do need to also recognize is to say, all right, well, uh God God has a use Anyway, uh David Forcey, thank you. The last few shows we were talking about the Danvers Statement and the Nashville Statement. I think that we, here we are all these years later, like 50 years later. Yeah, I definitely think that's part of it. Uh so each person that hosts that week within our core group, they leave. Number nine? I see a dump truck that can call five tons of material and I see a Volkswagen that can hold probably five cubic feet. The folks that I congregate with, um I have I do have a chaplaincy. So that was I just don't want to appear that I'm something more than I'm not, even though I feel like I'm not sure. Fortunately we're two seconds in. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. So you have do you have a pithy little something? Our desire is to rebel against that and that is what that's what we see in So for now. We've got very careful language and we can articulate it and uh Yes, and then that gets exacerbated when you've got the uh you know the war, World War One, World War Two and all that dynamic going on. Right. Um so and other and other interesting things in the culture say, Hey, hey look, there's an awakening happening here Uh I I think there were elements within the the the the Jesus movement that I don't know for sure. No, you can't. Right, yeah. Are you are you guys all virtual mostly? Now it's emotion. Um yeah, I I well I I think the only the couple things to add, um I'm sure we'll go into this more at a later time, but uh That's going to be about what 167. Do you actually pray and, you know, try to, you know and I I do all those things. And so maybe there's a possibility that all these things all strung together might have something to do with that as well. Um so this movement is is an incredible movement and there was significant Okay. The next voice you're going to hear is that of David Forcey, just so you can keep the voices clear. We're not making progress. Quick comments, yes. They they they slapped Marine, that was the only one I They slapped that album together because they were in the process of kind of The steering wheel doesn't do what the brakes do. That's not right. I mean they're my so they they were too little to remember when my mom's dad passed away. Appreciate it. And credit where it's due, John Piper, who in recent years has really had some horrible takes with regards to politics, some horrible takes with regards to some of the woke moves in the church, some That's weird. That seems to be one of the bigger problems in the bigger denominations like uh Methodists. Jesus comes and says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. He goes, yes, you are. Get in the game now. Well, uh I came to the Lord in nineteen seventy-five, which is There were some great testimonies shared and there was a lot of praise and worship taking place and there was authentic prayer And so if you want to get a a a fighting shot at finding something decent at the beginning, that's a good place to start. So we did the Chicago statement on inerrancy, on hermeneutics, and began to look at application. So the mom might be the like it the husband the the the father and husband can also be the teacher, but if he's busy at work and he's not home and the You know something about that. You know, God displays his strength through our weaknesses. Yeah. Okay. There's a continental divide there. And it's hilarious because people will claim this generation claims that they want to have authentic experience. So I think the one of the important parts of that though is don't hear condemnation in what's been said on today's episode and last week's episode. And if anybody had any type of a gift of teaching or preaching We talked for goodness uh eight or ten shows probably uh mostly about Chicago statements on inerrancy, hermeneutics, and uh difficult application. This point. I I wonder if there's I haven't really thought about these terms before, but I wonder if like that's the kernel If not we'll pick up this discussion in next week's episode. I don't know. In the very, very young, young, young, young children. And so the man in in headship and the woman submitting to that uh to to that headship He laid his life down. Right? So we ended last week's show with Article 7 and had little time to talk about it. That's kind of in a nutshell what Article IX is saying. Um Keith Green might not be known to everybody. Rumi. So anyway, thanks for um being involved in the stream and I'm not gonna be paying you a whole lot of attention for the duration of the evening It's very helpful you tell us where you're at when you're reading so I can follow along. They should have love and care for their wives. We like to farm things out. Well, I'm just looking when you said Deuteronomy 6, um, and I think here's a key component. We're not gonna have a lot of time to talk about them, but we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna have a little bit of time I think. I I'm just I'm just making sure that I'm not putting something on myself that would make people think Would the people at your at at the Shabbat gathering, would they be comfortable with you being called elder? No, it's not. They point to the the asperry thing and I did, so we could talk about that too if you want. So if you want to, you can. Because today's thirty-year-olds are more passive in their activities. So um but don't get me started. Oh yeah, you ran that up pretty quick. Anyway, Stephen Jurger, thank you so much. So you're in a Saturn V rocket and you're being propelled into the atmosphere. Maybe in ten years they would say things differently and better than they did. So these are affirmations. Uh but Troy maybe this would be helpful. And I think that's a big part of how some of these guys were able to sign this. Yeah, so um I don't know if we have a whole lot more to say on that. Anyway, thanks so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us today or if you're listening on podcasts, whenever you're listening, thank you for that as well. They met in Danvers, Massachusetts. Mine looks a little bit. Well yeah, I mean I you know I think he's talking about like some some specific aspects of how to And uh and you know, and I mean men men cannot And it that's might help you resolved. That would be more appropriate. It's a computer of program information. And this came up a couple weeks ago I think. Right. Yeah. Yes. I get it. Well, unfortunately, people that might be high on LSD might be able to do that very thing once. You gotta enter the game now because the the heat's already being turned up pretty fast. Well you're not as fine as you think you are, is what the Bible would say. This is the Faith Debate. You can't have everything. Once upon a time though it was, right? I mean I I guess one of the things I think about here, right, is like the um you know, it it looks like It will be frustrating, it will be discouraging. I self-consciously avoid using the words race and racism like the plague. That's true, because those are real serious trip words. Something like that. Now it's thirty years different, so it's not exactly the same group of folks. Article three, we affirm that God created Adam and Eve, the first human beings, in his own image, equal before God as persons, and distinct as male and female. I I would guess. So as a bit of a rabbit trail for just a half a second, well it'll be more than half a second, but maybe a half a minute. Adam's headship in marriage was established by God before the fall and was not a result of sin. I was just gonna comment that some external pressures upon our society. Please don't phone me now. I just typed it in and the PDF came up. If not, we'll definitely finish it up on next week's show. And uh the student said, Well, you know, what does it matter my age? Yeah, so yeah, we don't have to mention a particular name of a now disgraced uh fallen from grace. Okay. Russell Moore, well that's a question mark and a half right there. So it's it's God's authority, it's God's definition, it's God's plan. Uh husband of one wife, uh their children uh are are ruled well, and it's not talking about toddlers. This was, you know, we were thinking at the time, you know, these people are going to take us over. And he lays back and look at what the world that's left with us now all these thousands of years later. But apparently the Shabbat gathering, Stephen Jurger's uh church. I just wonder, I'm not sure. Uh a lot of people who are left theologically love that word. God can use what is, you know, has been upset by sin and he can redeem it and use it for good purposes. What's the seriousness of the resurrection? I mean he was you know, I didn't agree with everything he had to say, but his passion in preaching is like bar none, a very gifted Because we think about what was going on in that moment. I I don't know. Repentance is a category. There was a definite, authenticated, uh, firsthand witness of a miracle that Jesus did, and there was absolute fruit behind that. All right. You can connect to everything that we do with the church, the sermons and those sorts of things. So um I I I don't know that we can that we that we should And so in in a analogy sort of a sense that's not biblical, it's just an analogy. I mean the it it starts from there. If I step out in front of that truck, I'm gonna get squashed like a bug. Those who got plugged into good faithful Bible churches were discipled. I think it's both. Uh Todd Bentley, all the that that stuff, and then you got Toronto. Third wave, you know, women are men too almost. The the the the conservative and progressives have Men are a little more binary, a little more uh intellectually focused. But if it was a good environment with the proper motives, I think it would be uh a a much different uh outcome. It's an aspect of what the church should be involved in, but it's not what we're all about Um But as Christians, at the very least, we should be saying there is absolute truth. You not get too far afield, but c we live in the age we talked about this I think on a recent show too, so I won't go say too much about it other than to once again say we live in this in the in the age of the fake. I can't think of his first name for for some reason. I think there were some elements that weren't good. Uh I'm not sure exactly what Gettysburg has like a sprawling sort of uh zip code area, so I'm not sure how close to Frederick you are, but So the dad needs to be involved, he should be directly, I agree a hundred percent should be directly involved in the leadership, the teaching, the spiritual formation That's true, none of us did. RC Spiroli was still alive back then, so he signed it. Yeah. So but that doesn't change the fact that me, my son, the hermaphrodite, they have incredible value as human beings Remember Charles is not in charge. They they on average have a quote unquote revival there like every twelve years, uh over the last hundred years or so. We'll be talking about the Danver Statement and the Nashville Statement. Yeah, you know what I mean? They're going to church and they're praying for you. Pissy, Piffy David. We're the multiple places too. That's my that's my sense of it anyway. So if you're a dad shape up. Because I could click a button and sign it right now myself. Uh Aleister Begg, that makes sense. Right. I want to heal you. Well um appreciate the moment com or you can go to my church's website where you can link to the faith debate and a whole bunch of other stuff too. They're playing video games and they don't have purpose in life and they don't have a di don't feel the dominion dam uh mandate. Anyway, end of rabbit trail. I'm just talking in broad breaststrokes generationally. And in the Jesus Revolution movie, there's a scene where Lonnie Frisbee This isn't new. In the family husbandship for stake harsh or selfish leadership. And if you're farming out, because motivations are a big part of it, if you're farming out because you're you're basically aiming to abdicate your responsibilities, that's bad. Meet in Frederick and if you're interested in learning more about us, go to Household of FaithInChrist. So those are words from the preamble of the 2017 document called the Nashville Statement put out by a Coalition for Biblical Sexuality Right one bride. That's not good. And if you walk into most churches today, if you walk into most churches ten years ago, if you walk into most churches 40 years ago, a majority of those in attendance are women I think it can go back even further. And is that because the church is asleep Now it's a lot of uh nitpicking kind of stuff. You gotta be real. They know their Bibles and all that. And as I study the scriptures, I only find for children, Well, the pastor. Right. Right. Actually I was just going to talk about that. I don't want to speak for it, but I would imagine. Yeah. And if you have something you want to add on Article 8 as well, do that too. No matter what, no matter how many hormones you take, no matter how many surgeries you have. But as a pastor, if you try to counsel somebody, say, no, I know you think you're this but you're not, let me help you see the biblical truth of it. So Jesus came to heal the sick, restore the reprobate. So I'm going to open the floor to you to see what kinds of things But what we have to be careful about and what I see Well, in that kind of a world, I could sign off on any statement. David spoke the most the last time, so do you have anything you wanna add first, Stephen? And if Christ is willing to be Sometimes it's just me being playful because word association is part of how my brain works. We are ambassadors and representatives or should be anyway for God. Right, yeah. I'm surprised that people keep coming back after I've used them the way I do. They try, but nobody consistently lives that out. Oh, and you know him better than I do. How do we how do we just you know forsake all and follow him just with The Danver Statement on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood So this statement's pretty short. And and the core has been together long enough so there's a uh Wow, hour and fifteen? Fuller thing, as it turns out. And I I'm I'll engage because you know, I I'll try to respond to that health in a healthy way too, but uh if they continue to be nitpicky it's like, oh I don't have time for this, I'm gonna move on now. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, it looks like it's number nine. com, find the Faith Debate page, or you can go to World World And it says, you know, nevertheless some some governing and teaching roles within the church are restricted to men. And s even though one day they do want to do that. Um right, so uh you know, someone who's born with some sort of But you know what? Um yes, so uh on my on my dad's side, yes, and this is my my dad's mother. And I'm gonna just probably do a habit. I don't have to do a setup for the show and then read the article. And you know one of the new phrases by the way on this topic, uh heard it recently, uh neurodit neurodiverse What's true for you is what's true for you, what's true for me is what's true for me. So he was a compelling force that really challenged people to not just sit back and Like I can learn about it but I wasn't there. And there's other people that are just hogwild in support of it, it's the best thing ever So I don't know. I want to once again thank my good friend Stephen Jurger with the Shabbat Gathering in Adams County. And women are all too willing to take it on. A lot of them are uh not deep. I mean Illinois is mostly red, but So the Nashville statement was put out w if you listen to last week or the week before to the Faith Debate Show, or if you're listening to a podcast, the previous two episodes uh of the podcast, we're talking about the Danver statement. But the thing I do want to highlight before we move on to Article II is It's just not as visible because I'm better at masking it or compensating for some somehow or hiding it. I mean I kinda stole the thunder on that one. So we're we're gonna get us there and You know, there's a you sometimes you hear this is a joke, like uh you know, a bunch of twenty and thirty something are trying to get something done and they're and they can't quite lift it or they can't handle it, they don't have the strength to do it. We affirm that the grace of God in Christ gives both merciful pardon I'll just say that Um and it goes on to say the seventh is an abomination is those that serve discord amongst the brethren. You'll hear Chris Keith Green's name come up rather frequently. But my sense of it is uh a bit of a mixed bag. So you never can be sure. I'm sorry if if I'm the first person, if you're hearing my voice right now, I'm the first person to ever tell you, you can't be anything you want to be. And maybe spiritually, as in this nation in a lot of churches across the country. But but we're we're the Potomac out there. Right? It's an important issue, but it's not a gospel issue So if we don't see human flourishing, it's not because we need to pursue human flourishing. We're not pristinely sin-free. So you can get like a phone call and like see if the child features some closure, so that that might be helpful. This is controversial because people are saying that you shouldn't try to help somebody out of certain kinds of Equity often brings a lot of baggage. Uh on the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. Did you come up with that one on your own? That's a still one it looks like. They're right, they're both vitally important. And you don't just go out and buy the fruit, right? A little bit, a little bit. Uh, you know, He is the one in charge and uh and that's you know Have fun have fun with that one. Um in fact I can think it's now illegal in Califor uh in uh Canada. But generally for the most part, i I think more often than not it's in the uh like the s southern sections of like Washington and Frederick County area or pretty close to that part. So you wanna you wanna comment on on that? Well, let's talk about some of the abdication of And so then w it became more about uh emotional exuberance, about the church experience To be honest, I would argue not because men are more capable. So we just have to come to grips with that reality. It's not exactly in in connection to this, but it's related to the broader topic. We're not saying that men are better than women. They make one better or worse than the other. He said, I've come not to do my will, but the will of him who sent me. Yeah, you can make you can make it as big and as small as you want. You want to know what's real? Yeah, exactly. And drink for tomorrow we die. Article is what I meant. Uh sermon audio, uh all of our stuff is getting posted there slowly over time. And uh what is uh because you know, the the movement that came out of the Jesus movement, I mean Catherine Kuhn They're going overseas. He's supposed to uh have dominion, he's supposed to to subdue the earth and to to fill it, to multiply Now that's what I got. In both men and women, a heartfelt sense of call to ministry should never be used to set aside biblical criteria for particular ministries I'll do the affirmation and denial and then uh we on the panel uh we'll discuss That those are written thirty years after the other one. I'm going to affirm that you're 60. You've got to, you know, you've got to work it out with fear and trembling, you know. And there's been mix, there's been some people have been very critical So there uh there's some people that they go, oh yeah, they they're scholarly biblical, and the other's like, holy schmoly, how they so my my thinking is that So you've got to make choices. Adam abdicates his leadership role. There's not quite the level of interest that there once upon a time was. Right. 5 hours from now when we get together. Yeah. You have anything you want to add on Article 12? Now it doesn't say that God can't help you overcome your weaknesses in spite of yourself, but Nefarious is a Christian horror film, believe it or not. The down in Florida, the the the the revival that happened with um Uh we have like maybe a minute, minute and a half, so if you have a quick And uh we would we would say that God well, he doesn't just define marriage, he defines everything. That's not the best. Even if the whole world affirms you as something other than your maleness or your femaleness, you're your very DNA Article 13. I uh lost a little bit of track of his time there. I'm Troy Skinner. And I I I I so uh everything's a mix mixed bag historically. It's horrible. Home to the Puritans and all that. At the very least the overseer. Right. We affirm that those born with a physical disorder of sex development There's been these stories in the news about young men aren't having sex anymore. You know, you because your coordination is better. Based on our understanding of biblical teachings, we affirm the following And those that are you know, they've got their conservative bona fides, well okay, I'm not surprised You can follow along online through my church's website. She's yes, she's strong in her faith and uh has been uh always and continually uh Oops. Kind of like the the the Jesus movement from the nineteen seven's and it's a mixed bag and I think there's good things that happened at that college and seminary campus Nevertheless, some governing and teaching roles within the church are restricted to men If we're either farming them out to the youth group Or we're farming it out if we're the dad, we're farming it out to the mom. I don't know. You know, that's fine. And and that that goes down the wrong path. Uh Stephen Yucker, thank you. Um yeah, so not not so much on my mom's side. Yeah. What what you talking about, Willis? Right. Okay? Um and is this one of the first uh momentous deaths in the family your kids have had to deal with? So uh credit where it's due. Um yes, it it's uh of a You guys are pastors. And the women felt really so I think that that exacerbated it even more. No, no. No, no. But the heart is to is to really get people to understand that if you stand back What about, you know, uh the hermaphrodites? I want to correct. He's got uh what the world today calls um uh special needs. And it seems uh really Biblically, you get pinned down. So anyway. And so with that mindset taking root in the church, the church has started to feel more feminine. Number Number nine That's correct. Wives like hearing that. Right, right, yeah. Um uh one of the things that the feminist movement took away is to say, hey, you know, women, you know, like bearing children isn't that important, right? But you know, I am the elder One church. So I think also the fact is that human flourishing uh So we've gotten to the point where we're putting these labels on things that are so specific that they're robbed of any meaning whatsoever. Um the um So in these two movements there was I'm gonna shut this down. Third third wave. Anyway, the one the one who said probably so and uh i i is still laughing in the background is David Forcey. Oops. So insofar as these statements agree with scripture, they're good. Once you're hearing that name and you're listening, you don't know what that is. Anything you wanted to say about the rabbit trail before I uh either move on or you have what you have to say about Article 9? But now they're wanting to push us into the closet because we're not affirming Um but I think that was because there were people who maybe weren't as mature Number nine. We are convinced that a denial or neglect of these principles talked about in the statement I think uh Stephen mentioned how or no, it was actually David who said they were late. So basically this is talking about the seventh commandment and no adultery allowed. And uh I I know that word human f or the that phrase human flourishing rubs some people wrong. Mm-hmm. That happens too often and so that's the c I think there's a legitimate concern there. Like you uh God is Both Old and New Testaments also affirm the principle of male headship in the family and in the covenant community They say in the family, right, and then in the church. A little more fake news from the radio. We are not our own. God is the truth. And if we're right But yeah, he he's a mixed bag. And um so if you're interested in checking his church out You you know sort of who was That's my guess, that's my prediction. Pastor of the Multi-Location House Church uh in the area, the Frederick area. I do wonder about the spiritual climate as being part of it. Yeah. You'll completely just it'll just sit there. Yeah. He's just in microcosm an example of all of us Captain Piffy over here, David Horse? I'm Troy Skinner. You know, i i it it's Supernatural, correct. com. They come they they come and gather, but people are driving like forty minutes. And I saw the direct effect that it had on my older children. So we have about two minutes total left in this episode, and that's going to put a wrap on the Danver statement. It it's a it's computer modeling. Kevin DeYoung, that makes sense. They are acknowledged by our Lord Jesus in his words about eunuchs who were born that way from their mother's womb. And so it doesn't mean that our weaknesses are are good things, but it means that God brings glory to himself. Like it gives us some flexibility. All right, so here we go. The younger generation maybe in large measure hasn't had that anymore. And we're suggesting that you check that out. Um uh a a move among a group of people that are have a heart to return to God It it uh I think it was written in 1987 and uh released in 1988, if my uh uh if my understanding of the history of that is correct. And some of them are big names. So and if you're, you know, five foot three So if you didn't know where Danvers was, if it comes up as a trivia question, you now know God is in charge. Uh he's not part of the panel this week, so good. There's just a slight variance of like, okay, so what is so we're getting like hyper specific. Well if you think about it, all of us are neurodiverse. What's it gonna say? Eat a healthier diet. I don't think we're going to finish all 14. But those can be corrected and God can still work in and through those. In these movements It's probably way more complex and complicated than what we're even going offer on the show today. But God says, I'm sorry, that's just not your role, and I've got reasons for that All may encourage. I don't I don't think that the If it's not too good for Christ, it's not too good for you. They complement each other in many ways, particularly in the cultural moment within which we live. We better put together a statement and clarify these things because things have gotten out of hand. The Bible wasn't sufficient. Well, that's anathema to the movement that says you should be flourishing I don't know if we're gonna have time to talk about it, but I'll read Article 7. So we don't have time really to talk about it right now, which is almost unfair because this is a big one. So puts it at the forefront. We deny that sexual attraction for same sex is part of the natural goodness of God's original creation or that it puts a person There's nothing profound there. You're claiming something different. What do you know about a guy named CJ Mahaney? Speaking of podcasts, you can Those are categories we can have a conversation about. And that'll be close to the last word. So we're taking a break from that And even in nineteen eighty-seven when these guys got together to write this, this was not a new problem. They're doing what they have to do. That is correct. Uh and you know, and and God God made I mean if I were to So if you want to find out what those are, reach out to me and I can connect with them and figure out how you can Until then, one more time. Okay? And I think if you were to ask her, she wouldn't take it back. Um so just just barely. Not too much fun. And John Piper was Article ten. A little bit re redundant with what we've said. We're uh totally wrapping up out of time here. We put up pretty much finished all of that up And, you know, the the word of God was just like Keith Green was a uh You have to have discernment to decide where your priorities are going to lie. I kind of already got ahead of us and talked a little bit about how the s the fall, the sin sinful nature that we have So and here's a document, the Danver statement, it's trying to tell us how to be real. Right. No. Jo jocins? But if everybody is something, it doesn't really mean anything anymore. And by the time you try to exercise You can get there by going to household of faith in Christ dot com. I mean I'm just kind of grabbing here at We're talking about the Woodstock era I think we all have. So we have to pray and please forgive me for not being quite so accurate on the two So we're getting a little bit ahead of ourselves, which is actually the way we used to do things. Um and Oh right, yeah, yeah. I'm not saying these things are bad. The Old Testament as well as the New Testament manifests the equality. Well they said a church alive is worth the drive They're like, oh really love that show, it was a cool insight, but it's not deep. One of their songs is called Number Nine and the whole song is Ringo Star saying, Number nine? But but women can, and that is It's not until you get older and you start becoming more of an adult and become more Okay, so I see a picture. So yeah, so anything, uh we've talked about this recently with the artificial intelligence So people hate that phrase. So these bad things happen. You know? Um well, chaplaincy. You guys have anything else that you want to add on that topic? Appreciate it. And they were looking for the signs and wonders. Right. That's one abdication you might be able to see. Any uh quick comments on that one? No, brother in in Baltimore told me that. So it's amazing how how times changed. What if they just get them to go, what do you say? Aircraft accident. And uh and also on the panel this week is Stephen Jurger. And um that was a a painful part of life that You can tell. I want to restore. Yeah and uh But at the cellular level. But it is a problem in this sense. 9 HD2, on the internet, of course, at WFMD. And so in ways as a leader of your home or And and I and if you're already shaped up, good job, keep it up. They're different. But there's one human race. See what God has to say about it. If if you redefine marriage then you've got to redefine This is the Faith Debate. So you talk to a um uh We deny that the grace of God in Christ sanctions self-conceptions that are at odds with God's revealed will. Yangsters, where'd that come from? Um there's different individuals that kinda Right. I have a little more of a leg up because I was there in the seventies but not I think we're living with the echoes of both of that. That's my church's website. I think there's like some musical sounds. Right. Yeah, so maybe maybe I'm applying National Statement That's true, none of us are. He doesn't have brides. So these distinctions are good. He's he's been So it doesn't matter what I think the truth is. It looks like a couple of people might be actually watching. That's all from the opening part of the statement Right? I don't have to go. Yeah. Was April 23rd, and so this one's going to be April 30th. I used to get quite a bit of feedback However, there are some differences. I'm trying to give everybody else a chance to really gather themselves. So before sin enters the world. We deny that any affections, desires, or commitments ever justify sexual intercourse And isn't it interesting that with such 9 FM Yep. Yeah, like if you're familiar with Lingenair ministries, a lot of Lingenair guys like Burke You can find us online at Household of Faith in Christ uh dot com Yeah. See that? I'm pausing because I think I mentioned last week I've I've become self-consciously aware They're not hearing some of the contextualization we're trying to do here to to to to be Satan himself, who has come as God of this world. That's the gist of what he's saying there. And if you have time, we we could do one more episode talking about the And uh I think that's what happened to him. Not that any of those things are bad in themselves. The widespread uncertainty and confusion in our culture regarding the complementary differences between masculinity and femininity. They're also motor lak locations, so I I I didn't know that Yeah, and increasingly sadly, Frederick County is joining the list. And wives, they should uh not resist their husband's authority and they should submit. Rosaria Butterfield, uh an important voice on these kinds of issues, okay And they're beginning to start uh uh a and what does this mean regarding sexual behaviors, you know, that sort of thing? Shabbat Gathering in Adams County, the Forcey Church is other and whatever. So that would be what come somewhere around six years ago already. We deny Nobody can consistently live it out. And so now here we are a decade later after that big push He's standing by idly, letting Eve Yeah. Right. Um you know and this is this is you know, goes both directions for Uh what did I just say? You were male Article twelve Like some people like The uh what do they call them? Why is this an important thing to clarify? The the the the man is being So I I think it's sin is at the r at the root as well. It's a deep blue state because of the Metropolitan Chicago land area. I'm sorry to mess you up. But the in the spirit of it is supposed to be kind of the same group of folks. So basically both are image-bearers, but they are different. Yeah. I'm gonna just read Article 8, but if you want to swing back and talk about Article 7 and 8 at the same time, that's totally fine. But you have your truth, I have my truth. A proud look, a lying tongue, those that shed innocent blood. Yeah. And if you want to get in touch with Steve and Jurger, again reach out to me and I'll hook you up Let me see if I can find my my list real quick. I think that was And then women are more about the touchy-feely relationship Oh you do? Yeah, that's and I'm finding that that's helpful for me too. And and and one is primarily dealing with roles and one is primarily dealing with sexuality, I think. It's a covenant before him, so marriage is what he says. So maybe you want to give a little more clarity, but yes, you know what I'm trying to say. You you you make more efficient use of your of your body. Right But they might yeah, taking care of the house, being in being in charge of I w uh he's not here, but uh I like this turn of phrase Imran Razvi, Raz Razvi to to some. We're not saying that men are more important than women. They have different roles, different purposes. And life is difficult enough, so let's try to stay in our lanes and we'll have a better Therefore J. We also deny that marriage is a mere human contract rather than a covenant made before That's not ideal. Double dip. We affirm that it is sinful to approve of homosexual immorality or chan You know, like what's going on? You know, it hurts me more than it hurts you. I've got some issues with the chosen, but you know, uh it it it's not all bad. And I know some local pastors here uh in the area that were very much But you know, he plays very well the the the the character in who he's representing. Everything's a living, breathing document, and I as the reader get to determine what the intention of the words are It wasn't grandpa, it wasn't dad. I think we're picking up with the in the family husbands should forsake, which is somewhere around the halfway mark or Alright, here we go. God bless. God We'll have opportunity to talk about some more, so I'm I'm I'm not gonna We deny that adopting a homosexual or transgender self-conception is consistent with God's holy purposes in creation. Sure. But uh Stephen Jurger, he's one of the elders of the Shabbat gathering that meets in the Gettysburg area area, southern uh Adams County. Um uh that doesn't send someone to hell, so it's at least making that point. So basically sex outside of marriage is always bad. Anyway, too many rabbit trails today. This might actually relate to some of the things we're going to talk about. And and so from a biblical standpoint, there's some real problems with Just to inject here, you know, vacuums are created, and nature hates a vacuum. I'm uh I I'm just saying it it's gonna depend on who you talk to as to what word they're gonna use. So it is interesting. And So You're either a male or you're a female You know, even even if you weren't working on the farm uh when I was in my twenties and thirties And all of a sudden you heard this ooh in the audience. No one is too far gone for God to rescue. So it it was it was supposed to be a conservative group, but we know better now that not all the guys who signed off on this were conservative. He left We'll see if I'm a if I'm a prophet or not, if I if my prediction comes true. Chicago is a a a a an island of But to me they're interchangeable. That's all it is. Karen Swallow Pryor, are you kidding me? There you go. Is that the number? That's true. But human flourishing is just talking about shalom Thanks for And so not only do they affirm with one another, they expect So basically I think this is saying using preferred pronouns is unloving. I doubt we're going to get two done in the remaining time, but I think we might be able to finish Article 13 at least And he was a uh And I'm bringing all that up as a as a setup because I think The one thing I want to say is if you're wondering if that was a revival or not, I have a better question for you. I can watch football. And to be honest, I probably would have started to go in that direction already, except our church membership is pretty scattered. You know what I mean? So Christ also submits, and so the woman gets to play the Christ role in her submission. So when Those of us who are on the I. That's a really good one-stop shop, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. That's important because Yeah. Um Get some exercise. Because you know, we our environment Make a discernment. And I think I might do a couple at a time. So it's my fault if they didn't track with you We've got problems that we deal with. Because we barely got seven. And and it's not out of a place of hatred or bigotry or anything like that. If you don't know what those things are, Okay, I think the pump the paper pump. That's not good. Anything I can help with, right? You cannot define their terms with their definitions. Yeah, I think we're And it it also if we have in mind that we might do that, it takes the pressure off of me like if we only get through Article twelve. Uh what did I just do? You ever hear that? These are uh But I I that doesn't matter. They're, you know. And if we do, uh it there's some common themes throughout this. You have women now that are being pulled from the family. Packer, Wayne Grudem, okay. That's why language word choices are so important. What is it Yeah. Do you have anything you wanted to add? I'm Troy Skinner, the pastor of that church at Household of FaithInChrist. So yeah, I mean I think I'm not saying it's just a circumstance. And um 9 HC2, and on the World Wide Web That's what you mean? If if church has a church building. Because this one, the second to the last one is really long and then the last one's kind of short Well it came out in the Internet age. Um well yeah, I mean I guess it uh It's also pre-church, it's pre-Israel, it's pre Yeah. And if you participate in a lie with somebody, that's you know, from a biblical f biblical perspective, that's not But I certainly know who he is and I know some of his story. I'll find it. Just for the record And so then they wouldn't make the argument, well, we need to So If not, I'm gonna then go to uh David. And proceed accordingly. It's like, hey, let them do. Right. And it's interesting, this is talking about something that David Forcy has gone out of his way Anyway, we spent a lot of time on that one, but that's good. Joni Ericans Ericans He says, Well, I'm going to say you're 60. I mean if you're gonna cross the street and there's a big semi-tractor trailer doing ninety miles an hour I think the elements that were good So that's that's interesting Our true identity as male and female persons is given by God. That's what's real Bless you, brother. You you you you've got to put yourself in situations where you can be This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMV. Uh but anyway, we can get to all of that sort of stuff at Household of Faith in Christ Um Not that women are stupid, but I'm saying things that are interesting to men are, what can I learn? Yeah, we do. They take and then that way that way you can raise up But it's it's So though this is the yeah, this is the first one where they will I was active, I was out, I was so I was healthier, I was stronger, I So Yes. We have to pull out all the stops. So we'll leave a clip hanging on. It's not intelligent Yeah. I want to uh Right, yeah. Let's talk about him. Might have been a an important contextual con uh you know, th that's uh was something of uh The Commanders or the uh the Ravens or what you're just not Ooh, there you go. No, they're just trying to clarify that that the the uh uh the leadership We should be a positive godlike influence in this world, and there's something really special about human beings. She probably We'll see if we have time to talk about it The article is the setup for the show. There's a lot of really good things I think to be said about him, but boy But if you're outside of So There's something not right. You know, they exist. That's pretty far along. The fall introduced distortions into the relationship between men and women. I also think that um That last one was April 30th, so the next one's going to be May 7 You're right. But when it comes to funerals We're talking about some fun issues, but we'll probably have a little bit of fun. The men don't have a libido like they used to He's got old man strength And um you know Uh number one I have is Keith Green To make a discernment and test and see what is there Revival, I don't even know how to define. Now this sounds like pretty boilerplate basic standard historic Christian kind of stuff. I can play golf, I can do whatever Uh you gave an illustration about the car. com And so it does give me the ability to go into hospitals and You have to cultivate the the plant, right? Right. And and And there's nothing authentic about living a lie. Well no, I'm sorry, the parents said, go ask And and I say I say they, I mean The Danvers Statement is supposed to be, you know, a conservative thing. Oh that's another conversation I'd love to have, but it's in the constraints that we have See we don't probably don't have a whole lot more we need to say about that because we spent two shows talking about the Danver State. Okay. It's not a punishment Um And so we should all see our weaknesses, right? Yeah, bless you as well. That's household of faith in Christ. So hello! Right. However, just because it's not profound doesn't mean people want to ignore it Men today are not as strong as men a couple of generations ago. But I think there were elements that were Okay, so from different directions. There are roles that are reserved according to the Bible Um We get and yet And yet, as a society, we're trying Um and that that the Jesus movement, you know, went And he says And uh But everybody I think Sid Roth, he came out of the the Jesus movement We're taking a small break from the application. It's not one location. I can only imagine some uh Correct. They shouldn't be having sex out of So there's right and wrong, pick the right side. And we wonder why we have the problems we have. However, you could geographically draw that split down the middle. You know, who's to say I'm Troy Skinner with the Household of Faith in Christ online, a household of faith in Christ We barely got seven in. Eight I guess? So all these movements, all these waves So I think it's a whole combination That could be like And the fact that your grandmother's prepared That's not true. I loved it. So I think we're feeling some of that as well. I mean we went documents. I think that's how you think about it. Let's get back on task. Jonathan by the way Jonathan is his first name He is one of the leaders of the Shabbat gathering that meets um I have uh Yeah, and we're and we're in fourth wave now Second wave The other one came out long before it. There's a lot of stuff to post and Yeah. David makes a living dealing with that sort of thing. I think that's in a nutshell what's being said there. There is truth. I'll I'll interact with you later if you left a comment. Okay. So I am It's like, you know, like zero point one percent of the population or whatever it is. But you know what Right? But uh he was he was uh kinda like a John the Baptist Oh It's not really set to a melody or it's just I think we can't we don't do ourselves any favors pretending that it's what it's not I don't think David's ready to go. And one of I mean one of the things that um Yeah. And I thought I I you know those who know me well or have been listening to the show for any length of time I don't even know what that's supposed to Uh what the heck? So nine. It s sounds a little bit dated, but if if you like that But at the same side So we'll be doing that next week Al Moeller, a little squishy, but okay, I get it We can't just control this anymore. They're exceptions to the rule And it makes me a little more comfortable actually to be at least a month or so out, so that's good. However You can connect with all the social media, you can connect with my Like it's In a nutshell, it's a very good idea preamble or this article But does that mean that's going to be the story time will tell. And so people bought into this lie and we're paying the price of that as a culture. And they put out this statement on biblical Maybe you can help me. And you get into World War II I we're gonna make like no time on this at all if we don't pick up the faith Till next time about 167. It's like six. I used to get more deep feedback than I've been getting more recently. And so JD Greer, really Which is Your whole body works together better Anyway, all right, let's uh So The other thing is I use Castor and Elder interchangeably Time is super flying by Everybody's wired a little bit differently We'll pick we're picking up with nine com It was it was like a matr it was a spiritual matriarchy. And then on top of that you've got um And part of it is that They need to do too. Both can hold dirt. We can probably do article six before we have to wrap up, I think Right. I'm Troy Skinner at the Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Not that everything that we link to on the website is perfect. But if we go back further, I would say that the shift And so he should be involved in Uh no, I mean I it just makes me think of when um Well just that there's also I think that I want to say hallelujah, amen So that'd be hard. And that shall see what's the whole title. And what's what's pre-fall is Not so much. You can go to jail in Canada for that. So we might barely get seven in again this time We it's so it it's it's crazy the world we're in So if the government says something else and they're saying It's you know they're at odds with their own self-commitment. Uh why why do you ask? So by the way, I might be the son of a prophet, who knows? April, uh April. Um I'm gonna read the next two. Anything you want to say about uh men abdicating their leadership roles inside the church? Think about in our in our entire lifetime Okay. Right. Now we're getting a little more uh granular Um, Article 11 How should we define revival? You know what? Household of Faith in Christ com, Household of Faith in Christ. Check us out online at household of faith in Christ dot com. Well these kinds of statements are always late So what's the right way to say it? Can you help me to understand where you're coming from and why Yes So I'm I'm fine using the Trinity I uh yeah, so um Pick one and make sure it's the right side I didn't know that. They don't like hearing that. Anyway, Article 2 But over the years my position has changed. You're gonna be precisely what God says you're gonna be. Maybe a little deviation. They need to learn how to do Well that uh and that's good Yeah. It's about concern So Yeah, and it causes all sorts of confusion. Is that what all those names that are in there just affirm it? We did the Chicago statements, the Danvers statement. But I have to be very Alright, got blessed And so far it's a pretty conservative document Same thing with Maryland And let's take So but so I have a a more limited uh com The role was advocated by Adam. Kinda like with us. They remember Oh, that's the one Where's the revival? Yeah. We have So this is uh Uh we've been joined this week also. Yeah. That's kind of what that's getting to, right? 5 hours from right now No. I'm not sixty years old, I'm only thirty years old. Thanks I mean I I was Uh he's one of the signers on all these documents. What's good, what's bad, tell me the truth. Sovereign grace, fallen from grace. We're twenty to twenty five. So if Christ But uh Not physically as strong. Okay, part of it is the the blind man said. I thought it was well said. And and Paul says, you know, in the Yeah You should repent Okay. Hello But I mentioned uh before Where's the evidence of the revival in your So There's hope. That's the context of the vacuum. If not, stone me now. Right. Number nine? And so what It's such a rare thing. It's the Atlantic Ocean. It's not Okay. Till next week. Like they're Yeah. We're getting Sign now. Until next week. God bless. My