The first one we do is going to air on May 28th. Uh this one's diving right into the fray kind of live real time. May 28th is a day two weeks of months. And we're joined this week by Elijah Dirksen. And here now we're going to take a break from that to try to tackle a difficult issue. But it sounds like Daniel, you're you're advocating maybe something for something a little bit more literal? Right. The Church of Beat at Imran's House in uh Thermont and also ahead of a ministry called Concord by Love online at Concordby Love dot org And we came to find uh in our uh by the end of that conversation that we started all agreeing and by the end we are all disagreeing. And I'm going to explain what I mean by that in a minute. But they they don't enter each other's sphere. There was this confusion of categories where the church was behaving like the state, the state was behaving like the church. People have made up their minds that, you know what, I'm going to reject the infant baptism and we're just going to do believers' baptism kind of thing. But it doesn't it doesn't matter. The the only thing that I would advocate for is the government under God's word. And those called out people were to be a light and a lamp unto the surrounding Gentile nations, and now we are to be that that light unto the world as the people of God. Uh this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. It's such a hot button term and it could mean so many different things. But it's creating quite a fight and a lot of uh name calling and and uh you know just it's it's g getting kinda nasty. No Christians. You can't eyewitness lust. No, it's from God's law, uh God's word, but it's applied differently because our context is different. And you can find the show, of course, at the Faith Debate page for WFMB. Uh Elijah Dirksen doesn't have a website yet, but one day I'm sure he will. I don't mean to diminish it, but y I don't think somebody who baptizes their children or somebody who doesn't baptize their children and and makes their children wait till they're older, I don't think those parents are going to hell And they have a website for a ministry that they uh do as a family for quite a long time now. I'm Troy Skinner. So the the Bologna rain has already arrived, but not in its absolute fullness, and then after he arrives we'll experience a continuing rain for the postmillennialist, we need to figure this out. Well you're for you're reformed and you believe only the left are going to get saved, so why would you bother witnessing people? Daniel Razvy is uh is on the panel again this week. The one who's a mess right now is Troy Skinner, uh pastor at Household of Faith in Christ. I've only been doing this show for like, you know, almost like two decades. I'm Troy Skinner, host of the Faith Debate and Pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com and joined in studio once more. Now we need to put the millennium in place so that Jesus will then return. And if we go to Hebrews 10, it's a citation of that. and is uh pursuing a master's of divinity degree at a school in Florida, even though he lives in uh Iowa and is presently in Maryland. Joined this week again by Daniel Razvi and Elijah Dirksen. He's one of the pastors at a church that meets in Thurmont and uh also involved with a ministry that's called um Conquered by Love Ministries. And so now we kind of know who the good guys are and who the bad guys are. What does the Bible really teach us? And we can hang our hats on those. We're being direct, you know, or or as direct as we can figure out how to articulate ourselves. So on the Sto have headphones. And now here he is in Maryland, so why did you tell him about my jet? you know, how we're to worship him and how we're to understand who he is and who we are in relationship. It's out and out in moral. Uh well. This is number two. But what exactly does it look like and how far do we go? Again, Elijah's probably chomping it. I I would reject the premise. So you're you better serve. I would agree. Capsule there plenty of people who were with the killing. and and c connected to this show and then next week's show too because I think these are all going to be building on one another. Daniel Razvi with the church in Thurmont that's called the house of the the church that meets at Imron's house. Same thing say Are you a Christian nationalist? They're presuming the worst case possible motive that somebody has. Right. 'Cause like I said, if you if you're a Buddhist, that's not a crime. Um no, I believe it'll happen during the money. No. Uh it's like a tug-a-war. politically on many issues. Sometimes are on the decline until Christ comes. So Christ is now already king, but not yet in the way that he will be. Constantine. Uh Eliza Dirksen, the one who got me engrossed in the conversation. Prager and pornography. So I'm gonna be a little direct. We talk about the Prince of Persia with Sudney and Daniel, the angel says, right? get our heads wrapped around what the other person was really meaning to say and I think that becomes a a a real practical example of how hard this is. And he wouldn't appreciate me. And I said, if you need me to turn yours up, let me know. Uh Theo God uh Nami, the the root word there, gnomos, law, so it's about you know uh God, uh God somehow is the law or you're leaning on God for the law. So it seems simple enough. And you know what? Yeah. Elijah, what would you say is your view of theonomy that you're embracing? And that includes uh your job, your your role as a husband, as a father, uh unless you're a girl, in which case. And part of it could be, uh what could be said is somebody who says, Yeah, that's kind of how I feel, but I feel differently and this is so I'm wondering, Daniel, do you have anything that you would add Or subtract from that for that matter that says, Yeah, I'll I I'm gonna be honest too, but I think about it this way instead or in addition. If you grab three random Christians off the street and and and then start talking about this. Um I would say in the simplest terms, not to try to um uh get too wordy with it because everything's been said so far is good, I would say in the simplest terms for our life practice, what we are to do, and as you mentioned, in all areas of life. And if we're in that category, follow those laws. The rules of Deuteronomy. uh tot scriptura, right? is seems to me to be very uh uh directly addressing uh religious practice as opposed to you know everyday life kinds of things. But it doesn't give a like a a a a stick with that. government mandated ceremonial religious laws. the quote moral law, ceremonial law, uh whatever. So is I can't think of and I mean I'm sure there are ones, but I'm not thinking of Barcely would be a good example. uh execute somebody who commits blasphemy. Right. Because it's against the We're kinda connecting to the Ten Commandments basically at this point. If there is a prescription for an adult son that is a drunkard and and so on that the parents are bringing before the judge and asking for something to be done about him, but there's they're not like the Get it out of here. The Animus in the room then, because I wouldn't I wouldn't uh I wouldn't go there. the government doesn't go around and and say, Hey, you kids, listen to your parents. to go with it. of the Ten Commandments, the Ten Words, right? uh that are spelled out more explicitly and it tells you exactly what the punishments and all that sort of thing are rooted in initially the foundational document don't actually have his law and it's like, hey, you've been treating your your subjects badly. online at Household of FaithInChrist dot com. A website yet, I don't think. No, no. But we can they can actually hear somebody wrestling through these things with somebody else who doesn't think exactly like them and they can start to try to draw some conclusions about you know how they should at least what questions they should be asking Uh can you talk sometimes both mics? And even more gorgeous I you shouldn't have. If you'd like to find me online and and connect with the show and all that sort of stuff, the easiest and best way to do that is to go to Household of FaithInChrist. Connect with me there and I'll get you in touch with them as Household of FaithInChrist. Last week we learned that Elijah, he kind of agrees with that, but he might go just a little bit further than I do, and then Daniel seemed to be the one in this room anyway who would go the furthest of the three of us And I've got the sanction from God. because I'm the agent of God telling you this. speedy laws is uh drug laws and all th those are not in the Bible anywhere as for the civil government to lay out and punish people who disobey those. the state should follow what's prescribed for the states to do in the Bible and not add to it. But I would uh not consider Muslims or Jews to be idolatrous, where maybe uh uh some of you the the other two might The fact that you don't understand the fullness of who Christ is, that doesn't make it idolatry. And theft. I I think i uh to be if the if the government is applying the what idolatry is, honestly, then they would not be able to pass such a law Yes, I would be on board with that. And all countries have a duty to repent and come before God and say, You are our king. And they're told to work towards and pray for the prosperity and peace of the nation where they were brought That's why I'm dividing my terms. the the sacralism because when they become deeply intertwined the church starts uh b behaving in a way Right? So there were no there were no actual Christians involved. Who there's no checks and balances becomes the problem. So we live in an age and era of of of uh the availing of mercy and grace. They were idolatrous. So that's us. compared to the whole totality of scripture is all about Christian living. And so they had a very specific context. So would it be unjust for a government now to to kill someone for bowing down to a statue? and things like that. They have excommunication as their as their weapon and and uh uh and criminal uh uh or um uh punishment that they can do, but the government is the one that's supposed to be doing all these criminal punishments Sure, that implies that other nations it would not be wrong for them to bow down to a golden calf. Why should you be killed for murder? Im Ron's house and uh is online at conquered by love. You can uh follow me there. Hm. Last two shows we were talking about theonomy, theocracy, sacralism, sacralism. And it makes people nervous. And you can connect with all my social media media and you can connect with these guys if you uh should want to by just getting in touch with me and I'll put you in touch with them. spending part of your day with us here as we grapple with what are really serious uh questions. And uh he that's out of state, so he's here visiting uh Maryland and joining us for this conversation. Yeah. It shows you could be talking about with someone just a completely different thing. Uh, to the point where you say something that's uh not really the way you intended it because you're caught up in the moment, but you decompress and you deal with it. You know, not all of them are thinking of it as a pejorative and they're running away from it. You know, talking about having a a pride in or a at least a care for uh the the people who are your neighbors in your closest proximity, the people that share borders that are defined and say we we have to the point where it is valued above your religion and then you have things where churches is you know, may hold a church service They invite the first remnants to a cookout on the fourth of July and they have a nice, you know, fun gathering. And that's why the debate we're having the last couple of weeks becomes important because they're assuming or presuming anyway some sort of a theocracy. 'Cause those are dangerous things. You're actually a sacralist. is part of the political you know discourse in the in the in the populace. So Christianity has to do with Christians who are in the church and they're suspend and they subscribe to a certain set of uh beliefs, and you defined Elijah did, the uh again, what it means to be a Christian, a follower of Jesus. uh the rules and regs for those that are followers of Jesus, right? the connotation of like if you think of let's let's change the terms just a little bit and you look in the Middle East and somebody talks about a Muslim nation, what do they mean country or that face of the could could a Christian nation, that that moniker, could Christian nation sometimes mean the same thing? But again, uh we can take that because there's some debate, right, about the Founding Fathers, depends on which historian you want to listen to. Uh you know, the laws are written on in people's hearts and and and the the point is when you're setting up a government that you want to make a code, make a a law that is the rules that the government is supposed to follow in the Bible. I think it's an unchristian position. No, but the the thing is you can argue and forget idolatry for a minute, you can argue that if um i i i if if i if i'm in charge of the law, then you're no longer free to murder people Well yeah, but you weren't gonna murder people anyway. About two witnesses. That murder should not be a crime. And so the government is to is to protect those who are trying to live good on god on adultery and punish those who are upsetting that. If one of the parties is married, that would have been adultery. We're gonna have to uh uh take a uh break and have it be a cliffhanger question. We have this word. And so he he he he started with he started look Judaism doesn't it only punishes actions, not thoughts. And I'm not sure that we're f clear, but I'm gonna I'm gonna kinda sort of put you in the historic premillennialist category. I think those who are capable of examining their own heart should examine their own heart. So for me it's a consistency thing too, because to me, uh the baptism is entry into the family of God and the the um Lord's Supper is like the family meal, if you will, that's a reaffirmation of that covenant. But I could be wrong. But again, uh, I mean, I've I've read so much, listened to so much on it, and and everybody makes strong arguments from Scripture. Uh but Christians believe that and I'm so glad for Christians because they even punish lust. We have some people that wait till our arc is over and they listen to like three, four, five, six shows kind of in a row as one extended maybe not all of the exact extent, but like over the course of just a handful of days, so they it's like one episode at household of faith in Christ dot com. pulling on just like all the ropes are connected in the middle. Although I never quite bought that. What how did Prager get it wrong this time? done with the Daily Wire on Exodus. If he's a Christian, he he doesn't even really tell you the no way. is definitely a true obviously a true believer. uh actions and Christians punish thoughts and I can I'm so glad we have all these Christians and it's wonderful but I'm not good enough really to be a Christian basically at least none of us are and uh that's kind of the point actually He he he missed the point that the thought is also wrong and sinful. to be capitalism. Isn't that a good thing for our country to to strive towards? So so It's impossible. it's supposed to be like and they fail miserably. The Egypt of today should be influenced by the Israel of today, which would be so many of those citizens are in this room right now. And to and and we uh flipping, we can go with that in a second real quick. uh if not squarely would fit best within a what's called a historic premillennial view and that is distinct from the dispensational uh premillennial view. Not in the dispensational sense. It's not that there was that was for that time and place and now it doesn't apply at all. Are you expecting an exact thousand year millennium? And you and I define the that the same way, and which makes sense because I'm an all-millennialist. Now i it is related to what we've been talking about uh with the Dennis Breaker thing and theonomy and Christian nationalism and all that sort of stuff. So similar to that, I mean I think that Christians Yeah, I'd absorb them that's a separate discussion. Christian principles are being followed and the government is part of that. But that is kind of what people say about when you say, Oh well it was a it was a cold day today. because what I view is is a little bit different than the dispensational view showing especially a a i i i a uh pre-tribulation rapture and people left behind and all that uh i in in the same category as that. Well I I would certainly say it is. I think came out of the Roman Empire. But um but just grappling with scripture, how how do because I don't know but I think I don't think I know the answer to this question. Revelation doesn't tell us when it was written, so I I don't want to be too dogmatic about it, but I uh I I'm I'm appreciative of that. in about one hundred sixty se one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from right now. po torn apart in China every day. Christians are being persecuted very heavily right now. They changed everything in here within like the last month and last week it wasn't even working. Uh the layout, uh it it it's not as intuitive to me 'cause I was just used to everything being exactly how it was for almost twenty years and now it's different. Uh Elijah Dirksen is here from uh from Iowa. Sacralism or sacralism, depending on uh which side of the Mississippi I guess you live on or something. We talked a little bit about Christianity and Christendom, not a whole lot about that, but we touched on that too. That's a fancy word. Correct. They don't advocate for social causes or you know, you're not going to see a Pietist oftentimes doing things that other Christians are doing out in the public space. and his people to bring about his goals and why would he stop now? kind of out of a geopolitical sphere of building up secular governments that are are no longer secular but religious. And I don't know that you speak for all post-millennialists everywhere. So this conquering of enemies is comprehensive to the point where even death is included in that as the final enemy to be defeated. And it it he places the defeat of death as the final enemy to be defeated. All the enemies have been subdued at that point. The final Gog and Magog. Most likely those are still there, but progressively they will be bound in the same way that Satan is bound. And we go into eternity. I would call it the reign of Christ on earth in a literal s in a physical sense. And there is an ultimate future glory that awaits those who are trusting him and there is uh and there's judgment for those who don't. You're feeling like I guess God's gonna open the floodgates so that it won't be a yoke of burden. I don't have a timetable on it. and through us is dispensing the fragrance of his knowledge throughout the entire earth. You know, you you'll point out well yeah, but look at what's going on maybe in uh Asia or in South America or something like that. Something else we want to get to too? The reason we're tackling the the issue that we are is because people are fighting about what they mean by Christian nationalism. And it just felt like we drifted into a morass the last five, ten minutes. One, it's interesting, right? I don't know if you guys ag agree with me exactly, but for me, this is a pressing issue. And that's not the attitude that we're seeing. uh Christian brothers embarrassing themselves. in uh what makes you a Christian. uh holds us together and then these other disagreements they're not as important. How do we get there? And that we can have an effect on our families' lives, particularly as men where we're the spiritual leaders in our home, we can have an effect there, and then we can get Yeah, and you just helped remind me of something I've actually been articulating and fighting for a lot and advocating for a lot in different spheres, maybe not so much on the Faith Debate show, so I'm not sure if I've mentioned it on the show before or not. You know, I I think I think it's it's safe to go at least that far. How many times have you met somebody and you've come to find out, ooh, they're not a Christian, and maybe they don't even understand what the gospel is, I should tell them How often does that thought even enter your head? It might be upset. Anyway, uh this is on Facebook now. placed. I'm gonna say yes, but what do you mean by it? I'm not sure the best way to try to do this. Absolutely. And this is probably where it gets controversial. And by the Bible I mean all of the Bible, all sixty-six books, not just the New Testament. Christians should uh receive the Bible as authoritative, as you mentioned. It is fully sufficient. This radio show. or Because she's not a father. is I want to pick up the book of Deuteronomy or Leviticus and I want to uh drop it on top of America and make that our constitution kind of a thing. And so okay, so there's one there. actually, um, that's what laws are, that's legislate w morality, right? c uh fine them or kick him out of the uh the country or whatever. um unclean and we we should we should uh the society there should be some you know uh shunning that happens but it's not a punishment by the fi civil government parts of the Old Testament and just drop 'em down and I mean we were a little playful, I get that. Uh how how are you navigating I'm trying to track with your your uh your thinking on this, how are you navigating towards saying uh the government wouldn't mandate punish crime, that's the rule of government, is to have very few laws that and the ones that are ac actually uh listed in the Old Testament with the punishments listed Oh what's the thing that's the same thing? I would say the ceremonial laws, even in Old Testament times, weren't enforced by the civil government. threads. That's a separate issue for me than talking to a Christian about, okay, what things should you do that God commanded people do I I wouldn't call it a ceremonial law necessarily, I but it is more on the religious side. You shall not covet. Right? But we now know in the New Testament era, in the church era, that death penalty took place about two thousand years ago on a cross. am your God, you shall have no other god before me. uh what I think is a a slightly over-the-top uh theemonic uh outlook, we're gonna end up with a theocracy or some sort of sacralistic or sacralistic I cover you want to depend uh define um uh you know, less than a minute and I I forgot to start the the music. God bless. Anyway. I would agree that practically speaking, then it just feels like LARPing at that point, but but now exposing my bias on the issue a little bit. It would have been quicker if we kind of all agreed. That's one of my big concerns I watch on on on uh social media. FLA, even though he lives in Iowa, so go figure that one out. And there's a difference the way I define things. what it is. I think that's an important thing. Um I I would say that there could potentially be a crime of idolatry and that is also the sin of idolatry. This I think this So if you put a Buddha on your mantle, that will be an example of a criminal idolatry if you spend too much time watching TV and not enough what uh reading the Bible, that could be an example of sinful idolatry that the government shouldn't have any business paying you for. you would have to define because most people that revere Muhammad revere him as a prophet and not as God. praying multiple times a day, they're in in that case they're publishing books and works that would point people away from the true God to a false God? You wouldn't, right? And then so says the United States in the example I just put forward. God didn't send them there and say, now you're going to figure out how to convert everybody and turn Babylon into a a theocracy or theonomy. Sure. that they they behave in many ways as though they're one, but at the same time they are separate and so they're trying to influence each other for one for the for their own selfish advantage. So the the business interests want selfish advantage but they're going to use the government to get there and the government wants their selfish advantage but they're going to use the business and they end up being so entwined and embedded with one another that they become almost indistinguishable but they still are distinguishable That's completely wrong. Those two those three groups can keep each other accountable, but they can't rule over one another. See what I'm saying a little bit? that blurs the line with the government and the government starts blurring the line between the church and the state. It's God's word ruling over the government rather than the government doesn't get to make up their own laws that supposedly come from God. uh needed more tax one example would be the government needed more money and the way they would get there was like a head tax on the members of the family and you got registered into the government roles through the practice of baptism and so they wanted people to be infant baptized. do the things that are listed in scripture. But an example of how not to do it is not a reason not to do it. When they drowned people, can this the issue with that I mentioned with the F in the immediate aftermath of the Reformation was um And so they're Christians, right? There would be some that would say, if you're if you're worshiping Buddha and you have a Buddha statue in your house, you should you should pay with your life, you should die. We were once limited to a very narrow strip of land off the Mediterranean Sea, and now we don't enter. Do you commands that re that the government it says government you do this? What I'm saying is that the governments, the civil governments of this world should be following those commands. Uh maybe my list of those things is even longer than yours. Christian nationalism. Uh what do they mean by that? If somebody says Christian nationalism to you, what do you think they're meaning by it? accusation or a derogatory term, Christian nationalism. are are being mean to each other. But we and and you can get contentious. Nominee, which is uh the root word is as nomos, law. That's where a lot of people, especially from the left, uh will will make the accusation that Christian nationalism equals white supremacy. these borders in common and we have certain cultural things in common and we have certain maybe a you know language in common or uh um a a lot of our ideals would be the same. Yeah. They're separate spheres of authority. to find another way maybe it's not. uh based upon biblical principles that are rooted in English common law, which is basically rooted in biblical principles. In that context, they typically mean Sharia laws enforced. I think they're way off base. It thrives. the rules based upon the Bible, then we're gonna call that a Christian nation. So we would have a deb a political debate and we're defining our terms differently. bowing down as an outward manifestation of that. Or if I decide you're no longer free to be wrong and that violates Christian conscience, it violates everything that the Christians should be fighting for and standing for. And it's very clear throughout the Bible. But the government can only punish acts. You have committed adultery with her already in your heart. Because it is very clear in the Bible that the only the the government is only punishing physical acts. There is one case law specifically saying this person who was found doing X, Y, and Z should be uh stoned in that particular example The neighborhood, if you will. The whole situation, them bowing down to it would have been a crime for them. that are listed for the civil government to be involved in. It ignores Israel's unique role in human history. So why specifically if if Israel is unique? Probably not the best example. You know, you could you uh y s you could probably find a person that would tell you eating pork is sinful. the Old Testament never have gone having gone away. So you're not dispensational. They're uh credo baptists and so they haven't brought it up and I'm not pushing them like, you know, you really should get your your kids baptized. So you might uh you might not even agree with me on this because Natalie's uh in the same place I am, but I would also be uh Padio Communion. helps me to frame that and this isn't really related to our topic so that's why I'm not worrying about recording right now. I don't warn I'm not persuaded that God is gonna hold those who are incapable of doing that accountable for a failure to do that well. Yeah. thing. Yeah y you have to be uh make a credible profession of faith and before you be can be baptized and only then can you participate in the Lord's Supper. He's regretting the conversation we had right before the show. Christian nationalism and all those sorts of things. apply at all. And and he he said, Judaism has no such thing. Yeah, lust it is wrong. Theoretically we could get to. If you hit your brother, you've murdered him. Sinners. Uh we have I think three different view views represented in this room, which is kind of interesting. We're talking about ethnos. A majority of uh American Christians would identify as dispensational, whether they know it or not. So we had a pretty lengthy discussion about eschatology on the show a number of months ago, and as best as I can tell, I think Daniel Razby would fit as of the date of this recording. Right. The idea of post millennialism is that Jesus comes back after the thousand years, the kingdom of heaven, the millennium has been completed. uh here we get into a whole the preterist uh partial preterist uh discussion. The idea of post-millennialism is I see in the Bible passages like Isaiah 9, where it talks about Jesus coming as a baby and then it says the increase of his government will never end. So e even if i i with with or without you they'll still be saved, you could take a very extreme hyper-calvinist view and say and say that there's no point in witnessing, but that forgets the passage that says you must witness It's it's it's a practical reality. And what they what they mean by that is kinda what you mean by that, except I think uh you know, I I don't want to really make an accusation that it's that it's I believe that we'll be here on earth the entire time, and that's not actually a bad thing, because we'll be protected here in Goshen, just like Israel. I think premillennialists in general are pessimistic. Right, I I think instant that'll be kind of instantaneous that all Israel is saved, but it's at the point of of Christ's coming. some time periods where we do great amazing things like take over the Roman Empire or reform the church. Persecution. And because of persecution, it's almost a hundred percent Muslim now. grapple with the uh uh the last book of the Bible in Revelation. So these these judgments are more local than global. And I I would agree if you do say this, that you you you would be of the opinion that Revelation was written prior to eighty seventy, maybe like eighty sixty-eight, something like that maybe, right? And but I adjusted it, but then it looked to me like it was still just showing me this, so I assumed that, oh, this must be like there's a minute left. Yeah, to me to me it blows my mind that anyone can think we have it worse off now than we did the in the Roman Empire. I agree. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Uh and he's a seminary student pursuing an MDiv at Woodfield Theological Seminary and uh back for some more abuse. And there are varying positions on that, and it does have an impact on these discussions about uh how to apply God's law in a uh because they need to uh you know well they meaning uh how do I say this? that the postmill mill people uh feel on that that the others don't. might be unique, but I don't know it that it's distinctive. And so Christians who are part of that religious sphere shouldn't get involved in the other sphere, because there's these two kingdoms, they should focus on the kingdom that they belong to now. And or if they are it's about the rapture. but they are never to be separated. do feel an extra weight of we've got to build the millennium so Christ will return. It implies that we are doing something of our own accord. Huge straw man. Christian governments. And and you so we would say that Christ is that king. And according to this, he cannot return or leave that position until all his enemies have been made his footstool. That position at the right hand of God is where he rules from. Talking about 1 Corinthians 15 is Paul uses it as a future event. You know, I don't know when you think it could happen. So it's gonna be like a zombie apocalypse? Um two people disagree with not with me. I don't think I don't to be in fairness to Arduino, I don't think he's defining it as a partnering with Christ. It feels like it's diminishing the kingship of Christ in the here and now. you you would say it's only effective within the church. Christ returns after the millennium. The difference between premillennialism and post-millennialism is when the kingdom is. Yeah. Because the former heaven and earth have passed away. But he certainly rules in his kingdom. try to put a yoke of burden on people who aren't believers uh that they that there's no way they could bear. I I'm trying to figure out different ways to say the same thing because uh I'm not sure if I'm fully understanding you, if you're fully understanding me. So it's up to you. So you can A very confusing l long story of how I got here. Jesus is coming back and what that all means, what the implications of that. What was going on a la a few years ago is you had a bunch of wolves in sheep's clothing and we were able to call them out and all the the actual sheep and the faithful shepherds were able to whip things together and s and and come together and and Well, we rallied around the gospel and the secondary issues didn't matter as as much in that moment, and we exposed the false teachers. fighting for our our hyperbolic here, but we're we're fighting for our lives here and we're we we formed a circular uh firing squad I think a way to try to do that is with keeping in mind the idea of the commonalities we have as the body of Christ. And bad guys are shooting at each other. I don't think this is an issue to divide people on. I think individual people who are governing should figure it out, figure out how they should honor God best by doing their performing their duties. And the concern pastorally is that we're expending so much energy on things that aren't going to actually have a practical effect. But there's not enough of us, and we've allowed too many synagogues of Satan to masquerade as the Christian church are are working to be Christian men and to lead Christian families and are active in their Christian church I agree completely. uh God's government grows whether or not the state changes actually. if you're agreeing with the sentiment here that, you know, the the world's not in a great place right now, we certainly could do better at the very least. Right? arguments and every thought, every high thing that exalts itself against God. Have you talked to people about your firm commitment that the government had no right forcing people to put a face covering on? And this circles right around back to theotomy. Just saying. All right, here we go. going on. uh important people in the American church over the last like fifty years or so trying to clarify some things to help everybody to understand how we should approach the scriptures, how we should try to tackle difficult issues. theological circles, in church circles, but we want to get there in a logical progression. Have you ever heard the word theotomy before? And it's very confusing and it causes a lot of heartburn within the church because the people yelling at each other and they're talking past each other because they're not defining their terms. You probably don't have that role. What does this actually look like? That's a general word for a for a fence on top of your roof so no one would fall off. And all of scripture, not just cherry picking or whatever. more closely aligned. Right. is something that is punished by the civil government. civil code, capital punishments, uh ceremonial rules, um, you know, practical living guides. So things like murder and and and bar uh larceny, uh you know, theft and and adultery and rape and and things like that, that those all have and if you do this then you should have a trial and you should have two witnesses and then the uh they punish them by doing X, Y, and Z. Um I would say that those are no longer applicable, but the remaining laws are. And does those do those companies still apply to you? Wh where did they get that? But why would we create the differentiation? uh utter that word. The church does not have authority over the civil government. Yep. Um theonomy is uh the idea that we take God's law and we apply it in some fashion into our lives. Uh you kind of know the players here and get out your scorecard and figure this all out. And those who would be further on the spectrum than Daniel is, I think they've crossed over into something else. Theocracy is saying that the government is an age, a direct agent for God, and basically can be a a uh uh can be a uh can be dictatorial in saying bible says god says we get to decide these things because we're the government, I'm the king, and you're gonna do what I say extremely limited. There's outward manifestations that can be criminalized in my mind, like if I created an uh an idol and said, everyone bow down to worship this. So we're rather distinct. No, they're not worshiping a false god. I'm going to try to make an analogy that most people would probably understand, and it's an analogy, so it might fall apart a little bit, but hopefully it will be helpful. We are to go and be salt and light while we're planted to share the good news, uh hope and pray that the Holy Spirit will move to convert and change hearts so that people will become that's that's the kingdom I'm working for. And see defining these terms is hard. So communism, it's a centralized government that's controlling everything in the economy, everything in the political world, right? What happened within a generation of the Reformation? It needs to follow those rules. But so going back to the practical example, it's there are those, and I don't want to make it personal about you guys. No, but uh he was a king so he didn't follow the law for himself. If the children of Israel can be punished civilly for their idolatry, as with the golden calf, is it now wrong to punish people civilly for it in a different context? or what Jews should be doing and then and then what Christians should be doing, right? So rape, adultery, so taking the Lord's name in vain is not punishable by death in the in the Old Testament, no. And they have the trials, they have the two eyewitnesses and and and so on. it is also just for a Gentile nation. This beautiful Sunday morning. Apply God's word into our our government, into our lives, where the where where are the lines drawn, and there's a lot of disagreement People listen to a radio station like WFMD probably have heard Christian nationalism talked about. It's a name given by people outside the movement to that movement. on s on social media and perhaps even inside of churches. Yeah, I have to I I want to I want to make sure, uh but I'm pretty sure that I'm right, that the the word that our English Bibles translate as nations there could also be translated as You want to be America and America is and has been predominantly white and therefore you value the white race because that's the ethnic group and nations were originally ethnic We're at w we have similar purposes on the world stage, that kind of thing. Um because you'll hear things um like Christian nation. Going through law school, you you read like the common law definition of burglary. You push back on it or you're like, okay, we're just going to use different words that kind of try to say the same thing. Yeah, I would the terms become so important because they become lightning rods. Law and order, godly biblical rules for governing. See what I'm saying? For the sake of argument, because I think they got it wrong, but there are historians that would make the argument that almost none of the founders were Christians. Does that change your definition? Because at first we were talking about if a majority of the people in charge are Christians, that's a Christian nation. But probably most most of the w uh ones that I that I think you have a big problem too, you just won't admit it. No. But it has outward manifestations. They may not have said, hey, I I worship this statue. But it's nothing that the government or the uh and the people get together and and uh punish you for not having done. should not be punishable. Does the civil governments, non non-Israel civil governments, get their civil laws? So ask me the question again because I I was paying attention to the clock and stuff, but I didn't quite track with what we said. Then I I wouldn't have to clean up the beginning. No no, it's always been a sin. But they'll say that is criminal. But I'm not going to fight over that because I think good Christians can disagree over that. They can decide. I put a f I put a pretty heavy weight on on on the on the covenants. to inspect your heart, you need to have that thought process before you do it. dictatorial about that, baptize their children and once they're baptized they should be participants in the family. because of that decision. Um that's making the rounds. And um Elijah Dirksen, I'm meeting him, you know, for the first time with these recording sessions on these topics, but he's known Daniel for quite a few years And um I'm surprised that, you know, you guys, with all the bickering we've had these last few weeks, have gotten along so well over the past like half dozen years or so. Literally it's impossible to connect adults you with your eyes. Basically saying that that's 'cause Peterson brought it up, right? um Dennis to to really just dig his heels in and and he did. Even consider even if you throw out the New Testament entirely, you can get heart crimes throughout the Old Testament. and and and obedience in your heart, not just your outward actions. Um, because they're usually Jews are the ones that are adding extra things to the Torah. I'm the uh for capital punishment? Believing Jews, right? being nations. uh that um when we're talking about millennial reigns, that that kind of return, uh typic that kind of discussion anyway. uh for a immense amount of time, eternity, um as an ongoing millennial reign uh with with Jesus as King. sees the uh I I I believe the I don't know if you would necessarily agree with this, but uh generally I I think all millennials see the kingdom as something that happens in heaven but not appearing on earth. Because I think it we're gonna be we're s tending towards decay and corruption and the world is be g is getting more and more evil until Christ returns and makes everything forcibly a theon of uh me at the at that time. But the church is in a whole lot better shape than it was at the very inception of it. The success of the church and the gospel is where the optimism is in question. I'm talking globally, you know, uh than it was two hundred years ago. But we went from a society where if you were a Christian, you got tortured to death because you were a Christian to the entire society Persecution makes the church grow. Hey, you believe this and you die, but it's worth believing it. I I base it on what I think the promises of God are. Well, I I'm a partial preterist. I thought I was starting it here because there was a lot more off the screen I couldn't see. It will happen, but it's gonna happen more instantaneously as Christ comes back. What no, I haven't done a thousand years of of reigning with Christ here. I'm talking about it in a physical sense. the the effects of those kingdom parables are. uh the differences maybe between ancient Israel and and present day America and other nation states and that's sort of we've those are some of the issues we've touched on. uh present day context and uh Elijah holds to what's called a post-millennial view. uh view and perspective. as king over the whole world and so we have to figure out how to have the whole world be Christianized, if you will. Um but but there are specifically people who say don't have an influence on culture. And uh it's called Pietism, you know, and so they a lot of them Pietists they don't vote. this fear of blending them too much and and and having what's called sacralism or sacralism uh take place. Unattractive to me. You said make disciples of nations. God is using his church and tasking his church of making disciples of all nations. Because it all comes down to when is Jesus coming back and where is that in relation to the the millennium. sat down at the right hand of God from that time waiting until his enemies are made his footstool. I I I can't take it any other way. created, Satan's going to be loose, and then he deceives the nations all around, and it it it becomes a final apostasy within history of unresurrected people before the resurrection. But like like we're seeing with this chapter, I don't think that that works with that. you know, I don't find a lot of appreciation for on the postmill uh view, which is why I'm more omill and not post mill, is um Not only is he king now, but his reign is effective in the world now. For a thousand years it's here on earth, and whether a thousand years literal or not, for a thousand years it's on earth, and then the rest of eternity it's in a new heaven, a new earth. Um I don't feel any weight of pressure to try to Christianize all the nations because Christ is already king now. But putting whatever the government's supposed to do in a the uh a theonomic society, mu there's not very many things the government should be doing. Influence to life because the ones that are going to destruction are destroyed more and more. Jesus' kingdom and his millennium advances. grossly secular or Islam. this specific area is is worse than it was before. The last voice you're here talking for me was Elijah Dirksen. in postmillennialism on what I see in the church or what I see in the world. doesn't have any meaning. Even if I saw that and I knew for a fact that was happening, I would still be a post-millennialist because I can't get around the passages in the Bible. related topics, six shows in a row, but here we are. You know, and and uh it gets confused with sacralism and uh theocracy and um you know, w w what do we mean by Christian nation and Christian nationalism and uh there's And and it's it's related as as we talked about last week and the week before that a little bit too, it is related to how you view the end of time, your eschatological view, when you think And we were gonna have, in my mind anyway, we were gonna have last week's show be the last show on on these matters for now anyway with this panel I feel similar and actually maybe even stronger about this the way I felt a few years ago when the whole CRT thing was going crazy. And so in a pecking order of important things, that's more important than what we're talking about these last few weeks. It's not the false-teaching heretic, you know, leftist quote-unquote pastors fighting with faithful biblical pastors. And so I love you, and we'll continue these dialogues as long as it takes. And I find that very disheartening actually. I I kind of feel like it's almost a a lost cause. What are some paths forward that we, even though we've disagreed pretty significantly over the last five shows, we found some areas of agreement too though, right? What are some paths forward, if the three of us were to kind of set the tone for others, what would we suggest that we do moving forward to navigate the troubled waters and to navigate the debate and dialogue that's taking place on these things. But I think f working God working through his people is going to refine his church and lead us to the truth. At least not for the foreseeable future. Uh if I if if I have, it's been a while I think. uh to the disminishment of where we actually can have a practical effect. Right? uh involved in making our local church uh better at being biblical and better at being faithful and teaching what the what the full counsel of God and we can hold our uh one another to to account and we can be iron sharpening our those are things we can do now. referred to a couple of shows ago as like it's like an academic exercise in your head because practically speaking we're not in a position to affect any of this as we're just arguing to argue maybe I don't know But we're not doing those things if we're, you know, talking in the abstract all the time. The church has got we've got a f we're not gonna fix the government until we fix the church. And culture is going to impact people. and one person at a time. We are given spiritual weapons. That that's that's how God's kingdom has always grown. And and it I'm not trying to you know pick on the listener right now, but I I'm telling you, if you've got a sensitive heart, this should convict you to to uh to to a better path forward Ever. We govern our lives by what the Bible says. uh how we define our terms as related to Christian nationalism comes down to what we mean by, here's a fun word, theonomy. Does that one? situations. um prospects e even though So you wouldn't support a government regulation that all pointy roofs should have been a very good idea. might get the wrong impression, right? That still wouldn't mean that the government needs to force people to never eat pork because th there's no pro no uh prescription in the Old Testament says kill the person who eats pork or But the the idea is not that you would make a law because there there is no command in scripture to for capital punishment for looking with lust, even though it says it's a sin. is now nuancing it a bit to say, okay, I said that maybe for a fact, who knows? Uh include things that don't have civil government punishment. to be unique in history. Correct. If you if you're a student of church history, that never ends well. Um my brain is going blind. more staunch advocates of theonomy wouldn't call me one. And so that is, uh at least in a loose fashion, uh a way of defining theonomy or applying it to the I'm fine with that. I don't know, don't know that you'll be able to find anybody that would say that he is deity. that that that that uh um is an idolatrous religion. What ground would you have to stand on to fight against that? applying your principles of the It would be similar to like when the when the uh the Jews are taken into captivity And fascism is you've still got the economic interests separate from the government interests, but they're so deeply intertwined with each other. Um but the church is not the head over the state. They were unique. Uh what's the word? Because they were an example unto the nations. You just said that David didn't didn't uh get killed for his adultery. That's taking the Lord's name in vain the way I'm defining it. then we would be acting unjustly. We can make a list probably of all the things that civil government's commanded to do. Uh we got to clarify some of the distinctives and we got, you know, some energy, which is always fun for the listener, I think. I think it's this one. And uh Elijah Dirksen, he is a seminary uh Masters of Divinity student at uh Whitfield Theological Seminary. describe what that looks like. Um a it's like an ethnic group I think, right? Yes. can be acceptable. uh or some sort of a sacralistic system in place, which is what I've been pushing really hard against for anybody that wants to pay attention to what I have to say. uh sometimes get used almost interchangeably and I think that that's unhelpful. Morally based it is based on what God wants us to to do. Are you against adultery? something that is going to happen. But no, you can't just, hey Jesus has this question about this law. And so and and since you've been listening to the show, you probably know I'm all millennial. Um but for me it's just it becomes an exercise in consistency because uh I I see uh I I put a pretty heavy weight. And uh I like to connect the shows somehow when we when that's the case. Jesus is murder heart. So that, and if we lose the uniqueness of Israel, of ancient Israel, I've got to distinct it from the present-day modern nation-day state. Um if we lose the distinctiveness of ancient Israel, we really muck up our understandings of what eternity is. the entire world being transformed and then the end comes. At at the very least not killing the Christians anymore. sixty seven, sixty eight, somewhere around that. Is that what happened? But the th the thing is we can look at all those countries where they're being persecuted and say, wow, look at how big the church has grown because of this persecution. I think that will cause the American church to grow far beyond what we have. Well that I I I So you're just a very small toastman. Literally. saying that Jesus actually is setting up a government here on earth. feels a weight of pressure to bring about the kinds of things that would lead to the way the future is going to play out. Biblically, like not proof text exactly, but what are the biblical arguments to support the idea that the that the church is building this kingdom? It's a kingdom that starts small and then it keeps growing and growing and growing until it at last it fills the whole earth. So what are we looking for now? See, I don't think I don't I think theologically I don't agree. Uh the kingdom is handed to the Father and we go into eternity. Oh, I gotta I guess get this ready. Now, critical race theory was was undercutting uh the truth of the gospel, was was substituting the actual gospel with a social justice false gospel, so we're fighting for the gospel. And that is continuously being tra changed and transformed as we're working together. people of many different faiths who aren't necessarily Christians at all. you know, the the Black Lives Matter movement and you know critical race theory and and all that crazy wokeness. Just use your left hand like I did. Something that it extends to everything. equally applicable to every single person. The the what we now call the kosher laws. In principle, I wouldn't disagree with him. We can't enforce them anymore. Because you're saying you're not so sure you would make the that kind of distinction. Um, which is where I I would go. See that's the fact vanity. Free from the bonds of slavery. God brings judgment on them and he brings judgment today, I believe. Completely, utterly unique. Forcing people to re I don't know about force but forcing people at least to obey certain laws that are listed in the Bible. So I'll tell you, I I'm fine again to kind of reorient the listener who might have missed the last show and that they're coming at this cold today. But uh not as far as some people out there, but I think those some people out there, to be honest, I think we represent the spectrum of the enemy in this room um some sort of a theocratic leaning theonomy into the current situation. You can't civilly punish bad thoughts. And some people out of religious conviction said no, I'm not going to do that. Drowned people, supposed fellow brothers and sisters in Christ. But that's an example of the government killing people for a non-prescribed mur uh the church said it was Okay. Obviously Jesus was God and so therefore he was not blasphemous. that they there are things that people mean um that many many people have different views of what that is and it it somebody that is uh believes that nations and borders between nations should be very strong, that you i my nation is different than your nation and I'm not m a citizen of the world, I'm citizen of a particular country. not of people from those nations. that is all about the fourth of July, Independence Day, and has very little to do with scripture or this is in a church service. almost word for word taken from the Bible as an attempt to apply what God wanted for the water. reformed Christians or uh even Christians at all. And and you're bringing a demon into your house, so you're ex uh accepting a of demonic entities that are there. What about the Sabbath? And there there's not a whole lot of extra context given, but there is no command for the government to always kill anybody that's heavy That wasn't coming on fathers in their f uh families as part of their uh uh the things that you should do to you w uh w when you have a son. somewhat goes into that. No. Uh uh uh exact topic actually about adultery is what's been going viral lately from Dennis Prager. Do you remember? And part of the discussion uh involves Dennis Prager, one of the leading voices in quote unquote conservatism When we get to the the commandment that says thou shalt not commit adultery, these Christians have added something to that, which is lust, and that's a thought crime, and there's this difference between Judaism and Christianity that Judaism punishes only Well, in eternity, at the return of Christ. all Egypt or whoever, all the countries around Israel are to be influenced by what Ik Israel was doing. So that makes theotomy a really important question to the post-millennialist, because we have to have this practical issue down for the Omillennialist to the the ups and downs cycles is going to get progressively better and right and it's kind of not to not to denigrate your view by comparing it to the awful climate change theories About, you know, not quite, but almost two thousand years old. Where? And that not n I'm not talking about the kingdom of heaven in that sense. So postmillennialism. Amillennialism is a type of postmillennialism. Tomorrow? Starting in verse 11. Not necessarily. prostrate yourself and under the authority of Jesus without necessarily being a Christian. I think the the defeat of his enemies is them submitting to his authority. Okay. No, it it's eternity. I I I see unprecedented gospel success sometime in the future, whether it's a hundred years from now, a thousand years from now, a million years from now. the nations will be converted. uh a decline, I think ascension and decline. So those lands that were dominated by the Roman Empire, you know, once upon a time, you know, up until somewhere around 151600 years ago, whatever it was. Um is that land more Christian now or less Christian now? Let's see, this is And that is incredibly dangerous because there's there is, by definition, unity in Christ, and we're not behaving like it. And we can't figure this out. Being humble, realizing we don't have all the answers ourselves. work towards that goal of finally understanding what it is that we're supposed to be working towards. Um and and and there is a little bit of danger because there is a a the ecumenical movement which basically accepts if you're in agreement with that statement, there's many different denominations within that and they have all sorts of different views on how to make the world a a more Christian place. But right now we're not in the position to create our own government. if there's enough of them. Uh whatever they are, I'm on most of them, but I can't remember what they all are right now. Now there's more that can be said. A person in authority in a place where you rule over other people and make laws and make decisions, you need to be doing that based upon the rules given to you by God. reprinted as our constitution, but the the concepts and e even the the majority of the law should be as a part of our rules for daily life and our rules for how we govern. The legal texts, if you will, in the the Pentateuch uh are in my view are like a hybrid blend of Right? I think it's possible to have a theony the way I define things, but I'm I agree that the more staunch supporters of a of a stricter idea of what the is Alright. Your gorgeous host, Troy Skinner, joined by the even more gorgeous, Daniel Rasby from So the way I'm defining theonomy is you take the general principles that we learn from God's Word and we try to apply them as best as possible in a practical way given a particular context. Islam teaches worship of a false god, so therefore by definition it's it's idolatrous and every Muslim in the United States should be taken out back and stoned to death by their neighbors. How would that look like? Theocracy is to communism as sacralism is to fascism. At least the the the first two. It certainly it it certainly would be for murder. The idea is if it's just for one, how can it not be just for another? But I think Troy's okay staying to midnight, right, Troy? There are some though that would I think kinda like I said a couple of shows ago with theonomy. The nations are coming to Christ. At least let's let's go back to our example of our founding. And so that's what I would say a Christian government is, is a government that's based upon the biblical principles. But they knew that there was value in what the Bible had to do had to say about setting up a government. We have the right to be wrong. No, I don't. See what I'm saying? How are you seeing partial preterism connecting specifically to this discussion? So um the millennium has already started, and uh although Christ hasn't uh fully returned for the second time, that's something we're gonna talk about I mean there are people that are being brutalized in the Middle East, in China. Well, specifically talking about how the church builds the kingdom, I think that question goes to There is. He is, but his enemies are not submitted to him yet. Oh I don't think it has either. more if if people keep getting um influenced by this knowledge of God to life and the other ones that go to destruction, well you're gonna have more people. the core doctrines of salvation of and we went through some of those the last several months on statements of what is it that Christians believe. uh on the right track because then we have Christians running things in the government eventually, right? We gotta start there. It's getting in the way with the of the mouse. There were certain rules like the the paraffin at the top of your your thing that don't don't necessarily apply to modern culture, but the general Daniel, who was the hardest core in his first response about his theonomy physician. So if we take America and treat it like it's the chosen people, I'd be willing to bet money that there's less than three percent of America that are actually following Jesus So yeah, I got a feeling we might we we might be on this question for at least one, maybe two more shows, I try to clarify. And I think it's I think my goal is to be helpful. Okay, so you were th they did I think they switched them on me. I want to work for the true kingdom of God and we conflate those two, I think, to our own detriment and to the and to the shame of the church actually, to be honest with you. I mentioned this at the as a teaser last week. The glorious Protestants love the Reformation, right? Not everybody who participated in that died. So you're using it in distinction from globalism. Um I am I am personally so that so I've got a personal like those people that talk about abortion the children of covenant member parents uh can be and I would argue probably should be, although not So once somebody's baptized, they should be able to share the meal with the family. Um because he started that whole conversation with the the Jews don't believe that the uh you know that the thoughts are are punishable. Theocracy anyone? It's talking about the peoples, the ethnic groups coming together to form the one nation in Christ. the the after show, basically. But the millennium can't start until everything is Christian. So the idea that there's there's the religious sphere and these um the and the the civil or secular sphere and they're they're like completely unrelated Um what what are what biblical scriptural arguments does a post mill make to to to uh be under the authority of Jesus and subdued as his footstool, but they're not going to be worshiping him or Christians. those who don't want to go to hell or or whatever. Because the million is over. And and and the the body of of Christ, and that's that continues throughout eternity. I I I think that's that's partially true. Anyway, we've been talking this uh we don't typically do the same exact panel talking about the ex uh very very much the same exact is w we shouldn't run around with our hair on fire trying to fix it at the expense of unity right now. Faith is upstream from culture. We're we're we're not engaging. Anyway, I'm Troy Skinner, host of the Faith Debate here on News Radio 930 WFMD, and joined this week by Daniel Razvy, a name and a voice that um you are familiar with over the last couple of years. First of all, would you define would you describe yourself? No word literally there's not a single word that has any meaning outside of a surrounding context. Now we're all going to start this is going to be good because we're all starting with a relatively common platform, but when we get into nitty-gritty we might have some separation we'll have to see. Thank you. Worshiping a statue in a non-theocracy is not. Well the Ju the the Jews were going to stone uh uh Christ because they thought he was committing blasphemy because he said he was God. So we defined our terms of theonomy, theocracy, uh sacrilism well enough for now, I think. And I would I would re reject that on its face for multiple reasons actually, because there's only one human race, so I I reject the premise of their accusation and two, they're But but the there is a danger and I you see this sometimes where when you become intensely patriotic No, I I have no problem with capital puncture. Like a a disabled person, apparently. But you wouldn't support capital punishment for murder. He's with a church in Thurmont called the Church that meets at Imran's house, and uh they have a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries and their website is Conquered by Love. I uh I think the prevailing wisdom is that there's going to be a final falling away after everything has been This idea that we that the that the church, the people who are Christians need to kind of build these governments that have the millennials we're the tools in Christ's hand. It's not us, it's Christ using us. And I think I can actually speak to that either. on this this next show. Anecdotal evidence of specific time periods, my view, does not necessitate that everything be an upward Upward climb. I think that faithful Christians are doing that already. We even though looking with less would be adultery, I know there's been a big controversies with Dennis Prager and Jordan Peterson and and uh uh about this uh topic recently. He so I think this is we might need to take a little bit of a rabbit trail here to clarify. I think that's a theocracy. Canadians haven't been tasked with being a light to the world. Do you do you do you see Reammy what I'm saying? So who wh who else am I harming? There are very, very few things. But their failure to do that was a crime. It makes it look like the music is about to wrap up before it's actually wrapped up, so it throws me off. Well well whatever. You're advocating well, as I'm understanding it, I feel like you're advocating for crimes against God being capital offenses. No, it it appears on earth in the in the church. Correct. Okay, so there's a specific part of revelation you you think is I I I think you said you're a partial preterist as well. And that's that's what I think, you know, a when that's happening, more persecution even around the world, um, that's gonna cause an explosion. Really the the difference between postmillennialism and millennialism sorry, can't talk. But the challenge though, and this is what this is where my pushback will come, and I'll be curious to hear what you guys respond to this is, those sorts of uh detailed laws The thing that has me nervous, and this would be the cliffhanger, if we're not careful, people that are advocating too strongly for You know, I don't think we got very far in a discussion. And this this is apologize for her, because your wife is delightful and and she might have been offended by that. All true crimes, maybe biblical crimes, are sins, but not all sins are crimes Eliza Dirksen is a seminary student pursuing a Master of Divinity degree uh at the Whitfield Theological Seminary. Uh does it align with that idea, the that post millennial idea that things have been generally on the increase or an incline over time It's absolutely I agree. It's all there when when Christ comes back and every knee bows and after that uh period of tribulation. We've been talking about Christian nationalism in a general sense and all of the uh hair splitting kinds of phrases and words have to be defined as a part of that, including theotomy, theocracy. God has God has allowed um different spiritual entities, many of them bad, to be rulers over different geographic areas of earth Yeah, I think practically getting back to kind of what what brought this all up, the idea of like the uh my all millennial view, and I don't know that I speak for all all millennialists for that matter, but uh The reality of the world doesn't challenge what I believe the Bible teaches. But we as Christians can live a better Christian life tomorrow than we did today. I'll come back to that in a second, is is is better at being Christian. Honestly, ask yourself, particularly if you're listening to a radio sense like this, I think I know what some hot button things. Why? the the laws, the punishments for crimes, criminal justice systems in particular, should be uh made out by the civil government in a way that is consistent with the Old Testament and New Testament. And that's why I'm trying to figure out where we kind of are and we can try to figure out how to keep it narrow. Yes, and we're in this room. Yeah, let me see. So I'm going to uh just get started actually guys good? Um and again And idolatry. Christian brother killing Christian brother. About pornography and all that sort of stuff? So says Jesus. They fail across the board. Or turning pages. So whether you deal with the final battle that happens after the millennium. But he doesn't need us. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I I would I I understand there's a lot of baggage that would come along with you. That's what I'm saying. How everybody so the moral questions, everybody sh deserves death, because our sin deserves, right? Well you would support it, I guess. But I think that's an important distinct and and and and a narrowing that helps us be more a little more precise, because that to me that that becomes definitional. Elijah's in the room. I got two witnesses, plus a radio audience. I kind of lost my train of thought just a little bit there. I've been hosting the show since 2004 and I am the pastor of a church in Frederick called Household of Faith in Christ. I uh can look up more information about that and and and clarify if you want. Or they have been destroyed. But I guess I would say the thing is not bound now. The the specific the specific aspect of his rulership that is commonly called the kingdom is finished when he hands over all principalities and authorities to government. How do we stop all of us sniping at one another online, for example? Or how about the mandates to get the shots? Anyway, so uh we're going to be doing uh we're taking a break from uh a lengthy series we've been going through uh theological statements put out by How are you going to enforce that? That's where the rubber recent least the road though, right? Okay, okay, you would agree with it. If I lust after somebody and commit adultery in my heart, I have committed an act against God. But and and I and I would say that regardless of whether it's applicable to Christians or not, it was never incumbent on the civil government to force people to be circumcised. That's why w that's why we have the whole discussion. Yeah, I do too. They're they're nations without the the or they're they're nations or peoples without that distinction. The the church is what dictates what culture is. Anyway, till next time uh thirdless You you good? The the government has a very specific prescription and this is why the church should never be stoning people or killing people or punishing people in that way. They're ruling as if they were Christians. set apart and distinct from the people group that is a nation state that's to be an example of what will be forever in the future. It is uh almost over. Second Timothy says that scripture all of Scripture is profitable for teaching, for reproach, for training in righteousness. We know exact everyone instinctively knows that we shouldn't blaspheme God. Like a bit like the kings did throughout Israel. So the there's the there's the answer to that. And and honestly the fullest expectation of theonomy is only found in a a world conquered by Jesus, where at least the vast majority of people are Christians. backwards to me. And uh Daniel might be more in the uh moderate, severe sector of of of of uh autism spectrum. We brought it up last week, we brought it up this week. What's one of the great blights on Christian history? And I and I would interpret and understand Scripture differently because the price for that particular sin was paid for by Christ. And that makes people nervous. And Dennis Prager made the comment and uh this probably is a few months ago by the time this is airing, but uh then he made the comment s uh something to the effect of uh Right, and that's kind of where I'm I I I was making the distinction before. For Israel. That was a hot button right there. The psalm itself says, The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make all of your enemies your footstool. And that's why I I can't say that Jesus could come back any time, because death isn't defeated, his enemies aren't defeated, obviously. Okay, there we go. We'll see if that does anything. Uh I would say that the uh somebody who values uh puts Muhammad uh ahead of Christ What I would say is Jesus is king over the nations. Some might argue some might argue that we never have been. Yes, you do. That's not a spiritual those aren't spiritual merely. I probably should have used some particular person out there. That's not one I'm gonna that's that's to me that's not you know central to the gospel per se, it's a religious practice thing. I'm not talking about how great Constantine is. Here I go, stop looking at the clock. No post millennialist saying, We're gonna win the kingdom and build the kingdom by ourselves. So you believe in global warming? You're specifically talking about Europe and North Africa and Middle Eastern countries. I'm comfortable if somebody wants to call me a theonymist too. I I think there's a lot of ways in which it can go off into crazy territory, but I think nations can be Christian. Yeah. If everyone's a Christian in a nation, you're going to have a Christian government. Sure. They would impl implement uh capital punishment uh for to me a law that's being violated needs to have the heart and the action. If the Ten Commandments was strictly to Israel and it wasn't something that was already instinctively known by those people, how is he punishing them? So the in answer to your your question about the or your your statement about this this never goes well in history, that's not because people weren't were submitting to God's law, it's because they were submitting to the church. Ooh, I want to enter that debate, but we can't do all the debates at once. No, no. Yeah. David wasn't killed twenty committed adultery with Bathsheba and had her husband killed. We're gonna have to have the decripts because we're running out of time. I'm assuming it's beautiful. It it doesn't work. If if t if two people are unmarried and they have sex, they're they're they've committed an act of adultery. So it's it's not a salvation gospel oriented kind of a question. Okay, I just got that great. Yeah, the problem is it's not very nice to let people go to go to hell, right? So I say we take a all of Scripture, not just Deuteronomy or Leviticus or whatever, we take all of Scripture and and we apply it in principle to the context within which we find ourselves. What's the word I'm looking for? No, no. That's but that's that's where I see his his concern. So theocracy eliminates that distinction between church and state completely. We are a a royal priesthood, a holy nation. It's all related to this stuff. You're advocating for for for sacralism. I think they're correct. But if somebody in my church wanted to have their child uh baptized in an infant, I would do it. You know what I mean? He's he's a neoconser conservative at best. No nation can be pleasing to God in your in your view. We're talking about the surrounding the surrounding countries that were supposed to be influenced by Israel is what's being taught there with that plural nations. What what are we talking about? It it it's one country, but it certainly certainly doesn't have the the kind of persecution that the Romans were doing for the Christians. It is like his live radio or something. Honestly, if I saw everything going awfully for the past two thousand years, getting worse and worse and worse, which I don't think it is, uh I know people in this room would probably disagree, but It's in social media, it's in the news. Uh Daniel Razby, uh Elijah uh Dirksen, thank you. You c you don't get to add something. As a nation, they were civilly punished by Moses and the Levites. You can follow me at WFMD. It's like w what's that? So that's what I'm trying to clarify that I would say at least for the listener. I can't witness you lusting. And it seems like you can take that. No. It's just in general, things will progress upwards. What's over all and welcome to the live stream, the sneak peek at shows for the Faith Debate Radio Program on WFMD. The the th you mentioned that Daniel, the all of the Bible. Because she's not a father but they would apply to her as she should understand what fathers do. No no not the first what's the first commandment? My next door neighbor is not. Yeah, in a in a church context. What is a Christian nation? No, it's not theory. Believing Gentiles, grafted into that, and then we live out in perfect fullness what was supposed to be the case 3,000 years ago for all eternity when Christ returns The post-millennial idea is usually it's rooted in the the pictures like the mustard seed or the the stone cut without hands of Daniel. Because we can't say everything is equally applicable. They might think, oh well you said all of the laws in the Old Testament should be mandated by the g civil government. It doesn't need to follow the church. Let me click at the beginning. So how are you how are you? So in my mind, Jesus' kingdom is going to continually increase and get more and more pervasive over the earth, and including the nations. Sounds good. Uh view of the end times, the the the the the you know the uh the the end of time as we know it kind of thing. And so uh Elijah was making the point that for the uh post-millennialists uh it's really important to figure out these applications of the laws, these theotomy questions, these Christian nationalist kinds of questions So that's where we we we go into eternity where Christ is still ruling. On Tuesday night of the month that we've got to do it. What has the church historically thought about these things? I'm a little more reticent to name names. Mm-hmm. Everything that we do, God's word speaks into all of it. We c we we can't conflate we can't conflate ancient Israel with modern day, present-day America. You know, uh that there's very few things that are listed in the Bible that the government ought to be doing. And that's wrong. But if the the government decides, if you decide, if if you represent the government, I'm no longer free to be wrong I I I can agree with you completely that we shouldn't be punishing spiritual sins. Uh for those studying at home and following along and turning your pages, what are we looking up right now? And every priest stands ministering daily and offering repeatedly the same sacrifices which could never take away sin, but this man after he had offered one sacrifice for sin forever. So with the resurrection, people get resurrected and bad people get resurrected. And so those generals of Satan that are controlling wouldn't there's a king of America and there's the kingdom of England and there's the king of the United States. That was five, right? Because they're important to you, right? No other nation before, during, or after their existence is a fair comparable. So some false gods are okay and other false gods aren't. If I were in charge, if I were made dictator of the United States tomorrow, I would pass it and I would defend it from scripture. Well in in in certain spheres, I mean the government and the church both can rule over the family. What's the like what's one of the most celebrated high points in Protestant uh history? Being a crime. That's Household of Faithinchrist. I did too. And to be fair to A millennialism, they're not quite as black and white as the premillennium, post-millennium as regards to optimism. And it sounds weird but I I don't I don't mean as a joke. A lot of the early church fathers did. I I think so he would still have enemies that weren't his footstool by how you're defining terms, right? It's we're gonna have ups and downs, we're gonna have fights and battles and through that trade. I mean uh good guys are shooting each other as both of the bad guys. It'll be posted to Odyssey. He is a seminary student at Whitfield Theological Seminary in Florida, but he's he apparently owns a private jet because he I think lives in the middle of the country in Iowa We could do it as a compare and contrast with theocracy or whatever. It is the rule and guide for our faith, so what we believe, what we know to be true, because God has revealed I I want to be careful how I say this, because I I I want to be clear in my my understanding of it. Okay, let's use that as a practical example then. He's talking to them. Okay. I think uh it's like the autism spectrum, you know, the fall somewhere on the spectrum. We're taking a very uh a a very big leap from how I'm defining theonomy. What would that look like in your view? Sure. That's what happened in the Roman Empire. Yeah, okay. Although out into the future, a number of years, and there's like ten billion people on the planet, all ten billion would be Christians, and then Christ will return? Why are we doing a show defining theonomy? You're not going to punish somebody because that's a heart crime. God has put me in this position and I basically I am a vicar of Christ. And theonomy, again, the way it sometimes gets defined, sometimes somebody calls themselves a theonomist and you talk to 'em, you find out, okay, you're actually a theocrat Okay, yeah. Hating somebody in your heart is murder. I we started out with eleven and how many people do we have professing to be Christians now? So you're talking so you would believe that there are resurrected people who are fighting that battle? No. And if we agree that you're saved and I'm saved and you're saved and then that's what We we're we're expanding the show but doing the show since two thousand four and for the first time ever the guests Specifically He held for those who he does. And I'm I'm not there. There is no temple, there's no tabernacle, there's no Levites. I I wouldn't say a government can regulate what you worship, but it can regulate and say, hey, you have this idol, that's against the law. He's not though his people. Yes, tap the front of your mic. Whatever. So in m in my mind, justice doesn't differentiate between countries. I'm going to try to begin to pivot us into the Christian nationalism language a little bit in this context, and we'll see we'll see how that goes. Let's find out if I'm right. Uh and you probably are more familiar if you've been paying attention to a different kind of a phrase that connects all of these things in different ways, and that is the phrase A follower of Jesus Christ. They shouldn't mingle with each other. Because they're in by by their understanding a bunch of non-Christians, so they're not Christians in the majority. Yeah, but Jesus is there and he can help us out. Lust has always been a sin. Exactly, which is why I'm consistent. So you would say the kingdom parables are all spiritual? The resurrection happens, subduing death itself to Jesus, as Jesus is coming back. And if you have any interesting comments or thoughts or concerns or you want to yell at me or something, leave it in the comment section. By the way, even though the recording for the radio show is over, uh the screen is still just FYI, so which is good because that gives them some fodder to keep them busy while I'm saving the audio file and all that sort of stuff. Yes. So b actual Christians never do anything wrong. But first Peter chapter two says that we, the church, are a In this context, that's the church. Although define a point, so I might agree my own. And also sinful. It's like it's like a t one of those do you ever see those tugger wars? I'm not saying it's not wrong, but death has one little bit of a point in that what you get capitally punished for was the actual physical act, not the thought And uh one sentence, uh, that means that I believe in a literal a thousand-year reign of Christ here on earth that has not started yet. It could it uh the the thing that immediately came to my mind is the Great Commission, although I think there there are others. I I think w we would be in the same camp on this. So uh Log and I agree on this part that in that case we're all in in in a new heaven and new. Wanna come back to the automy and wrap it all up with that? They're we all individually are getting saved and as they're more and more saved people then they are going to start to change culture. Don't you remember the Vodhi Bhakum's eleventh commandment, thou shalt be nice? We're where we don't war according to the flesh. The the thing about it is God treats these Gentile nations who have never heard his law as if they they knew what his law was. Lone Ranger. I gotta think in terms of it goes counterclockwise. And most people mean by theonomy that the civil government should be doing something related to God's law um in their application. So I I didn't I don't I don't think I got a chance to s completely flesh out what I was trying to say. Now it's a bold way to say it. The the the gold the great image in Daniel that Shadrach, Mish, and Abendigo were supposed to bow down to. We need to figure it out to how we're going to govern if the nations belong to Christ, if they all worship Christ. But I I would say often people would would call my view more pessimistic about the future of the church and I I would say no, I I'm extremely optimistic That's all the stuff that happens in heaven. I think that what we've seen in history so far and what I see in in in the Bible and particularly the book of Revelation is I I I see what you just described and I see We can't and we we haven't figured out exactly, but hopefully we've modeled it in such a way where And it it's not a top down approach. I don't know if that was plain enough or too much, or should be okay, hopefully. They don't they're not they're just not worshiping. No, my my my grounds would be I would I would fight against the law because I would say no they're actually not idolatrous. I don't know. Should the government enforce the Sabbath? Fornication. No. Neither am I. It this is the nuts and bolts of what needs to happen. So the millennium is over and then he comes. Yeah, his kingdom is never done though. Yeah. How many times and I I think you go well I'm I'm gonna let you guys off the hook for because uh this isn't trying to be gotcha. Because I might end up saying no, depending on how you're gonna define it. And the people that were advocating for infant baptism, you could say they I know that you guys might say they're wrong on that issue. Because that's not what I mean by it. And that's That's not how Christ defines adultery. It says theft needs to be punished by uh you know, restitution and rape needs to be punished. Part of the dialogue so multifaceted, isn't it? Well so there's uh I actually agree with a lot of what Prager says. That's just the that's kind of the way it is. It's only basically America that they're being persecuted verbally and not so much physically. It lasted about 45 seconds. So that's a distinctive. Well just like he doesn't need us to subduce. We don't have to deal with this practically. So I don't want to presume that the listener has any clue what I'm talking about. They the government does not they should not tell you how to parent your kids. There was a promise made to Abraham in chapter twelve that he was gonna ha he was gonna have a promised land. So let's uh boy, it's an open-ended question. That's why the government acts against who? So I've got a personal conviction in view that I uh don't necessarily impose on others. I'm a partial preterist, so I would say that the majority of what's going on in Revelation is happening before our time. Right. That's how I would phrase it. I I think we would agree, wouldn't we? We're not God is not our co-pilot. Yeah. Right? Put your mouse on the other side. I'm wondering if in principle you would disagree with him. I'm not saying that. Elijah Dirksen is a seminaries uh student at Whitfield Theological Seminary, so he doesn't have a I'm curious though, do you guys define theocracy and theonomy differently? But they so but Christians can agree to disagree on that. It's not just people, it's entire nations. As Christ defines adultery, you have a problem with the capital punishment for adultery. Um because the I think for you guys in the millennium we have to be for you guys this is just a thought exercise more or less. And is Dennis Prager is the one running that I think, but uh Ben Shapiro was there uh on what at least at this episode and Jordan Peterson was there who I I would say I I'm not really necessarily sure if he's It's fact. I'm agreeing with that. I'm arguing it's not a yoke because there's very few things you're putting on them. I mean, there are people I highly respect. I think it applies to your role in government. I'm not saying that was not a good and full answer, but there's a whole lot that could be said It's a religious commitment. But since there's there's some nuanced disagreements, that makes for uh lengthier conversations was yeah, I think it's with chambers or not, it's fun. Do me a favor before I start recording. You can you can have your adrenaline kick in, you can get animated, you can even get, you know The nations themselves are being discipled in the Great Commission. Elijah's in the room. How about pornography anyone? But pre there's Pregar He gets a lot of the moral ones wrong though. In your heart, adultery in your heart. And and and but with the laws and and covenants not having gone away in the in the Old Testament We're gonna do at least one more show to try to figure all this out. Pastors like the sound of turning pages. More or less. But even if we don't, even if we're just like disagreeing across the board, we can at least say, you know what? So it starts with the Great Commission. Because God said so. Did it happen by actual Christians? So if the church isn't holding the government to account because they're in bed with them, the the only thing that I would advocate for is a Harlow Revelation for crying out loud. Troy, let your yay be on your nay be nay. There's uh you cannot commit adultery with your eyes. you would have the equivalent at that point of Israel. Uh no, I I would say uh a thousand years is a symbolic of a a a large number like Jesus owns uh the cattle on a thousand hills or he's faithful to a thousand generations. And we haven't talked about that, but part of this and the and kind of the phrase that's used for that is two kingdom theology. And if it does, in those rare occasions when it does, how often do you actually tell them? And I'm I'm concerned that that's what people are advocating for and it's not a healthy or helpful thing. And idolatry. I probably should get to the point. They weren't to bow down to the golden calf because they were to be examples to the Gentile nations surrounding them that there is one true God. We do the show in advance in it here some Sunday morning. So if I lust after your wife, I should be killed by the government? You wouldn't be stoned for fornication. com. And then Christ comes along as the true Israel and does what the ancient Israel didn't do. He must rule until he has placed all enemies under his feet. We mentioned you know Dennis Prager weighted in with a really s silly take and all that. So he he gave us a a book of rules, a book of laws that is applicable to all areas of life, all occupations, all What's an example of something that people would disagree about whether or not it's a a civil law or a ceremonial law or rule or whatever? Everything is kind of an unpacking of that in detail. Alright. That's something that God does unjust. If you're listening to this on some other day, it means you're listening to the podcast, and that's a beautiful day too, I'm sure. That's why we're talking about it. It's a it's a religious kind of a thing. It does not work. Sure we can't do that. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio, 930, WFMD. I mean Shapiro's not? And I actually I'm I'm sympathetic. Uh I'm not gonna have time to even play the music, I don't think. If he's got a brain in his head, there's lots of things I'll tell you that the honestly I I don't I don't know of a way to get around passages like that. I would say God's rulership is effective throughout the earth. I mean th the the church is not in a stronger position in that geo geography, but then But you're not talking about the gospel. So if you want to hear it on the radio or catch the audio podcast after it drops shortly after the 28th. You know, a lot of people theocracy, maybe. The the rules for being a father wouldn't necessarily apply to my wife So you're three and and you're two. But justice is based on the characteristics of God. And so I think I have a better regard for those who are consistent on both sides. So it's not just a linear back and forth. Was there a Christian in the room? Now, just for clarification purposes, because Daniel made the point that he's expecting kind of an exact thousand years. They're very tightly connected. Have you talked about what they're teaching your kids in school and you're out there on the public square advocating for better instruction in the government-run schools? He's talking specifically to his people. There are some things that are commanded for the government to do, and the government should be doing those things. com too for that matter, I guess. It's it's peoples. What if I said to you guys right now, man, Daniel, your wife is hot. Yeah, where he ended up defending pornography because a moron. If not, I'll just start with a closet. I'm saying you're advocating for capital punishment for adultery. To be pure in the sight of God? And some of the conversation we had before the show started. But there's also the pessimistic all-millennials who see nothing but darkness and despair and no chance of a Christian government. Where and where geographic location? But the kingdom parables talking about the kingdom of heaven is stuff that happens on the earth. I think they're both I think we see both of them in scripture, I think we see both of them in history. Because we're w w whether you think this is the worst moment in human history or not, it's a bad moment in in in history. But that that's where the discussion with theonomy comes. So I I think we're all on the same page to start. So the one the ten commandments is to honor your father or mother. The public th I would define idolatry as the public profession to be worshiping a God other than God, the the the the creator of the universe, the one God. There's nothing in the Bible that says you can kill somebody who is following a different doctrine. Uh I mean this is how it makes sense, uh in my mind anyway, about how God would send his people in to completely, utterly slaughter the people who have been there before they arrived. Stephen Wolfe wrote a book that's very popular and I'm I I'm I'm pretty sure he's a Christian. So you're talking about God's law, okay, we can break that down. Um but yeah, and I and so Can they not participate in the Lord's Supper? They're all guilty and they should all be stoned to death right now. But God does save through means. I'm not talking about in general, I'm talking specifically about in church history, prior to Jesus coming. I totally lost track of time. Death has been defeated. God's government has always grown. And and another good example would be the dietary law. What's the prologue? Although in Vatican City context too, I guess, right? Right. Right. So th there there's very again, very, very few th I know there's one that's a very big stickle for you, you ha have a big problem with the idolatry being included in that. Who else am I harming though? Not you have actually committed adultery, like literally, meaning your heart wants to commit adultery, therefore your heart is guilty, and you will die and go to hell, even if you never committed the acts. And the vast majority of them, you actually agree should be crimes. You said it shouldn't be a it shouldn't be a crime. It existed one time in history. They're prophets, sinners. That was five. And part of the reason is uh I think it it exemplifies the challenges. So it's not going to be fun. But I would re but I would reject the premise that such a law could be passed in the first place because I would not believe What what God's people, believers should be doing. Well, you have let let's take S Psalm seventy two for example. And I g I suppose you could argue that the you can't actually be a Muslim unless you're I think we're minimizing the law. So the kingdom of heaven and the millennium are two different things. Yeah. So I'm not at this my questions are not accusations, they're legitimate legor. What we believe our fundamental worldview is going to impact culture. My my battery is almost over. Okay, so you're so so that are you trying to articulate what you think Daniel's position is or are you articul are you articulating your position? No, the church has not replaced Israel. Um but they didn't understand that. Um but let's just say for the sake of argument that they are correct. Uh-huh. And so this has been making the rounds on a lot of uh pastors have been talking about uh how this is a a a a moral problem because Which was a nation set apart to be clean. I think that all Christians feel some weight of wanting to have a positive influence on culture and politics and all those sorts of things. It's it's all over the place. So you talk about that because you feel passionately about it. And because of that There's there are things that it says here's the prescription for if this crime is committed and a lot of things are okay, well you're just So the government needs to mandate and and uh Yes. You know, they don't there's no there's no prescription for how that should be done. Here we go and get this back on track and are we close enough? Thank you. This is the Faith In Meet on News Radio 930 WFMD. They're not being generous at all to hear what somebody means by it. And and if you if you do, do you So expound a little more Yeah. And uh Daniel's in the industry with his father and his family, I guess. Daniel Rasby is one of the pastors at the church that meets in Thurmont, uh, meets at Imran's house. I think Peterson collaborated him with that, right? But I will say that to to uh to transition now, so we want to get in how eschatological views can affect all of this Yeah he he governs his church, so in that sense yes. So it are you agreeing that you're basically LARPing, you know, you're live action role playing? That's why they were able to spread so quickly. Really sudden, catastrophic global warming. Before that was Daniel Razzi. Um we're spending so much energy, you know, fighting with what was um Welcome to the twenty-first century What is what is excellent? Do you agree? Right. Martin Luther, John Calvin, Zwingli, all those guys, they're great. I I say I think that's hor that his form of government was horribly flawed and a a bad first experiment. Yeah. I don't know if you pay attention to these things on social media or not, or you know, people the bomb throwing is taking place on Twitter and Facebook and Gab and MiWe and what other ones are out there. Responding to a text? And blasphemy. What's one of the things we're embarrassed to talk about oftentimes? Right? No, because the Oh thousands, I'm sure. And when he does, we'll we'll edit that back into the show. And he ended up because of the logical way that argument took him, he ended up having to defend pornography But what the government is punishing somebody for is the act and that's and that's the But it's not just sinful, it's a particular sin. I'm not sure if if Elijah is. Make sure I didn't screw that up. We're trying to grapple with those kinds of things. Or at least not a practical effect right now. We we can find the rules that apply to all areas of life in the Bible. Yes. Conquered by love. And I think that us dialoguing through this will help people to at least understand what the issues are. You you have the Latin for theonomy that say God's law, but Christian nationalism So um let's let's break it down because I think you're right. Uh you're calling it theonomy. And a lot of times people citing Christian nationalism will say, no, they need to join together. I got two witnesses. People be are being beheaded in uh in in in certain Middle Eastern countries for their faith. I think that uh I think that there is a distinction. It was a moment of clarity, and there was a lot of good that came out of that. So the faith part and most people kind of get that. Is that am I is am I being accurate? So somebody it's interesting. Uh pronounce. You should turn out my volume down very slightly. And so what did the what did the church do in co in cooperation with the state? That's different than a Christian nation because that starts to carry with it We're holding them accountable to a spiritual standard that they are incapable of meeting because they're not believers. Yes. Yep. It's been a number of years. Uh and so yeah, I think I think uh d then's got i i and why I was talking with Elijah, Elijah said it's it's I radic to hear a Jew talk about how Christians are too egoistic No, because that you sound kind of like a non-millennial. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us if you're listening on the radio, and thank you for spending part of any day if you're listening to us on podcast. And if he's in if the millennium is in place, that means that he Jesus is ruling. And the th two kingdom people, some of them would uh would say they are distinct and should be separated, so I don't go that far. He's ruling over that kingdom now. Sorry. Well I I I think the thing with the thing with my view of post millennialism is it But we've got a number of uh highly, in my view anyway, highly respected Christian brothers who have been embarrassing themselves on social media But we're fighting for our lives here. I think that we can both be Christian brothers and both have different opinions about what laws the government should follow if the a Christian wasn't government. Uh I do make a distinction. People are just throwing bombs, they're not asking questions. No, it would be wrong, and they will pay that penalty in eternity. Probably. We never do. Or this we can hash it out, that's fine. The code of Hammurabi is very similar to the Mosaic Covenant A state of being, a state of religion that's just that just remains in your head is not a crime. Okay. So is your read on history And at the very least saying, Okay, we're a Christian nation. That's why I think that fits better with a non-millennial view. Well yeah. Yeah. And that's where we would disagree. Um we I don't know. Is there some some new area or some point of clarification that you would like to to to pursue? And if we never quite figure it out, well God will figure it all out, you know? God has the answers, and we've got to figure out what He's telling us and then be obedient to that. I would I and so you agree, so that's that's good. Um and so something but our churches are not being faithful, not pro we're not proclaiming the gospel, we're not discipling. I'm more in the camp of I well, before I show my hand, where are you, uh Elijah? Right? It's a covenant with his people. Right. I think most most or many of the people that are called Christian nationalists would not call themselves such. com. He's Jewish. See the and and I want to pivot in a second, by the way. Yeah, so so that view is that Christ will return and then the millennium starts. Yeah, you can figure all that out later. com and uh the Rumble uh channel for Household of Faith in Christ as well uh at some point in the coming days so you can look for it there as a permanent housing. Would you label yourself a theonymous? The the general idea of y if you do something with your property that hurts someone else, you need to be responsible. What Dandel just said over the last sixty seconds is i is that different than what you were trying to say earlier, Elijah? Okay, and that may or may not have been a biblical decision by those states, right? com. Every time sacrilism anything that approaches sacralism, it's how it's ended. The church used to live in the confines of particular geopolitical borders, and now we don't anymore. That's the general generally accepted term. It's more of a localized thing. Which would include things we talked about last week, such as punishing, idolatry, theft, rape, m murder, some other things. I I I I think that's that's a a horrible conflation. There is no command in the Bible to c to kill or to uh uh uh punish everybody who breaks the Sabbath So uh Elijah, we don't have time to even get into all this. I I think there is there is a difference between the two. But anyway, uh Daniel's been following that a little more closely than I have. Um, the you know, uh extra rules and laws and things. Don't hold it against our church. Probably not. Like we have to wait for him to truly be king. The new heavens and the new earth, the the old heavens and the old earth is perched with fire. We're not trying to be evasive, we're not trying to play games, we're not calling each other names, we're not going at home at hominym, you know, we're we're trying to grapple with what does the scripture say? A more narrow argument about, you know, the crime and punishment aspect. And I can say that because I've I haven't he doesn't go to church, he he wouldn't claim to be a Christian. And worshiping a deity is what's idolatry. That makes it could be make you in sin, it could make you not saved, but it doesn't necessarily have to be a good idea. Civil government you do there's a few of those. Not always. So what about circumcision? I'm only advocating for c uh punishment for crimes of the o of the action of the body. Why why do you why do you say that? That that strikes me as a little bit uh Western centric. So normally we typically max out at five. You need to witness the people and God uh is the one that does the saving, but he's doing it through your witnessing in most cases But he's saying as far as the government instituting the rules and regs that he's not advocating. We're not regulating and saying by law you must become a Christian. Right. What other ones besides murder would you want to have be capital punched? If somebody calls me a theonymist, I might say, Okay, yeah, but define it for me because I might end up saying no Okay. They are unique. But what are you gonna do? So we've got different views there. But I could never be such a great person to not lust and and basically he ended up having to defend poor audience. I I think we should be able to see it in history and I think we do. And I would agree that the level of the pressure, if you want to call it that Um yeah, so that is very optimistic, as you say. Which kind of sounds like a kingdom. But you know, in I'm the Lord your God. And here to talk about it again for the third go around is I think the definition is far more important with Christian nationalism, because it's Even though there were some other founders like Jefferson, Franklin, who wouldn't necessarily be Again, you're going back to the idolatry thing because that's a the easy topic to Okay, what about the Sabbath? Troy, are you gonna take back all those things he said on our wife now? And so it it's it's fascinating to me that this is otherwise known as Passover. And to some that leads to life, to righteousness, and to others it leads to death and to destruction. Daniel Razvy, of course, he's become a familiar voice to you, I hope, after these many months of him being on the show pretty regularly. We're not in the position the founders were in when they created our government. Because if you talk to somebody who says they're a theonomist, and then you talk to somebody else half hour later who says they're a theonymist, they don't mean the same thing by it all the time You can't force people to have a correct heart. There are some things maybe that would fit into both, I is what I'm hearing. Where where did he say Israel is going to have these these moral laws but no one else will have these moral laws? And of course you should visit the w the website for this radio station, right? And here he is in Maryland. No, they're not just bad thoughts. So sacralism or sacralism, however you want to pronounce that word, I hear it pronounced both ways. So what makes idolatry different than murder org. Good morning to you. Some of them were deists, who I I I would draw the line between that and an actual Christian. But so Christians can disagree about these things. You would be stoned only for adultery. It's never been a crime. So related to some of the things we've been talking about in recent weeks, we're talking about theocracy and sacralism and So you you would not support capital punishment for not murder in the heart I'm I I'm both. During the now, there's the there's a phrase that's used by all millennials a lot, right? Oh, okay. And I don't get the sense that that has ceased Are you saying it is? There'll just be that many Christians where like almost everybody on the planet will be a Christian And if we do those things, if I work at becoming a better Christian, you bec work at becoming a better Christian, and your family therefore is working at becoming a better Christian and the church That's not a good placement for all these wires. In this last week's show, we started to lay the foundation for just defining terms of what is meant by the But uh other people do call me one and I'm fine with that because I believe we take God's word, his laws and everything else, and we apply them in practical ways to all of life. How would a nation apply God's law? As I've made clear last couple of shows. Right? They could have still bowed down to it. He does he does clarify that. So much for global warming you're like, well no there's cycles. Revelation. God bless. Oh yeah. Don't uh the Hal Lindsey's, the don't Hollish Frass and the Space. So is it your understanding then that every s let's say that uh Generally the the situation with I don't know if you're specifically talking about the matter of ethics. Um th there can be laws that govern morality within the religious side, like idolatry I think we're living through it right now actually. Well what what is a nation that's following God You don't believe it's an idolatrous religion And and they would be wrong to say so. So he was above the law. That's the language. So are are you uh are you making the argument that we should not have capital punishment? And so they would say that that's what national uh ism is. That's very to me and and how I would define a a Christian nation, I I would say a nation can only truly be a Christian nation if the government is following Why would the government get involved in that? It conflates the two. And none of them are dispensational, isn't that interesting? And honestly, the average post millennial is probably going to agree at least partially with that, but we would say it's trending upwards. It's you change you change people. Your role as a pastor. God is the head over the the state. But presumably the people who were instigating it. I encourage you to listen to the show and uh and last week's show is what I'm talking about and can So Christianity, Christendom What's the source of our civil laws if we're not a theocratic nation like Israel, a a unique nation in your mind? I don't think there was a w anybody in the room that I would say is Uh but he hasn't returned in the way that he will. You know, in a in maybe in the months leading up to his coming back or in uh simultaneously with him arriving, type of thing. Is the thing. We're we are capable as Christians of building a kingdom for Christ here on earth. I'm not sure if radio listeners do, but pastors love the sound to turn a page. He's defining it as Christ is controlling him, basically. Um but I think within Christian Christendom, as he said before or Christianity, um We have that in our arsenal. Or or maybe what happened is our headphones came as a package deal and we now have one of those Star Trek transporter devices and we're beaming you around the planet. Um But Christian nationalism has become a big buzzword. So it it's the the Bible alone is what is fully sufficient as the as the rule and guide for our faith and life practice. I would say, well, I we're first of all coming from a different point of view on the ceremonial laws, I think. So the things that have the heart are not the civil government's place to But the things that we can see that then they would execute, you know I get very nervous because but the path I'm concerned about, we might have to talk about this in the uh uh in the next show because we only got like two minutes org is their website, conquered by love. No. I'm not even sure I would go that far. Now we get to the Avalenio of the post-millennial thought. The church is the kingdom. And to be fair, I I'm not So that the persecution didn't make the church grow in I I'm not basing my optimism on what I can see in history Uh Daniel Ravsey. We were all blushing. But for those who might agree with you, uh they would say there is or isn't the kingdom of God right now. Yeah, I I I I I don't want to come across as cheeky. Then you do eventually s make the kind of progress that the post millennialists are are counting on and and trying to lay the the the seedbed for. The reason why we can challenge abortion, the reason why we can challenge um critical race theory is because it's antithetical to the Bible So me, Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, uh I'm fine if somebody wants to call me a theonymist, although a lot of All false gods are not okay. Well, those guys are still alive, actually, Luther and Calvin, all those guys, Swingley. That's not the right way to say it. Not the government under the church, not any of those spheres of authority intersecting. Uh Elijah Dirksen is a seminary student in Florida, visiting Maryland. I I would argue that we were founded as a Christian nation trying to apply biblical laws. Sometimes it means Sharia law, sometimes it just means the majority of people in that. But now we're saying no, they could none of them think you could be Christians. I have a couple more seconds than I thought I did. That nations be converted as a whole. So the millennium we're talking about you know the reign of uh of Christ, right? You said that word is also peoples. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. Like it just kinda just came unglued. It's very disheartening. We don't have a new nation rising up right now that we need to figure out how we're going to govern it. And God says those weapons are mighty for tearing down strongholds, tearing down Uh but my very next thing, say you're a theonist, I'll say, well We have to determine applicable to who Um I and that's why I don't actually think it's possible to have a a theatomy. Right. We're free from wrestling against sin. Correct. A Christian nation is a nation where at least the majority of the people in the positions of authority are Christians. It's almost word for word lifted from the Bible. Those are sins against your neighbor. One of the downsides of the system is as soon as you press the record button over here, it starts recording. That Isra that Israel Yeah that we are Yeah that that would be that would be one of the big distinctions between historic premillennialism and dispensational premillennialism. And so because of that reason, uh and by the way this I don't know if you would agree. It's called Concord by Love Ministries, and their website is conquered by Love dot org Iowa. That's actually probably the aspect of post-millennium views that I find most It is full now and this is about you know the Protestant Reformation and the Silver Scriptura, but also But dropping it down saying that's our Constitution Because sacrilism had taken root And so yes, if you're convicted after a fair trial that has had witnesses and and they've been examined and and all that, then that's when You're talking right past each other. The stream is picking it up, but for the radio show. And I would say they should be able to participate in Lord. So anyway, let's give this a go. I think they do it at Iwana where there's multiple teams tugging on the rope at the same time. Should we should we penalize hate? That's the difference, right? I think the persecution can make the church grow, but there was a time when the uh northern rim of Africa on the Mediterranean was like ninety five percent Christian. The church d generally tends to thrive when it's persecuted So do you so and and again I don't want the questions to start sound cheeky, but you know, I don't want to ramble and and and and and try to s If you want to divide it down to two, it's postmillennialism versus premillennialism. He said, He's going to remain there until his enemies have been made his footstool. Okay, I don't read Revelation anywhere near that way. Am I misunderstanding that? It touches on so many different areas of disagreement within the church. Whoops. So there's yeah, so there's this is what makes this sort of discussion so difficult because you can start to go off in all these different Because we know that God is, according to Romans 1. You've been murdering people. One, two, three. It would have been an outward manifestation of their idolatry to this statue. So anyway, so there's the answer on that. Frage is Jewish and I don't know what we're talking about Exodus it's a documentary of you know what uh how how how the the law was given and what is what is the book of Exodus about and how does it I'm I haven't completely made up my mind, but I'm very open minded to it and highly sympathetic to that view. So most millennialism is huge big picture thinking. And cult I think some someone said it the um Online at WFMD. So words are just words without definition. We can have other conversations down the road, but I want to keep it narrow. And those are the ones that get everybody's attention. The nations are required to serve him, kiss the sun lest he destroy you, Psalm 2. This is not just esoteric academic you know kind of head stuff. Uh I think I I I feel good about saying that America was was founded with the intent of being a people group that would be governed by godly biblical Sure it is. And then the That's the whole point of what the New Testament is teaching us. Um how does Revelation work in a post mill You have a very small millennium. The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed which grows into a big tree. And so I I'm not familiar the screens look different, the board is different And y it looks like you're itching to say something, Elijah. No, we've been grafted into it. Uh Daniel, I didn't mention at the beginning. I got confused as to who has what mic. But I I don't think that's necessarily the case. She is smoking. So if I have a Buddha sta statue in my house, how I'm sinning against God. I I can agree with that. That probably made it weird for you. It's like multi-directional and that's kind of what the this Christian nationalist theonomy kind of thing is like. There's only one organ you can use to commit adultery and he said I and he said I'm I'm not trying to be crass, that's And so in simple terms, uh the all-millennialist view is kind of a combination, a blending of your two views Well, because God commands us to witness the people, right? I see uh cycles. Oh, I started the music at the wrong time. Okay, yeah, I'm trying to figure out what the distinctives are. The reason why is because Jesus said well Jesus used the 110th Psalm. He's he's the pilot and we're just the driver and we're the car. And I'm not I don't wanna get into in this context I'm not gonna name names because I'll uh when it comes to false teachers, I'll name names all along all day long. We can work towards that. In case you're curious, the the this next show that we record, each show is a little less than a half hour So my my understanding is that God gave us his word. But maybe a good place to start, and if you're comfortable, Elijah, you're new, but you know you seem like you're comfortable already, you've stepped right into that chair, put those headphones on like a pro. One second. Elijah Dirksen, who is a seminary uh student, uh pursuing an MDiv, a Masters of Divinity degree at Whitfield Theological Seminary and Not the Inquisition. But in in any case the list of the government needs to be doing is very short. I'm Troy Skinner, I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, and our website is Household of Faith in Christ. And that's where I think Christian nationalism gets dangerous is when you combine that the church and the state together That's actually not what Jesus says. We talked about Dennis Prager and and the and the the Judaism thing. So theoretically could happen again? Darn it. Right. I'm agree with that. I think it's a chapter in 2 Corinthians where it talks about Christ is always leading us in triumph. I'm Troy Skinner. I think there is a fantastic, unrealized potential in the gospel. He's also his people. Yes. Yep. We actually have an example of that in the Bible. Correct? So why did Israel get special rules? Um they were applying the things a little bit wrong also because they were just going to stone somebody without any trial, without any witnesses Oh you I thought you were talking about it. So that's uh that's what I'm inviting you and asking you to do because I think it'll be helpful to you. What does that all mean? Maybe I'm misunderstood. And as it turns out, the people in my church right now that have two youngsters That isn't what you were uh trying to do. How does a uh a postmillennialist, or at least how do you, as a postmillennialist Um They don't serve in the military. So that's interesting. And through the Christianizing of the world Now, some people that would call themselves a theonomist, what they mean by that And that's that's where we need to meet out what Blasphemes God they should be uh suffer the death penalty, the government in the United States should enforce that. Not all of the biblical commands regarding Christian living. So that's why we're taking the time we did the first two shows to define what the theological terms and arguments are, so now we can to put it in in a practical sense in terms of What do you guys think? Whatever. If you build it, they will come. And maybe for different reasons, to me what's unattractive about that is Yes. What do you think? They are important to discuss, but they're not as important uh uh for in order for us to present a united face to the world Uh and the judicial system should be uh Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. It's only twenty-five minutes. Um the Great Commission, he says, go and make disciples of all nations. Christendom is, in my opinion, begins to start to blur the line in almost something that feels a little sacralistic And that's why they set it up the way they did. A sinful act against God. It's part of the problem actually. Oh okay. Because in eternity view there's not going to be nations, right? Their theology is dispensational, let's put it that way So it really even hasn't started here yet Christ defeated death. So what do you make of so this idea of the partnering thing uh that troubles me troubles me. It's got a little bit of life left, so we'll give it a we'll we'll give it a s we'll we'll hurry up. Exactly. So I think we'd be better, practically speaking, to figure out how do we get the church Yeah, well, but they're different, right? So yeah, my job, my family, uh our government That's what sacrilism does. But they couldn't agree to disagree with that because the government and the state were so intertwined that people were murdered He wasn't he wasn't taken out back and stoned I don't think it's a very long list. You haven't committed adultery with your body with you They're kings sinners. What it means to be a Christian nation So I would see the right hand of God is a physical location for the physical body of Jesus Christ Yeah. I'm going to shut this down. Words truly derive their meaning from their context. Um but I'm not saying that the United States should institute So there's a punishment for that. All right. They're bowing down and worshiping. I I would agree they're unique It's well you know what? Um that's not necessarily to say whether the movement itself is good or not, but And you said that there is such a thing as a Christian nation, and I'm like, okay, how are we defining that? I would say that we were founded as an independent nation Look at the well. Christians should. Why was it only a a thought exercise? I mean the people in hell are gonna be But you did just say that. And it's not just authoritative, but sufficient. And so they weren't baptizing their children. Because it sounds like what you're saying is if we were to kill someone for idolatry For us to apply our uh to their context into our context is a a gross abuse of history I apologize. We'll see how that impacts. Exac exactly. But what America's not what no that's essential whatever. Is the church in a better place today than it was But the thing about post millennialism is we're not creating the governments so that the governments create Christians. Or they're they in some way or another have been placed under the authority of Jesus and have been footstooled by him. They're still in rebellion. I think God delights to use us, and I think it's a blessing that God uses us to seduce enemies. Well don't say that. So something that's really foundational to understanding. Makes me remember that you hedge done that probably. Yeah, I uh totally lost track of the clock on that one Yeah. If you're listening to the radio on That's the end goal. We are not Israel. So if I witness to somebody, God might work through that witnessing to actually save them. But I think putting some sort of iron wall in between the two, um I I'm not there at all. And it adds another detail to it and said the final enemy that is defeated is death. We maybe we'll do one more show. So that's why we're having this discussion. You think it's an important issue and you're you're going out of your way to to to enter into those those dialogues. Depending on your definition of ceremonial religious laws. S Sure. His people. Goodness gracious, pronounce that word. I don't know. So you guys might know what I mean, but in fairness to the listener The church and the state become one, it's like having Sharia law. We should be punishing crimes, which are idolatry is a spiritual sin. Let your yay be on your nay be nay. But I don't think that's why you might die. We're going to be talking about that today on the Faith Debate. But praise God, Christ has paid that penalty for those that will accept it. So you would say there was a future time when 100% of people on earth claimed to be following God His kingdom's done? Among others. If you are a They were enforced by the the Levites. And while there is a prescription or if it does actually have one So but let's just say let's say that um the government let's let's just let's just superimpose It could be the house that meets at Imron's church. We just do a view. So that's how my logic works. Oh necessarily a great thing. Oh well well, we're gonna figure this out as we go. With that in mind, I started it here. Rome itself. Let's start there I see where the government the civil government has a place and a role to play in the Old Testament and in the New Testament and there are things that the civil government is supposed to do. Uh there's a meeting, some client information I guess sent it to us. I'm almost positive they used to go one, two, three. No, because the government is supposed to kill the person who has been convicted of adultery with two eyewitnesses But let's say you could find a person that would tell you eating pork is sinful. I'll get some music playing here at least. So he's reigning over his kingdom. Uh, in my mind a all the So And even if we agree, even if we disagree, we can find some areas of agreement, maybe. Just become left handed. I I would say the ideal form of government that I support would be one that has all of its laws and judicial system based on the Bible. But my application of uh of the Bible to the state would be that Right. Well, um if it's just their status as a Muslim, that's uh uh like I was saying before, it's Oh, absolutely not. Yeah. Well have it happening on earth but in a spiritual sense. And if we go into First Corinthians fifteen, it adds more details. That's a hard word to the nature of the kingdom, what it looks like. So what happens in a post-mille view after the millennial and he returns? But when people say the kingdom, they mean like the the church generally. That's so uh that's and it feels like This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. In my in my opinion it would have a practical effect. You've been having all the all sorts of sexual sins within these count these countries. So that shows you how complex and complicated this can all be. They were intertwined in such a way they were leveraging influence on one another, and the government needed And I think I agree with that as far as that goes. But nations are made up of Gentiles. I can agree with that. I'm sorry we're disagreeing so much. How did get it right this time? Like it's it's it's clear time and again that God values the heart Uh you guys, Josh, explain how you see the connections and how these weigh in on how people are weighing in on these matters. But doesn't that contradict what the Bible says about the kingdom of heaven? All right. What what's the the godly biblical way for us to press forward in Christian love, respecting one another And I was like, that's not gonna help anybody I I would be more nuanced on the Crusades, but the Inquisition? It's really un it it's disconcerting that it's gotten as nasty as has when Christian brothers Let's break this down. So Daniel Razi, Elijah Dick Dirksen, I'm Troy Skinner. We're gonna be talking about that's that's murder too. Because for the other two views, it's just a a dream, a a a a thought exercise for But it's mix and matches. And with that in the past, I don't think there's any reason to say we have this horrible future ahead of us. We don't we don't actually see what Uh and keeps coming back. Uh Daniel, we think, probably fits within a historic premillennial view. Hebrews 10 verses uh starting in Right now. They're going to be banished and overthrown. And we would and we actually agree on that. And you should find a commonality on the core doctrines of what are um It depends on what you mean by un unique. org. Just very slightly. There's a whole different set of commands for what the government should be doing. So That's Household of Faith in Christ I'm gonna take the most aggravating historians and assume they got it right Right? Against e each other, against God, physical acts, not In today's context, you're teaching others to f to to go against God Elijah is self-described as a post-millennialist. Everything is reigned reigned over by Christ. Nope. Where he continues to rule over his kingdom. Putting the entire law on unbelievers, yeah, that's a yoke. Somebody calls somebody a theonomist and they say, Oh yeah, well so are you. We can have an effect on our lives. He held up a Bible except this one. God is the head over the church, God is the head over the family. Right. Not that many actually You're a Christian fascist. We do that on this show on a weekly basis. No, actually actually adultery would be if they're if I apologize. That wasn't meaning to cause offense. He is he is he is a Jew and I don't know if he's Orthodox but he's uh th he was just involved in a series That might not be the best way of saying that, but that's the idea. So there's a kingdom now? Do you believe that Jesus could come back? Correct. And I think that's where I think postmillennialism is superior to unmillennialism at that point. Have you talked about those sorts of things? I I I don't think Deuteronomy should be His chosen people. So So God does that, but that's different than what our civil code should be. And I think I would be like in the Asperger sector of If you're a Buddhist, that would be a sinful idolatry. Well and again, these hypotheticals are really tough because I wouldn't There's only so much ground because that's why we do multiple shows on the same topic. He says if you lost Africa woman You agree the rape should be a crime and and theft should be a crime and Because I sin not only against God but against neighbor And it still is not a crime. I think that's probably the closest thing that fits what I think I understand about your eschatology. Okay. I think that part of what We can't make headway because we're spinning our wheels in different directions And and I don't think he expected Okay. Potentially not. So they're not they're not feeling very post mill right now like there's the church. So I so I s And he's got it all covered. And we're postmillennial. This is So there's a lot of things, even in the Ten Commandments, covetousness I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ Daniel Razby is uh one of the pastors at the church in Thurmont, uh that uh the church of Beats at Imran's house and they have a ministry that's called uh It's amazing what we can do in today's world, isn't it? Daniel, Elijah, and Troy are the people you've been hearing talk. They there are people out there that will make that claim And you can have outward manifestations of idolatry that can be punished. Have you s been following that at all, Troy? That's part of what I've been advocating for was this So you're coming at this positive and I and Daniel and I've talked before, I think off the air, I'm not sure it was on the air, but I know Daniel says I would I'm a theonymist. So let's say l let's pretend that we would agree that eating pork is wrong and I know we don't all agree on that. Well, what's the prologue to the Ten Commandments? Uh I find the uh the the ancient Israelite nation state So absolutely I'm in that and that's one reason why I'm actually in favor of very, very limited government There's more that can be said for sure. Okay? But that's that's where I think uh the language becomes important. Tens of millions. When you were asking about adultery, why But there was something you were asking about baptism. And I'm saying, well, Jesus defines adultery for us, and yet you don't want to you don't want to institute. I ran out of music anyway. He s he cites that, but he says Hmm. It has to be rooted in scripture. Don't want to tell people tell people that they're going to hell. Well that's and there's restitution given for certain things. And and specifically, right, it's very specific. Not his not he didn't make that kind of covenant with the Babylonians or the Egyptians for that matter. Okay, so that's you. I get to decide Uh Allah is the Allah of the Quran is not true God. It's a day that God has made has made and so all the days are beautiful It has to do with how we approach It's a politically charged word, so it gets talked about in non-church contexts. Um I think some people will describe the nationalism part as Because I'm not questioning your faith. You have a problem with adultery being concluded. Where does that come from, if not from the Bible So Daniel Elijah, thank you so much for being uh on the show. The whole family's probably involved in that thing, is conquered by love. Or online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Yeah. We're winning it through Christ. I think you can So you think that God is not ruling over every aspect of the universe right now? Nope. So I don't know if that's any more nuanced or clarifying than than what you we've already talked about. But here's the difference. That's unfortunately com. Literal, yeah, I guess more exacting. Uh but the Ten Commandments They'd be they'd be honoring God and America would be blessed. Inquisition? Yeah, and and I and I agree with that, but I would phrase it differently. America's not Israel. But why does that specifically mean that they have different civil laws than we do? That is a difficult question. And this kind of relates to what we were talking about a week or two weeks ago where Troy you were hitting me real hard with, Well, if you're gonna punish adultery, you've got to punish loss too and I was like And then last week we began to transition into how all this connects to eschatological views. And I think he is truly king now. Whether wickedness is destroyed or the church is built in both situations Why aren't we using it? Have you had those conversations with your neighbors But it's also the rule and guide, fully sufficiently so So we're part of Israel. And I don't think Daniel's saying that. Correct. And that's kind of what I think a Christian nation is. The thing is, those impact my neighbor. Circumcision. I don't I don't think it's specifically applying to this. No, but we'll use that to c I want to try to bridge the Well we can then send to the nation. I I'm not saying that all of them are Christians. So if Jesus isn't going to return until after the millennium, that's the post-millennial view Oh, I get to read more. Honestly ask yourself. If you've been watching the stream this whole time, God bless you. So we so we want to clarify that. Yeah, no word uh in the What is a woman I don't know, I'll have to fade out I don't think they're theonomists anymore. Not the Crusades Taking God's name in vain. There are a lot of, you know, YouTubers and st and and bloggers and stuff that are Christians and they're they're identifying as Christian nationalists, so not everybody's running from it. It's not it's not like No, I'm idolatry is an offense against God. But as both of us have the pre-millennial view would say that it happens in the future with Jesus present. It will progressively get warmer over a hundred years And yeah, so we're using some theological buzzwords. Like, whoa. So we built the studio and he came. That actually makes it more He demonstrated his victory over death by his resurrection and then ascension to authority. Than when than when Rome ruled the roost? So that's what I'm trying to get to here. com. Well, how how would you define it, uh See what So that would be an example of blasphemy if I'm calling myself God and I'm not Now there are Christians who are embracing the term. If I've lusted after somebody in my heart, I am guilty of adultery. Right. And there were a lot of genuine conversing Right. I I can't imagine that Even brought up Dennis 'Cause I don't want to make it exclusive like they're not Christians. No question for me. On earth earth is ended, then the king Who's he talking to? Absolutely. And and so I I think we we're So what ground would you have to tell me I'm wrong? The church should not tell the government Right. We don't want that And nationalism, what do we mean by that? We have headphones. So let me make sure I understood that correctly. And I think it's because we just couldn't quite Now here we are a few years later, and who is fighting with who Right. And do. I think you can have a government that follows the rules of the Bible without the church ruling over the government. The the Israelites worshiped the golden calf And if and it as it regards to my as it relates to my family, I would baptize my children No. No, now. Right, so that takes it So it's over, and then he comes, and so then there's no longer a millennium. Yeah, I I don't think Jesus stops ruling after his kingdom is done We've done a lot already, but if you guys have time we can try doing one more because I feel like there's some straight threads. But that felt like an awkward place to end. I think you're just flat wrong. And so I don't know if we can end this week's show any better than we ended last week's show. Yeah, and and the kingdom and and And right now his chosen people is the church. I think they might have switched them on me when they did the studio changes. That's the name of the church I pastor and everything that I do. And I will say he's a false prophet, uh clearly, but they Christian nationalism. You have all these I I I think we can agree to disagree on that issue You can connect with the social media, you can connect with the show, you can connect with me, you can connect with the guests on the show, whatever. Ancient Israel. They're priests sinners. The context there isn't talking about geopolitical stuff. And that new heavens and that new earth, does Christ rule over that? Well, I I would just add that not all of the Bible is You can't and people say you can't legislate morality well Wfmd. And one of those is punishing things like murder and rape. They're But I guess what what my point is if Thank you for Because they knew there was no other way to do it and have a successful government. You know what, I think I'm right. Um but not in the the government. But that that's those cycles that are trending upwards. Um Alright. So there's those. Real quick. So that doesn't mean that you need to kill everybody who looks with lust. And then somewhere in the middle of all that would be Elijah The sin of idolatry is something where you in your heart worship something other than God But I can't remember exactly what's been said, so I don't even want to re- rehash that Forget a statue. If it's just for the Israelites to to kill people for bowing down to a golden calf And that's not what you're seeing a lot on uh And again, there's very, very few things If neither of the parties are married, then they God would c consider marriage. But I'll be curious to see how this uh what were you saying before that I wanted to use to pivot it into the post middle thing. But uh but not in this not in this case. Because Now this might come across as a cheeky question, but it's not meant to be a cheeky question. It's partnering the what the is partnering with God in building this kingdom Um Yep Because Christians are going to elect Christians Um our political leaders uh are are not behaving as as uh Christians would uh would have them no, really? What if the government decides they are? What I'm not Sure. I think that'll happen pretty instantaneously. But it's not the foundation of why it's not a good idea. You had to turn the music on only for my name, huh? I made the mistake of you know before it was showing me this part of the screen, and so I thought that was the end of the music. It turns out that was the end of the music. The kingdom of heaven is like a a field. Okay. It's been a couple of years now, I think, and he keeps coming back for more. So the I'll millennial. Correct? So why are we talking about this? Um so as a as a charge to you listener But what the government doesn't do is welfare programs is um And the Congress of the United States decides that um In that case, see that's why the Buddhism Buddhism if it was worshiping the Norse gods, the Nor Norse religions I I I hope I'm remembering that story correctly. So now we're getting into what we teach can be a a capital punishment. Until next week, 167. I of course I'm through as I say of course. No, because I'm not advocating for crimes of the heart We transitioned part way through that show, so we didn't make a whole lot of headway, so there's a lot more to be said about all this, so we'll just pick up where we Yeah, no I'm not saying it's just within the I I think that his his kingdom is the church, but his rule i and covers the whole universe. It feels like it's uh when a we've pressed to try to figure out practical examples, it feels like cherry picking. We're saying you can't do these actions of worship in our country Okay, so this is number one, I've got it. So That would be the crime of idolatry. It's like one unified force. Love them With uh with theonomy we've got theo, God, Nama But as long as they're mak making It's a mixing of cate a gross category error, actually. So are you admitting you don't have Christ there in your heart helping you out right now? Part of what helped me to formulate my thinking on that is what about those who aren't infants but they can't examine their own heart I don't know that. Yeah, so so what you're saying is that uh You have to forgive me, uh You know, uh the kinds of things that movies are made about, uh you know, Armageddon and all that sort of stuff Yes. But his kingdom is cultural. I don't I don't have to All around the world, actually. So you are do that again. And eventually everyone will bow their knee. So Is this rising and falling and escaping in different parts of the planet at different times? I'm just a mess. It's like when you buy a new car. And he's following just like what specifically are you talking about? But the kingdom never ceases. So we need to put some meat on the bone, on the skeletal thing that we've got here. Right. But I'm gonna have to have s selfishly gotta steal the last word because I got like I I d I really don't. I don't know what I'm gonna get and I figure I I don't I don't even know if you know how you're gonna try to answer this. I don't think you're questioning mine. Part of the ceremonial law, not applicable to the day. I I I would say because you need to uh So that and that's the point. So they're nations without And that's why the church in China is growing quickly, because they're galvanized by Um and Those would be like the hardcore dispensational. I mean it's it's I mean it's a kind of a rhetorical question, right? The Conquered by Love. People change churches. You couldn't go into the tabernacle if you were unclean, correct. So you are this one Um b you know, or the criminal justice system be related in some way They they can only Blasphemy? I think how how would you s how would you Israel's not America. I I was really excited to find another partial preterist. But it's important. That's what's a pre-millennial, right? So when I say that This is the fate debate on News Radio 930 WSMD I have so many thoughts going through my head, but Daniel's been quiet for a little while. My view is the kingdom comes about by making Christians Exactly, right? We should be killed How would they be a theonomic nation? Uh all all these the laws, they they were That's one witness. The oning anyone? It's not it's just a thought exercise? In fairness though, they changed. That passage is quoted all throughout the New Testament. If it's if it's rooted in extra biblical things, then it doesn't We're going to be talking about some hot button issues today. Amen. I don't think he 'cause I'm not I'm thinking I would agree I'm And that never goes well. So let's use a political category. The Reformation Because they say the the accusation is made that if you're a Christian nationalist Billions. Just like now Oh now? So the resurrected armies are the ones that are fighting against Jesus. I don't think I've heard that from anybody before for some reason. Um we should certainly be prepared for that. See that's that's a little bit where we differ because I don't make a distinction in the Old Testament between You gotta go edit this in a few years when you get to the website. So this um So in our church, practically speaking, I leave it up to the uh spiritual head of the family They're not debating on on forums on social media in the same way, usually, those kinds of things And it's not necessarily the same size all throughout history. But you're saying well by de I mean I'm just going by definition of the word parts. In a new heaven, in a new earth Those are the kinds of things we might talk, those are the kinds of reasons we might talk about something anyway You hear that even in in political circles, not just in uh But that's a different show. Worshiping a statue in a theocracy is a death penalty offense. My concern is we as Christians would be guilty of placing a burden upon non-believers that even we as believers can't. That's what Elijah's been trying to make the distinction. I I'd never heard anyone involved that view No, it's faithful biblical pastors, faithful biblical Christians fighting amongst themselves It's a lot certainly. So we want to carefully define that. So it sounds like But that's a very That didn't happen. Crusades? It was gonna be very specific Christian fascist? But I don't think No, there is a nation, a royal nation, a holy people. I'm not entirely sure which the best way to pronounce that is. It's This is important rubber meets the road kind of stuff That's the that is the question. So he's a premillennialist but in the historic sense And I think Christ is working through his church, which he's done all throughout history. Oh yes. I want you to handle that live, but I will get back to them later if you want, okay? Because uh I I'll save myself for last because uh y you're the visitor. com. So my trying to figure that out in the middle of the show that goes night is I don't know Or Daniel Razby's over there smirking in the corner like, oh my gosh, why'd I bring this up? I mean you would could you would support capital crime for murder, and Jesus says in one of the either the very next or the previous verse So it is it is something that That the now and not yet or the already not yet It was at the very beginning. He's going to have his way with the nations. Correct. And I think if if that was the case Any reason? That's idolatry. There's like four, five, six teams And then we're grafted into that I when I'm when I view the millennium I'm viewing it entirely physical So But what it says is, just while I find it real quick. So we we can for lack of a better word, we can agree to disagree, but we should still I'm talking to the listener But he's an American. We might not help them clarify what they're thinking is going to be I think they're advocating not for theonomy, but for theocracy No, because that would be what the Pope does, which is add the scripture and say, oh and also you have to do these things because But th those those are a sin that's sin of a heart, right? So it goes small to big, right? The millennial reign. That's how I'm defining my terms. That's my hope anyway. Other people hear nationalism, they think you know the Nazi Party Dreaming about her, fantasizing about her They can't do it at all Now is that the prevailing post middle understanding or is that more of a pocket that you belong to? Till next week. Uh there you can find the podcast and previous shows and all that sort of stuff. Okay. It's amazing how that works. And so he he feels like there's a unique pressure How is that not the millennium? So I'm misunderstanding? org is their website. Let's take Christian. We have the right to be wrong. So yeah, the government should get involved to protect I re respectfully I think that's a See if we got twenty minutes of battery light left. And I I think that is He punishes Assyria, Babylon, all these places that The Christian version of Sharia law? Yeah, we actually we like pivot into that because uh Uh you uh crater baptism What is going on If you're not necessarily a criminal idolatry. You're saying that that's impossible for the government to decide that But the the the government is supposed to punish actions, not thoughts. So I don't Thanks for listening to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. You can find me online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. We're talking past each other We're drawing guests now from all around the world. No, I'm not making that argument at all. Blasphemy is There's a lot of things that Christians should be doing. Because actually I think there are actually a couple of small Afro African nations I don't think that's what we're arguing for. You can't find up Windsfield wipers, you know. So when we're talking about the final battle By his own testimony, Christ's kingdom is not of Here are some of the Chicago statements says here's what Christians actually believe. A little more exacting. I'm And that's what makes me nervous about I d I don't think that was done by the actual church. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of FaithInChrist. On the surface, the the term itself I'm wondering if you would They would still not say it's criminal They're people Um we can't revisit all of that, but just to get you caught up to speed, because you might have missed last week's show, shame on you. But I want to um Oh very wrong. There's no Jesus reigning as a government entity here on earth America. I think persecution is the best thing for the American church What part of what I believe are do you not agree with? Yeah, what do you mean by it Um but that's that's where we start. Churches change the state. It's not a fair corollary. Yeah it feels And so so you would support that law? Daniel Razvees with a church in Thurmont called the Church that meets that That's actually a current topic that might be worth discussing because it actually relates to theonomy some. I'm just trying to clarify because I don't I I don't quite see it. This is like our fifth show, I think, on these uh these related topics We can end there, but if you feel like we want to continue, go. J just do it. That's a very simple way of thinking about it. Is capital punishment unacceptable? Until next week, 167 and a half hours from right about now. It's not you can't just look at a specific example and say, well I can't agree with you. There's there's a whole bunch of stuff that's kind of mixed together there. Well most people use it in a negative sense as a as an I would say post-millennialism So it's not just a thought exercise And I'm both. And so when you say you would take, you know, those Then there's a whole bunch of other things that says to be a a a a godly person you should do X, Y, and Z You're you're uh Paleobaptist? It's not it's just it's just esoteric and well I mean that that's like saying Yep. Uh that portion of the Christian team He's the king, um so it's a kingdom We have the new Jerusalem descend. They're not the same. Absolutely. It's a nation that's based upon the principles that God gave for setting up a government. We need to find a different topic. It's talking about people groups, the unbelieving people groups. Oh my gosh. He can vouch for this But we're not going to change the government of the United States tomorrow So I'm not I'm not anticipating I don't know what to anticipate. It's a one-stop shop. How are you t how are you distinguishing between idolatry and blasphemy? And we can and so do you, right? They wouldn't bow down to it. And I'll let you do it, Daniel, you can describe what you mean by that. God bless So not everything that is a sin This is my position. Okay. So so do you think that So do you think this country What do we mean by that So Christianity is about Oh, you know this screen is throwing me off every time. I wish it would do it more when like when audio starts. So those are the three views Oh my gosh, we're out of time Well sure. I Because God said, I, you are God who rescued you out of Egypt from the bondage of slavery. And that's that's wrong. I am. No nation can kiss the sun and turn away his wrath. Because we're all optimistic after Jesus comes And of course, what happens if I I think that was all evil things. The government has rules that were given to it in the Bible. You know we have So you're arguing that theft should not be a crime Thanks so much for listening to the Faith Debate today. org I put a sh Maybe it's your first time listening to the show Okay, what about China? It cites that same verse that says Uh Elijah Dirksen is uh not a pastor yet, but maybe one day he is in seminary I the God who who s who rescued out of Egypt. Daniel Razby I I would disagree completely. I I see where you're going, but I I think And that's something I would push back against at least. One of the things that I I don't Yes, yes. And so how are you defining idolatry by the way Yeah, and I think that's extra biblical and non-Christian actually 5 hours from right now. They're gonna say, look What happens if everyone in a country is a Christian Because Israel is a picture of what The it is a lead up to his second coming rather than the God gave us this Bible right here. But we are Right. Yeah, you usually we're doing a several shows on the one topic. Even though There there's optimistic Omillennials who could see In in fact in almost every country on earth Is that what we're to understand? Um What's interesting is blasphemy was punishable but by death in most of the United States for So com Yeah, we'll we'll bring that up and uh 'cause a lot of pastors have been talking about that. We're all over the map on this Okay. Uh I think it does. We've been doing some kind of evergreen generic kind of theology sort of stuff recently. People And uh uh It's the the most quoted passage in the New Testament. And I I don't base my belief So Theocracy and sacralism, so I think that was helpful But I'm just saying in general I do agree with America has not been set apart to be clean. We have The church is also exploding in places like Africa and even in those places where there's Uh I I'm uh I think I fit best in an all millennial. So I agree with you that the post mill folks uh It is. Then what happens Is there some Yeah, but I'll I'm glad that we have a guest named Ehud in uh But you just like tap The Levites went and killed a lot of people. I think the I start with we start to undercut the gospel and the power of Christ. It has to be an action. There's a very big difference between crimes and sins. Sure. It's overwhelmingly either However, I know you're a Christian brother You can connect with me and if you want to connect with these guys If you put Muhammad ahead of Christ, are you guilty of idolatry? And for me this is Historic premillennialist with So what do you what do you have? But it's not an issue that And in that way Okay. God will deal with that Yes. Um That's what the root words mean And that's definitely a biblical And and God We'll we'll see. Or how about pushing back against uh Yes so there's a difference so it seems like Elijah and I might might be It's not So where does the morality of the other countries come from? I don't want America to become the kingdom of God. It's nations plural in Psalm 2. Because defined one way it's secularism That's what I'm saying So should it only be for murder then But the church age is now two thousand years old. We're we're in a fight for Western civilization in my view. I'm going to turn up my headphones just a little bit Yep. The issue with that is And I guess we'll do And so and that's the point How how is it just all there all at once? Wow. So sometimes Facebook takes my stuff down And so I would agree with that. But So we're in the millennium now? He's But it's not called the millennium We'll we'll discuss after this one and see if R is going to come back. I am, yeah There's people being tortured and and But every kingdom has a king, correct? But What laws do we think the government should follow? Until next week, 167. Yes. Amer Americans aren't given that same charge. You follow me online at householdfaith in Christ. That's why I get part of the reason why I'm not So So I think they are they are distinct. Okay He said Oh that makes sense So we're not a Christian nation now. So I'll try to find the Windsfield wipers. What does Well, they still exist. And You you go first. It has to be How do I make this Now you're making my argument though It's the sin of adultery. We're creating Christians so the Christians create It's lust So sometimes things are on the ascendancy. Depending on where you are. And to be perfectly honest. So And so God bless. We'll be back next week Um Okay So like he used the Roman Empire before. I just know Interesting, because I would not. And they passed that law. It's it's interesting to have Should we not strive to be clean? You kill the adulterer. Alright, so I'm probably the lightest What have I done In a spiritual sense He he works through his church to Because um um But if if we were to agree that Post millennials Yes So basically Sure. But when it's I would consider the As we're seeing in China. Yes. God bless. So I totally get that. Some of it is 5 hours from right about now. Right, okay. So Yes. No. And com. I don't know. That could be what Um com.