Looks like we are rolling. Welcome to the live stream of our recording session of the Fate Debate. These are shows that will air a couple months from now actually. We're gonna record who knows how many? Ten, twelve, a thousand, a million? I don't know. If it's a million there'll be really, really short episodes. Really short episodes if there's a million, I'll tell you that. Anyway, um so if you I'm not gonna interact online obviously while we're doing the show and the recordings of the show. So if you if you if we say something that's you know upsetting or interesting to you, uh leave a comment and I will interact later on, okay? And then right now we're streaming this uh on Facebook obviously but uh all of the the stuff we do with the show eventually ends up making it onto Sermon Audio at sermonaudio. com the Household of Faith in Christ channel and also the Odyssey dot com channel For household of faith in Christ, because those two places do not censor our stuff. So that's where I'm I'm parking all the stuff. Okay, so anyway. I've had some stuff censored on Facebook. I've had some stuff Censored by YouTube. I've had I've had some stuff censored by LinkedIn, believe it or not. So anyway. So that's against the world, David. That's against the world. All right, so here we go. We affirm that valid ooh is that my m is that what my mic sounds like? Does this sound tinny to you? I I don't have a point of reference. That sounds really, really, really, really tinny. Wow. Wow. That's the worst these headphones have ever sounded. That's a heck of a way to start a show. Hello! Good morning to you. This is the um the faith debate on news radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner Uh host of this show for a long time, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, and joined by a fellow pastor of a house church in the area that meets at, I don't know, three, four, five, six different places. uh David Forcey and uh his his church uh uh at one point we're gonna call it the uh the Potomac House Church. Um the the uh we also are calling it the multi-location house church. I don't know if we really maybe it's the Potomac multi-location house church and we'll blend those ideas. Maybe it's the multi-name house church, right? Oh multi-name Yeah That seems to be what's happening. You know, we're we're all into diversity these days, so you are you are on time. Alright, well I was gonna start by just reading these affirmations uh stuff, but then I got thrown off because I I still sound strange to myself. Hey, no wise cracks. I know I sound strange all the time. Anyway, let me read uh we're working our way through. Yes, we're jumping back into the Chicago statements We did the Chicago Statement on Biblical Inerrancy, we went all the way through all of that. We did the Chicago Statement on Biblical Hermeneutics, we made it all the way through that. And then we started the Chicago Statement on Biblical Application and we didn't make it all the way through that. And we paused and we've done quite a few shows Since then, so uh fortunately we live in a podcast world, so if this topic is of interest to you, you can listen to the ones we did, and then you can jump right into these podcasts. If you're the uh radio listener Come on, tell the truth. You don't listen to every single fate debate show as it airs on the radio station. You know, I I know you don't, so don't act disappointed that we didn't do things exactly in the order you would have left. Come on. In fact, for all I know, the last time you listened to the show, we were talking about the Chicago Statement of Illical Application. You're like, you guys are still talking about that has been months We're almost done. We're almost done. Yeah, we are we we're gonna finish up uh um if not in this show i uh soon. Very soon. So we're talking about economics. So there's a number of articles and we're up to thirteen for the application one Now let's read the first one and we'll see what we think. We affirm that valid economic principles can be found in Scripture and should form an integral part of a Christian world and life view. We affirm that material resources are a blessing from God, to be enjoyed with thanksgiving, and are to be earned, managed, and shared as a stewardship under God. Sounds boilerplate to me. What do you think? So far so good. Yeah, I don't see anything to push that up. Oh, like what's a term you'd want to define? Uh Integral Maybe. Maybe maybe economics. I'm pretty simple, Troy. So how are we defining economics? Let's see if the next couple flesh that out for you. Sounds good. We affirm that Christians should give sacrificially of their resources to support the work of God's church. We affirm that the use of personal and material resources for the proclamation of the gospel is necessary, both for the salvation of lost mankind and to overcome poverty, where that is fostered by adherence to non-Christian religious systems. And I got some things we probably want to talk about there, but what do you think? I'll let you go first. Uh let's see, you said uh the we affirm that the use of personal and material resources for the proclamation of the gospel. is necessary both for salvation of lost mankind and to overcome poverty. Is that what you're talking about? Yeah, no they might say it because there's a few more affirmations obviously. But the the the very first one I just read a second ago talks about giving sacrificially, which I agree, which give sacrificially, but I sure would have liked the idea of being a cheerful giver. To cheerfully give sacrificially, I think I would have liked that better. Okay. And then the the the use of personal and material resources uh for the proclamation of the gospel um is necessary both for salvation of the lost mankind and overcoming poverty. I don't know that I agree with that word necessary. Right? God's gonna say who's gonna say whether I give sacrificially or not. So I don't know if I like that word. I know I'm nitpicking, but that's that's what these things are about, right? They they they argued about every word in these statements. And so I'm like, why'd they put the word necessary in there? So personal Yeah, so material resources. I mean if you were to take out a few things, would you just say Th are they saying that material resources are necessary for salvation? I would say is advantageous. or is useful to the purposes of God for this like something like that. But it it it seems like uh saving the lost and helping the poor is something that God can't do if we don't give of our resources. And God can do it without us. And I'm not diminishing that's not a get out of jail free card like we shouldn't be giving. That's not my point. I just don't like that it seems to diminish God's ability because he's dependent on it. I just don't I don't I don't know. Is it is it uh is it is it that they're focusing on on personal here and not organizational. I don't know. Either way. I mean, Saul on the road to Damascus was saved without anybody giving of their personal material. And the language, you know, should be crystal clear in its specificity and I I I'm just not liking this. D do they mean does that make me a jerk? No. No. Some other things make me a jerk. Probably. Yeah. Uh so uh my my my last last question about it is do by necessary do they mean that that that God God doesn't work apart from the the material resources of this world in order to bring about salvation and the overcoming of poverty. If I just take the words on the page for what it seems like they mean, it seems like they're saying that it's necessary that we would use our personal and material resources. For the salvation of the lost and to overcome poverty. And I have a bit of a, you know, There's a bit of a sticky wicket with that too because uh Jesus himself says the poor will always be with you. Like we're not gonna completely overcome poverty until Christ returns. Right, right. And so I'm just not a fan of that one i i in large measure, actually I th that's one of the sloppiest affirmations of the three statements we've done so far. This is one of the sloppiest sentences. And and do they mean by material resources are we talking about money or are we talking about time? Is time a material resource? Is time is time a piece of ethics? That sounds like an immaterial resource to me. Right. Like that wouldn't fit under economics necessarily. Yeah, like although time is money, right? So yeah, so I mean I it seems like by economics they they're talking about uh Money, stuff, things. Yeah. I think I think one of the things we can learn from this is these statements with a bunch of smart guys, right? And and heroes of the faith, actually. Come come together and they craft a statement that is supposed to like s you know, weather test the you know, ha handle all sorts of storms thrown at it over time. Yeah. And they still don't get it exactly Right. You know why? Because these sorts of statements are not the word of God. And so some people that's I'm not I I think the confessions and all that and these statements are helpful, but th uh they're not as authoritative in my life and in my uh pastoring as they are for other pastors that I know. And and even if they are supposed to be sort of timeless statements, you can you can almost see how uh present current issues are have seeped into into some of these statements. And and maybe they are they're not supposed to be timeless. Maybe they are supposed to also be timely. But it's hard to hard to have both at the same time And you're smarter than me, so I don't know what the last six, seven words even mean. It talks about uh overcoming poverty, where that is fostered by adherence to non-Christian religious systems. What the heck are they talking about? I don't even know what that means. Do you know what that means? I'm I'm working on it. I might I might be smarter than you, but you're much quicker than I am, so it'll take me much longer to get there. I mean I'm going to read it again for contact and then we'll move on if we can't because we'll just get bogged down. We affirm that the use of personal and material resources for the proclamation of the gospel is necessary both for the salvation of lost mankind and to overcome poverty where that is fostered by adherence to non-Christian religious systems. Okay, so it's saying that the the poverty is being fostered by non-Christian religion. It's Marxism or something. Right, yeah. That is the cause of poverty. And I would disagree if that's what is meant by that. I no, I I think it's saying that Marxism is the cause of a lot of poverty or uh you know, I mean, you see many other religious systems that cause a lot of poverty because Well a couple of very wise men suggested it would take an entire show to try to work through these affirmations on economics and they might have been right. Let's go to the next couple. We affirm that active compassion for the poor and oppressed is an obligation that God places upon all human beings, especially on those with resources. We affirm that the possession of wealth imposes obligations upon its possessors. This was written pre-woke nonsense, right? So they're not using language in the same way that they might use it over the last half a dozen or dozen years even. This goes back to like the nineteen eighties, eighty seven I think, something like that. So yeah, but that there would have been still the beginning of the but the social Yeah, but it wasn't dominating the world like it is. Right, yeah. So I wonder if they would phrase it differently if it was written today, don't you think? So it doesn't get conflated, yeah. Yeah. Because we should have active compassion for the poor, sure, absolutely. And we should be worried about the oppressed, although that's a buzzword, right, in lately. It's an obligation that God places upon all human beings. Agreed. especially on those with resources. To to you know whoever's given much much is is required. So yeah. Okay. That's where they're going, I guess. Yeah, I think that's where they're going. And and if that's where they're going, I agree. I wish that was written a little differently. Alright. So we let's move on. We'll do the next three because they're kind of short. We affirm that the love of money is a source of great evil. We affirm that human depravity, greed, and the will to power foster economic injustice and subvert concern for the poor. We affirmed that the Bible affirms the right of private ownership as a stewardship under God. So The first one, right, we affirm the love of money is a source of great evil. Okay. Uh it certainly can be. Yeah. Right? Absolutely. It's a source of all kinds of evil. Right. A A source. A source. Not B source or you know No, not the exclusive. That one's fine, I think. Human depravity, greed, will to power. That that catches my attention a little bit. Foster economic injustice What does that mean? Economic injustice? What does that mean? Does that mean like stealing? It could, and if so does it mean like taxes? It could, if so, but in today's parlance it could also mean you have more than me, and that's not just. That's how people talk about these things today. That would be economic inequity Yeah. Right. But that's the whole social justice, you know, thing that's is is born out of this. Yeah, yeah. So uh that could have been written better, I believe. But who am I? I'm Troy Skinner, by the way, Pastor of House of the Faith in Christ, host of the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD, and joined this week by um David Forcy who is also a pastor in the area and if you'd like to connect with him he's like in the stone age on connectivity but you can get in touch with him by getting in touch with me and I'll I'll I'll hook you up All right. Want to move on to the next couple? Yep. All right. We deny that scripture directly teaches any science of economics Although there are principles of economics that can be derived from Scripture, we deny the Scripture teaches that compassion for the poor must be expressed exclusively through one particular economic system. I'm not loving some of this either. I don't I I feel like there needs to be a study on economics before We can dive into this. What do we mean by science of economics? Right? What do we mean by that? Is that like capitalism, Marxism, that's how I'm understanding those different sciences? Scientific systems of economics. I mean the scriptures what does the scripture teach about economics? We know that it talks about private property and a right to have your stuff not taken by somebody else against their will, right? Stealing's bad. So that's an economic thing. Sure. And we shouldn't be um Uh altering our relation with others because they've got more than us and so we're jealous and we're coveting their stuff and it impacts the the connectivity of the community because of economic disparities. No partiality. Exactly. Rich or poor. Right. Right. Either way. So if Does any of that fit within the science of economics? It feels like Or those are those pr what principles of economics that they're referring to? Yes, I don't know. This feels like it could be them saying, look, we're not just saying capitalism's the only way. And that's true. That's fair. That's fair. But I don't know. To kind of diminish capitalism, to frown upon capitalism, the greedy capitalists and You know, capital is not perfect, but it's the best system we've got so far. It's not that important. I think it's way more important than than people who write things like this. I think we're seeing that. Well, we we've we've come unmoored from good capitalist principles over the last uh at least decade, longer than that, but really over the last decade. And boy, we're seeing the impacts of that. And I think what gets conflated is uh well, what I call fascism, what the rest of the world calls crony capitalism. Because that's not capitalism. Corony capitalism isn't capitalism, it's fascism. Right. Yes. So fascism, bad. Marxism, bad. Communism, bad. Socialism, bad. Capitalism when it's actually what capital's supposed to be. I think it's pretty good. When it when it isn't being twisted and misused and I would have liked that in this statement better. Capitalism, when properly understood and applied, is biblical. Maybe maybe they're just trying to not uh not promote any uh any human terms for any non-biblical terms for economic systems. What other economic system would they be okay with including? Because obviously capitalism's on the table. Right? There that's part of what they're talking about here. So are they saying, okay, yeah, capitalism is pretty good, but we're not going to say it's the only way. There's the other systems. What are the other systems? What are they going to be okay with? Are they going to be okay with Marxism? I hope not. Right? I hope not. People have died because of that. Sure. You know? And people, oh, people die because of capitalism too. No. They died because of fascism, crony capitalism, corrupted capitalism. Right. Right? I don't know. All right. You have anything else? I I did a lot of jabber in there and I probably got you uncomfortable because I feel like I'm picking a fight with somebody. No, no, no. Uh yeah, I just I I think they're they're steering clear of using any particular the names of any particular systems that are are names that are are outside of the Bible. Wimps. Well if they if they included capitalism they would have to then biblically defend it. Or or at least define it. so that it would be clear that biblical princi is built on biblical principles. I I guess, but isn't that the point of a statement like this? Is it to find these things? Well I don't think they advanced the law. I think they just left it muddled. I don't know. Maybe so. All right, let's do the next three in short order. Here we go. Rapid fire. We deny that the scripture teaches that money or wealth is inherently evil We deny that Scripture endorses economic collectivism or economic individualism. We deny that Scripture forbids the use of capital resources to produce income. Alright, so scripture teaches that money or wealth is inherently evil, they say no. Okay, I agree. I agree with that. Uh scripture endorses economic collectivism, economic individualism, we deny it. Uh as uh as exclusive systems unto themselves Maybe they are they saying that that they deny that scripture endorses only one or the other? Because it yeah, I mean you see you see sort of uh economic principles in the Bible that apply to how the individual is supposed to operate and how the collective is supposed to operate. So maybe they're saying it's not the Bible doesn't just go for Just doesn't just talk about one or go for one. Did they write some of these after like a four tiny four martini lunch or something like that? Come on, what's going on here? They're they're trying to trying to cast uh A big net hit the hit the big things there. You know, this is the first time really since we've been w working through these statements that we've hit in my mind a a roadblock like this or I'm like I but it's interesting 'cause the first one was in the late seventies. The second one th that was biblical inerrancy. Yeah. The next one was the early eighties. And this one's on the Cusp, I think it was written in I'm going off my memory here. I could look it up real quick, but I think it was written in eighty-seven and maybe released in eighty-eight. So this is like at the end of Reganomics era. Right. Yeah. It's it's entering into the whole like I mean don't look now but here come the nineties kind of uh thing. And I feel like you c there's a drift. Interesting. This isn't as strong as what they had written, you know, uh ten, eleven years earlier. Is it uh is it totally the same group? Each time? It's the same entity and a lot of the same voices. Like I'm pretty su I'm almost positive that somebody like R. C. Sproll and John MacArthur and those guys were involved in all three of the Chicago statements. Yeah. So it's a lot of the same core guys They they were younger pastors when they started, they were middle-aged pastors by the time they were done, right? But it was kind of the same guy. And some other guys in and out, I I'm sure, but a lot of the same uh power players would have been involved as well Were they giving ground to to accommodate maybe were they getting pushed back on their hard stances on the earlier statements and so they thought let's soften it for these? Are they mellowing out in their old age? I don't know. Well, I think we're reading about the the the beginning of the end what this says. produce income. I don't even know why they put that in there. That it's okay to produce income? Yeah, like who says it's not? I don't know. Is there somebody out there saying it's not okay? Uh uh communists Yeah, like uh I guess. Well they they they want to produce income, just not for the the people doing the work. Right, yeah. Yeah. All right, so let's uh but we got three more. We deny that the proper focus of a Christian's hope is material prosperity. Well, absolutely. We can just say we agree with that. It's not the focus of our hope, that's for sure. No prosperity gospel. We deny that Christians should use their resources primarily for self-gratification. The word primarily is important. I don't I don't I think John Piper participated in this. Oh, because of his uh because he was his hedonistic Christianity. Right. Everything everything that we do should be uh We should find self gratification. Yeah, but the word pri that's why the word primarily I think is important, right? Because everything that uh Christians should use their resources primarily for the glorification of God, right? That should be the primary oh only for the glorify. And God is glorified when we en enjoy things. Yeah, and but but we get some gratification from glorifying God, right? So it's not completely selfless. I would argue. Right? When we worship God, we're worshiping and glorifying his name, but we feel good about that. We find some self gratification in that, don't we? I I think we do. Yeah. Yeah. So That's why I don't want to like the word only that you threw in there. Tried to sneak in there on me. Sneak in on. I see how you are. We deny that salvation from sin is necessarily necessarily involves economic or political liberation. They say no to liberation theology. Yeah, but we deny that salvation from sin necessarily involves. Why even put necessarily? It just We deny that salvation from sin involves economic or political liberation, right? There's no no need for necessarily, is there? Interesting. You're not going to be saved from your sin because of economics. You're not going to be saved from your sin because of politics. You're just not. So you don't need the word necessarily. I I feel like it would be m more helpful if they were specific about the things that they were responding to. to in these statements. Yeah. But it it seems like they're they're sort of vaguely hinting at what they're It's easy for us to stand here and throw a bunch of stones at them, right? Because I mean uh who knows how much better or well probably worse that we would do if we tried to tackle something like this. But so this last one, does it mean that uh that they would say salvation from sin could involve economic or political liberation? It sounds like, right, because they put the word necessarily. Yeah. Well, and and maybe that goes back to saying, okay, uh b and maybe that they would say because um Operating under Christi Christian principles gives the most opportunity for flourishing. Right, and so just sort of go connecting it back to that statement they made earlier about uh you know other other religions uh uh potentially causing being the cause of poverty, right? And I don't know if you have the last word because you're you're you you're able to pull this together in a way that's that's more coherent. You're asking good questions, thoughtful questions. You know, better than I could do. All I'm doing is throwing rocks. You're asking questions, so good on you. Next show we're gonna talk about Article 14. Work and here's a question for you. Is it leisure or leisure That'll be the debate question next week on the Faith Debate. Uh David Foursey, uh thank you so much. Um doing the show solo with me this time. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at householdfaithinchrist. com. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. online of course at wfmd. com. We'll be back next week, same time. Well actually 167 and a half hours from right now. Until then, God bless Okay, let me uh try at the very beginning. You're so good at your timing, Joy. Yeah, not really. I used to I I will say there was a time back in the day when that was a real strength to me. I was really really, really good at hitting the post. Now I'm just average at it. Mostly practice though. When you have to say was there was there a time when you were on every day? Yeah there was actually Yeah. Yeah, there was. There was a time when uh I was on six days a week actually. Yeah, back when I did sports talk radio. Mm-hmm. Okay. Yeah. Alright, let's exit exit that bad boy. Let's see. What did I say that one was? Get the uh it's spinning like crazy for no material. Eight fifteen So I have to uh update the website so that when the shows are coming they correspond with what's on the web. Sometimes I forget to write down the dates like I don't know what show's airing on what day. It's it's a mess. I've made that mistake a couple of times over the years. Alright, I well I guess they were right. Looks like we might be doing a show per article. Uh maybe we get some we'll probably get some overlap here. Because we get Well that one took longer because we had so many issues where we were pushing that because yeah sounds good to me. Yeah, it just it lended itself to more more questions than clarity It's this kind of soft lingo, because that had a lot of soft. That's what I was pushing back on. That's soft. That could be taken the wrong way And it set the stage, I think, for where we find ourselves now. Right? It allowed people who are now what we call the woke guys. To go unnoticed because they would say, Oh, I agree with that. Yeah. But they were understanding it differently than what's biblical. undefined. Yeah. I think I've said this before doing the fate debate show, uh it took me uh he said quicker. I wasn't that quick back then. It took me several years. I don't know exactly when I turned the corner, but it took me me a long time, I think at least several years, before I realized, man, we do this show, we've got to define our terms. You know? Yeah. So I was like I don't tracking, you're tracking, we're all good and at the end of the show, yeah, at the end of the recording session it's like, wait a minute, we weren't tracking at all. We were using the same language, but we were using the words differently. We didn't know we were talking about. Oh when you were doing fake to bait with Yeah. Very different sort of thing. Yeah. We're talking past each other. Sometimes I wonder if it was on purpose. You gotta wonder what the goal is when they're doing that though. You don't want a clarity, do you want the truth? You can't handle the truth. As promised last week, today on the Fate Debate program, we're gonna Get some resolution on whether or not it's pronounced leisure or leisure. Does that depend on what part of the country you're from? Yeah, I think it depends on how snooty you are. I don't know. Anyway. That's the voice of David Forcey. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Fake Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. online at WFMD. com and I'm a pastor of a church that's called Household of Faith in Christ. You can find us online at Household of FaithinChrist. com. It is a one-stop shop for everything that is related to our church and this radio show. And actually it's the way that you can try to connect with David Forcy as well. And you'll see his his uh beautiful face on that website this uh uh uh it it's like he's He looks like a guy that would say leisure actually in the photo we have on House of the Faith of Christ dot com. He's wearing like a bow tie, I think. I'm gonna go with leisure Actually. Go of laser? Lasure. That's a real hipster. I live kind of hipster in that picture, unfortunately. So That kind of fits because if you're if you're too into the leisure, that means you're being lazy and it's leisure, right? So I I can go there Anyway, why are we talking such nonsense? Well we're working our way through the Chicago Statement on Biblical Application. We're on Article 14 today, and its uh subheading is Work and Leisure. So the first uh couple affirmations are, we affirm that God created humankind in his image and graciously fitted them both for work and leisure. We affirm that in all honorable work, however menial, God works with and through the worker. So all of humankind Um should be working. Right. Six days. All what's on his image? Leisure one day. Yeah Yeah, it doesn't it doesn't say, but I uh yeah, I guess we could uh we could we could we could insert an assumption there. I think that'd be good. Is leisure the same as rest Leisure is leisure a uh see now you're gonna find out what I how I actually pronounce the word, but I keep saying it over and over. Uh i is it uh yeah, it it's not a is it a biblical term? I don't know but well, I guess it depends on the translation. Okay. I I I I'm I'm kinda wondering. There's got to be at least one translation out there that uses the word leisure. Right? Uh probably, yeah. That's how a good Southern Baptist preacher would say it by the way. Is this is this like working funsies? Yeah, right. Is that what we're talking about? But can you imagine right? We affirm that God created humankind in his image for both work and leisure. See? It's the southern pronunciation, isn't it? Okay. Um yeah, I I I think we're okay with that. Again, it's broadly generic and I don't know I I I there's not enough there to argue again, so sure, I think I'm fine with that. The next one is is is fine too, except um all it says all work is honorable, right? No matter what you're doing. If you're milking cows, if you're mopping floors. It says in all honorable work. Okay, and all honorable work, however, menial. So menial work i it i it can't it's it's still honorable God works in and through the worker. And that's true. Uh I don't know if they're gonna get into this more, but uh I hope what they're not saying is that there aren't Um people should have aspirations to higher callings. Okay. Right? It's like i somebody who's got gifts from God that they could put to good use to make a profound impact on the neighbors around them And they choose to, you know, get out the tweezers and pluck the grades of b blades of grass because, well, that's honorable work. I'm gonna pluck the blades of grass. But yeah, that you could transform your your entire town because you've got these gifts. Right. So I I'm not sure if we're going to get into that or not. Exactly. We affirm that work is the divinely ordained means whereby we glorify God and supply both our own needs and the needs of others. Okay. We affirm that Christians should work to the best of their abilities so as to please God. So that might get to what I was talking about, perhaps. They don't use the exact best of their abilities. So I I'm okay with that Um I don't think I'm pushing back on any of that, really. Yeah, not so far. Okay. Alright, the next one I got them I I I outlined these earlier for some reason. I've got three in a row. I don't know if they're the on the same theme, but I'm gonna read all three because that's how I have it outlined on my notes. We affirm that people should, by the way, yes, I have notes, but I haven't reviewed this and looked at these notes. It's been a couple of months, so probably so We affirm that people should both humbly submit to and righteously exercise whatever authority operates in their sphere of work. We affirm that in their work people should seek first God's kingdom and righteousness depending on Him to supply their material needs. We affirm that compensation should be a fair return for the work done without discrimination. I don't see how those are thematics. I don't know if so I clustered them together. So the first one, uh we should uh humbly submit to the authorities that we work under, right? Okay. Yes. If they're if they're operating within their sphere and they're not uh stepping outside of those bounds. Yeah. In our work seek first God's kingdom and righteousness. Okay. Yeah, absolutely. Depending on him. So yeah, so we work hard to pay the bills to put food on the table, but ultimately it's God who puts food on the table. trusting in him to meet our needs. Right. But he does, he is a guy who works through means and he expects us to uh to to live up to our potential to use the word that you uh assigned to me earlier that I liked. So I I think we're good on that. So this is much better than last week when we're going through the economics. We had already pushed back on like every single statement. So far we're mostly agreeing. Maybe we're just getting old and tired. We affirm the compensation should be fair. I think you're gonna have a problem with this one, Troy. It should be fair? Yeah. It should be a fair return for the work done without discrimination. Do you have a problem with that one? It should be unfair? Who's defining fair? So is this a uh you know uh The w would they I mean, of course they would agree with uh with Jesus when he tells the parable and he says, you know, the landowner hires people at the beginning of the day and the early part of the day and the middle part of the day and the end part of the day the very last hour and pays them all the same thing and the master says, you know, you can't complain. This is my money. This is what I said I would give everybody. So is fair according to what is agreed upon? Is fair according to Yeah. So that that that strikes me as And and I and I would sugg yeah, I would I would suggest that that's not usually what the word fair means Right? If we strike a contract, I'm gonna sell you my my boat. I don't have a boat. I'm gonna sell you my boat, ten thousand dollars. And we sign off on it, whatever, sign over the title or whatever the deed or whatever it is for a boat. I don't know I have no idea. Never owned a boat. And uh hand over the keys of my boat to you and you give me the check for ten thousand dollars and I'm gonna say, well, appreciate you give me that check for ten thousand dollars. It's only fair That's not how we would use that that phrase, right? Well wait I guess is that only fair? It's if you didn't give me the check, you stole my boat That's true. Right. So I don't think that's how so if we have an agreement and everybody fulfills that's not being fair. That's being that hasn't that's like that's more of a justice question. It's more of a Well, yeah, so I I mean So how are they defining fair? I mean that's that's that's good. Because because fair wages, right, is uh That's a a tripping point these days. Yeah. Right, because I well, uh today we often use the fair to mean e equitable. We we use fair to mean the same. Right, and that's that's when people complain. That's when my kids complain, right? When things aren't they say that's not fair and well I I say, well it is it is fair, it's just not the same. Yeah. So good catch, because I didn't catch that one. So you got me back on my game now. Alright. I promise you're gonna find something wrong with this next one. All right. Okay. Let's see the rocks, Dragon. We affirm that leisure, leisure, l uh uh leisure, I'm gonna say it all three times, all three ways, uh in proper balance with work is ordained by God and should be enjoyed to his glory. We affirm that time off, relaxation, is ordained by God. Well yeah, day of rest. What else? What else is there other than the day of rest? What's what's being talked about? The the activities that are not required by you to provide for your family and your needs? Yeah, you almost have to define what they're meaning by leisure or leisure a lot. See? There's only one way to pronounce rest, Troy. Because if if what they mean by that is everything that's not working your fingers to the bone It's a great song, though. Remember that song from the 70s? No. Really? Work your fingers to the boom. What do you get? Bony fingers. Bony fingers. Yeah, that was a big hit back in the seventies. Was the point that it was not it was not worth working your fingers? I think so. Yeah, I think so. Okay. Yeah, don't kill yourself. 'cause all you end up with is bony fingers, I think, is the idea. But I if it's if all they're saying is when you're not working your fingers to the bone, does that include time when you're Reading and studying scripture? Is that leisure? That's a good question, Troy. Prayer? Maybe. Spending time uh adoring your wife, playing with your kids? Is that leisure? Pleasure? I I think I think it I think they must be saying everything that isn't work. Huh. Work everything that isn't work in terms of what we're doing right now, is this work? Doing the fate debate show? I mean, I'm not getting paid. Is that is that what they mean? Only th things that things that you do to get paid or work and other things or leisure? Yeah, so is it only work if you get paid? Like if I'm out in the yard, you know, mowing grass and pulling weeds and pruning, you know, pear trees and you know, working my fingers to the bone but I don't get paid. Right. Am I working? I think yes. Yes. You are. So they can't mean that. No, I I think uh I think that's why they're using the word the word leisure and not rest, right? Because work and rest is Is is is different. So they mean from working they mean holiday at the sea? What do they mean? It's a good question. Good good question, Troy. It's hard. It's hard when you bring in non-biblical terms. Yeah. Yeah. But when you're going to do that You should you should be using words that everybody has a clear understanding of what they mean, and you can apply them to the Bible, or you go out of your way to define what you mean in a biblical context. Right, that's like we use the word Trinity all the time. That's not in the Bible, but we now have defined that. We all know what we mean by that, and we could right I can I can use that as shorthand for what because it's a lot to unpack the Trinity You know, you can say it one word as opposed to a paragraph. I'm I'm gonna say that in this context, with the article before being economics and the next article being wealth and poverty, that they're saying using work as what I do to make money. Okay. And and le leisure is everything else. Well then yeah, of course it's ordained by God. Okay. No duh. Duh. Alright. Alright. Did I even do the answer? Yes. We were affirmed that work and its product. have not only temporal but also eternal value when done and used for God's glory. Okay? Yeah. Absolutely. No no qualms. No qualms here. And I think that's good for us to to uh keep in mind, you know, particularly when you get an eschatolog uh eschatological uh considerations and debates. There's there's a certain segment of people that feel like, well, you know, the world's going to hell in a handbasket anyway, so why bother? Right. Let's let's not try to make the world a better place 'cause it's all gonna, you know, burn up. Do you do we do we call them Thessalonians? I'm just saying. Maybe. Maybe. I don't usually call them that, but maybe you do. Well, uh Yeah, I I don't know. There might be something there to to talk about at some point, you know, is uh um you know, if you're just just working to get by until Jesus returns, are you are you working for the the goals of his kingdom? You know. And then on the other extreme people that are working really, really really really really really really hard to try to bring the kingdom now. Like it's up to us. Exactly. God's kingdom won't i it's just not gonna happen if we don't do it. Yeah, no, I don't think so. So it can you can have in fairness it we have people on on both poles. And there might be other extremes too that I'm not thinking of at the moment Should I move on to the next one? Sure. All right. Oh we're in Oh, these are the denials now. So we finished the affirmation. All right. We deny. That persons should pursue their work to fulfill and gratify themselves rather than to serve and please God. Okay. False dichotomy. Right. Uh both and, right? Absolutely. Because uh pleasing God sh well, this goes back to what I was saying last week. But so in this context, right, pleasing God should be, that is, self-gratifying. If we if we are thinking about it the right way. Absolutely. Yeah, you find great joy and contentment in glorifying God, right? If if your if your head's screwed down straight. Yeah. And your heart's, you know, screw down straight. Not our I don't think we screw on our heads or our hearts, but you know what I mean. Very mechanical thinking, Dra. So yeah, that's a false diagonal. That's that's that's not great. On the whole, I would say that the uh biblical application stuff's not as strong as the inerrancy and hermen. stuff. Yeah, and it can get it can get harder. It can get a little a little stickier maybe when we you know Try and bring it all down and put it on the ground. How do you live it? Right. And I think it's made increasing that increasingly messy when it seems clear to me now that we've been doing this a couple of shows now where we've been pushing back on some of the they're trying to avoid fights. And when we're trying to figure out how to live life and how to honor God and how to love our neighbor and all that sort of stuff, we need clarity. Tell me what to do and I'll do it Right? That's what a lot of people are thinking. Oh if only I knew what to do, I would do it. Tell me. You got a bunch of really high powered smart Christian leaders get together to try to tell us what we're supposed to do, how to apply the Bible and they're and they're not doing it. Is that uh maybe part of the Yeah, I don't know. Obscurity? So far I'm disappointed. Okay. We deny that the rich have more right to leisure, leisure, than the poor. More right to, well, okay. Does that mean that what does that mean? It means that everyone should be working to the glory of God and enjoying to the glory of God and But in the practical, what does it mean? In the real world, somebody reads this and what are they supposed to do with this? Does that mean that The the guy who's got a high-powered, high stress job that makes a lot of money because it's a high power, high stress job. Right. So he's making five hundred thousand dollars a year. But you know, because of the stress of his job, he's going to take a half a dozen weeks of vacation a year. And somebody else who's got a a more menial job doesn't have the same kind of stress in the job and they're only going to take two weeks of vacation a year. And they're saying that the guy who's making $500 he doesn't have a right to those extra four weeks of vacation? Is that what that means? It could mean that, couldn't it? And if so, I would disagree with this denial. Maybe. Uh yeah, I mean I well, so I I think you know, greater greater greater reward isn't necessarily based on greater greater stress or greater risk, right? There's some menial jobs that are extremely stressful and you know have a lot of personal risk. But, you know, maybe maybe uh Uh you know, I I mean I I can I can get behind the argument, you know, the that uh if you are responsible for more people for the for the the livelihood, for the good, for the safety of more people then, you know, there is sh maybe should be greater compensation there because of the weight of responsibility. So are are you equating the the weight of responsibility, greater responsibility with stress. Correct. And that way? Okay. All right. Yeah. I think because they haven't defined for us what they mean by leisure. It makes it really hard. Because you're talking about rights now. A right to leisure? What? I have a right to time off? I don't know if I have a right to that. I mean, I have an obligation to God to honor him with a day of rest. And I suppose then my boss should allow me to fulfill that responsibility to God by giving me the day. So I guess I have a I have the right to a day off. I could I I think I could make a biblical argument for that. And and for uh like feast weeks Right, so you look at the Old Testament, right? Rich or poor, everybody no you know, nobody works on the seventh day and everybody takes the same Right. Same weeks. If that's what they're saying, they could have said it better and I'd agree with them. But I'm not sure that's what they're saying. I feel like almost right? Doesn't it feel icky? Like they're they're they're purposely skirting issues and leaving things wide open Doesn't it feel that way? Well it it seems like it's uh right right all these things should be very specifically to applicable to to Christians. Right. So if you're if you're being obedient to God, right, then all these things should be protected. particular you you should be able to understand these all in scriptural terms. And a lot, you know, using work and leisure seems to to me that they're trying to make this understandable to Like even non-Christians. Feels like though, because of the way they've written it, maybe I'm reading into it because I'm more jaded because of what's happened since this was written back in the late eighties. uh it feels like it could be a slap at like the business owner right who takes lavish vacations and and and and lives the high life on out on his boat down the lake more frequently than his workers are allowed to, because his workers aren't rich. They're the working poor, I would say. Right. And that's not fair, that's not right. The owner doesn't have a right to do that. If that's what they're saying, it goes back to what I said before. It's it's not taking the full picture in yeah in in into play. So Anyway. I got we have two more. We deny that certain types of work give persons greater value in God's eyes than other persons have. Greater value. I agree with that. Okay. Right? We all have equal value, we're all image bearers. Some of us have more prominent, more important roles to play sometimes. Value val in intrinsic value doesn't has nothing to do with type of work with Occupation, right? Yeah, a person's greater value in God's eyes. But there are certain types of work where the work has more value. I would say that. In God's eyes. Don't you think? Uh Moses compared to any of the other Israelites. Well, I mean, yes, but Moses is a Christ type. So if you're gonna say that Jesus, the work of Jesus has more value than anyone else's, yes. I And there there are scriptural figures who bear the image of Jesus in that sense in order to point to him. Are you Jesus juking me right now? Yes. But I uh I mean um I I I I do think that's a like in a in a sense I don't think Moses is Moses' value wasn't any his work was a particular work. He had a particular role But don't you think the role of, you know, leader of the free world, you know, President of the United States gives is assigned that title, right? more important work than um I don't know somebody I'm about to mom juke you. You know that somebody who Because it's having an impact on a greater magnitude, on more lives. Uh? Yeah, but I don't I don't think that means that the that the the maybe the work has more impact. But that work doesn't have more value. It's either the work is either done well or it's not. Does that make sense? I guess I we're gonna run out of time here in a second. I I have one more to do too. I think that the um uh Uh I I'm thinking in terms of, you know, we talked about this last week, to whom more is given, more is expected. So there's a certain role. They think about somebody who's a pastor. Right. Right? You know, not everybody should desire to be a pastor and and and and teach God's word because there's a greater accountability for that. So there's value in that. If you screw that up, man, you're you're paying a bigger price than if you screw something else up. Yeah, I might I don't I don't know that that makes that work a more valuable work though. Hm. Yeah. I don't know The last one, I don't think we have anything to say about this now, because we're running out of time, we're just gonna read it at least. We deny that the Christians should either depreciate is that the word depreciate leisure or make a goal of it. Right. So so we shouldn't pursue Leisure for leisure's sake. And uh we shouldn't say that it's bad in alien. Is that what they're saying? It depreciates the right word there? I feel like a weird word you depreciate is like something loses value. Right, yeah. Like deprecate would have made more sense to me than but I don't know Alright, well, this was you know I'm glad we worked through that that part of it, and you know, we'll do wealth and poverty next time, and I'm surely more exciting. This this one wasn't all that exciting to me. You you like to you like to be critical. I want to throw rocks. That's it, yeah. Some drama. Alright, next week's drama. Whether it's deserved or not, we're throwing rocks, baby. After we're all about here to faith debate, I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of FaithInChrist. com. You're going to throw rocks to run with David Forcey. He's the pastor of that multi-location Potomac area. uh house church thing. That was ill-defined. Talk about ill-defined things, huh? No, no. Anyway, find uh find me online at householdfaith in Christ dot com or WFMD. com. Till next week, one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from right now. God bless. Alright, I cut off my own mic. That was sloppy. That was sloppy. They know what I was saying though. I have no idea what you're doing when you do those few clicks at the end for you to finalize the recording. Oh that's where I edit out my stupid comments and and add extra volume to yours. You so you're so quick. You know exactly where they are. Yeah, not that you've had these stupid comments, of course. That's why it was so quick. Alright. Two down. Actually I think we're doing good. And to be honest, if we had a broader panel, we wouldn't have gone through the two. Because we had a lot of pushbacks that everybody else w would have wanted to push back as well. Yeah, there's a lot of affirmations in this next one's a little shorter, it looks like there's a lot of I mean yeah, it's just a lot of uh a lot of stuff in each one. They're not like You know a an affirmation or two and a a denial or two. It's kind of a list. A few paragraphs of these Let's see, this one's gonna be a little bit more than a little bit. Let's see here. Bing bada bing bada boom. Alright. I guess we'll just jump right in. I'll try. I'm gonna try and Jesus juke you every episode at least. Oh. Right back at you. We affirm that God, who is just And loving has a special concern for the poor in their plight. We affirm that God calls for responsible stewardship by his people of both their lives and resources. Those are the first two affirmations in the wealth and poverty section, Article 15 of the Chicago Statement on Biblical Application that came out in the late nineteen eighties. We've been working our way through that. We took a bit of a pause. We but got about two thirds of the way through it and then we paused for a couple of months at least. And the last couple of shows we've been back at it. So me and David Forcy uh going through this and right off the bat uh I I gotta think about this. I I might agree, I might throw rocks, I don't know. Uh I promised last week I'd throw a lot of rocks this week, so if I if I'm in the balance, I'm not sure which way to go. Rocks are coming. I'm seeing some uh I'm seeing some Some trigger words there already. And uh and David promised before we started this show that he was gonna try to Jesus juke me, so let's see if he can get that in before the show's over. We'll turn it into the faith debate drinking game. Every time he Jesus juice me you you take a shot of like wheatgrass uh beverage or something. Grape juice, there you go. All right, so this first one, oh by the way, uh I don't know if I properly introduced him, David Forcey is a pastor in the area, uh leads a house church that meets in a number of locations because he's got people in his church that like to host, and so they just kind of rotate it and and uh share the pleasures and the burden of of such hosting. And I'm a pastor of a church that meets in my house, and we don't have people that uh that that share that burden. So if you come to my church or come to my house So anyway, if you'd like to learn learn more about either one of us and our churches, you can go to household of faith in Christ dot com. So we affirm that God who is just and loving, I'm agreeing with that. Okay have a special concern for the poor in their plight. Are they in are they accidentally intimating that God shows partiality? Uh I would say that he has a special concern for the poor in spirit. Do you think that's what they mean? Well this is in the section under wealth and poverty. So probably we have been talking about material things as of late in these last few articles and money. So uh maybe I mean maybe the poor have a particular the the materially poor do have a particular way in which they uh draw our attention. to uh our our spiritual need and lack. But they're saying that God has a special concern for the poor. Yeah, I trust me, I I don't want to come across as just this hard case. We should be concerned for the poor Right? I would if you took out the word special, right? We affirm that God who is just and loving has a concern for the poor in their plight. I'm signing off on this But special seems to make it sound like he has more concern for the poor than he does for everybody else. But God, the Bible tells us he's not a respecter of persons. He he commands us not to show partiality for the rich or the poor. So why would he show partiality for the poor? Like it it I I I don't think I like that word special in there. Is it uh are they Yeah, I don't know what they're doing there. I mean certainly it it seems clear in scripture, uh and probably in our own experience too, that our we are tempted to pay more attention. Right, you go through You go through Proverbs, you look at, you know, read James, right? You know, where it's clear that we as people who love are tempted to love the things of this world are tempted to to love those who have a lot of those things in this world. Where we are tempted to pay them special attention. So are they, you know, in this statement is the idea that um God is is it pushing against back against that sort of tendency. Or is it an early leading indicator for what has now come to be known as social justice. Right. Right? Maybe it feels like that to me. So let's see what else they have here. We affirm that God calls for responsible stewardship by his people of both their lives and resources. That was the second part of what I read at the start of the show. And I th I I think that's totally fine. I don't think with that one. That's right. No rocks are coming on that one. We affirm, this is the next one, that sacrificial effort to relieve the here we go. Poverty, oppression, and suffering of others is a hallmark of Christian discipleship. Yes, I Yes. However, right? Is it just me I mean those are buzzwords. So I But they've become buzzwords anyway. They they have. And that that that that makes it uh we have to get past that. I don't know. Uh I mean it's uh so it you know certainly uh the poor will always be among us. There's a reason why that is, and it is so that uh you know, we will always um have that picture of poverty and so that we can continually be You know, those of us who are not poor can continue to try to uh meet me meet needs of others. So uh I'm I'm reminded of okay Jesus is Jesus when he's talking to the Pharisees he says when you uh when you throw a party invite people who cannot invite you to a party party. Invite people who, you know, do do things for people who cannot pay you back for those things. You know, is that is that sort of what they're getting at here If we want to give them the benefit of the doubt then Yes. So let's give them the benefit and say yes. However, again this has been a theme now, this is the third third week in a row now where we've been working our way through this where By lack of clarity? Yeah, I I I want to give them the benefit of the doubt, but now in hindsight Right? Now now seeing where we've come and it's been thirty five years. Right. Since this came out. And thirty five years I mean, a lot has changed and a lot of people are asking the question, particularly over the last like five or six years, people are asking the question, how did we get here? And then you read something like this, like, you know what? I think I see some of the little seedlings that were planted that helped us to get to where we are. Because we weren't careful in how we articulated things. We we seeded too much ground in a desire to How I'm all about a big tense, so that's not the phrase I want to use. To um to soften That's not the right word either. I I I guess uh it might not be fair, but it certainly feels like there's a self-conscious uh attempt to heighten social consideration. Okay. In these affirmations and denials. Okay. That we should have concerns in those areas, but they're so self-consciously aware that they've heightened it and I think they're out of balance with what the Bible would say about such matters. Right? The way God made me, I can't help it. Well, I you know, I mean it was uh it was kind of a hallmark of uh you know, in the Old Testament, right? Like there were even in the laws particular ways that God said, you know, that they should harvest their fields. uh you know, in order to help provide for the poor, the the sojourner, right? Um And one of the things they're not going out of the way here is to uh make any sort of additional call for the the brethren to care for the body. Mm-hmm, that's interesting. That's missing from this. Because that what made that click in this plate when you mentioned Israel and there are a lot that's about Israel taking care of Israel. Right. And there's no sense of This is this is very very general, broad sort of Yeah. Right? So that's that's missing from this wealth and poverty section. Unless it's I don't I'm scanning, I don't know that I see it in the next few. So Let's see where it goes. That's a swingin' a bit. We affirm that just as the wealthy ought not to be greedy So the poor ought not to be covetous. That's horribly written. The wealthy shouldn't be greedy or covetous, and the poor shouldn't be greedy or covetous. Why are we Do we think that the wealthy are are that uh are those not uh Are the wealthy incapable of being covetous? Are the poor not capable of being uh greedy Yeah, so that's horribly written. Maybe maybe it's uh maybe they're trying to uh show that that there are particular ways that uh discuss it. Contentment come out, but they're in in the wealthy and the poor. It should be it should be we affirm that the wealthy Yeah, the in order to The wealthy nor the poor ought to be greedy or covetous. That's better. See, we just improved this. That's what we're here for. All right. We deny that we may rightly call ourselves disciples of Christ if we lack active concern for the poor, oppressed. and suffering. There it is. Here it is, especially those of the household of faith. By the way, that's from happy that's that's from Galatians chapter six, and that's where we got the name for our church, by the way, Household of Faith in Christ. Okay, nice Yeah, so we deny that we may rightly call ourselves disciples of Christ if we lack active concern for the poor, oppressed, and suffering. I guess as then we should be compassionate people? Yeah, I don't know what active concern even means. That that is uh is Yeah, that's the problem. Like if if if I put like the right kind of meme on my social media profile, like is that active concern if I Show that I'm solid with them, solidarity. Are they talking about uh I virtue signaled in just the right way, active concern? Are they talking about you have to having the right feelings? Are feelings active concern Or is uh by active do they mean action? And do they mean particular kinds of actions or whatever actions you feel like doing or whatever actions you some people are able to be more active or less active depending on their means? Now again we get into the category of things, but you know this is a theology show. And so Think about it. You got a y you're pastor of a church, right? You got a member in your church and or or they want to become a member. They you know they they they they they they say they're Christian and they want to be baptized And so you can you know s you're gonna try to suss that out a little bit. You're not gonna run them through the ringer, but you want to get a sense of our okay, are they kidding themselves? Am I doing them no favors by baptizing them and getting a false sense of hope and assurance when they shouldn't have it? So I want to ask them some questions. is one of the questions you asked. So are you showing an active concern for the poor, oppressed, and suffering? I don't know. Right? It's Are you demonstrating some fruit of the Spirit in your life? Right? Do you have love? Are you peaceable? Are you gentle? Are you kind? But are you are you compassionate towards everyone? Yeah, not just the poor. Right. See that's the part that's stuck in my craw. I'm not sure what a craw is, but it's stuck in there. Seriously, I don't know what a craw is, I have no idea. Uh I'll have to look that up after the show. Unless you know. Do you know what a craw is? Yeah, I've been saying my whole life, right? I don't know what that means. Fucking my craw But why we should show an act of concern for all people, including the wealthy, including the poor, including the well-to-do, including the oppressed. Right? Including the healthy, including the suffering, everybody. Like what this is but in today's terms, we're using intersectional language here. I I I'm I'm not liking I'm not loving this. I'm not digging it. So we all are spiritually poor oppressed suffering. Now is the The those who are outwardly poor, oppressed, and suffering, they they bear that image, they put that on display. And so uh so maybe maybe part of what's going on here is they're you know in this statement they're saying if we're If if our attention isn't drawn to those things, if we're not aware of those things and concerned about those things, then maybe we're not uh aw Maybe we're not concerned like we should be about spiritual poverty and oppression. I guess if I want to give them more benefit of the doubt than I my instinct has been I uh I'm I'm looking at it with with what we know now, thirty-five years later. However, uh authorial intent is is gonna have something to do with the contextualization of the times. And think about it, late eighties. I mean this is this is greed is good. This is yuppie. Everybody's driving a beamer. Everybody's let I mean the economy's booming at the end of the of Reagan uh um presidency and everybody became very uh uh commercialism was was a at a high level at that point, so they might have been speaking to an issue of their moment. Right. Interesting. And and maybe we should learn from that as we're speaking to the issues of our moment to step back and say, okay, we spoke to the issues of the moment. Now how do we Talk about it let's say fifty years from now our moments differently or how would we have said this fifty years ago when the circumstances are different to have a better uh cho uh a combination of words thrown together to to say the same thing, but to not be so locked in with one narrow view. Because I think when I think about it, the 80s is all about I was money. I was barely there. It's all about money. Okay. Yeah. So I'll I'll bet you that's what that's what they're reacting to. Just like today we we r we would react against the uh the SJWs, the social justice. All right, we that's our moment and we would react against that. These guys are are are are reacting against you know, greed and selfishness and And consumerism, those kinds of things were a big, big deal in the eighties. So uh that that that's helpful for me to think about that. Hopefully it's helpful to the listeners. By the way, craw. It could be the crop of a bird or insect. What's the crop? The thing on top of their head? No, it's where they uh where they store their food. Oh like in their in their uh like their throat? Uh no? Maybe Uh with that out there. It could also be the stomach of a person or an animal. Yeah. Yeah, uh it's place of place of digestion of sorts. in a in a bird the crop is Okay so something in their like in inside their belly so it's not top of their head. See I totally I didn't know what it meant. Yeah I think I think the crop is like the um They eat a bunch of food and it it goes into this pouch in their uh sort of in their in their throat and then later when they don't have to be afraid of predators to be indigested. So it's saying it's saying, you know, that makes my stomach turn or it gives me indigestion or It made me, you know, something in my mouth a little bit that I'm not gonna say. Tough to swallow. Different ways to say the same thing. Interesting. Yeah That's a horse of a different color. Look that one up now. Uh where are we? One more here? Two more I think, right? Okay. Yeah. We deny that we may always regard prosperity or poverty as the measure of our faithfulness to Christ. Okay. Well anti-prosperity gospel, then you put always or never in anything and It's like right? You're always gonna deny if it's always or never. So uh prosperity or poverty is the measure of faithfulness to Christ. Absolutely, right? There are people who are incredibly faithful and they and they're really rich or they're really poor. Are there people that are completely unfaithful and they're really rich or they're really poor? Like that's not a lot of things. That's true, yeah. Taking a vow of poverty. Yeah, well yeah, the all the monks that went into the monasteries and stuff and took a vow of poverty, gave up all their stuff, uh the and uh the the aesthetics who lived out in the desert and so both of those are alive in Malta Day as uh as you know, unhealthy tendencies. Yeah. Yeah. And we and what they're t talking to here is the measure of faithfulness of Christ. So if somebody has a lot of stuff and we're like, oh he can't be a faithful Christian. at his house. Just because God blessed him with a beautiful house doesn't mean he's not faithful. Right. And and the Bible does. You read the Proverbs. Those are general truths, they're not always specific truths in every situation. But generally speaking, if you do good things, you're going to prosper. Right. And so So then you look at the poor person and say, Oh see, they're not faithful, they wouldn't be so poor. Well no, because again it's proverbial truth. It's not always gonna work out that way, so you can't gauge things by that. So that's a that's a good helpful reminder. We deny that it is necessarily wrong. They like that word necessarily. We deny that it is necessarily wrong for Christians to be wealthy or for some persons to possess more than others. Yeah, I think we're kind of just saying that and and I agree with that. You agree with that, don't you? Mm-hmm. So they're also saying it it could be wrong. Sure. For Christians to be wrong. wealthy. I guess. They got it the wrong way. Right? The being wealthy isn't the problem. It's being a Yeah. So again it begs the question why the word necessarily is in there. We deny let's take it out. It says we deny that it is wrong. for Christians to be wealthy or for some persons to possess more than others. Why why does the word necessarily have to be there? They like that word. Yeah. Yeah. Too many philosophers were involved in writing this because that's a favorite word of the f so because in essence it is it is never wrong the state of for of a Christian being wealthy is is never wrong because that that a state in and of itself is not right or wrong. Right. How how you may have gotten there may be right or wrong. Right. Right. But uh how someone has gotten to poverty may be Exactly. You know. You may have ha done wrong things and that led to your poverty. And uh, you know And so neither one is necessarily Exactly. So they they they sometimes the other two wordy for their own good. Yeah, we got uh uh about four minutes left. Let's start on the next one, because the next uh article sixteen has quite a few more affirmations and denials than uh the wealth and poverty section. So it's moving from personal stewardship to Global. Global planet. Mother Earth. Environmentalists they say. Yeah, Article 16, stewardship of the environment. We affirm that God created the physical environment, that's an interesting way of saying it, for his own glory and for the good of his human creatures. Yeah, the physical environment. That's an interesting way of saying it, isn't it? Well, I going back to, you know, was last week when we were talking about, you know, uh well uh maybe the week before we were talking about uh work and leisure, right? They're using maybe non-biblical terms here to to describe things and uh maybe to help people who aren't biblically as literate to understand what they're talking about. I know. Maybe to connect it to current issues. Yeah. To speak to current issues. Okay. Maybe this isn't as timeless as we were thinking they were going for. We affirm that God deputized humanity to govern the creation. The creation, that's a better, that's a more biblical term. I like that. Deputize, that's not a biblical word. You got a badge? I ain't got no stink we don't need no stinking badges. You get the reference? That's from a movie. It would it be Badges? We don't need no stinking badges. As if God is the sheriff here. We were given dominion. Right. Well we're s we squandered it almost immediately. Ta tasked with the the job. Uh yeah. You know? Alright, well here's some fighting words for some people because they will disagree with this one. Okay. We affirm that mankind has more value than the rest of creation. What do we mean by value I think if he had to make a choice between, okay, I can save David Forcy's life if I cut down that tree. Cut down the tree. If I cut down that tree, it's gonna die. And you know what, who's to say that that tree is any less valuable than David Forcey? Oh Okay. Right? I I agree with where you go for me. Right, the the the the pinnacle of the creation, the thing that has the most value. I mean there's There are prohibitions against killing people, humans, because of their value, because they're image bearers of God. There are no prayer prohibitions against, you know, slaughtering the fattened ox to have a nice meal. Okay. Right? So I I I I I affirm this, I agree with this one a hundred percent, but I know in today's world, you know, with everybody's you know, mm vegetarian and vegan and And all that sort of thing. And if that's you, you know, I feel sorry for you 'cause those steaks taste really good. But uh uh with a meaning to be offensive, I'm sure I just was though. So send all your hate mail to David Forcey. All right. Let's see. Just g just give Croy the benefit of the doubt also. I appreciate that. All right. So we'll we'll pause there. We've got a handful of affirmations and some denials in this Article sixteen that we'll get to next week. We've got about you know, uh a minute or not even a minute left in the in the show. So we'll wrap it up. David Forcy, thank you for being my partner in crime. I'm sure we've we've we've broken lots of laws today. I am Troy Skinner, and uh this is the Faith Debate. You can find me and David online at household of faith in Christ. com. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. Also you can go to the radio station's website, find the face debate page there, that's WFMD. com. And I always do this at least once a month or maybe once every couple of months because it's fun. You can find us on the World Wide Web at www. wfmd. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from oh, right about now. God bless. I started the music at the wrong time. So it didn't sting out, I had to fade it. Well I gotta say I hadn't read these that closely. The Razzleys are right This is definitely we could not have gotten through all of this in like one or two episodes. There's just no way. No, not with uh Not within here. You know, we we we might have a we we'd probably still get article like fourteen at this point. Because with four voices went into Chime in although I might not have had to say as much you might have to say because they said it for us kind of thing. So that's true. I I I kinda like the you know one one article an episode. So try and give it the the full treatment. The full manty. No, that's not what you meant. Uh CS A twenty seven. Let's see. This is eight nine three. All right, so let me Okay on that. Do another one. How's it feel to be doing it? It's like you don't have to fight for uh airtime, right? Like So that's a little more feels feels like you're a little more a little more comfortable. Uh I I think you're you're that maybe part of it. I think part of it is that uh my I I can sort of get a thought going and and keep it rolling. I get I get distracted listening to other people and then Gotcha. I mean you think what they're saying and you lose your thought. And and then if that if other people are talking for too long I tend to my my my mental uh faculties start to disengage from From what uh, you know, if nothing's expected of me at the time or required of me, my mind will start working on other things. Yeah, I don't know. I was trying to orchestrate this show. I'm not sure how to 'cause I've tried a couple of different things in the past. I there were a few times when I was like, you know what? I feel like maybe it was more of like a deference. But hey, if they have things to say, I just let them do their thing So but then an whole show can go by and you hardly said anything and I feel badly like you you're here. Well it tends to be your voice. It it tends to be as the shows go on further that I say less and less because generally I'm Getting more and more tired. Yeah, gotcha. So I started going to you like first. So, you know, here's the issue, Dave, what do you think? And then I feel like there's no times you're like, uh I haven't really formulated my thoughts just yet. I wish you had gone to me first. I'm like, okay, I don't want to go first. Like go to somebody else first. Uh and they get on a roll. And then I'll go to you and you'll interject, but they're still kind of on a roll and then they jump in before you can finish your thought. And so I haven't figured out how to uh make that work. Don't don't worry about me too much, Troy. I'll I'll be alright. It's a panel it's supposed to be a panel discussion and and very often what ends up happening is It's a lot of me and Daniel, and not so much you and Imran. And that that hasn't necessarily been a strength. uh for the show. I think the show will be better if it was a little more balanced. Uh ends up being a lot more of me that I've been used to in the past because Daniel um he's feisty and he'll and sometimes I I wonder if he says things for effect on purpose. Can he get a rise and a reaction? Right. And it's like, okay, I think he's going for a rise, but I can't just leave even though I know that might be what he's doing, I can't just leave it there because then it seems like everybody in the room is agreeing with that the way he's formulated and constructed the argument. Yeah, I can't just leave that there. And I don't want to make it contentious between like you and Daniel, and I'm not sure that Imran would be contentious with his his son on the show. Right. And so it's like okay, and then it falls to me and it ends up being this You know, the two of us are going back and forth and you guys are just um observing it like a ping-pong match. So I I I haven't quite figured out that that balance of how to do that just yet. But oh yeah We'll get there. It may just take me a few years to get decent at this thing. Oh, well then you'll be you can you'll be ahead of me, you can give me some pointers. I s like I said, I'm slow to I You can give me some pointers. Uh here we go. And better thing. We affirm that mankind's dominion over the earth imposes a responsibility to protect and tend its life and resources. We affirm that Christians should embrace responsible scientific investigation and its application in technology. If you don't know what that means, that's okay. I don't know yet either. We'll figure it out together. This is the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I am your host and moderator I don't moderate so much anymore. I just jump into the fray these days. So I don't know. I I used to call myself the host and moderator, but I'm more like the host and instigator. Your host and instigator, Troy Skinner, I'm a pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of FaithInChrist dot com. The one you just heard chuckling a second ago was David Forcey. He's also a pastor in the area. His church doesn't have a name, doesn't even have a permanent location. So if I were you, just wander around aimlessly on Sunday, you'll probably run into him in his church. Well, if if you ever do make it, the uh we're very consistent in who is there and what we do each And the reason they're different locations, you know, they've got a handful of families that uh they they like to host two and the houses are are different. I think one of them has a swimming pool. One has a big backyard with a wooded area. One of them has maybe a nice big entertainment area on the inside of their house. One of the weather's not so nice. That's nice. Well mine's just uh it's always at the same place, same old, same old. Nothing exciting about that. Well yeah, always know where to go on some Yeah well we meet on Saturday. Oh good point. Never mind. You could go there on Sundays, but This has come up a couple of times, and in case you're wondering, since it just came up, it's not because of any sort of theological or biblical conviction that we meet on Saturday. Uh my family needs a day of rest too and we we were finding our Saturdays, particularly early parts of our Saturdays being really busy. And then we were doing church on Sunday and of course work Monday through Friday. We had like no day of rest. And so what we've done is we've taken our busy early part of the day on Saturday and made that day even busier by doing uh a church gathering later in the day. So Saturdays are hard days, to be honest with you, but then we have all day Sunday off, so that's all good Thanks too. All right. So we're on the Article 16 of the uh Chicago Statement on Biblical Application. I'm even picking this thing apart in recent weeks. We'll see if it continues. We're on stewardship of the environment. We actually started it a little bit last week, and now I just uh read a couple more. I'm going to read them again because there's a lot of big words, multi-sylla syllable words. We affirm that mankind's dominion over the earth imposes a responsibility to protect and tend its life and resources So that's a long way a w around saying, you know, God's has given a responsibility to mankind to uh to take to take care of this planet we live on. Okay. Right? To protect it, to tend to it Yeah, those are uh those could mean a lot of different things. The protecting, the tending. What does that what does that mean? Yeah, I mean uh so uh in the in one of the earlier affirmations it it did affirm that human life is the of the is the highest value. Correct. Human human life is the the reason we we ended last week's show on that point. Yeah. Well and and and yeah maybe we should should be clear, right? The the creation that God has made was created to serve th mankind who is made in his image, right? Male and female he created them in his image. Uh and he created them last after he had created the place for them. And the and the work for them to do there. And as I'm looking at this a little closer now as you know as we're pausing, because at first I'm like, yeah, I think I know what they mean, and okay, I think I generally agree with what I think they mean. But again, this is not there's some sloppiness here because again uh See if I can shorten this to s to illustrate the point. So they're affirming, they're saying this is a good thing, right? We we we're we're all for this, that that mankind has a responsibility to tends to the earth which is an it and has life. That that that sounds odd sounded odd to me as well. Right? As if the the earth sort of has a Well maybe uh maybe maybe it's saying the life that resides on Earth. Yeah, but uh I'm almost positive that's what they meant. Yeah. It would be nice if that was a little more clear. As in the the the plant and animal life that is So you put all these qualifier words in the next one. We affirm that Christians should embrace responsible scientific investigation and its application in technology. Okay. Okay, responsible. What does that mean? I wish they would say something like uh m you know the the moral application of technology. I would like that that better. Uh risk I'm not sure what With ris uh maybe by responsible scientific investigation they mean uh scientific investigation that isn't Destructive? Is that what they're talking about? Yeah, moral would be a much better word. That's probably what they're getting at. Yeah. Right? Scientific investigation mean don't use stem cells from aborted babies or kill babies so you can use the baby parts for s for doing ex experiments that or doing data function research, things like that. That's irresponsible. Irresponsible scientific investigation because of its Well a Pietist would certainly say yes. Uh I wouldn't say yes. context of experimentation, right, to right and try and get to that point. Or are those animal sacrifices for the good of humanity, right? Is it would it fall under that category? When they were testing the bombs, other than just blowing up a desert, would it is there m uh maybe there's something out is there more to it than that? where it would be the least destructive. But there's still some destructive tests. And I'm sure that there was some testing. Actually I'm thinking I've heard some stories now where there was some testing where they purposely exposed people to the radiation to see with the effects of the animals, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Right. So yeah, so that's again, moral though would fit that, right? Because if it's wrong, it's wrong because it's immoral. Right, not because it's responsible or irresponsible. So again, we're we should make all these notes and send it back to them. And they can give us like a and basically just say use biblical language please in your statement. Or at least if you're not going to clarify what you're what you're meaning Right. What biblical language are you substituting with the words? What biblical principle and idea are you meaning by these words you're using? Sure. And you're not just trying to squish. Well I'm glad we're here to bring clarity, Troy That's what we're here for. We affirm that stewardship of the Lord's earth includes the productive use of its resources, which must always must always be replenished as far as possible. Okay. I guess this is when uh recycling was a big deal. That must always is very strong language. Uh must always be replenished as far as possible. I well I don't know how we how we replenish Well last time I said anytime always or never is in there you're gonna just discount it right away. Here they put always so we almost by definition have to say no. And uh there's no exception to this rule ever. There's got to be. Well it says must always and then it says as far as possible to uh you know, try and butt us off the hook sometimes. That's how the Battle of Gettysburg was lost. Right? Y you know the story. Lee sent his uh one of his uh generals instructions to take the hill if possible. Mm. Or if prudent if pro if prudent or if possible is only that. And what he meant was take the hill Right. And uh Stonewall Jackson had been his uh right hand man and he would have taken the hill, he would have understood like that was just gentlemanly kind. language. Right, right. You know. Um but the uh Stonewall had wasn't wasn't there for the battle. And so the other guy, the newbie general He misunderstood. Well, that doesn't look possible to me. So he didn't take the hill and and uh it changed the whole course of the war because he lost that battle because of of a phrase such as far as possible was in there Mm-hmm. So is this our Gettysburg? Maybe so. Our Gettysburg moment in the biblical application thing? Oh boy. And also I don't know how we would replenish resources. Like we can create them? Right. Yeah. Yeah. By definition we don't do that, right? Yeah. Again, I think it's a I I think it's a uh recycling thing. Okay. I do. Could be. And that was beginning to be a big deal in the eighties. Yeah. That's w that's when it really took off in the eight It was definitely big on on children's shows that I was watching in the early nineties. Yeah, yeah. We affirm I mean it big it started even in the seventies I think, but by the eighties it was like Really a thing. Mainstream. We affirm that avoidable pollution of the earth, air, water, or space, is irresponsible. The avoidable pollution pollution. Okay. How again, how do you want to define if I if I just are we saying intentional pollution is bad? Like pollution just for the sake of pollution is bad? I mean I drove my car here. I didn't have to. I could have walked. It would have been a quite a long walk, but I could have, it was avoidable. Well, I don't know, you're the carbon footprint of all the calories that you burned Is that right? Animals that you consumed might have might have been even worse. Huh. I could stop breathing. Is that is that avoidable? Yeah. Right. If we all just selectively stopped breathing, we would avoid the pollution. Yeah. So one of the one of the things that I the principles that I we talk about with our kids is uh you know if they're doing something that we want them to maybe rethink, we say is that is that productive or destructive? Right? And so a lot of this seems to be aimed at just saying, you know, not taking into consideration the the production value of things, but just kind of focusing, zeroing in on on what's, you know, destructive in some way. And, you know, everything is going to have some sort of uh some sort of side effect, right, that that is negative to some degree to some things. And you're talking about like on the whole, the net. Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, exactly. And that result because what we benefit Well, in in this technocratic state we live in maybe it's not a benefit, but uh for the sake of argument, we benefit from having uh mass communication available, which is made possible by the satellites Right. But those satellites don't stay up there forever. Okay. Or if they I mean they they maybe they stay up there forever, but they're just circling the globe forever and we have a bunch of space junk. Right? We're causing pollution in space, which is one of the things they're talking about here. It's actually Actually they talk about space. We affirm that avoidable pollution of space is irresponsible. Well, if we never send a satellite into space, we'll be avoiding the space junk. But then we wouldn't have any of the benefits that would come from that. Yeah. So yeah, your on the whole is more productive versus destructive is a much better way than saying whether it's avoidable or not. Serious I I mean, I said it tongue in cheek, but if we all held our breath until we died all sort of human cause pollution would end. Right. It would be avoided. But that's not the solution. And they would agree. So again it's just I've seen irresponsible again here. We've seen responsible earlier. I wonder if if that's what they're getting at. You know, responsible, irresponsible is what is the the net benefit, right? Uh net uh net loss would be irresponsible. Net benefit. if it would be responsible. Maybe. Maybe that's what they're saying. I don't know. I'm gonna crawl inside their head. Let me see. Yep, that's what they're saying. All right. Next one is We deny that the cosmos is valueless apart from mankind. Okay, so all of God's creation has some level of innate value because it it displays his His attributes. I agree, but why are they saying it? I don't know. Right? I agree it's true, but why are they saying maybe they feel like they have to balance out the earlier statement of saying that man kind is the highest value. Maybe the next one will help. We deny that the biblical view authorizes or encourages wasteful exploitation of nature. It's related, but it's not exactly the you know piggybacking on it, so it's a totally different thing. Biblical view says it's okay to be wasteful and exploit nature Yeah. Well you don't want to wastefully do it. Of course not. The b the Bible doesn't uh authorize Yeah. They're denying that we should be wasteful. We should be good stewards. Absolutely should be good stewards, and that's what they're saying. Right. Yeah. They're saying we should be responsible. We're getting loopy. We deny that Christians should embrace the countercultural repudiation. of science or the mistaken belief that science is the hope of mankind. So Christians should not embrace should not embrace the repudiation of science. Yeah, of course not. But what do we mean by science? Are we talking about science or the science? We're talking about Dr. Fauci. We should not embrace the repudiation of Dr. Fauci. Yeah. But it doesn't say the science, right? So it just says science. So I'm agreeing with them. So they because hopefully they mean the what If they had said the science, then I'd say no. The science hadn't wasn't around yet, I guess. Yes. Or the mistaken belief that science is the hope of mankind. Of course that Christ is the hope of mankind. So it's sort it sort of is is saying uh we shouldn't fall into either either ditch. Right, we shouldn't deny right science we shouldn't say science has no value and we shouldn't worship science as the ultimate value. Right. Okay. Yeah, because if you worship it as the opposite value, you end up with a science, I think. Yeah, which is where a lot of a lot of people are these days. All right, there's two more. Okay. Making good ground on this one. We deny that individuals or societies should exploit the universe's resources. That's an interesting phrase. for their own advantage at the expense of other people and societies. What are they getting at there? We deny the individuals or society, so like our country, right? That's kind of what they're speaking to here. The United States of America should not exploit well of course we shouldn't exploit anything. But oh but maybe we can uh depending on how you define it, normally I think of it as in pejorative terms. Right. But maybe exploiting an opportunity, it's just taking advantage of. Uh making good use of instead of taking that's pejorative sounding too. Making good use of is a way to understand exploit too. So if it's understood that way it's not pejorative. So right let me let me let's insert that in and see if it changes. We deny that individuals or societies should make good use of the universe's resources for their own advantage at the expense of other people in societies. other people. That seems to be the the crux of the issue there, you know. Like are my uh am I am I being sloppy about my I don't know. About about my oil drilling in a way that it poisons the crops of the farmer next door, but I get rich. Off of the s sale of the oil? You know? Is it uh Yeah, if you do something on toward then uh you know that's bad then yeah but what if you're doing something good like think of think of it in like just classic business examples. Um I own a retail store and I run a big sale, 90% off. I'm not gonna siphon business away from my competitors I'm not going to do it for my advantage at their expense? So, I mean this yeah, so this is particularly talking about the the resources that are in creation I don't know if that's I don't know that that example you know speaks to what they're they're trying to get at. The universe's resources makes it seem like they're almost talking about space. Right. Right? I guess. Well they're they're trying to include the entire cosmos, I guess, in this. You know, I shouldn't uh I shouldn't build my solar panels over other people and block their sunlight so they can't get any vitamin D. Well, okay. Is that uh using the universe's resources for my own advantage and at the expense of other people's? Maybe they're also talking about like script mining? Or uh you know like Y you go to some other part of the world to uh take all their uh their precious metals out of the ground so that you can enrich yourself and your situation at the detriment of those who are native to that land kind of thing? Yeah, or like uh like going out and just shooting all the buffalo and cutting out their tongues and then the Native Americans have nothing else to eat Something like that maybe. Yeah. Okay. But I yeah I feel like it, you know, other other things get to you know, there's other things that are being done that uh Yeah, I think the spirit of what they're intending here, you and I are both agreeing with it. But again, I'm just not satisfied with how they're saying Because it it it it opens up an avenue to just drive a whole bunch of Mac trucks right through it from those that wouldn't be looking at it with our worldview. Yeah. Right? That's that's that's the challenge I'm having here Yeah. It works for us because we're able to insert biblical language where they're not using it. Yeah. We deny that a materialistic worldview can provide an adequate basis for recognizing environmental values Okay, so they're saying if I disagree. So it sounds like they're saying Because of the word adequate. So a a if someone has they're saying if someone has a materialistic worldview, they will not be able to that is not an adequate basis for recognizing environment. Yeah, but I disagree. How do you disagree? So somebody who's rejecting God, by definition, has a material worldview. Right. Right? Yes. You and I have a Christian worldview. Those who reject our worldview, they're going to have a materialistic worldview. Right. Through God's common grace Through his providence, people who are all about I'm gonna make some people mad, but heck, we've made some people mad the last few shows, I'm sure. I'm not persuaded. Now God knows the heart for sure. Okay. But I'm not persuaded that Donald Trump is Christian. I don't think that Donald Trump has a Christian worldview per se. I think he has a pragmatic, materialistic worldview. Doesn't he has no responses to what to do in the world that are adequate to recognize the need to value things in the environment? Of course he does. Our next door neighbors might not be Christians, and yet they take good care of their their lawns and they they recycle like we do. And I I I think that we can have an a that's why the adequate. Do they have a superlative or the best possible basis for recognizing a virtual well no. But do they have an adequate one? Of course. I I'd say they don't have an adequate basis for uh having a complete uh or an entirely accurate understanding of environmental value Right, so because they're they're they're working from uh a limited amount of the truth. only going to be able to recognize so much truth. But you're adding words like I'm I'm changing words, you're adding words, right? So are you on my side of this fight now all of a sudden? Uh yeah, I would I think I think I would want to add some words in there for clarity to uh to say yes, I I totally agree with this denial. Alright, so there we are. So we made it through. Now I will say, if you think we're done, we're not. The pain continues for one more week and we're doing things a little bit out of order. So next week what we're going to do on the Faith Debate is we're going to wrap up our look at all of the Chicago statements from the seventies and eighties, because we've already done uh biblical inerrancy, we've done biblical hermeneutics, and now we're we're wrapping up biblical application. And we've gone through all the articles, all the affirmations and denials. But we haven't talked about some of the things that were said in the uh introduction to the statement of biblical application. And there are a few items in there that are worthy of of of talking about briefly So next week we're going to go back to the beginning of this statement and wrap it up. It'll be the addendum for us. Maybe it'll clear up all of our misunderstandings. Yeah, and we'll have to go back and edit the show and make ourselves sound like we knew we were talking about the last four shows. That's a lot of post production, let me tell you. Oh man. Alright, so anyway, that's uh David Forcey. Um he pastors at church uh that meets I I I used to always say in like the the southern part of like Frederick County, Washington County, but that's not true. Sometimes they meet in West Virginia, sometimes they meet in the northern part of Frederick County, like they're all over the place. For all I know he meets in Arkansas, you know, once a quarter or something. I have no idea. Or he will now, giving them the idea. I see his nails return as a Anyway, so he's David Force, the I'm Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of FaithInChrist. com I encourage you to visit that website, you can connect with this show and all sorts of other goodies when you go there. And if you want to connect with David, the best way to do that is go to Household of Faithinchrist. com and and give me a shout out and uh I I can figure out a way to get you in touch with with David. He is the more reasonable of the two of us, so if you can talk to either one of us, he's the one you want to talk to. Anyway, thanks so much for listening. We'll be back doing this again, finishing up the uh Chicago State on available application next week That's 167 and a half hours from let me check my watch. Yep, right about now. God bless. Alright, we got one more in it. Now maybe it's gonna be weird to uh go without headphones next time, Troy. No, well assuming they're n assuming they don't work, they'll work. But what if there's other people here? Oh we have four jacks. Okay. So if we have five people in here, somebody's gonna be without headphones, I think. So do you have that many sets of headphones? Yeah, actually I wasn't yeah, I I wasn't wasn't sure if the Raspbees would uh accidentally show up uh you know like like last minute like hey we can actually make it. So I uh I brought a couple extra pairs just in case knowing they probably weren't going to. But yeah if they if they had shown up. Thank you for the husband Hospitality. Yeah, let's see. I don't know what that last sound is. I'm gonna leave that. Now this isn't broken out in quite the same way, but I I tried to not, you know Chunks with lines. Yeah, where's the um where do I find this? So if if you if you can find the Chicago Signal Bible application, it's the very first part of it, the introduction Uh this one that I have does not have the introduction. Really? Oh, interesting. This is on the alliance of confessing evil Evangelicals website. So they they kind of have a little bit of a preamble and then you get into some things they want to say and then they say first this, second that, third this, and they've got A bunch of them. They got like uh can I stay on biblical application? So here's another this is like a PDF and it does not include that introduction. Really? How about if you Google or DuckDuckGo or whatever search engine you use? Chicago Statement on Biblical Application and then add Dallas Theological Seminary. Because that might take you to their version, which is the one I printed. Well that's a lot of typing in the very too many opportunities for fat fingering. Alright, there's a DTS lib. Uh d-d-d- Actually you know where else you can get it? Duh. Go to Household of Faith in Christ dot com. I have it linked. Alright, well I I think maybe. Yeah, I have it linked on uh How many such it looks like? Perfect. Well, if this isn't it'll go there next. But there's like nine sections here that uh it'd be nice to talk about so let me it is that's crazy isn't Not on this. Oh yeah. Paragraph, paragraph. This is like So there's like three and a little more pages? Yeah, but I'm gonna ignore so if you can find is it is it formatted like this Yeah, it looks exactly like that. Alright, so I'm ignoring this completely. Okay. Go to the bottom here and see where it says first. Okay. So the sentence right before that helps to set it up. So there's a sentence right before that and then a key sentence or two. from that section is what I'm going to be reading. Okay. I'll do my best. And it's going to be quick hitting because there's like nine sections that I want to hit on. It means we've got like two to three minutes per thing. So it's just going to be going to read it. We'll give a quick minute take each maybe and then go to the next one. So we're not going to I'll just try to be a good listener probably. No no I I wasn't meaning we shouldn't talk. No, no, I mean just paying attention to what you're what you're reading rather than trying to So basically I'm gonna say faithful discipleship to Christ must be held to involve uh conscientio conscientious uh acceptance of all the scripture teaches the authority of scripture and the authority of Christ are one. And then we're just gonna say, Ah, it sounds good to me, or you know, whatever. I I I think we're not gonna be as wordy on this. Okay. So I think we're gonna actually cover the ground pretty quickly. And if we end up getting wordy wordy on one of them, that's fine. We'll just I'll just go really fast in the last couple if we have to. Okay. Stress over. If we run out of time, you know what? A thumb go or website and read it for themselves. I might I might have to ask you to repeat from time to time. That'll work. I need that. There we go. So I'm gonna start by reading it. That way if we have to repeat it. It'll be simple enough. Okay. How do I get wh what is that doing? What is that? Go away. That was weird. Oh, I never saved the last episode. Hold on. Oops, got carried away. Next one bang Bang, bang. Boom. Boom boom. Well I gotta say my wife was right when she said I'm I'm enjoying it. It'll be good, you know? David will be able to give his wisdom a little bit more than he's able to usually. I was like, oh okay. Well I think things working out. That's good. I'm glad. Given given what I've got, hopefully it's so fun. I will say it's hard with four, to be honest. It can be hard. Three three's probably ideal. Yeah, three is a really good number. Uh but Uh four is fine, but there's always going to be, I think, one person who feels like they didn't really have as much opportunity to talk when there's four. Yeah. Which Which can work out if somebody doesn't really have a passion or about a whole lot to say about a particular topic. The other guys can kinda carry the weight, so it works out. In applying scripture to this changed and changing the lieu of our own times, the following principles must ever be borne in mind. Faithful discipleship to Christ must be held to involve conscientious acceptance of all that Scripture teaches. The authority of Scripture and the authority of Christ are one. That's one of the uh key paragraphs in the Chicago Statement on Biblical Application and their introduction section. If you're reading along at home, It's under the subheading of Approaching Contemporary Problems. I know you're reading along at home like any good student would. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Joined this week by David Forcy, a pastor in the area of a House Church. You can connect with him by connecting with me. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. And you can connect with uh David through me because well he's not cool like me and doesn't have a website. But I accept that. I'm not even cool like me and I have a website, so I'm not sure how that happens. But anyway, seriously, uh and you can connect with the show and everything else. It's a one stop shop, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. So I don't think there's any fodder for discussion on that first one, right? Uh so we should accept what scripture teaches. All of scripture is authoritative. We should accept all of it and Yeah. And when we're and when we're looking at scripture and its authoritativeness We are grappling with the authority of Christ Himself because He is the Word. Yeah. So I'm down. We got no f fodder for discussion or debate on that one. All right. Well. Number two. Try again. Second Since all scripture is ultimately the product of a single mind, that of God the Holy Spirit, we can actually push back on this a little bit. Any appearance of self-contradiction should therefore be judged illusory. The these are good words. The in uh almost need to get out of your thesaurus and dictionary. The in um uh or your scrabble board, right? Hang on to these words. You have the scrabble board. The internal harmony of scripture is axiomatic. So I I agree with the spirit of this, but you know I'm going to push back, right? Did you catch it, that first line? Since all scripture is ultimately the product of a single mind. That of God the Holy Spirit. Are they somehow forgetting that it also involves human authors and their minds? That's interesting. Well, I thought I thought you were gonna take issue with the uh the the non inclusiveness of the father and the son in that uh In that first part. That of God the Holy Spirit, right, yeah. Right. That's true as well. Yeah. Although God the Godhead, Father, Son, Holy Spirit are of one mind. Right. I I would rather say the mind of God. Yeah, that of God, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Maybe they could have said all three. That would have been better. I would have liked it. But ultimately the product of a single mind. I'm fine with that if they had added like a parenthetical statement, right? Working through men that he carried along By his spirit. Like something like that I would have liked better. God approved. It's all God's w yeah. It's all God's word. Right. And so therefore, if you're reading the first page or the last page, it's the same um uh deity author. Right. Yeah. Right? And that's why you're not going to find contradiction And if you think you've found something that appears to be a contradiction, it's illusory. It's illusory. It's an illusion. You know why? Because the internal harmony of scripture is axiomatic. Help help me with that one. It all works it it's all working around the same thing. Yeah, no, i i it it's an axiom. It's a it's a it it's a it's it's a given, it's a known truth. Okay. All right. It's it it's This cake it is Um uh for example, it's axiomatic that only women can have children. Okay. I agree. It doesn't feel axiomatic these days, but I'm telling you it's axiomatic. It's a given. That's that's what it that's what axiomat axiomatic. Until I understand axiomatic. Thank you. Third, the differences between the successive stages of God's revelatory program must be kept in view. Some of God's requirements of His people in pre-New Testament times were temporary. However, we must also seek to discern the abiding moral and spiritual principles which bear on our lives today. I think what they're saying here is certain parts of what God had to reveal to us at particular moments in human history uh w were addressing primarily circumstances on the ground at that moment. They have broad eternal applications. Okay. But we can't forget what the original application was and now that we have the New Testament and we could look back on what was written in Old Testament times, uh we have additional insight I think that's what they're saying. So we d we don't uh we don't have to offer animal sacrifices anymore? For or is it saying we're we're not all supposed to take our only son to the mountain. Right, and this is them I think piggybacking out that second point where they're saying there's no contradictions and somebody's going to say, well, how come In the New Testament it did away with well it didn't really do away with. It's no longer so in that sense it's been done away, but it's been fulfilled and no longer required because that to which it was pointing has arrived Right. So it's not contradictory. It's saying, we're heading to Miami, we're driving to Miami, and then you're in Miami and say, oh, you said you're driving to Miami. Which is it? You drive to Miami or you in Miami? Huh? Huh? Huh? Right? That's not a contradiction. You've fulfilled your mission. You've arrived in Miami. Yeah. By the way, you ever been to Miami? Uh I don't know. Street signs are in Spanish and it's like I seriously I sounds like an experience. Yeah. You don't have to go to Cuba. You just visit Miami. At least parts of it. Uh fourth, we're making good time on this one, huh? Fourth, the church is is it okay, here's another word for you. Alright. Is it neither or neither? Neither. Neither. For if the church is neither a source of infallible information about God apart from Scripture. Nor is it in any of its modes or means of self-expression an infallible interpreter of Scripture. The church is under the Bible Not over it. Scripture as we have it is both sufficient and perspicuous. In other words Glad to do that, right? Yeah. It is both sufficient, uh uh uh it is complete, rather. It is complete and clear. So perspicuous is clear. So uh the church isn't the source of infallible information about God apart from Scripture. Right. They're speaking against some of the Roman Catholic stuff, I think, is what they So this is all reformation kind of language. Nor is it in any of its modes or means of self-expression. meaning the church, an infallible interpreter of Scripture. So that the the the church isn't the infallible interpreter of Scripture. We can make mistakes as the church. Again, Roman Catholics are really cringing right now. They're not happy with this. Yeah, maybe maybe not. Um the church is under the Bible, not over it. Scripture as we have it is both sufficient and perspicuous. Word of the week, perspicuous. Clear. In other words, complete and clear. It was it was nice of them to make it clear in the minute. They could have done that with the affirmations of the nines that we're struggling with over the last four weeks, you know? All right. So we're about a third of the way through the show and we're about almost halfway through what we wanted to get through. So we're making good time. We're in good shape. Fifth. common about the last one. Okay. So uh so maybe part of the issue so it right, the early church, right, is the There were people in the early church, apostles in the early church. You're talking about the first century, basically. Right, yeah, yeah. Okay. Um who when the you know, the the original receivers of the Great Commission were around. The original Dirty Dozen. Yeah, that's it. Uh they god they they were the ones, you know You know, primarily through whom, you know, and at that time, through whom the the mind of God worked to bring parts of scripture, right? Sure. Into into being. Yeah. Right. And so uh So I I and I you know I think that's where the the hang up is probably for some people m could make mistakes, not when they're writing scripture Because they're writing it under the superintendence and by the illumination being carried along by the Spirit of God, and so that's infallible. But outside of the inscripturated writings they made mistakes. I mean, famously uh Paul calls Peter out for just such a mistake. We read about it in the book of Galatians. Absolutely. So they can make mistakes uh outside of what's now scripture And so I'm not sure if that's what you're Yeah, I I I guess I'm I'm saying, you know, that that I guess is sort of where the uh uh Um, you know, some people feel like like the church can still add to scripture or have equal uh I'm not saying that I agree with that position Because I don't. But uh you know, I I think that's where it's like the Roman Catholic Church goes. The church has to make these hard calls. Right. And sometimes uh we get 'em wrong because we're not properly understanding and applying scripture the way that we should. Right. Um when we get it right it's because we agree with scripture, not because we've decided for ourselves that we've got it right. Right. Yeah. So I think that's uh there's got to be some ultimate pecking words, some hierarchy of ultimate authority. And they're they're arguing here the ultimate authority is not the church. The ultimate authority is God and his word. Right And and you and I, as Protestants, we're agreeing with that 100%. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. All right, the fifth element. Fifth, it is a mistake of method to relativize biblical teaching. I shouldn't have done my vocal calisthenics before this. These are tough words to pronounce, you know? Serious introduction. Man. Uh and woman, no offense taken. Right? Okay. Or ment rather. Intended, that's what I was going for. Fifth, it is a mistake of method to relativize biblical teaching to the cultural axioms Here's that word again. Assumptions and paradigms of this or any age. Our calling is not to set the Bible straight, but to allow Scripture to set us straight. If I wanted to have fun, I would have asked you, so is it how do you pronounce is it paradigms or paradigms? I'll just stick with paradigms for this one. So So are they are they saying that uh that scripture um there aren't things that are wrong in scripture because they were written in a different time Or that there are things that are written in a different time that are no longer applicable. Yeah, I think what they're speaking against here, to put it in more of the f common vernacular and kind of pushback, was get look They didn't even know about homosexuality back then. Or they were such a backwards, backwards thick, patriarchal society that they had such a diminished view of women that y you can't take what Paul wrote in the New Testament seriously. Because he was a man of his time. I think they're speaking against that. Yes, he was a man of his time, but when he's writing what we now have as the scripture, he's not just writing it alone Right? Yeah. God's writing it. Right? I mean, in and through him, care carrying him along. So, yeah, they're saying, look, you you can't just say That's for back then. I mean that's like thousands of years ago. You kidding me? It's back that's for back then, it's not for now. I think that's what they're talking about. And and those those principles that people, you know, where th those things that Paul says that are so so direct, right, are you can you can take those and you can see it that all of scripture is consistent with that in principle. Right. Absolutely. And scripture goes back to the beginning of time. Right. And so we're talking about from the beginning of time to Paul. Scripture is consistent on all of those principles that he is expounding, that he's that he's telling us in our you know in in a way that us Westerners uh have a tendency to better understand. Hey I think I don't uh maybe get into this on the other ones, I don't know, but I think as a just a quick ad uh addendum to that. Uh see I'm using their big fancy words now myself. Nice, nice. Addendum. I think it is important for us to understand those times. So like if you're reading the Old Testament and you're talking about, let's say, legal code. Right. And what that legal code meant in that society for a a un a a legitimately unique nation state in human history and what it meant for them in that context and then to draw from that context principles. that then fit into our context. That I think is appropriate. They didn't s I don't think they're getting into all of that, but I think that we can we can make a mistake by saying everything now is exactly like it was back then. Well that's foolish. We need to understand the context when it was originally written and how it would have been received and understood and how it was intended by the author for that time. Because then the principles will be more Exactly. And then we know how to apply those principles that were intended then for how they're intended now. It's the same principle. Right. But the application might be slightly different. Yeah. I would argue. Anyway. Sixth. Application sixth sense. I did fifth element, I gotta do sixth sense. Application of biblical principles to life. is always conditioned by the limits of our factual knowledge. Disagreement will not necessarily imply uncertainty about the principles to be applied. Yeah. I mean we can only know what we know. We don't know what we don't know. Okay. So sometimes we're we're gonna apply the principles and sometimes make mistakes because we only know what we know. Because we we don't know the full historical context. Yeah, we're finite. We don't know everything that was true. Sure. We don't know everything is true about our time in history right in this moment. Much less two thousand years ago or three thousand years ago or what have you, right? So um and so we can there there can be some some disagreement among people who are serious students of the Bible that doesn't automatically apply that there's uncertainty about the principles. Right? We're disagreeing a little bit, but God's word is certain. Our inadequacy isn't an inadequacy of the scripture. It's our inadequacy. It's not the scripture's inadequacy. That's how I'm understanding. for them to make. Seventh, heaven. Application of biblical principles to life. requires awareness that within the limits set by the moral laws of God are areas of liberty. Christians whose theologies agree in substance may have differences due to personal or cultural factors that rightly affect their scale of values. So the application of biblical principles, we're f we're saying that we might agree to disagree on some of these things, but as we're grappling with these principles uh and we're trying to apply them uh in our in our real life We should be aware that there are some limits that are set by the moral laws of God to areas. So I'm trying to clarify this, I think I'm muddying it. requires awareness that within the limits set by the moral laws of God are areas of liberty. So this is an argument against legalism, right? The words on the page say The black print says therefore bang. It's like, yeah, but you're you're missing the context. You're missing right? I think that's what they're speaking against there. I'm saying that these these these principles may look somewhat different. in their application in varying cultures. Right. Okay. And I think I think that's right. So I don't see any reason to disagree with that. Right? Do you? Uh no, I I I don't see any reason to disagree with it. I think that uh I I think that we have to be wary of excusing and I'm not saying that this is what they're doing, but we we need to make sure we don't open that door to say, well, you know It's a different culture and so it's okay. Right. Uh you know, and and stretching those principles beyond their actual allowance differences because of, you know, quote, cultural differences. Yeah, and they're trying to address that both this idea they have theologies that agree in substance. So like the core of the substance, we're not Those are non-negotiable. Right. But how we're going to specifically apply them in a particular cultural context, but you're not going to change what's undeniably God's truth. Yeah. But exactly how to live that out in certain circumstances, there might be some room for disagreeing. Doesn't mean that one of the people or both of the people that are disagreeing are wrong. Right, we could be both wrong. Sure. But we're going to give ourselves some grace and some room there because we don't know all the facts. Because we're we're finite. Number eight. Application of Scripture to life requires the unction of the Holy Spirit. Humble recognition that there is always more to be learned is the only healthy frame of mind. Application of Scripture to life requires the unction. I would say that the the the the the best fullest most beneficial application of scripture requires the unction. But again, we talked about this and it was last week that you know there is I I believe there's I there's in God's providence there's w what is called common grace that even those who don't have the Holy Spirit Right. Can benefit from principles in the Bible. If you're not a follower of Christ, you could still read the Bible and get some good things out of it that you could apply in your life. So Yeah, and you will you will because you will be getting closer to the truth. Yeah. And and you know, and there's uh I mean it you know, we uh we also see in you know talking about today, right, like uh a society can have foundational Christian values that they you know, but they depart from the faith, but they're still benefiting from those foundational Christian values. You know, and it's not till there's a complete divorcing from those Christian values that they see the the the chaos and destruction. You can even see this inside the church with the unbelievers. Right. They profess Christ, but they're not actually following Jesus. And you know, outward appearances at first it looks like, oh they're a Christian, you get to know better that they're not a Christian. But they were learning things from going to church and reading the Bible and sitting in on prayer meetings and stuff, they gained something from that even though they didn't have the Holy Spirit. Yeah. So uh they might have gone a little bit far in how they phrased that. I I agree with the sentiment though. Now there's a section here that's uh under the heading New Vistas Along Old Paths. Interesting The task to which Summit 3 addressed itself. So Summit 3, this is the Chicago statement on inerrancy, the Chicago Statement on Hermeneutics, and the Chicago Statement on the application. That's number three. So this is number three. So addressed itself, uh the task of which it's addressed itself is to apply the teaching of a trusted Bible to some of the most confused areas of modern life. Now it's postmodern life, which is why some of it didn't feel all that relevant to the biggest. The assumptions of liberalism relativize the Bible by absolutizing positions that run counter to biblical teaching. How are they defining liberalism? Well, I guess just of the times. Yeah. Are they talking about classical liberalism or what we can call the left today? What do they mean by liberalism? But either one I suppose. Whatever whatever assumptions were bringing. So we don't want to absolutize our positions that run counter to biblical teaching. No duh. The only good way for church and community today lies along the old paths. Yeah, I I I I guess if we're saying what we're meaning by that is that God is uh he's unchanging and he's he's revealed his truth from the beginning. But God can sometimes work in what feel to us to be new and wondrous ways that would strike some as new paths. Are they over sticking to the next one? New vistas along old paths. Okay. So same same path, new uh right, because if you're If you're traveling along the same path, you'll have a your view will change the things that you see, right? Things that you observe And that's the kind of spirit that really animates what is today in political terms called the conservative movement, right? Yeah. Uh-huh. Right. Like we have new there's new technologies, right? New tools in essence that we have. But you're going to use them to preserve the old paths. Right. The technology is the vista. The the the traditional values. Yeah. The and you know what we would say timeless biblical principles, right? If we're which we're doing talking about the church and that's an important distinction of people pejoratively want to call somebody a a conservative like, oh so you want to preserve, you know, channel slavery 'cause that's what used to be. You want to bring it No, we w the the conservative movement, the b or b I don't want to use a public the the the biblical conservative, like the theologically conservative. You're right. God's principles are are everlasting eternal truths, right? Right. And we want to hang on to those and preserve the practice of those things Institute those things. And yeah, the things that are bad, we want to get rid of the bad things. We're not trying to conserve or preserve those things. between male and female, right? That God has that are that are timeless glorious differences. Yeah. And uh you know and it will look different today than it has, but the the principles are the same. Well, we made it through five shows, just the two of us, and we finished the biblical application stuff from the Chicago State. Okay. Is that exciting? That's an accomplishment. I'll give you a certificate. I'll put it on my fridge. Right along? I wouldn't want to t uh uh tear down the value of the uh things already on your fridge. Yeah there's there's no space. Anyway, thank you. David Forcy for uh for uh weathering uh the this tough big words multisyllabic uh uh thing that we've done the last uh month plus on the Faith Debate. And thank you for slugging through it with us as the listener. We appreciate that. You can find us online at wfmd. com or household of faith in Christ. com That's the name of my church. I'm Troy Skinner and David Forcey is a pastor in the area too. If you're looking for a church, you're looking for prayer, you want some guidance or whatever, we'd be more than happy to be there for you. And we appreciate you being there for us. So we'll do this again next week. I'm not sure what the topic is going to be next week. I guess it'll be a surprise to all of us. Until then, 167 and a half hours from now, God bless. That was fun. Um I was feeling the fatigue. Were ya? Setting in. I I I wasn't sure if it was I I I to be honest, I picked up on something. I was like, okay, either he's not as interested in this, he's getting tired, or he took my my uh um like outline of the show too seriously like Like, don't talk too much. We just have a lot of ground to cover. We have nine points to cover. So I thought you were just really Uh it it would have it would have helped uh for me to be able to have that in front of me, I think. Yeah. But you know what? I think we covered what needed to be covered and I just wanted to put the period at the end of the whole series. We actually have a few statements left that I want to do. I don't know if we'll do those next though. Take a statement break maybe. Yeah. We'll see. But the they're a little more contemporary. So these are ones that are that were from the two thousands. You know, they're they're all written within like probably the last ten is years or so. So they're gonna be addressing issues that are feel hotter. Right. So they won't feel like we're doing this arcade Yeah. We've talked about we we've sort of been In couching these things in terms of like the uh like I'm just thinking about one week, you know, we talked about first wave, second wave, third wave, fence feminism, right, you know, and now we're in fourth wave feminism, which is the destruction of gender entirely. Yeah. Yeah. I'm gonna pause the stream by the way if I was running, so I pause that so we can talk about you behind your back. Anyway, if any questions or comments, feedback, pushback, anything like that, uh you know, send your hate mail to David. Leave your all the positives in the comment section. Anyway, till next time.