We affirm that the Bible is God's word breathed out by Him. It is inerrant, infallible, and the final authority for determining what is true, what we must believe, and what is right, how we must live. All truth claims and ethical standards must be tested by God's final word, which is Scripture alone. We do not have it by the Raz known as Raz to his friends and Daniel, the Raz bees uh pastor a church in Thurmont and also have a ministry called uh Conquered by Love online at conquered by love. org. And they uh are financial gurus, uh higher financial higher ground. Higher ground financial So you can uh you can check them out that way as well. So when this thing came out back in 2018, the the statement on those are out now there's an open lot of pushback like what are you even talking about? We don't even know no and the leftists claiming we don't even know what critical race theory is, this thing you conservatives keep talking about. It's not taught in schools. It's not whatever So that's been there's been a lot of national debate about the uh words critical race theory, but the statement was put out a couple years probably before Any of the uh I'm a little distracted because I'm not hearing you very loud for some reason. How about this? Is this any better We could try this. Hm. I curiously will you t Yes, testing. I I'm hearing your mic just fine. I'm hearing my mic just fine. Your mic sounds very thin. Well. I don't know what that what that's about. How's that? No, not really. Yeah, yeah, this is this is as though it's a live radio show, because um you you can see what I'm seeing, right? Yeah, I see. When when Imran talks, yes, y he's loud like me. Then it's not like my opinions as much. What the heck? There's no I was share the mic, that's not a big deal. I think we're gonna have to do I I f I'm sorry. I don't know again? This is the one of the world. This one. Okay, so I think it's the I think it's this one? Yes. Okay. Alright. Sorry about that. I don't know what's going on with that mic, we'll have to see it uh in between shows if we can figure out what's going on. So anyway, so yeah, it wasn't on your radar screen, sorry about that. No, so I mean now critical race theory is a national conversation and I know the leftist trying very hard to claim that, oh, we don't even know what this thing is. It was never really even taught in schools. It was just a college theory. Uh But i it's all throughout our culture now, critical race theory. And it's it's interesting the statement came out a couple of years ahead of the national conversation about it. I think it was b it was brewing. It had been brewing. In fairness, you know, uh black liberation theology has been around for a while and I think as we headed into the uh Martin Luther King uh anniversary of his assassination there was a a lot of attention on that. And so there's b beginnings to be a lot more talk about this critical race theory stuff then. But the statement somehow escaped my notice right away and I didn't notice it until maybe the next year. Uh and by then, you know, it felt kinda like old news, but almost we're playing ketchup, trying to figure out what the language was. I think we've all gotten much better at figuring out the language. But the language keeps changing as it probably have to keep adjusting. how you Yeah, we we went we went through uh an older statement a few uh few months ago, um from the eighties I guess, and a lot of that language had stood up But some of it has the means very different than what uh you know in modern in modern uh American culture compared to the original. So And that's part of the game that gets played by the uh the the the non biblical worldview folks. You know, they uh it it becomes a battle of of of words and definitions of terms and they keep changing those rules and that's why I'm so reticent to give up on words. No, I'm gonna fight for what the actual definition, long-standing definition of that word has been, and I'm gonna try to clarify over and over again, and I'm gonna try as best as I can I can to avoid using their words that they've imported into our language that really shouldn't be used at all, but they become the common vernacular It's a real challenge. Anyway, that first thing about the the scripture, anybody who's a Christian should agree with that first statement. Right? The Bible is authoritative. It tells us what we should believe and how we should live. Nobody should argue with that. So this so they start with some common ground. So I I don't know if we have a whole lot of discussion on that particular point. I'm going to go on to number two. And if you want to swing back to number one, we can later. So the first one's on scripture, second one's on the Imago Day. We affirm that God created every person equally in his own image. As divine image bearers, all people have inestimable value and dignity before God and deserve honor, respect, and protection. Everyone has been created by God and for God we deny that God given roles, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, religion, sex, or physical condition, or any other property of a person either negates or contributes to that individual's worth as an image bearer of God. And they give a bunch of scripture proof texts on these sorts of things as well. I don't think many of us agree with this uh disagree with this. No. No, I think Christ people are disagreeing with this, that's the point, right? Yeah, but also something about it. Uh it's a people. Now people meant something different two hundred years ago than it does now. Black people were not considered people back then. Hmm Okay. Hopefully by Christians it should have been if they were consistent they would have. that the the darker your skin, the more sin you had in your life. And you weren't a person if you were not white. So that I mean that's changed. So the the definition of people has changed And there was uh, I believe, you know, systemic racism at one point, but I I don't think it is now, but the definition of people is different now than it was two or three hundred years ago Yeah culturally. No, not biblically. I mean I mean Paul talks about you know there is no uh Jew nor Greek, there is no slave nor free in Christ. We are all our we are all saved, we're all on equal footing. So that's that's been the case and slavery as as a concept has existed throughout history. Um there's there were some people preachers at the time as I think it would Raz is talking about as far as um Um the only uh they're not really people without the same I don't know how widespread it was. I wonder how much uh the textbooks have have been uh very uh obscuring the the the the facts but who who knows. But the point is there were plenty of people who are evil and had a evil or an unbiblical definition of what the word uh person or people would be. And and that's what uh the Nazis did with the Jews. The Jews were not people and that's how they were able to exterminate them. So people is is there's a definition, you know And that's how we've killed tens of millions of babies saying they're not people. Exactly. Right? They're not people yet. to come to be people, but there are people yet so we can do with them what we want. Right. So maybe it would be a little more accurate to say all human beings from uh conception to natural death are our image uh image bearers of God. Yeah, I I if we want if we're concerned about how people are going to understand the word person, I would say that those who wanted to say that the Jews or or or um people with darker color skin or or uh unborn children for that matter, uh that they're not people, anybody holding to that position would be d in dis in in disagreement with scripture and would be out of alignment with the gospel. Absolutely. Right. And so that's what they're they they're trying to clarify that. And it starts to get into some of the the weeds already on that one because of the intersectionality. Right, that some people have special insight, a Gnostic uh special uh knowledge of things that makes them better than so somebody like me You know, a um a a white Christian male, well I just can't possibly see the truth. You guys have more lived experience as a marginalized You have more insight into the truth than I do, and so part of I think that second portion of the statement is beginning to address that kind of a question Right. So I don't have anything wrong o against that statement. I'm just to clarify that you know the statement's fine, but uh you know people in general can look at definitions and change the definition And my wife and I were just talking about what is right is wrong now, what is wrong is right. And it was in the nineties, right, Clinton? What's the definition of is? So anyway. Number three is justice. We affirm that since he is holy, righteous, and just, God requires those who bear his image. Excuse me, I gotta clear my throat. To live justly in the world. This includes showing appropriate respect to every person and giving to each one what he or she is due. We affirm that societies must establish laws to correct injustices that That have been imposed through cultural prejudice. You have it pulled up there, Daniel? Can you read the denial so I can get a drink of water? Yes. We deny that true justice can be culturally defined or that standards of justice that are merely socially constructed can be imposed with the same authority as those that are derived from scripture. We further deny that Christians can live justly in the world under any principles other than the biblical standard of righteousness Relativism, socially constructive standards of truth and morality, and notions of virtue and vice that are constantly in flux cannot result in all Authentic justice. I think that that's correct. It may be a little bit uh difficult to define what is derived from scripture, what is the biblical standard, because many people on the left these days are trying desperately to we talked about this before we got on the air, is trying desperately to twist scripture to say, Oh, see, scripture says this and there's a whole bunch of articles written by gay pastors about how Christian Oh, the Bible really teaches homosexuality, you know, and and and so many other things. So I think you gotta do that. This is not a rebuke. This is just me exemplifying what I'm saying. Gay, so-called pastors. Yes, absolutely. That's true. You cannot be a pastor. Not biblically qualified, so if you're not married and you know, married do a do it doesn't count as married. Anyway, the first few, uh we're going through pretty quick because I think the real grist in the mill is going to be in the later ones. Because I think even those who don't like the statement on social justice and the gospel. Don't really push back too much on the early ones. It's when you get a little further in, they're like, eh, I don't know. So uh unless there's any um by the way I kinda like bouncing back and forth. How about if I'll I'll read the affirmation, you read the denial. Sure. So this is number four of God's law. We affirm that God's law, as summarized in the Ten Commandments, more succinctly summarized in the two great commandments and manifested in Jesus Christ, is the only standard of unchanging righteousness. Violation of that law is what constitutes sin. We deny that any obligation that does not arise from God's commandments can be legitimately imposed on Christians as a prescription for righteous living. We further deny the legitimacy of any charge of sin or call to repentance that does not arise from a violation of God's commandments. Now without them realizing it, well maybe they did, I I don't know. The first time I read this, I didn't realize it. Maybe it's just my limitation This really does hit at the core of the question with the CRT critical race theory stuff and the social justice advocates because the the uh The foundational error that those who are all about the social justice stuff, the foundational error they make is to confuse gospel and law. And they take things that are part of the law and call them gospel issues. They're not gospel issues, they're law issues. They're biblical issues, but the gospel and the law are not one and the same. And so them clarifying what the law is is really important. I don't know that this is where the focus of the incoming artillery has been. Uh but really this is the foundation, yeah, this is the root of the confusion. Well because the whole idea is, oh, you're born with your privilege and therefore you are in a f in in not a in a uh position to uh even if you're sorry about it you can't change, you can't uh you know, even if you get saved, you know. And I think that's that's that last part that's the really the important thing. Well even God can't bring you out of this uh point of privilege or or bad a uh situation or prejudice that you were in. No, god can remove all b all those boundaries. Now there is, I think, uh um um some merit to the idea that where you are born and how you were born um does put you in position of honor or of shame and that is a very biblical concept but we are all in a position of shame and is the is is the thing. We are all destined for hell. We there's nothing we can do on our own to get to God because we are in the shame because of Adam's sin. Not because you did any sin particularly. So I think that's one thing that this and maybe they're gonna get to it later, but this uh um article misses slightly is well yes so if you didn't break God's commandments then you haven't sinned. Well yes, but that's true, but also you're going to hell because of your sin nature because you bear the shame of Adam, even though you personally have not sinned So that's still there. And so they're actually Satan loves to do this. He loves to take something that's a a true concept in the Bible and then inflate it or twist it in some other way that it's that it's wicked. But it it is correct to say that you know what, um the way that uh the way that you were uh uh born i y you can have no control over what Adam did, there but you're still gonna be punished, you're still gonna go to hell for it Well, they try to say the similar thing, oh you were born white, you had no control over what your ancestors did to own slaves, but therefore you're gonna be punished for it. They they got the the the concept but they're applying it incorrectly because they're applying it to earthly things rather than spiritual matters about our places. And to say nothing that I'm getting so many of the earthly things wrong, their history is wrong. Do you know how many Chinese people have been enslaves in this country? Do you know how many Irish people have been enslaved around the world? I mean the word s the word slave comes from Slav and because so many Slavish people were were uh enslaved and they're very white. So You know, so and um the confusion on these issues, I mean Raz was hinting at it before when he's saying, you know, when we're confusing what personhood is and you know systemic racism might have existed before it doesn't exist now. But he wasn't saying that in the context, and that's a violation of the gospel. He's saying that that was a moral wrong, that was evil. Okay, that's a law question. So so we're you know so far we're doing a good job of keeping our biblical categories straight. Uh and I think the statement does a pretty good job too, because that may Just see my bias talking. So we're on the number five. Is that correct? Sin. We affirm that all people are connected to Adam, both naturally and federally. Might have defined that in a minute. Therefore, because of original sin, everyone is born under the curse of God's law, and all break his commandments through sin. There is no difference in the condition of sinners due to age, ethnicity, or sex. All are deprived, or depraved rather, in their uh in all their faculties and stand condemned before God's law. All human relationships, systems, and institutions have been affected by sin. We deny that other than the previously stated connection to Adam, any person is morally culpable for another person's sin. Although families, groups, and nations can sin collectively, and cultures can be predisposed to particular sins, subsequent generations share the collective guilt of their ancestors only if they approve and embrace or attempt to justify those sins Before God, each person must repent and confess his or her own sins in order to receive forgiveness. We further deny deny that one's ethnicity establishes any necessary connection to any particular sin. And the way they word here, I might word it a little differently just because I focus so much on honor and shame versus guilt and innocence. They're both important. But I I I think I agree with what they're trying to say. There are two passages in scripture that are often seen as contradictory where God says in Exodus, I visit the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of those that hate me. um and show mercy in the thousands of them that love me. And then later in other passages it says the father shall not be put to death for the children, nor the children for the father. So there is both a principle of societal and historical guilt or or or um shame in in is what I would say and individual responsibility. And I think to to lean too much to one side or the other is to err scripturally. Um and m what part of the critical race uh movement's uh problem is that the uh they they go too much to the collective. Oh we're all guilty or we're all in shame, you know, you're you're in privilege or or whatever. And not enough to the individual, but you you can't exclude the collective. You have to have a balance, I think So that's what I would say about that. Yeah, I I mentioned as I was reading the uh affirmation part about being connected to Adam federally. uh theological phrase there would be federal headship. Basically he's our representative. You know, we're we're connected to him and it's kinda you know, if the President of the United States uh wants something done, uh sometimes you'll s you know But he's representing us. So if the president starts a war The United States has started a war. We're part of the United States. We are in fact right. So we're in you know he so th and uh that's really important in the gospel because Christ is is uh is our head uh of of the body of Christ and so um y all of us are in sin and those who are are saved are in Christ uh and and praise God for that. Um yeah I I think There's going to be more to say that uh ties to this, but I don't have a whole lot more I want to say now because I think when we get into the the rest of it is going to start to to fully flower. And because you're now reading, Raz doesn't have the mic at all. Anything you want to add at this at this stage? Okay All right. So let's read the uh the gospel portion. We we may or may not have time to talk about it much, but let's at least read it and then um and then this will probably the last section we we tackle for today's episode. So number six, the gospel. We affirm that the gospel is a divinely revealed message concerning the person and work of Jesus Christ, especially his virgin birth, righteous life, substitution. Sacrifice, atoning death, and bodily resurrection, revealing who he is and what he has done with the promise that he will save anyone and everyone who turns from sin by trusting him as Lord. We deny that anything else, whether works to be performed or opinions to be held, can be added to the gospel without perverting it into another gospel. This also means that implications and applications of the gospel, such as the obligation to live justly in the world, though legitimate and important in their own right, are not definitional components of the gospel. This is where the rubber really starts to m right hit the road in the debate and the conflict. That's what you were saying earlier that you know law and gospel are not the same thing. Law shows us why we need the gospel. Um but keeping the law is not what saves you and it's very, very important. Yeah, if somebody says, you know, well, he he passed away earlier this year, but uh uh Tim Keller, very high profile uh pastor in New York City area, you know, he would say things like if you don't uh I if you're if you're stingy, if you don't give sacrificially to the poor, that you know, that's a gospel issue. No, it's an obedience question. Right. But it's saying we are called to be generous in response to the gospel. Right? That should be our our loving, humble response is to to do these things to but to conflate them. Or if um if your ancestors d did something bad and uh you should you should desire to try to make things right as much as is up to you and and and you can get involved with. But if uh if you don't, that doesn't mean you're not saved, that just means you're disobedient. If you're if If there is a requirement for you to do something to make something right and you don't do it, then that would be a violation of the law. So this is where um the the real stuff begins to happen on this. I think. We've got about two minutes left. So you have any closing thoughts on what we've talked about so far? We're almost halfway through. important to keep the gospel separate from from Lua. And we need to fight for it. So it doesn't look like either of you your body language is telling you you don't have a whole lot more you want to add. So I'm going to put a a a closing point on on this Because sometimes people have been not so nice to each other on social media, in person, on shows like this, uh uh regarding this kind of an issue. And so you get the tone police coming out and say, oh, your tone is is not good. And you know what? If somebody gets the gospel wrong, the tone should be pretty aggressive, in my view. Paul's pretty aggressive to Peter when he gets the gospel wrong of the Galatians controversy, right? I mean Well, you got the gospel wrong, dude Clean up your act. And if they re consistently refuse to change and and be biblical in their teaching, if they're pastors and seminary professors and that sort of thing and they're And they're they're leaders in the church and teachers in the church, if they are not telling the truth about the gospel and they refuse to repent from it, they need to be called out. You identify them as somebody who's demarked and avoided, right? Because they're wolves in sheep's clothing, and so the tone, get out your rivals and shoot the wolves, metaphorically speaking But when we're disagreeing about things that aren't the gospel, for those things then we need to have um more more of a brotherly tone, a little more let's agree to disagree on this. We don't have to we don't have to pick up our our our guns and shoot at each other over this because the gospel's not at stake. And that's why it's so important that we identify the difference between gospel and law, because if we're going to start shooting each other over disagreements of what obedience exactly should look like and call it a gospel issue. Man, we're all gonna be dead. We all get things like that wrong. But Christians don't get the gospel wrong. If the gr if somebody gets the gospel wrong, they're not a Christian. Anyway, so that'll end up being pretty close to the last word. Uh let's see, I'm a little off on the music, but that's all right. This is the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. This was a technical uh mishmash of a show, but we covered some good ground and I don't know, we made such fast ground. I don't think we're gonna finish we're almost halfway through, but I don't think we're gonna finish it next week because I think we're gonna probably go a little slower. Uh my that's my assumption uh through these next weeks, but we'll see. Imrod Razby, uh known as Raz, uh because people tease them all the time, they like to razz them. No, something like that. Uh Daniel Razby, uh he's the one that gets razzed. Actually the truth of the matter is I'm forced to get around the one that gets aroused or should be. Uh anyway, thanks so much for listening. Uh connect with the online at householdfaith in Christ. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless. All right, well out of curiosity, I'm gonna turn everything off. Don't talk into it, just tap the mic. When you tap it, that's moving. I just turned it off. I turn it back on. Hello, I wonder if there's a short or something. Actually do me a favor and I'll put the headphones on and I'll see if I can hear you. Testing. One, two, three. Testing. No. Sounds fine. Okay. Now it's working. That was residual Ouija board attack. Okay. Awful Well at least we're gonna that's good. Yeah, I guess it's awkward to have to share the mic. So It's not as awkward when there's three people because somebody else is talking and you can be like self-conscious. Oh, I just talked, now the third person's talking over here. Let me slide the mic over so they have a chance to talk next. But it's harder when you're bouncing back and forth quickly and you're formulating your thoughts. It's awkward, so I apologize that we had to go through that. Let's see, let me make sure that I trim up the end here. Well goodness. I didn't stop it right away, so good. Here we go. So how's the family doing by the way? Good. I hope you guys do come July 2nd and again if the music's too allowed just Okay. Might give that a shot. What kind of music is it? It's the patriotic kind of stuff? Patriotic kind of stuff. We'll have some singing. We'll have uh brass quintet. Hopefully we'll be outside, but if it starts raining then we'll move inside But there's a room downstairs and doesn't it's not mic so or speaker, so he should be fine. Well the Franklin Drum Corps as well with corneal dress. Oh, so how how do you uh find folks like that? Okay. That's one way to do it. Yep. That's one way to do it. Eventually enough people know about him to reach out to him, but uh he We haven't done event like quite like this yet, so I had to reach out and just some contacts and get some referrals. But Bernie is gonna be talking. He does a good job. He knows this he knows all that stuff pretty inside and out at this stage. Mm-hmm. Has he been on the show before? Yeah, he's been on a few times. And uh he actually spoke at Hustle of Faith in Christ and he did a whole uh gospel message revolving around the flag of Maryland kind of thing. And Yeah. And actually we went he he guided us through the uh Museum of the Bible. Yeah. And years ago um my family and a couple of friends See he took us through a uh uh like a DC monuments kind of a of a tour thing, spent the day doing that. So yeah, he's Um he knows his stuff. After a while, you know, there's there's a little bit of uh of repeat. Overlap overlap, you know. So I've I've heard some of his stories like four or five times at the state probably. But you know what? I think the world probably heard my stories four or five times too. So All right. That's right. Let's see, we were picking up on salvation, correct? Yes, right. We affirm that salvation is granted by God's grace alone, received through faith alone, in Jesus Christ alone. Every believer is united to Christ, justified before God and adopted into his family, thus In God's eyes, there is no difference in spiritual value or worth among those who are in Christ. Further, all who are united to Christ are also united to one another, regardless of age, ethnicity, or sex. All believers are being conformed to the image of Christ. By God's regenerating and sanctifying grace, all believers will be brought to a final, glorified, sinless state of perfection in the day of Jesus Christ. That's the affirmation for part seven of the statement on social justice and the gospel, the salvation section. We'll hear the denial in just a second. This is the faith debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me online at householdoffaith in Christ dot com, Household of Faithinchrist. com. Of course you can find us at WFMD. com as well. Go to the Faith Debate page. And on the panel again this week from last week, Imran Razby, known as Raz and Daniel Razby, known as Daniel. And they have a ministry, Concord by Love Ministries, online at concordbylove. org And uh Higher Ground Financial, you can find them there too, Higround Financial dot com, I assume. Uh HGFG dot com, yep. Okay. Higher Ground Financial Group dot com. Alright, so Testing, testing. We tested this between shows and it was fine. There's a short. There's gotta be a short. I mean, see if that does anything. Oh, I took it completely out. Putting it back in. Alright. Oh, we fixed it. Alright. Daniel's a manly mind. Yeah, let's not touch it anymore. We deny that salvation can be received in any other way We didn't also deny that salvation renders any Christian free from all remaining sin or immune from even grievous sin in this life We further deny that ethnicity excludes anyone from understanding the gospel, nor does anyone's ethnic or cultural heritage mitigate or remove the duty to repent and believe So one of the problems with the CRT, the critical race theory stuff, the uh the woke mob, right, the social justice warriors. Is they screw this one up. They don't properly apply, and maybe it's because they don't all properly understand what salvation means, what it brings. Our union with Christ means we're in union with one another. But by definition, I'm white and can't be in union with you because you're brown. It blows up what a huge aspect of what salvation means and what it brings. Christ is our as our federal head and we're in union with him. So there's no There's no more Jew or Greek. There's no male, female, there's no more distinction like that. God's not a respecter of persons, and yet they insist on making the whole issue about being a respecter of persons. Like they've lost the game at that point. It's no longer Christianity. Right. And people wouldn't sign this because well I don't really disagree with what it says, but the implications could be implications it's the sel it's the salvation story. What? What's well, inside of Christ, what's more inclusive than the gospel? Exactly. Outside of Christ, what's more exclusive than the gospel? The current culture is to separate, not to unify And inside of Christ everything is unified. And there is no differentiation between uh age, race, ethnic background, language, none of that matters. Whereas in the current culture everything matters uh that uh can separate. Identity is is very important to Americans because it's the uh the way that you are, the way that you appear and the way that you believe believe yourself to be is paramount, not uh you know, that you're part of something that God designed for you. And and so what do you I want to talk about the last sentence here. Nor does anyone's ethnic or cultural heritage mitigate or remove the duty to repent and and believe. So there's a lot of uh people that are saying, well you know you're already kind of partially partially there just by virtue of how you were born or how you were raised, you're already in a good spot. Maybe there's not much for you to do. And I think this kind of goes back to the the whole idea that we've uh in this culture we've redefined racism to be only from from the perspective of somebody who historically has been in their an oppressive group, right? So the idea that a black person is not capable of being racist or uh i w which is which is kind of the opposite of what it used to be just prejudice of any kind, right? And so the the whole idea that because you're in a certain status or you are from a certain background, therefore you don't have to do the same things or Repent in the same way as someone else before God, I think that's that's the dangerous uh idea. Right. Get out of jail free card because you have you have a lot of melanin in your skin. So y you can't commit the sin of partiality. And you can't be held as Right, yeah. And if that isn't diminishing, right? Right. I mean that's like that's backhanded. How I I it's easy for me to say I don't have a lot of melon in my skin. But if I did, I'd be offended. At least I'd hope I'd be offended. I'm offended for them. Right? They're saying you can't help but that you're a jerk. Why? Because you have dark skin? The way the world labels things, that's pretty racist. Yeah. Right. Right? There's only one human race, by the way. Right. So so for those of you listening, if you agree with us that there's only one human race then uh what you should do this is what I do on all the forms that I fill out, any application form, any uh internet form, any paper form, they have a box to put your race in. And I will write my own box and I'll put human. And if there is no spot because it's on online forum, then I check all of the boxes. What are you gonna do when transhumanism is more of a thing It's a thing, but when it's more of a thing. There are people who identify as cats and right tigers and bears or whatever and they put on these stupid costumes and it's it's re it's insane. It's like it's yeah, I will say it's one of two things, and maybe it's both of those two things in combination, but it's at least one of these two things. It's mental illness or it's demonic. Right? They're either there's something wrong with their brain or there's something wrong in their soul, in their spirit, in their being, that there's there's something wrong there. Right. You think you you think you're a cat? No. What what's going on? All right. Number eight, the church We affirm that the primary role of the church is to worship God through the preaching of his word, teaching sound doctrine, observing baptism and the Lord's Supper, refuting those who contradict equipping the saints. Feels like it should be contradict something. Think there are words missing there. To contradict what? Anyway, equipping the saints And evangelizing the lost. We affirm that when the primacy of the gospel is maintained, that this often has a positive effect on the culture in which various Societal ills are mollified. We affirm that under the lordship of Christ we are to obey the governing authorities established by God and pray for civil leaders. That's a mouthful. The denial says what We deny that political or social activism should be viewed as integral components of the gospel or primary to the mission of the church Though believers can and should utilize all lawful means that God has providentially established to have some effect on the laws of a society, we deny that these activities are either evidence of saving faith or constitute a central part of the church's mission given to her by Jesus Christ her head. We deny that laws or regulations possess any inherent power to change sinful hearts. That's the you cannot legislate morality. um that people often say. But that doesn't again that the purpose of that phrase doesn't mean that you shouldn't have laws about morality. It means it's not going to make somebody moral just because you have a law. Yeah, there's things that you can't change a sinful heart. Only God can do that. But yeah, we can have uh we can have laws that can help control somebody's behaviors or or punish those who don't uh subscribe to the behaviors that they should. And it's important, I mean political activism uh y you may be very into political activism, but it should be always secondary or tertiary. It should never be as a forefront in your mind as praying and and worshiping God, reading the Bible, uh fellowshipping with the saints. That should be the primary And the way they're dis defining the words here, I'm I'm I'm thinking that they're probably talking about the church institutionally as opp uh as opposed to the church as the body of believers. kind of thing. I mean there's because we use that sometimes church means the building, sometimes it means the institution, sometimes it means all Christians are the church. There's different ways that I think in this case they're probably talking about the int institutional role. So that those who are leading churches should be mostly focused on leading the people to worship God, to preach God's word, to teach sound doctrine, all those sorts of things, and to not get s uh stuck on social activism. And it's not just on the left. You see this on the left with um uh the the the so-called liberal Christian churches, uh who are very uh involved in activism and marches and and that sort of thing. We saw it with the the BLM Black Lives Matter uh marches, a lot of churches organized not involved in the U. And even not from the left. I mean you see the church churches marching and then march for life. Right. They come as a church group or whatever. And that and that's fine. So for me the distinct is the I was about to say you pick kind of picked up the thread a little bit. On the right also there's um A lot of people think that the church, the institution, not belief is violently, but institution should do something about abortion. Well, we should teach against it, preach against it, instruct our people to understand what it's all about, and motivate them as Christians to do something. But the institution, that's not the role for the institution. It can be the role for the individual Christians and if they want to the role for the civil government to punish murder. And if the Christians want to come together and if they want to go on the march for life as a group of Christians Right uh representing their church even, that's fine, I I would argue, but for the church leadership to be the ones who organize it, pull it all together, and distract from the things they should be doing In order to pull that off and become basically community organizers at that point, th w we're off mission. Um mission is to preach the gospel and to disciple believers. That's the mission of the church. I I think you can boil it down for uh smaller than what this paragraph says. I mean all these things are yeah the church should be doing these things. But that was a quite a long list. Yeah. Basically preach the gospel and disciple believers That's the that's and and fellowship with each other, you know, the uh building each other up and edify one another. Now as far as words, that was one of the larger ones, but it's not the biggest one. All right. So number nine is heresy. Ooh, in stereo. We affirm that heresy is a denial or uh of or departure from a doctrine that is essential to the Christian. faith. We further affirm that heresy often involves the replacement of key essential truths with variant concepts or the elevation of non-essentials to the status of essentials To embrace heresy is to depart from the faith once delivered to the saints and thus to be on a path towards spiritual deconstruction. I'm going to let you finish. Oh, I'm sorry, that's a deconstruction. Construction tonight. Destruction. Uh I'm going to pause there and let you finish the uh the affirmation because the denial is really short. So you can do that. We affirm that the accusation of heresy should be reserved for those departures from Christian truth that destroy the weight bearing doctrines of the redemptive core of Scripture. The redemptive core of Scripture. We affirm that accusations of heresy should be accompanied with clear evidence of such destruction. Beliefs. We deny that the charge of heresy can be legitimately brought against every failure to achieve perfect conformity to all that is implied in sear in sincere faith in the gospel. Um so yes, I mean heresy is a is a weighty word. You don't want to use it lightly, um, but it says the core of Scripture, the redemptive core, the doctrine, the the the the the doctrine of the gospel, right? How you get saved. That's what heresy basically heresy is something that if you say it and you call yourself a Christian, then you're clearly not a Christian if you believe what you're saying. So uh that you're not going to go to heaven. So the her something heretical is something that prevents you from going to heaven by by holding that belief. Right. It's a salvation issue. Yeah, I would say somebody could say something wrong and then be corrected and say, No you don't want to say that, that's heresy. What do you mean? You teach and they're like, Oh yeah, okay, I You know, but if they continue to advocate and I think they're setting the stage here for them to have the broader discussion coming out of this statement, that 'cause they're gonna turn around when this statement's published and released and say that all the critical race theory, black liberation theology stuff is heresy. Because it's the gospel's at stake. It's about redemptive um how do they say it here? Redemptive core of scripture it's it's striking right at that. It's it's cutting the legs out of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so they want I think there's there's a saying when we call you guys heretics, this is why. I think that's what they're what they're doing with this I mean so so to give let's give an example of one or the other, right? So it would be heresy to say that uh Jesus is not God, right? Jesus is not deity. Um or that he did not die for our sins. It would not be heresy to say that men should have long hair or short hair or that uh you know you should you should be following uh i you know make make sure that this part this passage of exodus or this passage of exodus is a little more or less important and uh you know or various uh different things. Um or w or whether that uh Um I but the there's a plenty of doctrines in in scripture that are not striking at the core of how do you get saved and how do you have a relationship with with Christ And you can only have the fullness of blessing from God and therefore have your best life now when a bunch of people with a lot of money give it to you. Yes. But that's kind of what's going on with this thing, right? Yeah, mainline gospel has changed. based on what it means to have a relationship with Christ. It's uh very, very inclusive of a lot of sinful behavior. Yeah. All right, let's do number 10. Sexuality in marriage We affirm that God created mankind, male and female, and that this divinely determined distinction is good, proper, and to be celebrated. Maleness and femaleness are biologically determined at conception and are not subject to change. The curse of sin results in sinful disordered affections that manifest in some people as same-sex attraction Salvation grants sanctifying power to renounce such dishonorable affections as sinful and to mortify them by the Spirit. We further affirm that God's design for marriage is that one woman and one man live In a one-flesh, covenantal, sexual relationship until separated by death. Those who lack the desire or opportunity for marriage are called to serve God in singleness and chastity. This is a noble calling, is as noble a calling as marriage. We deny that human sexuality is a socially constructed concept. We also deny that one's sex can be fluid. Uh maybe they they should have said gender as well in the uh if in this state It's already a few years out of date now. We reject gay Christian as a legitimate biblical category. We further deny that any kind of partnership or union can properly be called marriage other than one man and one woman in one lifelong covenant together. We further deny that people should be identified as sexual minorities, which serves as a cultural classification rather than one that honors the image-bearing character of human sexuality as created by God. So male and female uh biologically determine that conception and are not subject to change. Um there this is where you'll get some one of the small uh intelligent people on the left will say, Well what about intersex? What about those people that are born deformed that you can't tell which one it is? Okay. So I think I think one of the a great answer for that is similar to the answer when people ask, well what about exceptions for abortion? Okay, well let's let's discuss that. Oh, you first willing to agree with me agree with me that in all other instances they are unchangeable? Oh well no, I'm not gonna agree with that. Well then we still need to have that conversation. Yes, people were born born uh Deform and and God uh I I don't know the answer to that, but in the vast, vast majority and and for those of you listening, uh it's because it's been making the rounds a lot lately, uh There's there's this statistic that one point seven percent of all people are intersex. No, that doesn't that's not true. It's it's more like zero point zero one uh But they're they're including things like, oh you had a testicle removed or you were born with one less ovary, oh therefore you're intersect no it's pretty clear who you are, right? So I think it's a lot more limited than people think. But it does exist, just like people are born without one arm or something. something. And God does love those people a as as much in as much as they have the opportunity to be saved and be be in a union with God but I think that's that's missing the point of what the masters push in this culture is to make everything fluid. Yeah, and those uh those exceptions are are examples of uh we live in a fallen world. It's broken, and that's why we have disease and illness. And it's interesting the word he used, right? Deformity. It's not properly formed, it's deformed because it's not as it should be. So What then that does not mean that as a soul, that soul is worth less than someone else in God's eyes. No, clearly not. Yeah, my I you know, I have a adult disabled son who's got lots of problems. Uh there's some genetic issues uh going on there, evidence of the fall. But uh he is an image bearer, the same as anyone else, uh who's uh uh uh you know, a human being. And um despite of his disabilities and despite the the challenge he faces because of the brokenness that he has doesn't make him any less In fact there's in some ways in which he he demonstrates things that are more beautiful and wonderful about the human condition um because of the personality that maybe goes along with some of those uh differences for him him. So yeah, absolutely not. But I think that the this statement is focusing on the sexuality and the and the marriage thing because of the intersectionality. Right. And and the that's a big word I guess. Most people might know what that means now if they last five years. But basically the more um uh reasons to be oppressed you have, the more intersections you have. So if if uh someone is a a woman, a woman's more oppressed than a man, so if she is a a and a gay person is more oppressed than a straight person Uh right, and uh and a a a black person is more oppressed than a white person. So if you are a a a black woman lesbian, you have three intersections you're highly oppressed. Now on top of that, if you happen to have some sort of a physical disability or gender confusion, right, y you think you're like uh uh I don't even know what the different ones are. it th uh number fifty seven on the list of sixty some odd genders. If you're number fifty seven you have all these intersections, so I think they're starting to get at that like, you know, it's not about that. It's about one man, one woman. Yeah Yeah, what what is a woman? Well, apparently you don't have people to find that to be on the Supreme Court. Outside. Yes And and is that say we deny that any kind of partnership or union can be properly called marriage, other than one way one man, one woman in life phone code together. And that's the pushing back against people say, well, gay marriage. Well you shouldn't use that phrase because it is not marriage. It's a it's a it's a two people but it's not marriage. Now I I think I think while I agree that God's it says uh earlier, God's design for marriage is one man, one woman for life, right? Which is g Adam and Eve, that's the And Jesus said, From the beginning it was not so. There's other things that happened, but from the beginning from the beginning it was not so. But I think there is a fundamental difference in category between let's say somebody was a uh polygamist. There have been men in scripture that were polygam polygamist And that's a very different type of relationship th uh than a gay relationship. Um and you you may uh it I I don't know say you can you can't even call it marriage. I don't know. I mean maybe maybe you can call it David was married to those uh Uh various queens he had in the Bible. I think that's more of a marriage than two men would be. Um so there may be a little bit variations of that. But the the point is God's design is one man, one woman Um and most importantly, definitely not two men or two women or you know that type of thing. Anything else to to add on that one? Alright. Number eleven, complementarianism. This first paragraph is a doozy. So I'll uh Break this down into sections or something. We affirm that God created mankind, both male and female, with inherent biological and personal distinctions between them, and that these created differences are good, proper, and beautiful Though there is no difference between men and women before God's law, or as recipients of his saving grace, we affirm that God has designed men and women with distinct traits. and to fulfill distinct roles. These differences are most clearly defined in marriage and the church, but are not irrelevant in other spheres of life In marriage, the husband is to lead, love, and safeguard his wife, and the wife is to respect and be submissive submissive to her husband in all things lawful. You want to pick up that In the church, qualified men alone are to lead as pastors or elders or bishops and preach to and teach the whole congregation. We further affirm that the image of God is expressed most fully and beautifully in human society when men and women walk in obedience to their God-ordained roles and serve according to their God-given gifts. We deny that the God ordained differences in men's and women's roles disparage the inherent spiritual worth or value of one or the other, nor do those differences in any way inhibit either men or women from flourishing for the glory of God. that many people would call this last cause to be contradictory to the last cause in the previous paragraph where it says, um, you know, men and women should be walking in obedience to uh uh and serve according to their God given gifts. And many will be say, Well I was given the gift of being a pastor. And then they're saying, uh you're inhibiting me from forishing for the glory of God. So where's there this passage is saying, no any truly God given gift is going to fall within those uh roles that that you will not be inhibited in being able to flourish. And maybe you are we do have the gift of teaching as a woman, then you're should be teaching other women in the church. There's plenty of uh explanation in scripture about how that uh works. This is probably one of the most uh inflammatory uh there's a lot more to be said and we're gonna I think we'll pick up next week's show on this even though we've just now read it we're just beginning to talk about it and this is like you said one of the more inflammatory So we'll cover that next week. We'll get into number 12, which is which is race and ethnicity. And uh we probably will finish 13 culture, 14 racism. I don't like that they used the word racism in the s in the statement at all, but I I I guess I understand why they had to do that. Anyway, this is the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. working our way through the statement on social justice and the gospel that came out back in 2018, which feels like a lifetime ago. Daniel Razby's been uh uh doing a lot of the reading. I appreciate that. Maybe we can get Imron to read a little bit Next time, who knows? And Ron Razby on the show too. I'm Troy Skinner. Um find us online at WFMD. com or Household of Faith in Christ. com. We'll be back next week the same time, or pretty much the same time, I guess to be more exact, 160 Have you been paying attention at all to the uh Southern Baptist Convention stuff that just happened? Just happened? Like last week or whatever. No. Yeah Rick uh they they adopted C R T last year or two years ago. Yeah. Rick uh the complementarian question is uh came up, that's why Exactly. Well they no, they said no. Uh but uh somebody voted for it. It was touch and go. Yeah, but they already adopted s uh CRT a couple of years ago. And so as far as I'm concerned, the Southern Baptist Convention is no longer God following your spiritual uh spirit uh your sp scriptural based uh organization. Yeah, the convention itself is a mess, but the way that their t that denomination works, the individual churches aren't necessarily bound, and so I think there can be some faithful churches inside of it. I agree with that. But they've got a tough road ahead of them to figure out how to navigate that. I think I if it were me, if I was on the Southern Baptist convention of our church was connected, I think I would have I I would have said we're unequally yoked and separate. And it's come a long way. About five, six years ago, I think it was No, maybe ten years ago. They almost voted to ban all members of all Southern Baptist congregations from participating in any public school. That would have decimated the public schools in the s in the south and create a whole lot of homeschoolers. But Billy Graham's son really, really per He said, no, your kids should be so right in the public school for uh um for everybody. What was this? It was it was in number of the year. It was in the last decade. It was very very recent, much more recent than you might think. But having it changed from almost I mean they lost the vote by very little back then They were going to make a formal recommendation that all members uh disassociate from public school. Can you imagine if all fella Baptists pulled their kids out of public school? Yeah, well it's the biggest group of uh Protestants uh in the country. How many would have how many parents would have actually followed the recommendation of the convention? I don't know. Maybe let's say thirty percent. There's still so many kids. I don't know. I mean I I that that that that'll be an emergency look look how many parents are still angry about what post schools are teaching and they go to the school board meetings but they don't pull their kids out, they just whine about it at the school board meetings. They don't actually want they want to fix the school where they're going to be able to do it. Right, people that's how people are though, right? The world's burning down around us and everybody's creating memes to put on social media. Or they're railing against everything and that's happening with our politicians, but I don't know, what's the voter turnout? You know what I mean? Like people won't they won't do the simplest thing People wanna we we we got we we we must insist that everyone says Merry Christmas but oh I can't go to church as a football game You know what I mean? We just won't do anything requires any s anything of us. Not even a sacrifice per se. Like a most modest sacrifice. Anything of us. We as a group, we just won't do it. That's why we're in the mess that we're in right now Yeah. You know, the men who were in charge of things two hundred plus years ago, uh, they they were doers. They weren't just talkers and dreamers. They were like, hey, we gotta do something about this, and they and they took chances. Nobody takes chances right now. Now it's unfortunate. Anyway, we'll jump right into the uh the next one. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning with us if you're listening on the radio or part of whatever day it is if you're listening to the podcast later on. Appreciate you very much We're working our way through the 19, or not 19, boy, I'm stuck in the wrong millennium, the uh 2018 statement on social justice and the gospel. We've done two shows, we have third. This might be the last one on this particular uh subject matter. If you want to get more information about what's going on, what's the issues that are raised in the statement you can go to uh a couple other documents because you might have noticed uh gentlemen some overlap with the the Denver statement and the Nashville statement, the kinds of issues. There is some overlap there. So if you want to get more meat on the bones of some of the things that just skeletally outlined here. You can go to the Danver Statement or the Nashville statement. We've actually done shows on those statements recently as well. Once from nineteen eighty seven, one's from twenty seventeen, and now we're up to two thousand So we read last week, by the way, Imran Razvi and Daniel Razvi from uh the church that meets at Imran's house in Thermont and also Conquered by Love. Uh MinistriesConquered by Love. org is their website or also on the show to finish this. Last week we read the complementarianism section, which is the section number 11 of 14, so we are heading down the home stretch. And Daniel shared a couple of thoughts before the the show ended, but this is a big hot button issue. Um it's a third rail issue for a lot of conversations. You can lose friends over this one So eve there's plenty of churches that even though they reject homosexuality, oh we would never have a gay pastor. But I mean, why can't a woman be a be a pastor I mean th she's saved and she's and and and maybe you have a very small church and out of all the the the members in the congregation there's no men that are very uh qualified or de deep in the word and this one woman who's older and and more experienced and knows everything and she knows all the doctrines, why can't she be the one preaching? Doesn't it make logical sense And I mean n whether it makes logical sense or not is irrelevant because God did command this is what the way it must be. And part of that is uh God God knows best, we don't know exactly why and and all situations but also God is trying to give a picture of the way Christ and the and the church. There's the the husband is is the the head and the wife is is to follow and the the church should be a picture of that, just like uh the marriage is a picture of that, our relationship with Christ. So these are very important. Yeah, so churches that have uh uh decided to ordain uh women as pastors are in clear disagreement with what the scriptures say. And for for that matter, uh churches that that decide to ordain men that are not married, like the Catholic Church are a clear violation of what the scripture says. It says that there must be a husband of one wife. Um I think that's that's a big uh big deal. Is is it as big of a deal as the female pastors I I don't know, I I almost would say it is because both of them are clearly going against what scripture very specifically lays out. They're both violations. Um you know, one is at least it's it's still a man, but it does say not any man can be a pastor. You have to be qualified. That's what this this passage says. Qualified men alone are to lead, right? So not just any man. Um Um but I think that I think that's very important as well. I would push back against what the Catholic Church has done, which is to say uh that you know Men should not be buried. Yeah, that's a different issue than the complementarianism one. That might be a a uh actually a good topic because I'm not entirely sure. I'm trying to think like what do we do with the churches that were led by the Apostle Paul? He didn't he didn't leave churches. He planted them and started them. He was by default he was the leader in the church. And I would argue that he was probably married and maybe his wife had died, but uh it would be very, very hard for somebody of that stature at that time not to have been married. Because I've always understood that more in the sense of it, you know uh being a a statement against polygamy as opposed to singleness. Well, I think both because it does say it must otherwise it would say not having more than one wife. It would say it it sa it says He must be the husband of what's going on. Because that that would be an interesting t uh show topic. Married men only for pastors. I mean we are in agreement that women should not be pastors, regardless of how well qualified and knowledgeable in the doctrines they are. Um there's plenty of support roles they can play and they and they could also be very influential in training other women, but not to be vegan. Josh. And it's not that women aren't great and wonderful, as the statement goes out of its way to say how wonderful women are. That's not the point. The point is What are the roles? Now I know in today's confused world uh men can have babies too, supposedly, right? So I I I I get that. But Biblically defined, men cannot have children. Does that make men lesser than women? Well, in the child bearing bearing way, maybe, I don't know. But women uh can't impregnate someone else. Like we we have different roles, different uses. And one of the problems we have in the in the in the culture and in the church right now is passive men. Men who don't want to step up, don't want to do hard things. They don't lead in their church. They don't lead in their home They don't necessarily even lead at work. They're too busy worrying about their, you know, their fantasy football league or something. Like they're just not they're not engaged in being leaders. And and so they abdicate that responsibility, and we end up in a situation like Deborah in the Old Testament. She's like, all right, if you guys aren't gonna do it, I guess I will. So Stephen Deborah said, look, this is to your shame. Exactly. If I'm leaning I'm I'm going out with you to to be on the sidelines when you're in the battle You I'm shaming you by doing this. You do realize that. And he's like, oh yeah, yeah, I I get it. And we didn't get it. And we see this as a core problem all the way back to the very beginning. Because in the garden, the serpent tempts Eve. And Adam's right there. But he doesn't step up in leadership and say, hey. Mr Serpent sir, may I interrupt you for a moment? Don't speak to my wife, talk to me. He doesn't he doesn't intervene and take headship. Interesting. Actually never thought of the idea that Adam was staying right there I always assume he was in this in another part of the garden at the time. He's has to be s probably standing there kind of thing. But anyway, uh and so men are all too eager to abdicate the leadership responsibilities that they should step into and the world will be better. If we had more fathers Who are actually doing what fathers do, right? If we had more men involved in church, you go to the average church and it's a lot of women compared to the men. There's more women than men at most churches. That that's a problem. And so the women, of course, are m all too eager to then step in and and take that role on. So the men are Their their i their fallen fleshly instinct is to sin against what they've been called to do. What would you say to somebody that says, Well, there must be an exception to this woman past the rule? I mean see, look at Deborah. She was a pro uh A a prophetess and and j judge and why can't women I mean if there is no well first make sure there's no qualified men, but if there aren't any, well why can't we have the woman be the pastor? Well what do you say to somebody that asks you that question sincerely yeah well first of all I i i uh I think we would have to create a scenario uh that's not just you know live action role playing just LARPing. You're stranded on a desert island somewhere and it's a bunch of Christians and all the men are killed in the accident and left everybody stranded and there's nobody there Maybe there's uh there's a couple of men but they're they're unconscious and they're weak and they can they can't do it. So could the woman take the role of the pastor in that scenario? You know, I don't know. I'd have to think about that and pl and and and gameplay that out. But the reason I'm bringing that up is that's not the situation that we're in. Right, it's it's it's a total fantasy that like there are no men. In in Frederick County, I will I will agree that there are there's a a a uh a very limited number of faithful men leading churches in Frederick County. They exist, but they're limited. But they exist. So go to one of those churches. It's it's so it it's it's like you said, um uh was it last week, Daniel? Well okay if I give you this one exception, you'll grant everything else Okay, so in the ex in the extreme rare possible scenario where there are no men except for like you know, invalids who you know are Physically Sick. Yeah, or whatever. Could we then okay, if I grant you that, will you admit then that women can't be pastors in all these other situations? Well no, no, no. It's the same kind of an argument Right. Right. It's it's like it's absurd. We're arguing in absurdities. It's ridiculous. That's m that's that's my my view. Good point. So this time I'll read the affirmation. Okay. We affirm God made all people from one man. Though people could often can be distinguished by different ethnicities and nationalities, they are ontological equals before God in both creation and redemption. Race is not a biblical category, but rather a social construct. people also say gender is a social construct, and we're saying here race is a social construct that often has been used to classify groups of people in terms of of inferiority and superiority, all that is good, honest, just, and beautiful in various ethnic backgrounds and experiences can be celebrated as the fruit of God's grace All sinful actions and their results, including evils perpetrated between and upon ethnic groups by others, are to be confessed as sinful, repented of, and repudiated We deny that Christians should segregate themselves into racial groups or regard racial identity above or even equal to their identity in Christ We deny that any divisions between people groups, from an unstated attitude of superiority to an overt spirit of resentment, have any legitimate place in the fellowship of the redeemed. We reject any teaching that encourages racial groups to view themselves as privileged oppressors or entitled victims of oppression, while we are to weep with those who weep, we deny that a person's feelings of offense or oppression necessarily prove that someone else is guilty of sinful behavior, uh oppression or prejudice. So if I were to improve this Under the article, the Roman numeral twelve, they have race slash ethnicity. I wish they had just put ethnicity. And then later on they say race is not a biblical category. So if it's not a category, why is it in the header? I think because it's it's generally used term in today's language. Yeah, but I I'm my pushing back against that and not using it this generally used term it that's it it doesn't it's it's It's not a category, it's a social construct. I yeah. It's a small thing, but we w it's not gonna win the war changing that. But continuing to make these unforced errors, they they accumulate over time. Right. It's like a pet peeve of mine maybe. I like that they're very clear, right? You can't uh uh we reject reject any teaching that encourages racial groups to view themselves as privileged oppressors and all the uh be a lot of people say, yeah, yeah, we or entitled victims of oppression. So you can't view yourself as either one of those, right? And that uh it is wrong to have a feeling of prejudice towards another group regardless of whether they historically have oppressed or been oppressed. Either side of it, whatever side they're on, right? So the the whole idea and we'll get to racism in in a little bit down there because they have another section that says racism. But I I like that they they put that there. And everybody came from one man. Mm-hmm. We all came from Adam. He was probably brown, halfway between everybody else in the world and create all these variations, right? But I don't know what he looked like, but the point is we all came from Adam. And I I thought it was very interesting. There is more uh you may may have heard this before, but scientifically there's more genetic variation in whether someone's ear lobe is touching the bottom of the ear lobe is touching their cheek or or uh the Disattached from their cheek. There's more genetic variation in that than the blackest person to the whitest person. So the people with the earlobe touching the cheek are clearly oppressed. Of course. They're different at least Yeah, and I do like that at the in the affirmation they begin with, you know, people can be distinguished by different ethnicities, nationalities, their ontological equals before God. Because you probably have heard this. Somebody says, look, why are we making it about somebody's skin color? I don't even see color. And they say, oh, so you don't see col that's not what they mean. When somebody says, when I look at someone, I don't see color. What they're saying is they're not saying, well, I don't see your n ethnicity. I don't see your heritage. I don't see your background. I don't see what you actually look like to my eyeball. They're not saying and they're not saying they don't value those things. What they're saying is they're not seeing you as an ontoloc uh ontological hard work for meselves them unequal before God. They say I'm seeing you as an equal. The color of your skin is not so I'm not In regard to that, I don't see color. We'd have to be blind to not see the color of somebody's skin, but if that changes the way in which you're going to interact with them. Then you're seeing color in a way that's unfavorable and not good, and that's what they're meaning to say. 'Cause it used to be from from the left, um or from not necessarily from the left, but from the the whole anti racism or you know, um black rights movement or whatever. Um that you should and Martin Luther King has talked about hey we should not be seeing color and then now when people are saying that's what I am no, you need to and also you should be treating us differently. That's kinda going backwards. from you know it's it's on the other side but it's still a prejudice. It's still a it's a problem. And a and they don't want to be treated equally, the ones who are advocating this, they want to be treated differently. And you know that when uh during the presidential campaigns when this became a big issue and uh O'Malley was running and it was one of those town hall things and somebody asked him the question of if he believed that black lives matter. And he wasn't hip to the argument at the time. So he said, well of course black lives matter. All lives matter. And he got booed. So they don't want it that we're all equal all over lives later. No ours are special, unique, separate. It's like that they they're going backwards in time though, right? It's segregation. They're segregating themselves. It's not about the color of the skin, it's about your posture, about your language, about your dress, about how you behave, how you uh portray yourself. And I mean I've seen many videos of uh young black men uh behaving really disrespectfully and aggressively toward police officers and then you wonder why police officers are react in that way. It's it's not because of the race, it's because of how you're acting. And I'm not trying to com compare uh human beings to animals, but I'm just trying to make an analogy of somebody could relate to If you see a poodle and and uh and it's a cute docile poodle, you're gonna react differently than if you see a German shepherd, particularly if once upon a time a German shepherd was aggressive towards you Right, was barking and tried to bite you and stuff. The German anytime every time you see a German Shepherd, it might be the most docile German shepherd ever being like, Oh, that German shepherd scares me. You're gonna be on guard against that. The poodle, the docile little cute little fluffy fluff ball. Yeah, I can react the same way. And therefore you're predisposed to hate German Shepherd's. And that's that's the the argument that the c uh critical race theory is is making. is that there's nothing you can do about it. You're just naturally in prejudice. And sometimes we do have prejudices that are kind of wired into us because of our upbringing because our great grandparents were prejudiced people and they raised prejudiced kids who raised prejudiced kids who raised you and you might have some of that. And if that's the case, then you call that out and say, Imran, stop being prejudiced. But I can't look at him and say, Imran, stop your great great great great grandfather being prejudiced. He's dead two hundred years. What do you mean? So again I come back to you know It's h how you speak, how you look, how you how you dress, how you portray yourself, that makes a huge impact. Color has very little bearing on what I see So let's look at the uh that's a good segue to the next one, which is culture. Um So it says, we affirm that some cultures operate on assumptions that are inherently better than That's a that's a dangerous statement. Oh, my culture is better than yours. So we'll do It's true though. Those elements of a given culture that reflect divine revelation should be celebrated and promotion and sorry and promoted. But the various cultures out of which we have been called all have features that are worldly and sinful. And therefore those sinful features should be repudiated for the honor of Christ. We affirm that whatever evil influences to which we have been subjugated via our culture can be and must be overcome through conversion and the training of both mind and heart through biblical truth. We deny that individuals and subgroups in any culture are unable by God's grace to rise above whatever moral defects or spiritual deficiencies have been engendered or encouraged by their respective cultures. Yeah, people i the ugly American, right? You think America's a special country. Well not so much anymore these days, but for a long, long time, yes Because it was founded on biblical truth, it was founded on the the best aspects of English common law, which was good stuff. You know, and so there was a moral spine to what was going on. So there was something in our culture that made us better than other cultures. There's a reason why we had more success and we we won the wars instead of losing them and have lots of nice things instead of living in in grass huts with l and uh yeah there's definitely something to be said that's true about that. But but what I think the point they're making here is the culture the aspects of your culture that have their roots in the Bible that makes your culture better than someone else's culture who has a different assumption that is inherently unbiblical. Right? If your culture uh is a cannibalist culture, well that part of it is clearly unbiblical. And my culture that does not eat people is in all ways superior to that part of your culture, right? So because not because I'm morally repulsed uh by that because of my upbringing, but not because of that, but because the Bible and what the Bible teaches that don't need other people, right? That's the clear example that I think most people hopefully all people listening can agree with. I think it's it's really um uh important that uh to You you can celebrate differences in cultures as as they're saying here, but make sure what you're celebrating is actually founded in Scripture or or backed up by Scripture. At the very least, that scripture doesn't teach against whatever cultural thing is happening. But I think you should have some grace for the culture that you were brought up in you you're trained to look through certain eyes. And maybe you think that the Bible has some place for this, but maybe there you can make a good argument that there's this this is also biblical and right. We talked about honor and shame in this show in the past. many Christians would say that honor is the same as arrogance because they don't they haven't thought that through that there is there are two different things. Right. So just because you're all focused on honor doesn't mean you're a prideful person. It means that's that's a culture. Which you could also find So I think you want to be careful rather than saying, well, be based on my cultural understanding of the Bible, your culture is is not biblical. So I I would I would want to be a little bit t treading lightly um when we deal with culture. But certainly Yeah, the more in line with the Bible it is, the better it's gonna be and if that's if the culture mirrors that then it's it's a better culture. And when I was a kid You know, that idea I don't think we used the terms uh when I was a kid I certainly didn't know our culture. But our country, our people, our way of life was better than the USSRs. And boy do we get excited about the Olympics. Right? You know? That's why the USA hockey team winning in nineteen eighty was such a big deal because the USSR they had these thirty-eight-year-old seasoned vets, grizzled veterans of hockey, and they were all hopped up on performance enhancing drugs probably and they were they they were pros playing in an amateur sport and they were cheating. And we got a bunch of snot nose, you know, eighteen and nineteen year old kids. uh taking them on, but they're Americans and they won. So even our kids, our snot-nosed kids can beat you guys because we're better than you. And you know what? We were better than them. I'm not sure if that we're so b much better than anymore. But we were better and it's okay to ad to to admit that. But who are you to say that you're better or or or worse than somebody else is the pushback you get. Um who are you to say that cannibalism is wrong? Well, I nuts nobody to say the cannibalism is wrong. But God is. And I think that's the point that people miss. Who are you to say this? What expert have you? Are you an expert? No, but God is. And what God says we have to do, whether we like it or not, whether we understand it or not, always we have to be have obedience to God. And the thing that's interesting is people, well what if I'm not a w I don't even believe in God Well, I'm gonna use your phrase a different way. God is. Whether you believe in him or not. He is Bodhibak said it very well. You go up in in in a fencing in in a duo, you have a sword and and the and the guy comes up to you and says, I don't believe in your sword. You're like Okay, well I'm gonna cut you with my sword that you don't believe in. Here it goes. Right? At a certain point, yeah, it it's things exist. God exists So we have time for the last one? Um not really. We've got less than two minutes. I'm not even sure if we could read the whole thing in less than two So we might have to uh do another show that's focusing almost exclusively on racism and maybe some other uh things that might uh strike our our fancy to to flesh out the show if we don't have twenty-five minutes worth of content on quote unquote racism. uh what the bo Bible would define as partiality. Yeah. And there's different levels of racism too. I mean the the biggest conversation right now in today's world is systemic racism, which I am totally Um slide asked the people that think that, but let's talk about it next week. Okay. Sounds good. Sure. Alright, one more round next week. I'm gonna turn off my mic for a second to move it. See that? Huh? Huh? You couldn't even tell. If I didn't do that, you would have heard of the air. I was trying to avoid that. Anyway, this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Uh Imran Razvi, Daniel Rasvi. Uh they have a church in Thermont. Um I'm thinking I think you could probably find evidence of them online somewhere if you look really, really hard, but they don't have a website or anything, but it's The the church that meets at Imran's house, I think, is what they kind of call themselves. Who does? 119 Ministries. Okay. So if you go to these other websites you can find them. So they're piggybacking on other people's websites. Yes. Very clever way to um uh delegate Uh I I haven't been clever enough to do that, so we actually have a website. Mine is household of faith in Christ uh dot com, household of faith in Christ. the name of the church and the at the dot com and there you go. And you also have a ministry that has a website. It's Conquered by Love Ministries and their website is Conquered by Love And of course the radio station you're listening to right now has a website. Should plug that too, I guess. Wfmd. com. Go to the Faith Abate page there you can get a uh a look at previous shows and link to all the podcasts there or you can go to my website and do that as well or you can get a preview of what's going to be coming up. Usually that those previews drop on Friday. So on Fridays if you want to look and see what's going to be talked about on Sunday, go to WFMV. com to do that. Until next week, one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours from right now. God bless. That was the whole reasonable time break. I had snack, but like I said I was going to butt. Looks like you're tired by the way. I am. Just getting over getting over sick of this and just not getting enough sleep You must have been really charged with your phone. Usually by this time it's already blinking and it's running out of batteries, but if the live just feed is still on, it's still working. Wow. There's no uh Uh no warning sign popping up? Huh. So the people on Facebook can still hear us until they take us down. Should we put out some pop button words to see if we get vaccines. And when I'm in this mode racism. When I'm in this mode it doesn't tell me what my battery life is. I think if I had it turned in, I think I think of one word that I didn't think of. Uh there's a mean streak in you. What is a woman? Yeah, that's why I put stuff on Rumble now. I had too many things taken down on YouTube. just it i it's it's frustrating. You put the time and energy to put the stuff on YouTube and then they can take your whole channel down. It's like like a year's worth of work could be gone. It's like it's not worth it. Even though there's not as much traction on Rumble I guess. It's fascism and they they don't even see it. They don't see it. And then when they delete it, it's deleted. Like you don't have access to even download your own content. Right, yeah, it's gone. Like you can't yeah, it's grayed out, you can't even get to it. But although I wonder if there might be a way that you could preview it yourself. I'm I'm not sure about that, but I all my stuff is saved anyway, so even if YouTube blew it up, I still have it. And I have d I have it double backed up, so I have a requ I have a save twelve So if if something were to crash, I got it somewhere else. But that's why I'm using sermon audio, because they don't censor anything. Yeah, we're getting yeah, so probably within the next week ish or so we'll be kind of up to real time as far as what's aired on the radio will then be available uh on on the uh on the podcast. And I'm also putting stuff on Odyssey dot com. Odyssey is uh it's kind of like a a YouTube except nobody knows it exists. But they don't censor anything. They use blockchain technology which is what they use for like Bitcoin and stuff. And so uh it they can take stuff down if they really target it and but it takes them a lot of work to figure out how to get to something to take it off. So they can't just willy nilly knock stuff off. And they're not motivated to. And so uh that's a free platform. In Sermon Audio there's a small monthly fee for that. So if the day comes I don't want to pay the monthly fee anymore. I've s at least got stuff on the freeze. I don't think we have a whole twenty-five minutes to talk about this paragraph. We already kind of talked about partiality. Yeah, so we'll uh you have any other topics in the bank that we haven't gotten to that are visally related Um let me see. Have you guys been paying attention at all to the Christian uh nationalism? We did a show on Christian nationalism, yeah. But the the the statement that came out Oh the statement? No, I I'm but that's gonna start a whole new campaign. social gust social justice people did and they had a bunch of infighting. Maybe we can talk about that. Talk about the infighting among uh uh among believers on really silly, stupid things. I could spark some things and I'm sure you'll have a reaction. Okay, so we'll do that. What? You kidding me? Yeah, exactly. Don't get me started, but I guess you're about to Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here, hopefully each and every week. Well if you're listening to the podcast, well thank you for spending part of your life with us whenever it is that you're listening. My name is Troy Skinner. I've been hosting this show for quite a long time now, but I'm only seventeen years old. I don't know how I do it It. But I'm also in the age. That's right. I identify as whatever age I want. And I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ and have a website, Household of Faith in Christ. com. And that voice you just heard chiming in is Daniel Razvi. And you're also going to be hearing the voice of Imran Razvy, known as Raz, as well. They have a church in Thurmont. Still on. Well thanks for watching. If you leave a comment I'll uh I'll check that out later and get back to you. But my battery's about to die, so before I lose And can't save this recording, I'm going to finish. Alright, so thanks for watching