Thank you. watching. We're covering the Warrington Declaration on Medical Mandates and Biblical Ethics and Authority today. So a hotter topic. We've been working through all these different declarations lately, but this one's a little bit more feels a more contemporary and current for a lot of us and a little more politically charge so we'll see what kind of fun we have. So I'm going to jump right into recording so we won't be able to interact with you now but if you have a comment leave it there and we'll I'll get to it later Let's see. The Warrenton Declaration on Medical Mandates, Biblical Ethics, and Authority seeks to equip local churches and their officers in providing transparency on where they stand and uh to assist uh individuals who are being mistreated in their churches with a well-ordered summary of belief in this regard, with a tendency to over-attribute uh power and jurisdiction to the state. Oftentimes churches have defaulted to almost reflexively acquiescing to whatever government agency statements are made and the policies that they put in place. And as a result, rather than leading on these issues, pastors often become little more than mouthpieces for government. The rationale given is usually disjointed, unbalanced, and confused. So says the preamble to the Warranton Declaration on Medical Mandates, Biblical Ethics and Authority. And that's what we're talking about today on the faith debate. Good morning. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning to us if you're uh with us, if you're listening to us on WFMD 930 AM on your radio dial or whatever day you're listening to this on podcast, good day to you. Again, I'm Troy Skinner, the uh host of this show and pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. You can find uh me online at householdfaithinchrist. com, connect to all my social media and all that sort of stuff. Joined this week, as has become a habit over these last couple of years, by Daniel Forcy, who is also a pastor in the area. He's got a multi-location church in the Potomac Region. If you want to check out his church, get in touch with me. I'll put you in touch with him and he'll tell you where he's whacking a mole this week because they're the whack-a-mole church. You never know where they're going to pop up. And then Daniel Razby is with us as well. He's uh with a church in Thurmont, so if you're up that way and looking for a house church, uh or any church really, I guess, but uh particularly for a house church. Let me know I can hook you up with uh with Daniel and Imran and their church there, and they've got a ministry that has a website as well, conquered by love. org. Conquered by Love Ministries uh is um their entity that they created a number of years ago that helps focus on family and marriage matters and that sort of thing. So the Warrant and Declaration on Medical Mandate, Biblical Ethics and Authority came out in 2021. So it's Not that long ago. Some of the statements we've done in this series of looking at Christian statements go all the way back to like almost 50 years ago, so 40 plus years ago anyway. So this one's going to feel rather current to us, I think, even though what it was addressing has kind of passed. as far as the most intense form of it. But don't speak too soon. But it's still there and who who knows. We do record this show in advance by the time this airs. Who knows what might befall us. So I'm going to read the Declaration. What's that? COVID twenty five. Yeah right. Uh the Declaration, you know, section at a time here and we'll see what what we have to what we think about it as uh as a group of local pastors. So section one is on authority. Roman numero one. We affirm that all authority in heaven and on earth has been bestowed upon God, the Son, Christ Jesus. And they've got some proof texts there. I would agree with that wholeheartedly. Oh yes, with that reservation. And they're starting there because that's going to be the foundation for the rest of their argument, right? It's not about what the government says or what the uh the the the elite experts have to say God and his son Jesus Christ that's the authority. And I I think the uh the part that gets easily forgotten is the on-earth Mm part right. The in heaven, yes. Okay, we all readily affirm that as Christians and what we tend to forget is that it's not just in heaven but on earth as well. Yeah, uh on earth uh everything not just unseen but also seen. And that's that's quite kind of the argument that a lot of history People say, Oh yeah, you have you can practice your religion as much as you want, you know. If you're gonna be here on earth telling me what to do then That's that's no. You you take the earth part out and you get Gnosticism. Yeah. Yeah. Right? It's just And on Earth means a religion. It also means on lakes, rivers and oceans and seas and things like that. Roman numero two. We affirm that delegated earthly authorities have been instituted instituted by God as his servants to function as a blessing to those in their jurisdiction. Well, three very important words right there. Through their godly governance and rule according to God's law and in obedience to Christ. These may be civil authorities, ecclesiastical authorities, vocational authorities, familial authorities, and self-governing individuals. There's a lot there, man. They they this I feel like is more sharply written than some of the other statements that we've been re reading Because listen to these, I mean these are power words. Yeah, delegated earthly authorities who have been instituted by God as his servants to function as a blessing to those who were in their jurisdiction, staying in their lanes, right? Through their godly governance and rule. Godly governance. According to God's law and obedience to Chr I mean Bang! Bang! Bang! This is like a machine gun coming at us right here. This is good stuff. That's my opinion. What do you guys think? Yeah, I think that's accurate. Uh there's a lot of proof text in here which uh encourage you to go Go to the it's the Warranton Declaration or Warranton Decoration. com and you'll see all the footh text there. Yeah, Psalms, Romans, uh Hebrews, uh A lot of them the ones you would expect, I guess. Romans thirteen for sure is uh in view here. So number three, uh by the way, I didn't give you a chance to opine if you had anything to throw in there, David. No, I mean just kind of looking over it, right, just a a reminder that uh it all uh I well one, I I wonder if there are any authorities that are in place that are not Oh, because they list some of them and you're just like a are there any missing? Is that your one? Right, right. Well I are are can authority an authority exist that is not in some way God placed like it yeah are these uh are these exhaustive categories here No civil, so we're talking about government there. Right. Ecclesiastical church authority, vocational like your boss at work. Right. Familial, you know. Dad, mom, they're they're in charge of the kids, right? And then whatever and then you have to govern yourself. Yeah. I can't think of anything others that could be missing, but Yeah. I mean unless there is a militaristic type thing Which is sort of civil authorities, but sometimes military is considered defective for civil government. But I I mean I I think uh I I think the point that they're trying to uh again, going back to number one is is It's all all authorities are seen and unseen, fall under the authority of Christ, and are are supposed to be subservient to him And the fact that they delineated them like this, they're setting things up like, look, there are these delains. Right. I think they're setting up their argument for later by making this point early. So we're gonna see how, you know, the uh the vocational authorities can't tell the government what to do, kind of thing. Um should the government be telling the vocational authorities what to do, right? That's the more interesting question in today's day and age. But all right, so number number three, are we good for code number three? We affirm that to ascribe total jurisdiction to any human authority is Idolatry. Since this kind of unlimited authority is reserved only for Christ Jesus. This establishes limits to the jurisdictional authority of a subordinate Of all subordinate offices that exist under the authority of Christ. And that human authority includes the Pope, even though the Catholics would like you to think that the Pope is God's voice on earth. Yeah, oh yeah, uh they would, but I would say they would have the caveat only when he is officially putting forward like a some sort of a paper. Uh but if he officially puts out a papal bull or something, then that's he's speaking for Christ. Like like like with the the president unless it's a uh unless it's a Assigned document. It doesn't it's not official, really. Whatever he may say, in whatever circumstances. Whatever he may say. Right. In whatever circumstances. Yeah I'm beginning to wonder if our current sitting president is uh is is charismatic because he seems to be speaking in tongues a lot later. Alright, anyway. Number four. I'm moving on so quickly. No, I uh I messed That's correct. Okay. I mean I I I feel like this is going to focus primarily on civil civil authorities, but I think it's I think we can make the point, right? Like this uh to uh ascribe total jurisdiction say to uh one govern you know right self-governing right to say that I have total jurisdiction over myself to make whatever choices and decisions and determinations, right, is is idolatry. Which yes we see a lot of that in society today. A little bit. So so I I it's a good thing. So so so if you if you start there with idolatry, I'm not it's not going to be surprising to see idolatry in every single one of these areas in our society. So I think these first three are really just laying the foundation because now number four, we deny that the existing civil authorities have unlimited jurisdiction. Baboom So they're setting the all the first three were setting up number four. Civil authorities are not gotten. And that's almost heresy in today's world. Right. Right. We live in a secular humanist uh the state, the total state, this you know is some each state is in charge. Well some logical secular humanists would say, Well, they do have limits. We have a constitution and you can't buy the constitution. Except when they choose to. Well, there's that, but but they would say I mean I mean a a a constitutionalist would say that oh yeah sure a secular civil government has limits But they're placed by the people who also Yeah. Uh the re and that's that would be the uh kind of the old school traditional American conservative view. The problem of course now is is that old school view is not the current reality. So really the only limits that the civil authorities will ascribe themselves to are self-imposed And it's usually in my in my view it's because of timing issues. Like the public's not ready for this yet. Let's let's let's control the narrative a little longer so that we can then do what we want. I don't think they feel constrained by the Constitution. They don't feel constrained by the teachings of the church. They don't feel constrained by like anything is how it feels. And I think that's why this was written, because they're like, hey, I think that's what the government feels like. And we're gonna tell them no Feel again. You know? You're not feeling what you think you feel. Feel again. So alright, so number five is might be the longest darn statement or uh What are these little bullet points called? Paragraphs. Paragraphs, sections? The longest one in the whole thing, I think. Taking a deep breath. We affirm that the scriptural jurisdictional limits of delegated human authority are also established by good and necessary consequence Given that various offices are said in Scripture to be required to be obeyed in everything. Then there's some proof texts The sense in which in everything is used in these verses cannot mean that obedience is obligatory for all commands, regardless of their morality, since Scripture also teaches Christian disobedience to sinful or abusive commands, and there's some proof text. In everything also cannot mean that obedience is obligatory for all non-sinful commands, and Scripture also establishes multiple offices of human authority, and there's some proof texts. And that's a really important part of this paragraph. These offices may at times conflict, thus requiring Christians to consider Which authority is acting within their rightful jurisdiction to determine if obedience is required. Hmm, loving that. Thus Commands to obey in everything must refer to the obligation of Christians to obey all non-senful commands of true authorities. which are also within the proper jurisdiction of the authority giving the command. But their language choice here is uh par excellence, right? I mean if I were editing this, I wouldn't know what to change. Well okay, yeah. Obey is just they spelled obey is like obe. Christians say obe, oh sinful. So there's a typo. But other but other than that, correct. I mean I mean really So carefully crafted. I wonder who the primary like who the Thomas Jefferson of this is. Because it's really, really done well. So far. So very good. Yeah. So other than my c my my uh fanboying over the uh the quality of the of the writing and the arg the style of the argument, what do you guys think about the content? I think that's that the the most important uh Uh a section here which a lot of times Christians don't spend enough time considering is that second half. proof text they linked there, right? Oh yeah, obviously if the government tells you to do something that God commands you not to do, like, let's take an obvious one. Bow down and worship this idol. this false god. Bow down to Baal. Well no, you should be killed rather than do that. Right? Everybody agrees. If you're a Christian, do you understand at least don't uh blatantly worship a false God because the government commanded you to do so. So we got that out of the way and then there's various degrees to which you could say that you're obeying God rather than men. But that's not really the the most interesting part I think of this because most Christians forget that there are multiple spheres of ju and and jurisdiction with which w we we're all under several sets of authority and they may conflict at times and then how do you resolve those conflicts? The way and and they accurately say here I think the way that you resolve the conflict is you determine First, which of them is acting within their own jurisdictional authority because there should be no conflicts. God is the one that created those spheres of authority. And so God gave us a way to resolve those conflicts, which is Everybody's gotta stay in their veins, right? And so how do you determine who is acting within their authority? And I think uh Um maybe they'll get to the how and the why, but that's that's an important point. Most people don't even stop to think about that. Yeah, I think this paragraph might be talking to like the Todd Freels of the world. Todd Friel a few years back. uh infamously in my view, said that, hey, if the government told me to put spinning pinwheels on the sides of my heads before I could go out of my house and then thought we're spinning pinwheels on the side of my head And it ignores the point like does it is that within the jurisdiction of the government's authority that it may be more of a self governance issue than a civil governments issue? I think they're the that kind of argumentation is credible because a level higher. I'd probably say that with that's the familial jurisdiction because I think m what you wear, such as spinning pigles on the sides of your head, that speaks to the honor of your family and how you portray yourself as a skinner. your last name is Skinner. You're the family Skinner and when you go out in public you need to represent what a Skinner looks like and it needs to not be shameful, it needs to be honorable. Right. And And I think people have lost that in their culture. I feel like going out in ratty jeans and a and a t shirt just all day long to the city ball. No, you're not representing your family in a pr a appropriately. So I think that's not much of the individual thing i to your for your specific off the cup but yeah yours is a more pointed and better and uh I mean what you wear also I think falls under uh under God's jurisdiction. Well sure, there are sinful things that you can be wearing. I I agree I think we all agree with that. But has God made you male or female? And are you that's true You should there is a verse that speaks to that. It says do not wear the clothing of the opposite gender. It's very specific. Um are you are you owning the Right. So so yeah, I and that's that's male if we're talking you but it's also um forcible that it made you part of your family and so part of the way you carry yourself in public not just the way you wear but the uh thing you but how you You know, or uh you know, if you uh and it's interesting how this one example uh of of what you wear can at different times and different ways fall under various jurisdictions, right? So if you are going to work at a certain place, then you are going to submit to their dress code. Right. Right? And so then that falls under vocational authority. Although school dress codes were just uh struck down by the Supreme Court. Um but you understand what I'm saying, but you know, uh at what you know the yeah, so then what do you do so it's It's kind of a playful example because it was it was meant as an obtuse example by Todd Freel. By the way, for the record, Todd Friel with Wretched Ministries, Wretched Radio, Wretched TV He's very solid almost all the time. He's really good on a l I I agree with him on most I think he's really solidly biblical. He's a really good guy. He's a he's a wonderful street evangelist. Uh he knows how to connect with the m the younger elements of the culture better than somebody like me. Uh he used to be a stand-up comic years ago and he uses some of those skill sets to to help him communicate. He's very solid I'm not sure I agree with him on his eschatology, and I definitely don't agree with him on this. Because what do you do if the government, the civil government, says, David Forcy, you must wear spinning pinwheels on your head and your boss says, David, if you show up to work with spinning wheel spin wheels on your head, you're fired. Then what do you do? Right. Or if your church says David, it's a sin to wear spinning chirals uh on your head. Well then that's easier, but they say, well, it's probably not the wisest thing because you might be disrespecting your family. What does your wife think What do you do? You got all these different spheres. Like you said, this one little example, it touches on on all these areas, and we've got to navigate that biblically and not just have this because for years growing up. It wasn't until the whole uh COV uh ID. I'm trying to avoid any sort of uh you know tech monster uh uh problems later on with uh the podcast version of that It wasn't until then that things began to change of what you heard pastors saying. Up until a few years ago, RC sprawled. One of the great heroes of the faith, in my opinion, of the last generation, he was on record saying, you know, whatever the government tells you to do, if it's not a sin, you do it. That was R. C. Sproul Right. And I thought like that for a long time and now I'm realizing RC Sproul had a blind spot because we were living in a sweet spot in in world history where the government wasn't telling us to do ridiculous things or horrible things Or i i exactly. It was like you could you could kind of wink and nod at things or whatever you when I was a kid it was there are things of very little consequence. Yeah, because when I was a kid it was a common phrase you would hear all the time, well it's a free country, ain't it? You don't hear that so much anymore. And so R. C. Spro is speaking in the context of well it's a free country I I think your your view is different on that anyway. You have anything else to say on number five, by the way? No, I I I would like to see where they go with how do you determine which sphere is is acting in their proper jurisdiction. Well we will s yeah we'll see. Um we've got about four ish minutes maybe left in the so we'll see if we can get through number six at least for today. We deny the biblical commands to obey authorities, whether civil, ecclesiastical, familial, or vocational in everything, can be construed to negate the roles of their respective jurisdictions, which Scripture also teaches. We were kind of talking about this already. If if one area can then supersede another area is of we were talking about if your if your boss says, I don't care what the government says, this is what you're doing, right? That's kind of what this is getting at, isn't it? If one can over ov override the respective jurisdiction of somebody else to negate their role, isn't that what they're saying there? So I'm understanding it anyway Right. You can't override somebody else's if they have more authority in that area. Uh yeah, are they saying if they have more authority in that area or are they saying that there is no overlap? actually. I think the people here are making the case that there is no overlap. I'm not so sure that there isn't an overlap. I mean just take the ru the w the uh clothing for example, right? There's overlap because God tells you not to wear women's clothing But then your boss tells you to wear the a company uniform and then your wife tells you she doesn't like the color. Like there's a lot of different uh all of which may be very legitimate uh um things. Obviously God's uh First command to not wear women's clothing is i is takes precedence. So if your work commands you to wear a dress, then you're not going to. Um and then you have to balance your ability to provide for your family basically Based on how it makes your wife feel I guess. I don't know, but it's maybe sh her her um desire should be more uh prominent. How did you know that my wife does not like the color of this sh I'm colorblind, so I let the record reflect that I have no idea what color shirt is. Well, uh we've got a couple of minutes left. I want to add this. Well, I I think um Well so I again like I d I don't think I I I don't think those necessarily overlap so um because all the things we do can be done in different spheres. Right. So I can I wear different clothes to different events, right, and different places, right? All all is appropriate for that thing. So I I don't know that that means that there's an an overlap in authority because it that's more time based than it is. But there are there are things that that are time less like the command to not wear drag Yeah. Well God isn't one of the right, God is over all of these, right? Right, that's true. So that in that sense, right, like he is he overlaps everything. And is determining where the spheres are. That's true. Alright, we're gonna begin to draw to a close, but I wanted to follow up on something Daniel said a couple minutes ago and we'll ask you, David, if you had to talk with your son or your sons or your daughters and said, Hey Forces don't do that. Can I never tell you about that? Daniel? Razbees don't do that. That's not what Razdies are about. You have you had that conversation? Uh I we we can talk about it some more. I think my approach is a little different. Oh, interesting. Okay That might be part of the bonus coverage in between episodes. I don't know if you're watching it on the on the screen. Uh uh not the audio portion, but the other thing is. Patreon or something. Exactly. Exactly. We don't have a Patreon. We don't have a Patreon. We're not happy enough to figure out how to make money on this. But anyway, so we're going to wrap up here. This is the Faith to Faith. Thank you, uh Daniel Rasby, uh David Forcey, I'm Troy Skinner. Find me online at Household of Faith in Christ. You can find, of course, this show on the radio station at WFMD. com. Thanks so much for listening today. We'll be back next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless. So David Forcey doesn't believe in family honor. Huh? How are you going? You weren't saying that. I believe in uh I believe in house rules. So I think so I will say things like in this house, right, that doesn't go. Like we don't do things that way. But I I wouldn't say four C's because uh I I think it's It's okay if my if my children have different house rules. I think that's different From uh so what are they? There there's there's uh I mean there's there's there's c commands from God and then there's but there's so respect that even the adult uh and married son should have for the the family. Sure, but I don't that's my eastern culture agreement there where I I think it's a lot more important than we're Yeah, I I think there can be a sense of honor, but I I don't think that there's uh I don't I don't think I have the authority to say to say forces don't do whatever. I can say God commands all men to not do or to do right so I can so I would disagree. I can I can speak on the scriptures. That's the question I think The think about this. Um what's the uh what's the name of the clan in Israel that never drank uh alcohol? You know what I'm talking about? I think I think it was a family maybe. Um but anyway, this is like in time of Isaiah or whatever. Oh yeah, it's a long time ago. And and they come and say, Hey, you know, we haven't ever since our father told us don't do anything Don't drink alcohol, we don't. Because we honor our father. The father's been dead for like six hundred years. And God says, Look at this family. That's a good job. Why don't you do that to me when I give you commands? Right? He's he's saying look at this. Right? So this family was following they said the the the Ramsby crane if it was my annuity. The Ramsby cran doesn't do this. We don't drink. That's I'm saying it. And you get married, you're still not and and you your son gets same thing. You have your own house, tough. We don't do this. Because the family uh has decided this is what the way it's gonna be. And to honor the father, a great father, a grandfather, great grandfather, they kept that. So I think that and that's an example of something it's not against the Bible to drink. Um it's it's not uh necessarily in the required jurisdiction of that uh father to have said that, but he uh said, This is what's gonna honor me and the family followed that. So I think that there is definitely a place for the great great great grandfather to still be leading the family in that in that way. Maybe not to such a minute detail of, you know, uh uh it w where where where you move in every hour of every day. But in general things as far as how the family's perceived by the culture at large, I think it that uh that is something that he hasn't saying. We should have had that on the on the video. Well it's on the uh it's on the screen, so it'll be it'll be on Rumble and it'll be on So people who watch the video portion I will get this. I would say your position comes from a very Western culture, which we've had that discussion before, but it's all individualistic. As soon as you get married, you're on your own. You make your own rules. No, you don't get to make your own rules. What the family does and thinks still matters. There are cer there's certainly way uh uh um leeway for how you want to lead your family as you see uh God calling you but you should still be uh I mean look at look at Moses Moses got commanded by God go preach to Pharaoh and let my people go What was the next thing he did? Oh Jethro, can I go please? Right? He went to his father in law. Why is he needed aspiration? God already commanded. He has to go whether Jethro says he's he or not, but he went and got Jethro's blessing Right. In that case they might have been working for Jethro. Either way, God commanded him. He didn't go to Jethro and say, Hey, I'm leaving. He said, Jethro, may I please go. He was respectful. Now, what would happen if Jeff said no, he'd say, Oh I must obey God rather than men, right? But he started with that place of respect and honor, saying, Here's uh what what has been uh said to me, here's And Gethrough continued to give him advice throughout time. He gave he told him how to how to set up the hierarchy in the elders, and you know, one elder for every ten men and hundred men and thousand men and all that. Um and he was still one of Moses' advisors throughout his life. So I think the place of the patriarch patriarch is not an evil word. I mean this culture thinks it is, but I don't think it is. No, I d I don't either. Uh uh I mean it's interesting, right, that uh I mean I yes, I think I think you you Honor family authority. I think you honor the uh the the gray headed Right. Um so even if it's not uh I mean uh I think Paul speaks to this when he's talking to Timothy, right? Like you don't just honor your actual father, you honor older men as if they were fathers. Um I I I think part of it is that I think it's I I think it's dangerous I think it's dangerous territory in the sense of um almost like making rash vows To say like my family like doesn't like no, my family doesn't do this or my family does do this. Right, say forces do or don't do this. this. Um right, because then we have I and we have examples of rash vows biblically that destroy families. So I may maybe there is like uh an element of of a sort of actual authority there Uh but I I think it's more of a Well what's the Spider Man quote? With great power comes great res I think it's I think it's more I think it I think honor and authority are are different. I think honoring those there are those who are worthy of of of honor and then there are those who have actual like a authority. Like I I honor an older man because he's an older man, because he has experience. That does not mean that he has authority over me simply because he's an older man. Alright, I'm gonna jump in on that pause. Yeah. Yeah, we need to keep it moving quickly. So But I I think I think you can go certainly go too far to one extreme or the other, but I think if you have the position that way once you have your own house, you make all the rules. That's a fairly uh biblical either. We affirm that in instances where a Christian's responsibilities to God and his fellow man are not hindered The Christian may choose to obey some unjust commands when such commands can be obeyed without engaging in sin. This may be because compliance with the command is done under duress. Because compliance is expedient or because compliance is rendered in an exaggerated fashion in order to further expose the wickedness of the command. That is article number seven For the Warranton Declaration on Medical Mandates, Biblical Ethics, and Authority. We looked at the preamble in the first six articles last week. We're picking up with article number seven. This week we'll see how far we get. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thank you so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. Or if you're listening later on the podcast, thank you for spending part of whatever day it is. We appreciate it very much You can contact me and connect through social media and all that sort of stuff through my website, household of faith in Christ. com. Well, it's my church's website, I'm the pastor there. Household of FaithInChrist. com that that connects to this show and social media and everything you'd ever want to know and then some probably about me and the church and this show and that sort of thing. Joy this week again by David Forsey, he passed her as a church that meets in a whole bunch of different locations throughout the the um Frederick County, Washington County Area kind of the Potomac region. Uh I like to call up the uh the Wackamole Church, but uh I think the multi-location Potomac area church might be a uh a a better kind of a name. And Daniel Rasby, uh he's also pastor with a church in Thermont. They don't really have a name, but they do have a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries, and they're online at Conquered by Love And so I just read number seven. I just want to say last week we commented uh over and over again on how well written this all is Um this one didn't get jaby as much. It's not that it's not well written, but this one didn't seem quite as punchy as the other ones. But anyway, what do you think about the content of it? Well this is one of those well you may do this if you want to. That's why I think they're less forceful because this this is talking about does the Christian have the any choice at all in the matter? Can he choose to obey something just because he wants to to even though you're not required to. And you know, it talks about command as being done under duress or it's uh expedient, it it's helpful in some other way. I thought the last thing is interesting interesting. Because compliance is rendered in an exaggerated fashion in order to further expose the wickedness of the command. Yeah. Right. You get a you get an annoying electric bill so you pay it in pennies. Right and bring a truckload of pennies to the UFO. I've I've seen people do that. That sort of sort of thing is kinda what they're talking about. So they give proof text for that. I thought that was funny, but I want to look at one. Matthew five is what they talk about Which is the whole passage that says, uh don't uh you know, if somebody slaps you on the right cheek, turn the other one. Then if somebody sues you take your tunic, take them take your cloak. Also uh Uh if somebody makes you walk a mile, go two miles. So the thing I I like that they put this there because I I talk about this a lot when I preach I if many people get this whole passage wrong. They think, oh well, Christian needs to be humble and needs to just give everything and and and not ever resist or fight back or do anything, you know, self-defense uh a lot of people that are pacifists use this passage a lot, saying self defense is not a biblical concept. Well no. Slaps you on the right cheek That's a a slap in the face is an insult, not a p uh not a um injury. And so when you turn the other cheek and say, Hello, go ahead and slap me again, you're uh in first of all, shaming them because now you're forcing them to use their unclean hand is what they would they would say in the culture. But then think about the going one mile, go within two miles. Well the soldier can force you to walk a mile, but he can't make you walk two miles. In fact if he if he gets caught making you walk two miles, then he's getting in trouble. So you're insulting him and shaming him by doing that. So all these things were ways for you to actually uh uh shows shame to the one that's causing this these punishments. It has nothing to do with defense or whatever. So it is actually a great example of malicious compliance, I think. And I I'm I'm really glad they brought that uh verse in there. I I never thought of it in that specific way. How about you, David? Any thoughts? on this particular article? That was what I was looking for last week. I couldn't think of the word. These are called articles. Article seven. Um Yeah, I mean I right. So they're making the point that hey uh even if an a an authority is is outside their jurisdiction. You have no right, but I'll do it anyway. Right. It's not it's not wrong, unless of course it's sin, which they It's not wrong to obey to go along with someone who is outside of their jurisdiction if and then they give it a You know, these possible scenarios and which is a good thing. even though he doesn't have authority over you because you think it's it's a good thing to do, uh that that might be this might be kind of related to that, right? Where he might say, hey, hold the door open for me. you don't have any obligation to do so, but you're gonna do so because it's the right it's nice and it's it's there's other things that could be gained by it, you know, such as his respect, maybe the opportunity to witness and maybe other people see uh a Christian way to behave and that's uh humble and so on. Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Even though he can't actually command you to do something 'cause he doesn't have a Yeah. You know what? No no sweat, buddy, I got you covered. Only if I can. So number eight says so we have uh this is a denial. We deny that any human or group of humans who claim to be civil authorities are hit as Interesting, who claim to be civil authorities are in actuality recognized by God to be civil authorities solely by virtue of their claims to that authority or the claims of those who support them. Yeah, that's something that uh feels kind of on the nose. That's been talked about a lot in these uh kind of on the nose of these days and times. But it's not it's not just that I guess, right? Not necessarily. Does the uh does the bureaucratic state fit under this Yeah, I I wonder if they're talk trying to talk about ways the constitutionally recognized areas of authority of government and then the bureaucratic Well I and I mean it wasn't the the the bureaucrats didn't overstep their bounds. It was the the those elected who delegated what they couldn't at could constitutionally didn't have permission to delegate to bureaucrats. Right. Right. They give po they gave power that they didn't actually have. Correct, yeah. So that they could have that power. Yes everybody not everyone who says they are in authority actually is necessarily in authority just by because I said so. Right. Why are you gonna do it? Because I said so. That's not necessarily gonna cut it is what they're gonna say. I think we move on to number nine. We affirm that true civil authorities are legitimate to the extent they, as appointed by God, bear the sword to fulfill the description of what civil authorities are in Scripture. namely that they punish evil and praise good according to their civil office and jurisdiction. So the counterpoint to that is what I've heard a lot of people point out and th th th th there is a something to be said for when Romans thirteen was written the the famous passage that says obey government because they Punish evil and praise good. It was written during the time of Nero, who famously punished a lot of good people, um, Christians, right? So how do you deal with that? where it's it's simple as talking about the civil government is supposed to punish what evil in a in a lot of Paul's experience though the civil government is is is rescuing him from right, you go back through Acts, right? And a lot of Paul's experiences that he's had, the civil government, and even just you know, when he's in Jerusalem, right, and there's a whole you know there's a there's a whole truth that when it's found out that there's a plot against Paul, escort him, right? Right. A couple hundred infantry and a a score horsemen, right? So I I mean I I think to be fair, like this is this really is before the Roman persecution. When talking about feature service protection, that's a pretty good It is, it is. The civil authority that they only have the authority to do what God says is good. And if God says that's not a good thing, then that's outside their jurisdiction. Then then they're stepping past their jurisdiction. y you you give them their due. You honor them, you give them the honor that they're due. If they're not due the honor, if they're not actually doing what the government's supposed to do, right, if they're if there's two different dues there. If they're Two different do do's there. If they're not punishing evil and uh uh and uh praising the good, if they're not doing those things, then what honor are they really due And so that's part of the Romans 13 context as well. This has been an important clarification, a reminder for the church in recent years, because I don't know if people talked about it in these terms up until a couple of years ago. years back. I think this had kind of been forgotten. We talked about that a little bit last week as well. These RC Sproles are an example of that, I think. So number 10 now. We affirm that civil magistrates have lawful authority to punish civil crimes like assault, murder, rape, theft, fraud. man stealing and false witness, and to ensure proper due process through the civil courts, payment of liability for verifiably proven harm and propor proportionality of punishment. So this is definitely piggybacking on the last one. We kinda touched on the thing. That they should be punishing. And it kinda harks back to our a discussion about the autonomy. Um because they're getting all these um did you listen to that by the way? Yeah. I'm sorry I missed it. I wish I'd been there. But um can't remember, did we get spirited? It was a spirit. Slightly. Those are always the best ones. But the the the thing is a lot of the arguments against m my interpretation of the I would I would I would say that today's government should be doing what the Bible specifically is the Old Testament and the New Testament, but a lot of the the laws there they should be doing that and only that. That's kind of what they're saying here, but that's not a very uh not a lengthy list. It's a short list. But that's but that's not very appealing to many people who kind of oppose the theotonomy, they say, Oh, there's you shouldn't the civil government shouldn't be doing things because the Bible says for them to do it. They should be doing, you know, secular stuff, not there's no There's no such thing. I didn't say that was my argument. Yeah, this this is touching on that, but they're they're only dipping a toe because th it's not a deep dive in that area because there's not a whole lot of uh debate and disagreement and you know on this particular thing. I mean you're complete demonic if you're in favor of murder, rape Stealing from people left and right. And what what we currently have in our in our government is uh is they're they're not Our our civil our civil authorities are not punishing these things, are not wielding the sword. Right, yeah. Not consistently for sure, on rare occasion. Yeah. Yeah, and so a random act of of accidental law enforcement does occur. Yeah, and so you know, I'm I mean, that means that they're So so they're they're not performing the duties that they ought to be. And they're performing duties that they do not have Yeah, to ensure the proper due process through the civil courts, there are some people that uh from early January of 2021 that uh I'd like to remind the civil authorities of that line. How it's been years and speedy trials and such. Exactly. And proportionality of punishment. They they go through a tourist stroll through a lobby and they spend the rest of their life in jail Like what? So anyway conspiracy theorists you don't get me started. Number eleven Uh we affirm that the United States did not land on the no. Um That Christians should obey the biblically lawful instructions and commands of earthly authorities to the extent of their proper God-ordained role and jurisdiction This feels like just buttoning up what they've been saying. I don't know if there's anything new in this. Um No, but number twelve is great because they anticipate Oh, do we want to just jump right into number twelve? Let's do it. We deny that the Pauline era reign of Emperor Nero can be credibly invoked to invalidate the limiting description of what constitutes legitimate civil authority in Romans 13. First, this is due to the clear witness of Scripture regarding the identity and characteristics of legitimate biblical civil authority, and second, to the fact that the neuronic persecution did not begin until the great fire of Rome in 83. 64, which was seven years after the writing of the book of Romans in 57 A. D. So there you have it. Not exactly what you said a minute ago. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. See, we're we're ahead of the game. This is why we like this statement so much. We agree with it. Oh we're getting to something I disagree with Oh yeah? And maybe maybe next week. Oh, okay. It's closer than I've read I've read quite a bit. So it's not number thirteen. I don't think so. Can't be number thirteen. My my my wife really favors number thirteen. You can't you can't you can't hate on number thirteen, okay? Okay. So but by the way, we moved past eleven and twelve really quick, but was there anything we wanted to say there other than celebrating the fact that we were prescient? That's that's pretty clear, pretty good. Okay. I mean they're being very thorough. I would just say they made a good point. Because one passage of scripture says this, and you can't say, well, okay, that's the only you have to take all of scripture because scripture informs scripture And there are no contradictions. So if there appear to be contradictions, maybe there are some exceptions to the rule, maybe there's just more nuance that you weren't aware of, but you need to make sure you take all scripture. Not just one little verse. It's not just sola scriptura, right? Scripture alone, but it's tota scriptura and that's all scripture. That's one thing I really like about this statement so far is and when you can't see because you're not uh you're listening this radio show you don't see go go to the website warrantondecoration. com you can see like every couple words there's a scripture reference so you and you can click it and go to the Bible verse online and actually read it, you can see the context. So they're getting proofs. They're not just spouting random theological statements. They actually have very specific scriptures that they are Yeah. For example, the first three going back to last week's show, the first three uh articles have like twenty something proof text. I I think I think it thins out a little bit as it goes, but it's building on that that foundation, right? These are just Here's the m uh much valley hued number thirteen. Okay. We deny that the specific authority granted to Pilate to execute Christ Jesus. It's interesting, they've referred to him as Christ Jesus multiple times here. That's that's more of a Paul it's how Paul versus not the way we normally say Christ Jesus on occasion just to kinda change things up, but it's just I I'm noticing now it says Multiple times they've done that. They're emphasizing the fact that he's king that he is the king with all authority. Tesla. Yeah, we okay, so back to the start of thirty. We deny that the specific authority granted to Pilate to execute Christ Jesus according to God's plan of redemption is evidence of a general principle of civil civil governance whereby civil magistrates retain legitimate authority to do evil or make any commands outside the bounds of their jurisdiction. Just because the Romans did it and got away with it doesn't mean it's okay. Well, so I mean what comes to mind is this is when Jesus says like I no one what he says no one no one takes my life. Like I I lay it down. And I take it back up again. So so this is only This is only this is this is all this is all happening under under under God's force. Jesus basically becomes a pilot and says, wait, wait, you think you have no I'm God. I'm letting you do this And to prove it, I'm gonna come back to life in three days. Yeah. Well and uh I mean he says uh maybe they're they're addressing the the conversation there, right, where Jesus says, like you you wouldn't have the authority to do this if I didn't give it to you. Right Right. So there are maybe circumstances where God gives authority to certain people to carry out certain things which would not normally be under their jurisdiction. So for example God gives authority to Joshua to go kill every man, woman and child and animal in a certain town. That's not authority for every government to kill the neighboring country with in di indiscriminately at all times, right? There's a specific time. That doesn't mean God won't ever do it again. He may. And it it certainly You can't use it as a as a rule making rulemaking premise. And they're using this to to disarm the rather than uh limited thinking kind of arguments that people make is well even Jesus didn't push back on what the government did. I mean they killed him. They beat him and crucified him and and he took it And so that's what we as Christians need to do. And they're saying, yeah, you're that's a really horrible argument. That's not for all the reasons we've talked about, all the reasons that are are listed on these four lines. Yeah, I'm assuming that somebody somewhere must have, because that speaks it to me it feels like it's speaking to an argument. Doesn't it? Yeah Yeah they're they're they're anticipating Because number fourteen clearly is. We mentioned this one last we mentioned this one last week We deny that the only reason one may lawfully disobey an authority is if they are commanded to sin by that authority. Boom That's exactly what we're talking about, the RC's Pro argument. And and that's just RC. Like that was the main line mainstream argument my whole life. So so you're telling me that if uh or they are in the statement, right? If the government comes and says you have to do this because we said so We can say that's not within your jurisdiction if it's not. That's what they're saying. And therefore I don't have to do it. Now you might have to pay the consequences because they've got Guns and stuff. Then Paul said, wait a minute That's not in your jurisdiction. I'm a citizen. You can't do your jurisdiction is to flog non-citizens. You can't flog citizens. You can't condemn me without a trial. I get due process. And he was stood standing up for his rights strong enough that they they all got scared. They thought they were gonna you know get punished for it. So we definitely should follow that example. Yeah. So I don't have anything more to say on that once we've talked about a little bit of lessons already. I think I think there's an important point there to make uh which is And this maybe goes back to reasons why you would say no to uh uh and a supposed authority who is outside their jurisdiction is to to remind them that they are not God. Right? That they that they they can't just claim whatever authority that they want. Right. And that in some ways that is that's the loving thing to do, right? To remind to remind someone that they're stepping outside their authority, their God-given authority. And when they do that, that they are they are trying to take the place of God, even if it's in a small way. And so so it's it's or you're taking incro encroaching on somebody else's authority. Right, which is uh uh right and and so it's uh it's a it's a creep. Taking it from somebody else whose God's ordained to be in there. Yeah. And that's the big problem we have in our culture today. We haven't told each other often enough, look, you're not God. And you're outside your your jurisdiction. And we don't we're not comfortable telling each other these truths in today's culture and so look at where that's gotten us. Well and and it's it's inter I think it's combined with also not honoring authorities that actually are there. Right? Because if you uh if if we encouraged children to honor their parents, right, as and for parents to exercise that authority over their children, uh then you know, there would be more more people would be honored and would be exercising authority, right? It would be much more the authority would be much more shared and spread out. Uh than than it than it currently is. Which is anyway. By design because they don't want shared spread of authority. They want centralized authority. That's kind of the goal that they're driving at, I think. When I say they I mean those who are representing the power structures and all that sort of sort of thing. Let me read this next one. I'm not sure how much time we have to talk about. At least read number 15 is the final uh article in section one. We affirm that disobedience is also permissible should any command be given outside of the jurisdiction of the particular authority. For example, throughout history, civil governments have sought to force individuals into certain vocations, foisted improper controls over affairs of the church, and imposed restrictions over the number of children that a family is permitted to have Frequently, these kinds of orders are claimed to be for the greater good of the public. To whatever extent these commands would not have required anyone to sin, obedience is still not morally obligated since these commands are outside the jurisdiction of the authority. making the command. Yeah, we've we've got like almost no time, so maybe we need to think about sparing and and saving our thoughts for next time unless you have a quick 50 thought you'd like to share. I mean I think I I generally agree with it. Um I'm really excited for next week we'll That's what you were crawling for crying for last week, right? Like I want to see how they're gonna apply all this, right? How are they gonna do this? Yeah, yeah. So Daniel's excited. We hopefully you're excited too. Same bat channel, same bat time for the faith debate. And Daniel Ramsey who's excited and uh I'm I'm excited for him. I haven't seen him this have Uh uh ramped up on the faith debate since I argued with him about theotomy. Um David Forcey is not quite so hy hyped up, but that's David Forcey for ya David and Daniel, thank you so much. I'm Troy Skin. You can find us online at WFMD. com. You can also find me at my church's website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. That's Household of Faithinchrist. com Yeah, we're going to continue with the Warrington Declaration on Medical Mandates and Biblical Ethics and Authority next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless. Yes, I think in that uh movie in Bambi where you have the thumper, the uh the uh bunny and he says, My mama said if you can't say something nice, don't say nothing at all and uh they foresee as a you know somewhat similar uh idea that if you can't say something extremely well thought out and considered don't say anything at all. That seems to be how how you uh interesting. It's just There's nothing that you could say that's gonna necessarily add to the conversation at this time, either because you haven't finished considering or because your opinion is uh more nuance than we have time for or something. Right, right, right. Um I'm gonna get to some disagreements in the next uh passage so looking forward to that I had a uh Years ago I was discipling a guy and and he's he's great. Um but he wouldn't encourage people uh like we were working with we were both working with the the teenagers the church and he would uh you know people would say something and he'd he'd say, you know, be be nice, be nice. And uh there there were times when that was that was probably the helpful exhortation. But uh eventually I was like it's like, you know, you you should say you should probably say be be helpful. Because n it's you don't just want to be nice and sometimes you need to be not nice to be helpful. Oh man. Um And what happens to those who add to the words of God? That's the point, right? Is that uh you don't want to uh you don't want to be adding any commandments. Yes. Okay. All right, listen up. We deny that the civil authorities have been granted lawful jurisdiction and authority over personal, familial, or public health. Bah boom! That's article number 16. The first article in section two under the heading of application to medical mandates that we find in the Warrington Declaration on Medical Mandates Biblical Ethics and Authority. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. Or if you're listening later on podcast, thank you for spending whatever part of the day it is. that you're spending with us. Daniel Razby is here on the panel again and he's excited. He's a rare and a go. Um he pastors is part of a pastoring uh pastoring team, I guess, of at a church in uh Thermont that uh remains to be named later Uh but they do have a ministry that has a name. It's Concord by Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. org. David Forcey doesn't have a website. He doesn't really have a name for his church, although it's kind of playfully given Man, add more words. I have like a it's like the longest church name ever. Uh see if you say if you say Potomac, people are gonna think down near DC. Gotcha. Yeah, there there's there's no There's no time for the sermon at his church because by the time he welcomes everybody and s and introduces the name of his church, time's up. Time for some good eats now. Time for some food Because they have food in the church every week. That's true. Huh? Come hungry, leave happy. All right, so uh we're in the uh Warranton Declaration uh the last couple of weeks. We're continuing now in week three, and we've been enjoying this one quite uh a lot so far. And this last one Uh I think that this is the one that really kind of drove them to write the declaration, right? That last couple of words, public health Did the government overreach on these public health matters or not? You know, and that's a subject for some debate. Maybe it's a subject for some faith debate So what do you guys think about uh article number sixteen? Civil authorities have been uh they deny that civil authorities have been granted Lawful jurisdiction authority over personal, familial, or public health. There's no proof text on this one. I know. It's like three in a row. Like, what the heck? Proof text guy fell asleep. I I think uh I think with this number sixteen uh that they deny that the civil authorities have lawful jurisdiction over personal familial or public health. I think I think their point with no proof text is there is no biblical there's no biblical merit for the civil authorities to have that authority. To argue otherwise will be arguing from silence. Well they are going to address the oft cited proof text in the next couple of sections uh and saying that they don't apply. And in fairness, this is kind of uh rabbit trailing off of some things they've said repeatedly and there are ample proof texts for the the point that there are lanes that people just say in jurisdictions to use their language. They've made those points and now they're just opening up section two with Like the this is the opening salvo, this is our thesis statement kind of thing. We've already provided a zillion proof text. There's more to come. I think I don't think that they're following it on the job. Let's just be playful here. If you're a big fan of the Warrington Declaration, we're not picking on Yeah, I wonder if they'll uh maybe they will make a get more specific on what civil authority uh what jurisdiction civil authority actually has under God, right? Because it's uh uh uh you know a lot of the a lot of the things listed earlier when they said civil authority, you know, they affirmed that civil authority has you know, the right to punish punish wrongs and praise good. Pretty much all of those things have to do with how people interact with one another. Right? And so and that's where uh a lot of people make the argument for the civil authority having uh jurisdiction over public health is because it you know the the private choices that affect other people If somebody has a contagious disease that is spread by saliva and they're running around town spitting on everyone, well then the civil government has something to do with that Because it's an assault with a deadly weapon at that point, right? You're you're just spreading like Ebola virus or something that's bitting on people. I don't know if that's how Ebola viruses spread or not, I have no idea. But let's just say But if you're coughing and you're not wearing a mask, what's what's the difference drawing? Well okay. Are we are we gonna because Yeah they're they're saying they would say here, I think they'll probably get into it, I'm imagining, so we should just read and see. But they're gonna say that it's it's a matter of of uh personal comportment, how one comports themselves and how they interact in society. And if if we all will sometimes cough, we're not intending any harm There's no malicious intent in it. Sometimes you'll have to clear their throat, sometimes they're sick and don't know it. Like the person they go w the would di the viral TikTok or or a YouTube challenge where they went into the ghost store and licked all the ice creams and put them back, right? It's is very disgusting. And that person was rightly caught and punished by the government. Because that's not only disgusting but but also could spread uh diseases and it's intentional. Right? So that type of thing where you're intending to cause harm to some It would be like poisoning somebody. Now I will be curious to see how they thread this needle when it comes to clearly dangerous infectious diseases because what's the authority that is supervising and maintaining jurisdiction in the Old Testament when it comes to to something like leprosy. Is that the civil government or was that the ecclesiastical authority in those cases? So that I'll be curious to see how they navigate that because that's a public health issue. Oh. Look at that. Good job. Prescient once again. I hear and no no kidding, I did not look ahead. So let's see what they say. Number seventeen. We deny that the leprosy related passages in Leviticus thirteen and fourteen can be construed to teach the general principle that civil government has unqualified and legitimate jurisdiction over managing public health. Unqualified jurisdiction over think is is the clear. And and I'm peeking ahead now because I learned just now I should maybe do that. And they're going to say more in the next one. But I would agree with this one and I'm going to strongly disagree with the next one. So um they have uh they have a T the passage talking about leprosy cannot be used as evidence that the Zillow government can just manage everything to do with health with no restrictions and no limits. And I yeah, I agree with that. Um so I that's kinda like saying the government can punish murder, therefore it can make anything a crime to punish that. Well no, like murder. So that I agree with. Now the way they're going to define it in the next section, which I did read ahead, I don't agree with, so you can keep that in mind if you read it. Okay. And let me see where this begins and ends 'cause okay, I misspoke in the very I think the very first uh show we did on this series, I I mentioned I think it was Article Five was kinda long. I said this might be the longest This might be the longest one and fills over onto another page just as I printed it out. This is number 18. I disagree with it just because it's long Yeah. Just on principle. Yeah, come on. These guys gotta get into like the Twitter world where everything's two hundred and eighty characters or less. Ever since C Von Must took over X now there's I'm gonna Oh yeah. I think I think if you're willing to like pay for the special extra pennies. I think if you're just a regular slug, I think you're just limited to originally it was a hundred and forty. Right. And now I think it's two hundred and eighty if I'm not mistaken. And I'm telling you, I don't have I wasn't on Twitter when it was hundred and forty. It was it was two fifty. It's impossible to say anything in hundred and forty what kind of words, characters Right. Like there's it's impossible. Spaces included. Yeah. Maybe they were trying to encourage better vocabulary, you know. No, well I think what ended up happening and it developed a horrible vocabulary because now there's all this weird jargon vernacular that is really Twitter language. that has gone into the mainstream and it's like it's not English anymore. But anyway, number eighteen. We affirm that these leprosy passages are related this is an affirmation. We affirm that they're pa that they are related not So there's a denial there, but not to the spread of biological contagion, but, so here's the affirmation, of ceremonial uncleanness, as is evidenced by numerous factors. First Even the man covered head to toe in white leprosy was declared clean and was permitted in the camp. Second, the stated reason for the general expulsion of lepers is the same reason given for the expulsion of those who touched a dead body or had a bodily discharge, not biological contagion, but ceremonial uncleanness which defiled the camp before the Lord. They give some proof text here, by the way. They're back on track with the proof text. Third, nowhere in scripture is leprosy described as being biologically contagious. This leprosy also afflicted houses and garments Leprosy was not the same as modern-day Hansen's disease. Fourth, in order to prevent belongings in a leprous house, from being declared unclean by the priest. The owner was permitted to empty the house of his possessions before the priest arrived. Turning the page for inspection. Preventing biological contagion through sanitation burning of objects was not in view here. The ceremonial practices associated with the now defunct Levitical priesthood have been made obsolete by Christ's greater priesthood and cannot be credibly invoked as providing civil government with jurisdiction over public health. So before you get into your, you know, lawyerly defense of what you said before, I just want to say, in disagreement with David, because it's so long, I have no choice but to agree with it. So but what do you We are at an impact From the last line you probably uh know some of where where I come from. Yeah, you probably must come at the end, Daniel. It's actually no, I I I agree I disagree with almost the entire paragraph. Almost every single point there I completely disagree with. And um and so but but yeah that that whole thing about the ceremonial practices are now defunct uh I don't disagree with I think to what extent you can point to something as being ceremonial in scripture, which would still apply to uh the believer today as something that does please God. Um, doesn't get you to heaven, but does please God and we should endeavor to So the gist of their argument is saying it's it's not medical in the Old Testament, and you're saying that their that their premise is flawed. It was medical. Yes. And it was because it was a dangerous contagious disease and people Mm-hmm. And and what is your scriptural reasoning? These people apparently can read the case. Are you appalled? Are you shock and polled or just shocked? Shock and Paul. Okay. a and and in in general consternation. That these somebody could read these passages and come up with something other than these are queerly contagious diseases that are being talked about. Um like leprosy. What what is the reason that the the white man covered in head to toe in white leprosy was the Queer Queen? Because the disease has already run its course. You can't it ca it's no longer contagious. It the skin is all uh d dead and f and falling off. There's nothing else to to spread. Um You know, I I'm not sure what the disease specifically was. I I tend to agree, probably it's not the same as modern day Hanson's disease. But there was some kind of thing where there there there was a con contagious uh thing that was spreading. And that was the whole point of leaving out is so that it did not spread. And they're saying they're saying we know that it wasn't a contagious disease because uh This same reason is for dead bodies and bodily discharges. Well yet those contain germs. That's why. Right? Wash your hands after touching a dead body. You know why we wash our hands in hospitals now after touching dead bodies? It's because W a doctor read numbers and said, Oh, maybe we should do this and so he started doing it and that's when they discovered germs. And the doctor he he his ward was uh the the mother's um birth uh you know, giving birth and the doctors would come to that after touching the dead bodies and he noticed that his patients were all dying, so he required them to wash their hands before they came in and lo and behold the mother stopped dying and they did they didn't like that They kinda threw him out of the uh the hospital. So it was a while before He died a broken man, by the way, because everybody thought he was nuts. And but but that's Which is really crazy. It wasn't j it wasn't just threat. I mean it's because uh I I don't remember whether it was like specifically because he had read the Bible or whatever, but it clearly that biblical precedent has a biological and medical application. And I think that is the primary reason for the command to be unclean, to wash your hands. after touching a dead body. Same thing with body bodily discharges. What is the primary reason that there are biological diseases today? Sin. Okay, and why do they take the form of things that spread? Why did God ordain that they do that. I don't know that you would want to say that God ordained uh sin. Why did God ordain that that diseases would do what they do? after sin entered the world. Why did Well answer the question. Sounds like you've you've you thought I no, I just just the question. Okay. Yeah I by the I wouldn't put it as God ordaining it. That's that's I think that's a basic theist answer, though it's not even a Christian answer. I think any theist would say that God foreordains all anything that comes comes to pass. Otherwise he's not sovereign. He's so there's different ways of understanding what the or what God's ordaining means, but if he didn't ordain it, that means they have it outside of his control. So I think I think it's a basic theist I'm I'm saying that the the consequences of sin were were determined by God. God determined what those would be, how they would work, how they would affect people. Right, and so uh so so I think that that the reason that it's so closely the the the ceremonial uncleanness and all of those laws I I would say okay so they yes I mean we can with modern medicine uh we can look back and say, okay, y yes, so there were there were um biological un uncleannesses. Right. And so God was uh through you know, had Uh yeah, through through his instructions to the Israelites was um both I I would say both protecting them uh physically like from the natural world but it was i it was in order to instruct them of the the spiritual realities. Right. I I would agree with that. But I I'm my point is that you can't make the case saying this is non Okay. And and they're they didn't masks With put a covering on your upper lip, so you're not clothing on people and and you're not sure. Could it be both and they do they just overplayed their hand? That they're Instances where Daniel, you're right, and they just didn't address that, but there's also some ways to think about this where it's not. The primary point of those laws was uh was to instruct Israel I I mean the the primary point of right. That the reason that God has you know, that that God ordained that the that the curse would have the effects that it does and the way that it would affect us would be to instruct us of the pervasiveness destruction destructiveness, right, of sin. Well right, but but what they're saying is not a matter of primary or secondary purpose. They're saying it had no biological purpose at all. And I think that's just wrong. There clearly was contagious disease that they were God was explaining how not to spread it. And that is wrapped up in touching a dead body and and so on. And they're trying to say and then they're talking about leprosy affecting houses. Yeah, clearly they're talking about molds. What is it? And the the whole point of moving the possessions out is so you can see the rest of the wall to see if it's spreading on the wall or whether it's just a a stain and the priest's gonna come in and say, Oh, okay it's just a stain. But to the but to the Israelite it didn't have to do with biological contagions. How do you know I because I don't think that they had that understanding. Oh I I think they surely did. There was a all sorts of medical knowledge and and uh um uh you know, what they call now homeopathic or natural medicine stuff that that was very well known for thousands of years, that we're only now starting to rediscover some of these things because we've had quote unquote modern medical science. But that wasn't that wasn't the biblical emphasis Like in the law, that's not the It was unclean and what you're supposed to do is you're supposed to burn it or destroy it. And if the clay pot has has mold going on it, you can't clean it, so you're supposed to destroy it. It it it explained what to do, what the remedy was, to make it clean. That's I I think uh y you know, becoming clean is is a is a very important uh fiction and you you're both spiritually and physically clean. And God is making the point that He wants us to be physically clean, take care of our bodies and so on. So but and again, whether the what the purpose was doesn't really matter. The the point is there is precedent for the government uh uh uh or what I I would agree actually if if Troy they had disagreed with this passage applied to the civil government by saying, Oh well the church is supposed to do this. Yeah. And that is their that is the point. I mean they're building this whole case to get get to the the the crux of the matter for this article, article number uh eighteen for those reading along at home. Uh the idea is it's not the civil government, it's not the judges. It's the priest. It's the it's the it's the Levitical priesthood. Right. And then they're saying that's the made obsolete because Christ now has the greater priesthood after the order of Melchizedek All right, and so it's not about the civil government. They don't have jurisdiction over this. That's the point they're making. They they didn't get there in a way that you like, but do you agree with the the point? And if so, how else would we Articulate and try to prove that. We talked about So no, I don't think that has any relevance. I do think that there I I would I would not apply these leprosy passages to What ended up happening in twenty nineteen, uh or sorry, twenty twenty eight, twenty twenty one, I would not appoint the passes to buy those things that happened by end of our early mandates and things. particularly because it went beyond what was prescribed. There's a talk about masks covering your upper lip. When you're symptomatic, they're talking about go outside the camp. when you're symptomatic, when you're showing signs that you have this disease, not when you've been exposed. And it does talk about oh if you've been exposed, wait a little bit and then come back, but it doesn't Th there's no precedent for wholesale s sit making everybody sit in their houses and then walk around covering everything so they don't interact with society. That is how I would take it. And I don't want to reenact the uh the the Army discussion because we did like five shows on that and I think and I would commend them to you. I think those were uh uh educational and interesting and kind of freewheeling fun shows to listen to for that matter as well. But I think there was a uh an interesting array of uh of of opinions and of of approaches, all of them friendly to the general concept of law and order and and theotomy, but there were different gradations. So but I so I don't want to reenact that now. But your view on that is like there's uh in in the ideal world there wouldn't be the separation between church and state. But what what would be the position that we should take in the situation we find ourselves in now where there is a separation. You know, the the United States government is not the church, I would argue, it's not even remotely Christian or or biblical in any shape, way or form. Uh so what do we do in that reality when we flew whose jurisdiction? So if the church and the state are are to be one, but if they are separated, then whose ultimate responsibility or can that answer not really be arrived at? It's really difficult um because you have the you have both of them trying to take roles that maybe jointly shared. I mean the the whole idea in this passage and and Leviticus, whatever you can say about the reason for doing it There's no question that when the priest decreed that you were unclean, the civil government was gonna make sure if you refused to go outside the camp you were gonna get booted out, right? Like you couldn't say, Oh no, I'm not I'm not unclean. The judge is gonna again throw you out of the camp, right? The priest is decreed Right. So we would assume that that's how at least it doesn't a lot of the vehicle to the that the civil authority would back up the priestly authority in this sort of situation. And vice versa, the priestly authority presumably would back up the civil authority. There wasn't this idea of, oh, you're escaping from you know this thing, oh I couldn't sanctuary inside the Catholic church, which people are done in a lot of places, right? That that whole thing is. Right. uh it's hard because the there is such a separation in our society and I don't think it's a good thing. Um but I I I think it's reasonable for those in authority over the society in general to enact certain uh of these uh requirements and I I think that um just because the the very reason that we're not the s there there's say there is a separation, you know, one church is not having authority necessarily over people in a totally different state or part of the area and part of the country where the government maybe does. And so there is only one means with which to enforce some of those things. Now I am against but by the way, these math mandates and the vaccine mandates and all those things. So none of what I was saying today is is it should be ke to cast down. I just think the passes definitely does talk about biological contamination Well, the first uh couple of uh episodes we did on the Warranton Declaration, we averaged around eight articles per show.