So beware of that. Anyway, I appreciate uh the opportunity. Really it's a it's it's it's an astounding opportunity to share God's truth with you. I've been invited by the Razbies to kind of kick off the teaching portion of the conference this weekend And I've been assigned the task of uh explaining some of the details of Ephesians chapter 6 verses 10 through 20 Now that's uh quite a task to squeeze it into just one little message because you could take almost any one of the verses of those eleven and turn it into a sermon all of itself, probably. So we're going to be moving rather quickly, but hopefully not so quickly that you can't keep up easily enough, okay? Uh so I would encourage you to get your Bibles ready if you want to follow along. We'll be in Ephesians chapter six pretty much the whole time today. And when I read, I'll be reading from the King James Version tonight, but you can whatever version you have, I'm sure uh will be fine. And it's we're having a conference like this, it strikes me, because the moment calls for it, right? We live in a world where the truth and the Bible and Christians are under attack. The church is a little bit off balance not sure what to do. We're under attack from government tyranny, we're under attack from big business interests that tell us that we can't freely buy and sell if we won't wear some sort of talisman over our face or volunteer to get some sort of injectable put into our body, experimental or not. Uh you can't keep your job sometimes unless you're willing to play by their rules. We're trying to figure out what do we do about this? What does God call us to And unfortunately, we're not getting good answers from all of our churches either because there are too many woke wolves among the sheep. They've traded the true gospel for another gospel. What are we to do about this? And we live therefore in a reality where nobody knows what's real anymore. Boys think they're girls, girls think they're boys. Parents go along with them. And if they haven't already butchered them in the womb, they're willing to butcher them after birth by these trans surgeries that they put them through It's an absolute disaster. It's a mess. What are Christians to do? What are we to believe? If only there were something in the Bible that would help us to figure this out so it wouldn't just be given over to depression. Let's be honest, are you tempted to give yourself over to depression sometimes? Seems like it's all lost, it's over? What's going on? So too many people are choosing to escape. They're seeking to escape their depression through pharmaceuticals that their doctor will give them or self-medicate. uh overindulging in alcohol, taking pills or various kinds of injectables of their own off the illegal market, things like that. What is real doesn't seem so sure anymore, so people are opting to accept what is pseudo-real, simulacra, some people call it, virtual reality. I have thousands of friends on social media, I've never met any of them They're virtual friends. They're not real friends. They're not real relationships. The authentic has been replaced by the int-authentic. Artificial, not real, artificial intelligence is now beginning to rule the day. So where are our answers? Well our answers are where they've always been. They're not in the bread and circuses that distract us. You're not going to find the truth in your fantasy baseball league. You're not going to find the truth in your football pool um uh during football season, you're not gonna find the truth in your Filling out your brackets for March Madness. You're going to find the truth in God's Word. And so we're going to turn there and we're going to recognize as we look at this today It's not just the demon the demonic leftists. Okay? It's so easy in our cocoons and one. It's them. It's the demonic leftists, and yes it is. But it's not only them, it's also the pagans among the conservatives. There are too many who advertise themselves as people Christians who are not. So beware. Let's make sure that we're not among them. So we have this letter of encouragement that has been written by the Apostle Paul to people like us. And I say people like us because what kind of people were they? They were kind of people that were hated by the religious establishment, actually. Just like true biblical fundamentalist Christians are hated by the the big Eva official uh brand of Christianity that rules the day in America today. They were infiltrated back then by false teachers, the Judaizers and the like. Just like I mentioned, we've been infiltrated, infiltrated by woke wolves. They were persecuted. Heck, Paul knows all about persecution. He wrote this letter while he was imprisoned. Talk about persecution. And we don't have that kind of persecution going on here in this country just yet But it's a reality all around the world. We have brothers and sisters who have their their homes, their churches burned to the ground. They have their loved ones slaughtered before their eyes. Beheaded. It's happening probably right now, sadly, somewhere in the world. Persecution exists even now, and people back then knew all about it. Persecution has always been part of the reality for Christ's church. And we also know that the society back then in the city of Ephesus, they were very familiar and given over to practices of sorcery. We know this from Acts chapter 19, verse 19. The city of Ephesus was all about sorcery, just like we are With our various yoga poses and Ouija boards and the like. Right? All the new age nonsense. It's just a contemporary version of this sorcery. So Paul writes this letter, and in the first half he describes what is true for believers. That's essentially what's going on in the first half of this letter, the first three chapters. What's true for us as followers of Christ? Well, it's true that we are chosen by God. That's true. We are to be filled by the Spirit, that is true. We are a holy people set apart, and because we're spirit-filled, because we're holy people, we are near to God, that is true, if you're an authentic, actual follower of Jesus. All this is true because you're free from the curse of your sin. And then he transitions in this last half of this letter mostly describing what the implications are of living this spirit-filled, spirit-led, spirit-controlled life. What are some of those things? Well we have unity with Christ. That's an implication. We have unity with Christ, and if we have unity with everyone else. As if we are all in union with him, that means we're all in union together with one another as well. This is a fact of life for the body of Christ. And we, as a body of Christ, are to be committed to the Lord's moral commandments, his standards, not our own Not the pseudoscience standards we see all around. God's standard. And we're to use God-given gifts, and we are to reject paganism in all of its forms. All of them. And we're to embrace love. Sure, we can love God and love our neighbor, that's for sure. But he puts an even finer point Paul does here in this letter. Love for our families. He gives instructions to Husbands and wives. He gives instructions to children in the home. We are to love our families. And I would don't want to go too far in pressing this point, but I just got them saying how we're all in union with another, in union with Christ. We're co-heirs of Christ. We're brothers and sisters in Christ. We're family. And Paul tells us we're to love our family. So let's at least commit that we are going to do a better job of loving our family. So now let's start to work through this one verse at a time. And in the interest of time, I'm not going to read the whole passage at once, but I'm going to read the whole passage one verse at a time. So picking up with verse 10 in Ephesians chapter 6. Finally, or henceforth, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. So we see here the weird be strong. Now, perhaps a slightly better way of thinking about the Greek there is be strengthened Right? There's a nuance there that I think is important. Because he says, be strong, say I have to puff up my own chest. I have to be strong. No, no, no. Be strengthened. Don't be strong, be strengthened. Well, how are you to be strengthened? He tells us, in the Lord. In his might. You're not strong on your own, you're strong in Christ. And you're going to see that that is the theme of this entire passage, by the way. Every verse is basically saying that. Be strong in Christ. So verse 11, put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Well that devil, he's a tricky one. He's an accuser telling you lies about yourself. Sometimes he's telling you truths about yourself too, but he mixes them in with half-lies and gets you Oh, balance and has you filled with all sorts of doubts about yourself, about God. He knows your weaknesses are. He knows where your Achilles heel is. This is about the armor of God, this passage He knows where the holes in your armor are. You're familiar, I think, with that ancient mythological figure, Achilles. He was an indefeatable warrior, but he had this one weakness at his heel. And that one little weakness was his demise. The devil knows where your weaknesses are. If we only had one. We can't have even one, so we've got to take on the whole armor of God, it says here. Paul is drawing a metaphor, by the way, here, for the garb that he's going to be describing in this passage. From a variety of sources actually. One of those sources is the most commonly referenced idea for this metaphor is the garb of the Roman soldiers of the day, the garb that the Ephesians use right into. They would have seen the Roman soldiers wearing this sort of stuff Paul was seeing him every day as he was under house arrest. He was seeing the soldiers guarding him. So he's seeing, so it's top of mind and it's relevant to his audience. So I think there's that Some people make a correlation, or at least some sort of a connection, to the garb that's worn by the the Iranic priesthood in the Old Testament. And I think that there's some inspiration maybe for some of those ideas, but to try to make a direct one-to-one correlation, it starts to fall apart And I think the reason for that is both of them are talking to us about Christ, but different aspects of who Christ is. So the the priesthood garb, that's helping us understand that Jesus Christ is our high priest. But this armor garb that's talked about here is helping us understand still about Jesus Christ, about Jesus Christ as our divine warrior king. He's a warrior. We're called to be warriors. And he's also drawing, I think, a lot of the inspiration for the imagery that he's using here from the book of Isaiah, later in the Hebrew scriptures. For example, in Isaiah 11 5 and 59 11, it says, And righteousness you don't have to necessarily turn there. I'll just read these really quickly. It's like a drive by uh Bible verse shooting here. And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, Isaiah writes And faithfulness the girdle of his reigns. And then in chapter 59, for he put on righteousness as a breastplate And a helmet of salvation upon his head. And he put on the garments of vengeance for clothing and was clad with zeal as a cloak. So yes, Paul is being relevant to the people around him He's speaking a language they can understand, using images they'd be very well uh acquainted with in their practical daily lives. But also these people if if they're good followers of Christ, they're reading the Hebrew scriptures, they're reading Isaiah, so they're probably recognizing, oh, he's alluding to Isaiah and he's talking about the soldiers, and maybe he's even talking about the priesthood. Isn't this cool? He's brilliant, Paul, and I would agree with Paul. It was brilliant. He's also, I think, touching on something else that most of us maybe haven't considered before, but the Ephesians of the day, they were familiar with their own mythological stories. And there were stories back then about their mythical pantheon of so-called gods, and these so-called mythical gods giving armor to their so-called mythical heroes. It was part of their cultural context, it was part of the literature with which they were familiar. I think that Paul might be drawing some connection there too. So he's meeting these people where they are on multiple fronts. And at the same time, and more importantly, he's giving us this biblically informed spiritual lesson. So we do want to be relevant. We want to meet people where they are, but for a purpose, for a particular point. Be relevant so that you can share the truth. If you're going to be relevant so that you can be relevant, you've wasted everybody's time. What he has written here, I just mentioned how he's written here what is true and we should be motivated to be relevant so that we can share the truth. What Paul has written here in this passage is literally true. Boy to define our terms a little bit. By literally I don't mean that we are to take it woodenly. It's not literalistically true, but it's literally true When you finish hearing my spiel here today, you shouldn't run off to the secondhand store and get yourself fitted for an armor helmet and put on a breastplate and walk the streets of Frederick County toting a sword and a shield We aren't to literalistically do that. Paul's using a metaphor, he's using word pictures, he's helping us to understand what these spiritual truths are, and these truths are literally true. Our very life depends on them, actually. And the soldiers of the day, they were depending on the practical truths of what this armor represents. And the soldiers of the day back then they posed in a list of six different items here, practical items here. And the first three the soldiers pretty much wore all the time. Almost all the time they were wearing the first three And the last three, they only had those when they were running to or engaged in battle. So when the alarm sounds, all of the items are in picture. When it's a more casual time, only three of them are. So what does that mean for us as Christians? Should we only not have half of the armor of God on at a time and and wait until we're under fierce attack before we put the other half on? Does that sound like the Christian life? The Christian life is one of constant lifelong combat. Now, sometimes it's more intense than others, but we are engaged in spiritual warfare all of the time. Every second of the day. Again, sometimes you feel it more acutely. Sometimes it's imperceptible how you're feeling. Those are the times they are most dangerous spiritually, actually. Your guard comes down. So we are to have on the full, whole, entire armor of God at all times. Why? For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. So the enemy here is described It's a fearsome enemy, right? Spiritual principalities and powers. We can't beat powers like this in our own strength. I would almost jokingly dare you to try, but I don't even want to say that as a joke. Do not try, you will fail. They're stronger than you. They're not bound to earth like you are. They're spiritual beings. Now we're spiritual beings in a sense, but we have limitations placed on us being finite, mundane beings. Do not try to fight this fight on your own. You can only fight this fight, and you must actually fight this fight In Christ. Because again, these are hosts, numerous hosts of wickedness. These are forces who are ruling the world's darkness. Do you notice how dark the world is? These are wicked heavenly realms from which they rule. They are powerful. Do not underestimate them. But don't shrink from the fight because of them either. I want to pause here for a rabbit trail thing. In the middle of verse 12, you see the phrase, this world. It's an interesting phrase in our English translations. Almost every English translation says this. Not all of them do, but most of them say this world. The Greek there actually would be probably better translated as this present darkness. Because the word world doesn't appear in the Greek. So what does that mean? Did the King James translators make a mistake? I don't think so. I think that this present darkness is talking about this world's present darkness, this present darkness in this world, in contrast from the world to come, by the way. So I think it's fine that the word world is here just as a way of understanding what's being said. In addition to that, sometimes, not always, but sometimes the number of times things are said in a list in the Bible is informative. And we notice here that we fight not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, there's one, against powers, there's two, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, there's three. Against spiritual wickedness in high places. There's four. There's a four-fold description of the enemy that we face. So many times in the Bible, when we see a fourfold list like this, it's drawing our attention to things that are of the world, that are in the world. Pointing us to think about things like the the four winds, the four directions, north, south, east, east, west, the four corners of the world. So I think Paul is purposely helping us understand that this spiritual battle that's taking place in these high places is is impacting the present darkness in this world. And so it's totally right and good that the translators, many of them, have decided to add this world into this verse. Now verse thirteen, wherefore unto take you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all To stand. So here we are reminded of what we saw first in verse eleven. We are to take on the whole armor Take it up, it says the armor. Take it up. And notice we're to take it up, which means that we don't supply ourselves. This is somebody else's armor. Hey, there's some armor over there. Go take it up. I see you don't have any. Go get that armor over there. Take it up. I think that's an important message for today's culture. A culture that says you're to pull yourself up by your bootstraps. If it is to be, it's up to me. I mean, isn't your favorite favorite Bible verse that God helps those who helps themselves? We live in a culture that for years is defined by rugged individualism That's given way in recent days to collective politicism. But even that, whether it's individualism or it's the collectivism, it's still about people, right? This collectivism is a it's a it the you you look at what's going on with passing in politics these days, whether it's Bernie Sanders or Donald Trump or any of them, it's a populism. Populism is about the people, the will of the people, the voice of the people, the work of the people. The people are going to do it. We the people are going to do it. No, we're not. We've tried. Look at what we've got to show for it. We cannot put our faith in ourselves or other people. We need to put our faith in Christ. Because all of our strength, all of our strength comes from God. So why do we take up this armor? Paul tells us. To withstand the evil day. To stand, it says again. It's going to say stand a third time at the beginning of verse 14. In fact, let's turn there now. Stand, therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness. So here we see the girdle, or the belt to use more contemporary language, equated with truth. Well, what do you know about truth? What is the truth? Or better said, who is the truth? Jesus Christ is the truth. We are to go our loins about with Christ. The truth must hold us, you see. It's not so much that we grasp the truth, it's that the truth grasps us. We girt our loins in it. We wrap ourselves and secure ourselves in the truth. We wrap ourselves and secure ourselves in Christ. Now back in the day, when Paul's writing, the men, they they was kind of the contemporary dress of the times, they wear long flowing robes. So this had a practical meaning for them back then. We still have that practical meaning now with women who wear long dresses. They have to go through the same process When the Roman soldiers had to be on the move, or anybody had to be on the move to go engage in a battle, had to run or fight or whatever, they had to remove the tripping hazard Right? They had to pull up the hem of their garment. They had to girt it around themselves. Well the picture we see in other words they had to suck it up, right? You've got to suck it up. What are you sucking up? Suck up all the Jesus Christ you can get. That's what you've got to suck up. Because this is our defense. This is our defense against the father of lies. The belt of truth. This belt of truth helps us to compensate, navigate, and get around those lies that trip us up. Those accusations from the enemy that trip us up. My wife actually experienced something like this just last month. She was moving quickly from the front door of an office building to the side door of her vehicle. It was like a 20-yard dash. She thought, I'm just gonna Hustle my way over there. She's wearing a long flowing garment and her foot got caught up in the hem of her garment and she took a very nasty fall, injured her knee, injured her arm. She's still actually recovering from that fall. Good thing she didn't bash her head in. This is us spiritually. If we don't wrap ourselves in Christ, if we don't cinch ourselves up, it's protection from those lies that trip us up. We just might get hurt. We see here also in this verse the breastplate, which is equated with righteousness. Well, what do we know about righteousness? Christ is our righteousness. He is our breastplate. Satan is the opposite of this, right? He's the unholy accuser. He is unrighteous. He's unholy in every possible way. Christ is perfectly righteous, perfectly holy in every way. And it's not just about them, it's also about us, which are we? Well, let's be honest. We're not really perfectly righteous. We are depraved. Even our so-called righteousness is as filthy rags. Our heart is deceitful. Yes, Satan is a liar, but so are we. Our hearts are so deceitful. Who can even understand the human heart? So do not trust in yourself. Don't trust in me. Don't trust in anyone who's merely a human. Got to trust in Christ. And by trusting Christ, then we will have truth in our words and we will have righteousness in our works. The next verse, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Now shod, there's an old world word for you. Talk about shoes, right? Put shoes on. emblematic of the readiness that we're to have in sharing the gospel. Put your shoes on so you can go. Share the gospel. What kind of gospel? The gospel of peace. Once again, Christ. Christ is the Prince of Peace. The gospel is Christ's gospel. The gospel is of Christ, for Christ, about Christ. Soldiers back then they had shoes that kept them prepared for battle. Uh oftentimes I as I understand it they had metal, brass or some other kind of metal in the soles of their shoe to help them get a grip on the uneven terrain and to get a firm foundation when they were engaged with the enemy, fiercely fighting for their lives, so that they would ha keep their sure footing, that they wouldn't slip and fall and and meet their doom. They were always ready. Wearing their shoes. They're prepared. Are you prepared? Have you shod your feet? And it's interesting because in the English we maybe lose a little something here. It might even be better to think about it. It's not so much that go get your shoes and put them on. A way that you can understand the Greek here is Having shod your feet, having taken up the helmet, having taken up the breastplate. You already have it in Christ if you're a follower of Jesus. You have them. So taking them up just means to trust in what you've got, what he's given you. So do you go? Do you proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ? Do you? Are you meeting people and letting them know, look, you have a creator, God, who made you? And so you are special. You're made in his image, in fact. But don't get too full of yourself because you're a sinner. You're a marred image bearer. You have sinned against God. And there's nothing you can do to fix that. You're totally dependent on him fixing it. And he has, in the person and work of Jesus Christ. His bloody death on the cross pays the penalty for your sin, and he demonstrated his victory over that debt that you owe, over death. And over sin, he demonstrated that through his resurrection and through his ascension back to whence he came And we hang on to that hope out of humble obedience and gratitude. We obey his word, we do what he asks us to do. We take up the full armor. We share the gospel with others. We point the other starving people to where the bread is. With that hope of eternal glory that awaits us all, who are followers of Christ. That's the gospel. Are you sharing it? Are you prepared? If somebody put it to you and said, you're a churchgoer, aren't you? I've been dabbling with it. What's the gospel? Could you tell them? Could you? Are you prepared? Next verse above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. So here the shield shield is a metaphor for faith. Faith in what? Faith in faith? Faith in myself, faith in the spark of the divine I have within me? What? No, no, no. Faith in Christ. So again, it's talking about Christ. And we are to have a faithful obedience to Christ. Because a faithfully obedient faith is an alive faith. A disobedient faith is a dead faith. That's no faith at all. Be obedient in your faith. And this faith is a gift from God. We don't supply the faith ourselves, we get it from Him. We don't muster it up ourselves. We don't wish it in ourselves. God gives us our faith. As a gift, and we accept it. We we we take it up, we we put it on, we wear this godly armor that we have been given in Christ And this picture here of the shield, there's different Greek words for different kinds of shields. And this isn't one of those small round shields that might just fit on your forearm. This is a huge kind of shield This is a big, tall, oval, oblong kind of a shield, big enough that you could like position yourself and duck behind it and protect your whole person. And they would take these shields and they would dip them. They're made of wood and they would dip them in the water and they become water saturated so that they would hold them up and these fiery, flaming darts, these arrows coming from the enemy would come. And the wood would absorb the blow of the dart and at the same time would snuff out the flame on that arrow That's what faith in Christ does. That's what Christ has given you. Christ is the shield. Christ has absorbed the blow. Christ douses those flames, those fiery darts from the enemy. Every piece of this picture is a picture of Christ. Next verse. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. So the helmet here is salvation, which is of Christ. Christ is our salvation. As is written in Psalm 140, verse 7, in 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 8. O God the Lord, the strength of my salvation, thou hast covered my head in the day of battle. Pictures that tell us that we are to guard our mind. Protect your mind. Just as the breastplate symbolizes guarding your heart and that shield of faith represents guarding your whole entire soul. You're to protect your mind. What are you allowing to enter your mind? What do you look at on the internet? What kind of movies do you watch? What kind of books do you read? What sort of television shows do you consume? What kind of conversations do you allow yourself to enter into? What kind of pseudo-life do you live on social media? Are you allowing poisoned darts to enter your mind? Or are you guarding your mind? Romans 12, 2, it says, Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed. How? By renewing your mind. And the sword here, it's the sword of the Spirit. It's the Word, it tells us. Spirit. Spirit. Christ. The Word. Christ is the Word. It's interesting here though, because the word for word here isn't the one we might think of. John's Gospel famously tells us that Christ is the word, the Lagos. Wagas is not the word that's used here. The word that's used here is rima. It's the word that talks about that which is breathed out, that which is uttered, that which is spoken. If only God had breathed out a word for us. If only. He has, of course. It's been in scripture readers, then our canon, it's our Bible. And so what is the sword of the Spirit? It's God's word, it's the Bible. Use the Bible as your sword, the truth found there within. And this sword, it's interesting, because there's different Greek words for different kinds of swords, just like there's different Greek words for different kinds of shields. There's the big, long, giant swords, and there's short little swords. Well this is the word for the short little sword. It's more like a giant knife, really. They could be as long as only six inches. I've got knives in my kitchen longer than that. They were never longer than a foot, foot and a half. These are short, almost like machetes, really. So what's the point? The point is these are the kinds of swords that were designed for hand-to-hand combat Up close and personal, where you can smell the stench of your opponent's sweat, where their spittle sprays on you. Their body heat radiates so that you can feel it. You're grappling with them, you're wrestling with them, you're engaging them hand to hand. How often do we do that Are we grappling with these realities that we face in our spiritual warfare up close and personal, or are we hiding at a safe distance? Claiming to be fighting the fight from over there somewhere. Next verse says, Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all Saints, so boy, there's almost some repetition here. Pray always, with all supplication. In the Spirit of Christ. With all perseverance, for all of the holy ones. That's the word here. Hagios, the holy ones, the saints. If you're a follower of Christ, you're a holy one. You're to live a holy life and you've been called out, you've been set apart, and you're holy in that sense too. You are a holy one, you are a saint if you're a follower of Christ. It's talking about you And we're to pray for the saints to pray for one another. They're to pray for you. And we're to do this praying praying thing in all situations, whether it be public or private, whether it be uh in formal or casual settings, whether it be in those intense moments in life or those quiet times in life, we've got to be praying without ceasing. We're gonna be praying always. Because understand that we do very often meet fleshly foes in this battle that we face on a day-to-day basis. And we meet these fleshly foes with a spiritual weapon. We meet them with unceasing prayer. Mundane foes, after all, are mere tools in the hands of spiritual foes Some suggested that the spiritual is the ultimate real, superseding even the material. Now, I understand what they're saying and why they're saying we've got to be careful though, right? The mundane is also real. That's real. But the spiritual is also real. I think that's the point they're trying to say when they say the spiritual is the ultimate real. They might be overcorrecting just a little bit, the pendulum makes them a little bit far, but the point we've got to remember is the spiritual is emphatically real. And our physical existence is also emphatically real. But we can see the physical. The spiritual is invisible, and so we forget about it. Don't forget that the spiritual is also real. And ultimately that would be of most importance, right? The spiritual realities become the more important realities. Next verse says, Paul's talking about prayer says, Pray for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel. Now we notice here Verses 18 through 20, there's been a shift, right? Paul, he gets away from the analogy of armor. But the same lesson is continuing. I think he actually does this on purpose for probably a couple of reasons Well, I think he wants to help us to have an emphasis here, to see that there's there's uh a higher plane here for God's war. So it's not all about these practical mundane armor pieces. It's something that has no physical component to it, prayer Helping to highlight for us, draw our attention to the fact that this is a spiritual war. So let's not get lost in those six practical physical items that he lists, because this war is most tangibly spiritual. Right? Because it's about the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's a spiritual message of the kingdom of God. And Paul here, as he's drawn this picture, using these armor pieces, he's drawing a picture of armor that covers the entire person. The entire person is protected and covered by this armor, and the armor is Christ. Clothe yourself in him. In Romans chapter 13, verse 14, it says, But ye put on the Lord Jesus Christ, put him on. And make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lusts thereof. Now some they can't help themselves. They want there to be a tangible piece to every aspect of what Paul writes here. So they'll sometimes call the prayer that he talks about here as a spear. of the Christian. But I don't know how you can hold a spear in one hand and a sword in another hand and a shield in a wait a minute, I only have two hands. So I don't know if that works so much. Really the thing here is the prayer represents the all-in-all. It's the thing that pulls the whole outfit together. As Matthew Henry uh once wrote, he talked about it being prayer being that which buckles on all the other armor, right? That's what we should understand here. But understand too that this is not just mundane run-the-run-of-the-mill kind of prayer. This is a militant prayer. Militant prayer. Pray with fervency. Pray with purpose. Be on mission. In your prayers. Remember that Christ is a warrior. And in Christ, we're warriors. Or we're supposed to be. Follow his example. Christ praise. You don't praise now. He's interceding for you, right now, before the throne of God Christ prays, we should follow his example, we should pray. And then verse 20, for which I am an ambassador in bonds, that therein I may speak boldly as I ought to speak. So here Paul He's continuing talking about prayer and he's asking believers to pray for him. And there are a couple of lessons we can learn and apply here. One, Paul's a leader in the church and he's asking for prayer, so we should pray for our church leaders They desperately need our prayer. They need our encouragement. We're prone to accusing them of false teaching, rightly so oftentimes. But are we praying for them or are we just wagging our accusational fingers at them? Need to pray for them. And Paul here asks for the prayer of others. So we can ask for the prayer of others. We can ask for the prayer of others. I mean, Paul, he is an ambassador and all, but so are we. He is bound, right? He's in bonds, and one sense of understanding that he is bound to Christ. He is a slave of Christ. So are you. So it's good enough for Paul. I think it might be good enough for us. Because we've received the spirit of adoption, you see. Same spirit of adoption he has. And in the spirit we are enabled to pray. And that's an important thing to think about. And I'm not going to spend a lot of time talking about prayer because I know that's going to be a big focus of the conference this weekend. So just a couple short, real quick last thoughts on this. But prayer is hard. Isn't it? You ever feel like you're praying against the brass ceiling, as they say, and prayers just bounce right back at you? You're praying to the invisible, and it's like hard to really think you're praying to somebody sometimes. You go through those seasons where I just I'm struggling to pray. I mean as a pastor, I ask people how they're doing in their walk, and probably nine times out of ten, I say, so what's challenging you in your life these days? Nine times out of ten, it's Well, I'm struggling in my prayer life. Having a hard time praying. So we need to understand that Christ equips us even for this. And we need to pray and ask for prayer in the way that Paul does. We need to focus where Paul focuses. Did you know where he focused? One, he makes not just a generic pray prayer, right? He doesn't say, pray for my unspoken needs. See that on social media sometimes? He doesn't have unspoken needs. He has very spoken needs. He has very specific things he's asking for here. He asks that you would pray for him, that he would speak the truth. So ask your brothers and sisters, hey, can I pray for anything? Yeah. Pray that I would speak the truth. He says, pray that I will have boldness in announcing the kingdom of God. Can I pray for you? How about if I pray that you'll have boldness to share the gospel of peace with a lost and wanting world? How about that? Would you accept that prayer? Pray that he'll share the mystery of the gospel, he writes. Mystery, that's a fun word. Mysterion. Tempted to have you all say it. Mysterion. Mysterion. Mysterion, what that means is something that is impossible to work out on your own. To understand in your own strength, it's impossible until and unless God discloses it. You can't know it. It's a mystery. Unless God turns on the lights and dashes your darkness. The mystery of the gospel, and I'm emphasizing this because I'm challenging us all to do a better job of going and sharing this gospel. equipped with the full armor of God with other people. And it can be discouraging. Why don't they get it? Or why are they being so mean spirited towards me in response to it? But even if they're not mean spirited I've explained it to them over and over. Why don't they get it? Why won't the penny drop? It's so simple. They admit that they've done wrong things. They know they're a sinner. Why won't they accept their Savior? Why? Because they can't It's a mystery. They don't have eyes to see. They need God to remove the scales from their eyes. And until and unless that happens, they will not respond the way you're hoping they'll respond to the message of the gospel. And why am I emphasizing this? Because I want you to share the gospel. I want us all to share the gospel. And then leave the results to God. His word does not return void. Sometimes he'll bless you with the privilege of seeing a life changed. Other times he will give you a front row seat to somebody hardening their hurt in response to the word. God's word always accomplishes its purposes. We don't always know what those purposes are, but God does. So, ending thoughts. I didn't focus on this, but I'm going to mention it real quick in passing. Satan's weapons generally are the opposite of what we've been given. Satan's a liar, Christ is the truth. Right? Satan is unholy, Christ is righteousness, and so forth. You can go down the list and you can see that the components, Satan is right across the line, anti-Christ. And he's stronger than us. So it's easy to laugh him off. Oh he's so horrible. Yeah, well he's so strong too. So do not neglect the reality that he exists. Don't try and by that I mean Not to give him a higher position than he deserves, but don't try to lessen his strength so you try to fight him in your own strength. Because like I said, you'll have your heart your heads will be dashed against the rocks if you do that It's like fighting blindfolded against an invisible foe. But fortunately, you see in the movies like this, I think the hero of the story The whole movie is building up this climactic moment. He's been trained by the master in martial arts and stuff, and he faces the the bad guys in a room and somehow he's been blinded, he has something thrown into his eyes and he can't see, and he's surrounded by like six bad guys But because of the training he's received, he's able to knock out all six bad guys. You see movies like this? That's what Christ does for us. It's as though we're blindfolded, fa facing off against an invisible foe, and yet Christ, our master is training us up, giving us the armor we need so that we can defeat all of those foes. So put on the entire armor of God. We are Christ completely. You need to take. You stop playing it for 15 years, you go back to play it, you probably could still play, but you're not going to play it as well. You play a sport, they practice for their games. I'm kind of okay with my languages. Shame on me. We have to exercise this stuff daily or we might just lose it. It's like when I was in the hospital a few years ago, I was only in there for like a week, but when I got out, I was like, holy cow, who's that guy looking at me in the mirror? Because the enemy in the battle are real. But we should be encouraged, because we know that the war ends in victory. And this idea of no retreat is important. Other people center on this. I'm just going to mention it in passing because I don't want to overstate it. But it is noteworthy, I think, at some level, that the armor that's described, there's nothing really explicitly described for our backside Don't be encouraged because Christ I think protects our flank as well, but there's no explicit armor described. So we are to be engaged in the fight. We are to charge into the battle, trusting in our leader, fearlessly. We're not to turn and retreat, or you might find yourself in trouble, chased down by the enemy and caught from behind. So trust in what God has given to you. Do your job. And what He has given to you is truth and righteousness. You have these things. Readiness, you have it. Access it, take it up. Faith. I pray you have it. And if you have that, you have salvation. You have the gift of the preserved word. You have the scripture. You have the gift of the privilege of prayer. Put it to use. We've been given these things. Use them. You have all that you need. All of us as Christians, we have what we need because we have Christ. And he is all that we need. He is the overcomer. He has already defeated the enemy. And we're trusting in his victory, his kingship, his strength as a warrior in the spiritual war. So if you remember any one thing from today, remember that the armor of God is Christ. Let me have a real quick closing word of prayer here. Father, we thank you so much that we have the gift of Christ and all that that entails. We ask that you would give us the courage, the strength, and daily reminders to put it to use to exercise it and to be bold in sharing these truths that we study in your word with others. We have a lost, desperate world in need of the truth, hungry and thirsty for the truth.