Welcome streaming viewers you lay sneak key behind the scenes record the face debate radio show for some it's uh September but these shows are gonna air uh in November so we're a a little bit ahead which is good because it's always tough for us to schedule during the holidays so it's if we were By the time we got to Halloween-ish, certainly by Thanksgiving, if we were good through January, that would probably be a good idea. But we'll see. So toward toward the last recordings, can we congratulate people that it's fin the weather's finally cooled down? Yeah, I think we can I think we can I think we can. I mean we probably can do that in this episode if you want. Alright, I'm going to uh get us going here Which which which number are we on? Yeah, we're picking up with the the twenty-four. And we're in section two. Yeah, I guess so. Okay. Yes. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host, Troy Skinner, also the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, and therefore you can find me online at Household of Faith in Christ. Joined this week by, well, we're back for some more fisticuffs over the Warrington Declaration on Medical Mandates, Biblical Ethics, and Authority. Daniel Razvy with Concord by Love Ministries, ConcordBylove. org and uh a church, a house church that meets in the Thurmont area. And we still don't have a name for it. The Whack-Amole Church, David Force he pastors them. They They they meet in various uh and sundry places throughout the uh uh how do we decide the tri-state Potomac area? There we go That sounds really impressive actually, right? He's pastor of the Tri-State Potomac Region House Church. The pastor. Right. That's like it's gotta be huge. What do you have by thousands? Yeah. Nope. That's all right. Alright, so uh if you were listening to the last number of shows, you kind of know what's going on. If not, let me just give you a real quick teaser of what's happening here. We've been working uh this year uh for months now really with with with a few uh pauses to to address uh some other issues along the way. But for the most part we've been working through the some historic proclamations that uh and declarations that have been published by entities within the church over the last like fifty years or so. We've been going through them in chronological order and so we're up to the Warranton Declaration now, which is only a couple of years old, came out in 2021 And I wonder why. Anything happened like in 2020, 2021 that might have made them put out a declaration on medical mandates, biblical ethics, and uh I can't think of any dangerous diseases that happened around that time. Yeah, or so we're afraid of overreach, nothing. Nothing comes to mind. Yeah, so I'm not sure why they did it, but we're just following along, so don't blame us. You know, don't cancel us. I'm sure I'm sure they were thinking preemptively and not reactionary. Exactly, yeah, because uh I mean to be honest, we don't even want to do this topic, but it it was next in line as we're going in historical, you know, book uh order, right? Yeah. So that's page number twenty three. So we're in section two for for those reading along at home. Um this is yeah, number twenty-four. Uh affirmation and denial. Oh, this one's in denial. Number twenty-four, we deny that the existence of communicable viruses, viral testing mechanisms, or the invention of invention of that's invention. Vaccinations creates a new standard of morality whereby a healthy person simply conducting their affairs in society without vaccination, viral testing, or wearing a mask. is evidence of criminally or morally reckless behavior. Moreover, if such a standard for violation of medical freedom is Adopted, conceivably civil governments could permanently regulate and restrict every facet of life, since according to this same rationale, various flu-like viruses can be unknowingly spread at all times Further, there are a host of other far more deadly dangers, such as heart disease, which, like virus-related hospitalizations, also place a burden on the health system. The civil government does not then gain authority to ban soda intake for obese individuals. I think someone should read this to the government of New York City. They they they right they crack down on bed gulps and stuff like that for these. That was exactly why they had that line in there. No, they're not being no no they're the right what did you say? They're not being reactionary, they're being proactive. In case, there we go. Preemptive. Yeah, but w because we want to be careful. So we're just, you know, having a friendly conversation. We're not saying. We're just saying, right? We're not saying, we're just saying. Well, I mean this comes back to what their premise was in the in the first section when They said there's different spheres of authority that God has placed over the world. You have the government authority and you have the What what was it let's just go back and read those because that we want to keep have that in mind. There's individual there's family, there's church, there's civil. And civil. Okay, so those are the four. So this is coming back to that same uh spot where they where they're saying it's not within the government's authority to do that. And I think in our society these days we have a a default assumption that the government's job is to do X. Like if you boil it down, what's the basic job of the government? Is to keep people safe, right? No. Not to keep people safe, but that's what people assume and because that, well of course it's the basic I mean to promote the general welfare of the society, right? That's in the constitution Uh and so I think that has to be dealt with first. And once you realize the government's not there to for the sole purpose of keeping in They are there to punish evil and to uh and so with when this intentional criminal acts, things like that, and you're just walking around being reckless or whatever, or you know, eating things that are bad for you or consuming things that are bad for you That's not the government's job to stop from happening. Uh and that c that's kinda brings it back to why I have positions that I have on, you know, drug laws and things like that. I think it's terrible to do drugs. And the government shouldn't research any of it because it's not their job to keep you safe. Well they should not provide health care for anybody. Well, and that's right, and that's that sort of is the the argument and we see it we see it here toward the end of this this denial, so because Uh further there are a host of other far more deadly dangerous dangers such as heart disease which like virus related hospitalizations also place a burden on the health system, right? So I I think the The civil government does have um they can make an argument to some degree in saying if we are going to be responsible for covering health care costs, right, then that puts anything health uh related in our sphere of authority. Right, but that's the usurpation of their authority. Well just because they say well I don't care this. Yes. It's it's we it is uh when but I I mean it's a it's a legitimate argument to say if you are going to hold me responsible for something, then I have authority over things related to that. And so the government it's it's okay now I think your opinion, my opinion probably around the round the table here is it's the government should not be responsible for The health care of every individual in you know in the country. But they're overstepping their bounds in one area, which then gives if you're gonna follow the same logic It gives them reason to still overset their bounds in other areas too. But it's related and here here's the consistency that I can respect from a lot of people, which is a lot of people who are in the camp that say we want the government to provide universal health care are also in the camp that say the government has the right to tell us what to do medically and shut us down Yeah, and I I would argue that's part of the problem that our society faces, right? The era of the total state where you want the state in total control of all things. And yeah, and we wouldn't have the same problems we have with uh with immigration if we didn't have the the uh welfare social net set up the way that it is. First of all, you wouldn't have as many people coming. Because they wouldn't be getting all the freebies. And secondly, people wouldn't be as concerned because anybody who comes out comes here is like, well, they're gonna have to work their way through like everybody else. there'd be a lot less tension and stress, but because we don't because the government doesn't do what it's supposed to do, protecting the the borders, it then causes all these problems and then then when it does do what it's not supposed to do with all these mandates, that causes problems. So when the government's not in its lane uh uh to do what it's supposed to and gets outside its lane to do what it's not supposed to, it's and this is a I don't know if it's a distinctly biblical worldview, but it's clearly a biblical worldview. And while we have the cultural dynamics at play that we have right now is because most of the culture is not biblical in their worldview. People are either biblical directly like the three in this room, we would say, Yeah, the the Bible guides what we think, why we think it Um and there are other people who wouldn't have the same commitments that we do, but they've been influenced during their life in such a way that kind of by default they have a biblical worldview in a number of ways. They don't know why they believe what they believe, they just do But w we're a minority now. I remember back in the eighties the moral majority, that the idea that the the people that were either Christians or influenced by Christianity were the majority. I I I think it's been a while since that's been the case. case. But I think they're they're actually making the case here in this uh in this paragraph that uh David that just uh conceding that the government has overstepped and has usurped authority in taking care of health care and paying for health care for many, many, many Americans. Even assuming maybe they'd someday pay for health care for all Americans, that then still does not give them the right to regulate everything. facet of of society, um, you know, it's 'cause they're saying that you can permanently regulate and restrict everything, what you eat, what you breed, where you go, where you walk and And it completely offends uh every every individual freedom that we have. 'Cause you're not gonna stop at the flu or covet or whatever, you're gonna stop like I said, heart disease or you know, you could say everybody everybody needs exercise to to uh to be healthy, so you've got to run a mile every day. If you don't then uh I mean eventually it's gonna be regulating every single thing and now you're very totally So they're saying you can't let that slide. It's one thing if you're gonna want to pay for people, but and and and we don't even agree with that. But having paid for health care still doesn't give you the right to do all this Uh uh it it might. Which which is which which means which means that the problem starts starts further back than just hey you're taking away my freedoms. the problem starts further back with, hey, I'm entitled to these benefits. Yeah, I'm not sure if if if what you mean is logically Because I would say if you're if we're talking logically it's more than it might. It's logically consistent, so one follows the other. Right. But does that make it just and right in the way things should be? Are you saying that there could be an argument that it w could be okay or you say no just logically. No, I'm I'm saying I'm saying that's the logical outcome. And and I'm and so I'm also saying logically we need to go back further than this to fix to fix the problem. However you can still cut it off as certain place because you can say um logically if the government is paying for uh child care they should be able to tell me to kill my child so they don't have to pay for it. That's abortion, right? That's logic. It's very logical. But it's immoral. And it sounds silly, you know, on the face of it, but you know what? There is a story that just this year in Canada when somebody uh called they were having some problems in their life. Uh I think they couldn't make rent or something. I it was something like I think a rather practical concern and they called the government and the government agent In Canada? Has that they want to be connected to somebody in the medical department to help them with an assisted suicide because life was just too hard for them? Right. I I mean so it sounds crazy. Oh let's just kill your baby. Well how about you just kill yourself? I it sounds absurd and yet that is happening in different parts of the world. But it's logical If right just because it's logical doesn't make it morally right, and you don't have to I agree, I'd love to take it all the way back to the to to where it started from But you can still also cut it off at the knees where it is, and then work your way backwards. Yes, I'm fine with that. I'm fine with that. But I'm wondering if logically speaking, it isn't if it is wrong for them to f you know, for the government to take away uh to overstep their bounds authoritatively Right. Is it is it not also wrong for uh uh for these other spheres of of authority to cede their authority to the civil government. Right? Is it not wrong for right, if you don't want logically, if the government is in charge of you know, the education of your children, then the government is can logically decide what they want to teach your So that's why many in the home school movement have been very much against the voucher system. Right. And then so the question is, then if it's not right for them to have that authority, then is it right for Christians to cede that authority to the government in the first place. So you say we should we should um rebuff. any attempts for the government to give us um any sort of bennies from the government? Like i the uh if you don't if we don't want our the government to be the ones to decide how to educ educate our children then we should take that responsibility fully on ourselves and not not have them take any part in it. Right. And that particular example is is really more dramatic in recent years than it ever has been because now I mean there it's what they're doing to these kids and throwing them out. You really gotta I I I understand anybody first thing or not, I understand anybody sending their kids too government run school these days. And the thing is if if Christians truly believe, okay, it's the responsibility of the family to do that, then is the you know, it is the church supporting families and you know equipping them, helping them, enabling them to take responsibility of democracy. So just the government is not some nameless, faceless as it often ends up being, but it's not supposed to be some nameless, famousless entity. It's supposed to be the totality of the people and what they will, uh and so conceivably in the education system if the if the people have decided to hire a teacher collectively, they people can also decide what to tell the teacher to to to teach, but that doesn't mean you don't have any say, you still do have a say because you're one of the people that's voting. Supposedly. I know that's how it's supposed to Yeah, it doesn't it doesn't it doesn't work that way. I think it probably did once upon a time, I'm not sure when it stopped working that way, but it doesn't work that way. Number 25 is an affirmation We affirm that a biblically faithful view of the civil go civil government sphere as well as the ecclesiastical government sphere provides no lawful jurisdiction for civil magistrates or ecclesiastical authorities of the Church of the to mandate or in any way coerce individuals to inject substances into themselves or their children or cover their mouths, noses, face, or any combination thereof with masks. So I disagree with this just like a with the communicable disease, just like Leviticus says, then yeah, you should be uh uh quarantined and you should cover your face when you're in public. I think that's that's very biblically sound. Now I think that's the extent of it. It has to be symptomatic And it's gotta be only while you're symptomatic and contagious. And only you know, so th that should be the extent of it, but I would I would have that carved out. exemption there. Well, just like you would say, okay, if someone if someone is clearly ill and uh I I might not invite them into my home. Right. If if I but you always have the uh ability to invite or not invite, but I think someone in authority can actually force you to stay home Uh well or at least So like a a shop owner could say, this person is clearly ill or out of their mind or whatever. You know, sorry, you can't come in here in that I think the passage in the Leviticus talks about completely ostracizing them from society, so they're not the same. It's not merely ecclesiastical. It's civil and ecclesiastical. It's a hybrid. Right. So it's not necessarily a one-to-one in today's context. And and and now, I mean I'm not sure what the context would would be for putting something over your mind. mouth and nose or whatever. I mean if it's if it's the kind of thing that would actually work, I I I could see a logical basis for that. But to force somebody to use something that that you that you know is just not going to do what everybody thinks it's going to do do is just uh you're LARPing and the thing that bothers me about it is somebody who wants to come to church to worship and because everybody's afraid of something airborne, you're not showing any symptoms, Daniel, and you show up to to to household of faith in Christ and you want to worship and I said, Well you can only worship if you put this thing over your nose and mouth. That's extra biblical. There's there's no requirement that you have to wear something in order to go worship over your face. Specifically symptomatic is what it says. Not only do you have to wear that, you can't even come to worship because you're symptomatic. That's that's Yeah, they they also include inject substances into themselves. I'm not sure what kind of substances they're talking about, but Uh I'm not a big fan of injecting any substances into my person regardless. I'm not a fan of heroin. Uh that's probably what they mean trying. Yeah, it's probably heroin. That's probably what it is. Yeah, probably. You gotta watch out for the uh uh the the brown shirts. All right, number twenty-six, I guess. We affirm. By the way, we're the uh we're a little past halfway, so I'll reset here. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD I'm Troy Skinner, David Forcey and Daniel Razby also on the panel this week as we're working our way through the Warrington Declaration. And uh we're heading down the home stretch. We're about sorry three-fourths of the way through. I'm not going to finish today. We might not even finish next week, but we will probably finish the week after that, I'm I'm kind of guessing, but we'll see how it goes. So we affirm that any civil or ecclesiastical authority that attempts to coerce individuals or their children with any form of public banishment, fine, imprisonment, social ostracism, or other forms of coercion for not wearing a MASK or injecting a substance into their bodies, are ascribing to themselves authority not delegated by God and are in grievous Sin and they got some proof texts, see where Matthew 19, Titus three back to the proof text. First Corinthians one and Romans sixteen So they're not they're just they're not saying, hey, it's not a really great idea. I might want to steer clear. It's kind of a wisdom issue. No, no, no. Grievous sin. Not just sin Beyond that. Yes. Grievous. What do we think? Based on what you just said, you probably have some issues with that. I do, yeah. For some of the same reasons. Yeah, and anything that's this is just more specific than the last one. So there's probably not more fodder for discussion, is there? No. No. I mean I I I agree with the social ostracism and public management. I think it's a good thing to do if you're symptomatic. And if you're contagious. Okay. Well so the next one says this is the next one is they have Daniel Rasby in mind. They're trying to meet him where he is. We affirm that although local churches may reasonably enforce policies of calling on the symptomatically ill to stay home Any attempt to impede fellowship in the body by a believer on the grounds of failing to inject a substance into their bodies or the wearing of an M A S K is also d divisiveness. And they got some proof texts again, Titus, Christantium and the U. Yeah, they're trying to meet you and me on that one, right? Maybe we just didn't read far enough ahead. They can't say everything in every article. the civil government, not just the church. For for symptomatic symptomatic things. That's what the purpose of a quarantine. Yeah, I we we talked about this at length um was it last show or two shows ago and and we went round and round And I I'm I'm not sure I'm there with the I I I understand where the argument's coming from and so I'm I'm trying to really think about it, but Hey, I believe in very, very limited things that the government should be allowed to do And this is one of them, but I'm very specific with the boundaries of it, 'cause I think the boundaries are set biblically and they're very clear. Uh I don't want to step over those So I'm just slightly more uh and to be clear, the you know, in the Levitical Law, the symptoms are blatant Obvious. Unmistakable and severe. And and definitely contagious. And it wasn't and it wasn't like the sniffles, right? We're talking about deadly kinds of stuff. Right. Yeah, so yeah, I I think if we hash out all of those things, you know, look at every little jot, every little tittle, cross every T, dot every I, figure out every little nuance, we probably would agree. The point is somebody you know would have before making those kinds of rules and determinations. Exactly. You got yeah. It reminds me of uh a uh I in the in the past I've seen churches that have so this is many years ago, even decades ago at this point, they had uh they had uh uh a nursery health policy. So there would be a a short list of symptoms and they were usually pretty you know, fairly severe obvious symptoms, but if it was sort of, you know, if if your child has had any of these fairly severe symptoms in the last twenty-four hours, please please don't bring them into the nurse Something like that's super reasonable, I think. And that makes so that makes total sense. And if somebody's gonna be that selfish about well I'm bringing my kids anyway, that's a sin issue as well that has to be dealt with. Well then first Sunday school. Alright, so I think we're up to what now twenty-eight, right? We deny that personal and family decisions so declined vac too too. So doesn't make any sense. That's because it doesn't say so. It says two. We deny that personal and family decisions too decline vaccination or the wearing of masks. are necessarily out of step with the biblical command to love one's neighbor as oneself. And again, they've got Leviticus and Matthew as a couple of proof texts. So If you as a family say we're not doing this, that's not nobody can then accuse you of not loving your neighbor. That's what they're saying, yeah. And that's definitely in reaction to what was a very popular thing, right? Love your neighbor wear a mask, love your neighbor get the shot, love your neighbor, right, stay six feet away. Just just so you uh you know, the the the poof decks that they have are specific Oh gotcha. So they're just letting you know where they're coming from, like why they're even bringing this up. And and and probably pointing you to the actual texts that say love your neighbor so you can look at the context of what the Bible is talking about when it says Love your neighbor. Yeah, and love your neighbor as yourself. Well I I don't want people to stay away from me. I don't want people to be covering their fa their beautiful faces and their smiling teeth for me. I don't want people, right? I I that's what I want. So if I'm gonna love them like me, I guess I should tackle them to the ground and not let them put the mask over their face or get the injection of the substance, whatever it might be. Yeah. Alright, we got time maybe for one more. Well no we don't. We might get we don't have time for one more. We got like a maybe a minute. So we're gonna pick up with number twenty-nine. It's a denial. By the way, in case you're wondering, there are thirty-six, so we only have seven more. So I don't I don't think we've got seven done today though. So we're probably not going to get seven done next week in all likelihood. Anyway, Daniel Rasby, um you can learn more about the ministry he's involved with at conqueredbylove. org David Forcy doesn't have a website, so you can just connect with him through me at householdfaith in Christ dot com. That's the website the best reach me, Householdofaithinchrist. com Of course you can go to the radio station's website, wfmd. com, find the faith debate page there as well. I'm on all the different social medias, Odyssey, Sermon Audio, not so much Facebook, but different places, MiWe, whatever, Gab. Well anyway, until next week, 167. 5 hours from right now, God bless. You're you're the whack a mole on social media, Troy. You never know where you're gonna be able to do it. Well the problem is it's so decentralized now because everybody who was saying anything that was worth paying attention to got chased away and they didn't all go to the same place. Right. And it's so fragmented, it's really a problem, to be honest with you. None of the platforms generates enough muscle to be all that helpful. It it as far as the alternatives. I mean Facebook still has a lot of people on it and Twitter has a number of people on it. Uh Twitter's starting to So Yeah. Well I was I said to somebody uh when Elon took over uh Twitter and everybody was so excited and stuff, I said, you know, the best we can hope for from Elon Musk is that he would perform as a really good anti hero Because that's all he is. He does not share our worldview. No. And so anything that he does correctly is gonna be by accident. And so he's gonna be a good analogy. I think he's controlling opposition. And I don't know how controlled he is. You think he's controlled? I think Trump is controlled opposition too. Hmm. Hmm. Yeah Think about it. I don't know that either one of them are all that controllable. I guess I s uh What do you mean by control the opposition? Well think about it. Knowingly or like they don't even realize it themselves. Trump is running for president right now Yeah, it's a it's a great it's a great fundraising uh idea for dealing with legal costs, by the way. Poorer than he was. The thing is, what what possible reason would there be at all I know how I I know how to do it. I can give you reasons that are logical that would make sense on the face of it. I I know a lot of cheating happened And he knows even more than I do how much T he happened. So he knows there's absolutely no possible way that he could actually ever win an election just because of the So the he if knowing that going in, why spend years and a heartache and be beat up and prosecuted and and And have your brand damaged and your kids' brands damaged and their names dragged about and all those things. If you don't if you know there's not a single chance of getting it unrest, you're in on it Unless it's intentional. It's all part of the game. That's the only possible reason I could think. 'Cause he otherwise he's stupid and thinks he can actually win when it was so much cheating last time. And he's not stupid. No, but there's a difference between stupidity and naivete. He he has proven to be a little bit naive. He certainly was he made some naive decisions throughout twenty twenty, I would I would argue. Um yeah, I gotta say the the the so the um The best case argument in support of why you run again is because he feels like he got ripped off last time and he's gonna show him he's gonna run and he's gonna win so overwhelmingly they won't be able to steal it from him kind of And that could be an altruistic motive. I'm not sure if that's where his head is or not, but let's just give him the benefit of the doubt say it is for a second. Okay? Now, let's say that's not what it is, but we'll be a less altruistic motive He's got all these legal deals. It's going to cost him millions and millions and millions of dollars to defend himself in all these places. Every time they Bring up another charge, set another venue for I mean the the mug shot. Tons of money rolls in. Oh yeah. It's the greatest merchandising and and and and and marketing campaign the guy could dream of. So that would be a he might be running just for the money. Yeah. So he got an altruistic reason you got a not to to have nothing to do with him being controlled up. That would be a third option. That would be the absolute worst case scenario is controlled opposition. He's like a he's like the uh the Washington General's playing against the Harlem Goldrotters, you know, and he's just he's gonna lay down and lose on purpose or something. He vetoes funding for Planned Parenthood and then he increases funding for the Bill Gates Foundation, which was the second biggest and now is the biggest funder of Planned Parenthood since the US government pulled out. So i with one hand you get a care uh and say, Hey look what I'm doing for pro life and then another I think that's just him being consistently inconsistent though, because that's what he spent his whole life. He's not an ideologue. He doesn't have an ideological spine And I don't mean that as a c as a criticism, I just mean it as a critique to try to be accurately understand who the man is. He's a he's a pre he basically up until recently when the total state took over the the the mindset of the typical American. I would say up until maybe fifteen, twenty years ago. I think the the re prevailing religion in America was pragmatism. Whatever works, right? Whatever will practically get the job done, that's what we believe in. That's Donald Trump. That's his whole life. So I I don't know that he is you know quite the way I mean if you're right We're doomed. You know, let's go find a bunker somewhere. Well see I I I think this is the end times and I think I'm respecting that. And Trump was just symbolically crowned king of Israel by some Israel rights group Is that right? Prime Minister. And you know, that would certainly check a lot of boxes for me too. Especially with his son getting the peace deals done Something's off here. Anyway. Alright, let's jump into the next one. So we'll see if it survives the canceled police or not. Oh yeah. Sorry about that. Whatever. You haven't lived it has been canceled. We deny the conformity to a given recommended course of medical action. Oh, did I do this one already? No. This is new. Way to start the show off I'm in the right place. And you are too. This is the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks for starting part of your day with us here on a beautiful Sunday morning. I'm assuming it's beautiful. I don't know. We're recording this in advance. So, why don't I start over again since we're recording this? Because we don't do that. So we're uh working through the Orange Declaration on doing number 29, Article 29. We deny the conformity to a given recommended course of medical action is made to be civilly or morally obligatory by appeals to an alleged majority of expert opinion or available medical data. So that's the kind of lingo. We'll parse that out for you and put it in more you know, regular speak. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening to the Faith Debate. You can follow me online at household the faith in Christ dot com. And the next voice you hear is Daniel Razbees. Hello. Hello. Oh, let me turn your mic so they can hear you. They gotta say that again. Hello. There we go. Daniel Razby is a pastor of a church in Surmon area and involved with a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries online at conquered by love. org. And David Forcy, he's the next voice you'll hear. Oh. And he's also a pastor. He's got a church that meets in like a I don't know, like five or six different locations. They just it's like a rotisserie league. Uh it's like a traveling team. Right? Traveling league. It's like uh there have been years in the past when like it's like circuit preaching except it's circuit hosting There you go. Okay. Yeah, there's been years in the distant past when teams like they had problems where they didn't have a home stadium or something and they just played all their games on the road. That's David Forcey. Although sometimes it's at your house, right? Sometimes. Sometimes. Maybe maybe once or twice a month. Does that feel strange? All right. All right. So anyway Article No 29, conformity to a given recommended course of medical action cannot be made a must do just because some smart people or supposedly smart people say so. That's what they're saying here. This really flies in the face of what dominate pervasively in the culture today, right? The the experts. Yeah, they call them experts, although they're not that smart and they're not all the experts they made out to be. So I've gotten in the habit of calling them the the credentialed class They might not even be credentialed in the thing that they're claiming to be another. That's true. A strange thing. Yeah, you got a degree in like, I don't know, uh economics and you're making medical decisions, right? Yeah. Right, I mean we have humanity wants a god. They want gods. And if you don't have god you're gonna have somebody else to worship, and that's why we care so much what celebrities say. That's why we care so much what celebr experts say. Look, you can trash the experts all you want, but don't you go picking on my favorite celebrities now. That's the that's a it's a very it becomes idolatry. It's a very pagan religion, right? Lots of lots of gods, lots of little G gods. Right. And and that's why you they people follow influencers, people follow celebrities, people follow I mean, you s uh XYZ actor who's extremely talented at acting opens their mouth and says something about politics or about religion or about this or that and where it's oh he's one of us like he agrees no uh w i i he doesn't have any any expertise on that subject specifically so he just The same as anybody else, right? So you don't but be people just assume because someone powerful and influential says something that you need to follow it. You know, be between uh last week's show and this week's show we had a conversation uh Uh mostly Daniel and I, I think David might have been part of it too. We were talking about naivete of certain people in the public eye and that sort of thing. I gotta tell you though I was pretty naive. When this whole social media influencer thing started to become a thing, I don't know how long it had been a thing before I even knew it was a thing And when I st when I heard it was a thing, I said, that can't be real. Who's going to pay attention to some knucklehead on a social media platform? They're not influencing anybody. And then my daughter talked, she schooled me, she said, Dad. They have like hundreds of thousands, millions sometimes of like people that follow them and if they recommend a shampoo or or whatever, a favorite food or something, I mean It they sell a lot of product. They really are influencers. I'm like, really? People are that like lemming like? Apparently people are. Well there's this uh yeah, there's a there's a lack of I don't know, people people have a a lack of of who to look to to lead them. Are we influencers? We do the Faith Debate show every week. We have at least I don't know, the three of us listen, right? That's at least three listeners While while we're talking, I don't listen after leave. That's true. So that might not count then. You might not have any listeners. That's true I I know for a fact that we have to do that. Some of them are paints in my rear, I tell ya. So on the one hand you have the influencers and the celebrities who really don't have any expertise at all on the subject that they're talking about. They just happen to have a lot of people that watch that And so they say something and everybody follows it. And then on the other hand, you have the people that s do have all these credentials and supposed experience or expertise in various subjects. And many of them have actually not always economists talking about vaccine or sometimes it is actually somebody who spent decades in that field And you may happen to disagree with them based on the data you've read and whatever. But the the point is they actually do have experience and knowledge of the subject matter that they're speaking about. So they are experts. And I think you can't discount that entirely. You can't just say, oh well I don't want to breathe anything any expert says. No take stick with you know if There's a legitimate reason and you know, but you don't want to fall prey to the trap that you as the average person are too dumb to understand why somebody says that This. No. I mean i you should be able to explain it so that any person can understand it in most most concepts. At least dumb it down enough that it makes sense and it's logical. Not everything is magic and uh and fairy dust, right? All the science is not like that. There are certainly very very advanced scientists concepts that require extensive uh uh high mathematics and and all sorts of things and years of study to fully grasp. Just like there's in theology there's y you know, many Huge treatises have been written on the the nuances of the Trinity and how is it possible to be three and one. But a two-year-old, a three-year-old can understand that God is three and one. You can explain to them and they will get it. There's even been declarations about medical mandates and things like that. Yeah. That the theological minds put together. So I I think I think you don't want to fall prey to either one of those things. No, rejecting all experts or following everything they say without uh just blindly. Be a Berean. Search this like for theology, search the scriptures. when the whole thing started back in twenty twenty and people who disagreed with how I was understanding what was happening in the world, they really thought it was a mic drop moment. Say the who are you to question Anthony Fauci, the world's foremost authority on such matters? And they're like My argument has just been one. It's unassailable. I was like, what, he doesn't have any sort of uh political biases? He doesn't have any holes in his game. He's he hasn't been out in the field practicing medicine Right, maybe in his whole life, I don't know, but f if he ever did, it's been a long time. Is he is he an expert data uh analyst? Is he an expert in all of those things? He's not He he's not the final word on these things, but no, he's the final word if you question it. And even Dr. Fauci himself, right? If you question me, you're questioning science. I represent science. I am science. You know, so it it gets a little bit crazy. Anyway. This next you have anything you want to say something? Well I you know I I think sort of a the biblical principle I think is comes out in in a particular proverb that okay, I'll I'll paraphrase it in my own words, but is it it just says, you know, uh the the first person sounds right until the second person comes. Right. And so I I think the Bible promotes uh the policy of trying to listen to all sides, find out all the information. And and then another thing that I think is is relevant here is we're just as human beings, we're drawn to uh We're we're drawn to the people who affirm what we want to hear. Confirmation bias is what they're doing. Yeah. And but it works both ways. And the and the people that that tickle our ears, you know. Yeah, so people say and they accuse us uh uh in i who have minority medical opinions of confirmation bias. Oh you only want to look at the one study that if that affirms what you say. Well by the next hundred studies and show the others that others And but it works the other uh uh either way, right? Either whatever you want to hear, that's what you're gonna be most happy hearing. And you're gonna forget some of the things that don't quite agree with your own beliefs. And because we're in the minority we are greatly oppressed that nobody cares. Our minority status doesn't count. Number thirty, we deny that an individual Christian's obligation to the weaker brother compels any Christian to violate his or her conscience regarding the wearing of masks or injecting a substance into their body. Such action may be regarded by Christians both as contrary to sound and loving health practices for themselves and their family specifically with masks which are worn visibly on the body, Christians may also have concern in their conscience about the message they believe wearing the mask sends to the world They may regard the wearing of masks as bearing false witness or as an unloving, tacit endorsement of what they see as uh propaganda surrounding their use and enforcement upon their neighbor. I think you can apply this same pattern. I mean any and anything uh i you can't say oh well you're just loving your neighbor, you're just uh you know uh you're uh uh honoring the weaker brother. No, uh at a certain point you can't uh Especially in cases of sin, you can't just forgive or or uh you know forgive is the wrong word. You can't just overlook and and not care about sin. And the case of what's gonna cause you harm and injury, I think that's a that's not good. And why doesn't it work the other way? Why w why can't the the the other party be the weaker brother? I s that's right. Why can't the people who want to force the mask say, you know what, David, he doesn't want to wear the mask, he's the weaker brother, I'm just gonna you know, I'm not gonna I'm not gonna make a big deal about it. Why doesn't it work that way? Well Troy, you you're you're not a vegetarian, are you No. But if if a vegetarian comes to your house and I like to eat meat. But if a vegetarian comes to your house and asks you, can you please have a vegetarian dish for me, you might say, Oh sure, I'll make a dish. Sure. But when you go to their house, why don't they serve you meat Right. It's basically the same thing. Yeah. It it's it's you know, for for foods. And I don't know why it doesn't have to work both ways. It if you're gonna be loving on one side, you should. Now the last half of this really is speaking my language. Because this was this was a this I'm not making this up this was a huge issue for me This more than anything else is why I had a problem complying with putting some sort of covering over my face. to go to the stores or do whatever. Because if you're actively working on the case, you're not going to be able to do that. I'm participating in a lie. I'm reinforcing fear in the minds of those that are looking at me. me because they think there's this horrible thing to be afraid of and I think that they're off their rocker for thinking so and they need to be rescued from that fear. We don't want people living in fear. And but all I'm doing is reinforcing that fear, messaging to them. I'm wearing that pagan talisman over my face. I felt like I was participating in a false religion. That it was you know, it was it was such a core uh uh conscience kind of issue for me. I Um I end I I uh personally I ended up two times uh having a uh a mask on my face Never again after the I was like, I'm I'm not doing this again. I'm not doing it. It was hard to live your life. And if they come back, or by the time this airs, maybe they've come back mandates for those sorts of things It's hard to figure it out. But what do you do? If you're persuaded that to do so is to actually sin against your neighbor, you can't do it. R right? Or you shouldn't. You shan't do it. So anyway, anybody have anything did you guys feel the same way at all? Uh well also you but you do want to be persecuted for the right reasons. Like don't d pick the hills you're gonna die on and you should be it should be obvious that when you're being attacked it's because you're Follower of Christ and not because you like this specific thing that you want to do and you want to keep doing it regardless of what somebody else is gonna try to stop you. So if you can really tie the mask to uh witnessing as a Christian than as a great go for it. But you know, at at a certain point just because you think something is wrong and unlawful and and and and uh silly and and all of that doesn't necessarily mean uh sometimes it's more important to i if if if it furthers the gospel to comply in certain situations, then you you do so. And I don't think it's necessarily going to be cut and dry for every believer that's listened to this. I I think one thing they said really early on in this statement uh when talking about how do you respond to authority that's overstepped its bounds. They you know they sort of laid out, okay, biblically, like sometimes it's okay to go along with authority that's overstepped its bounds. Uh there may be different reasons why you do that. Um But uh it's not it's not a princip there's not a biblical principle of no matter what, every time its authority oversteps its bounds, you tell it no and refuse. You know, to the point of death. Okay, I'll go to the next one. We affirm that those who seek to bind the conscience of the believer by insisting the conformity with mask or vaccination They used the vaccination word this time. They didn't talk about injecting substances or whatever the slip or what that was there. The only way for a Christian to fulfill the command to love one's neighbor as oneself, people say this are treating the traditions of man as the commandments of God. These individuals are themselves guilty of twist. I think that's a helpful biblical principle. to to bring in here is uh is that we yeah it is is uh you know and they reference Mark there probably Jesus talking about the Pharisees elevating the traditions of men, right, above the commission to God. Yeah. And so um yeah, I think that's that's something that Christians should always always be keeping in mind. is b because to follow the traditions of men and to start prioritizing those things not even necessarily above the commandments of God, but sort of making those things equal. To the commandments of God, uh, then you that that's a pretty direct route to just becoming a worshiper of the gods of the peoples around you and falling into the idolatry of your culture. All right. Nothing else from Daniel on that one? By the way, this is the Fate the Bay on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner and the ones you heard speak the m uh well the m l mo most recent voice you heard was Daniel's that was just a quick note. Before that the voice you heard speaking longer than just a word was David Forcy. So um what are we on number thirty We deny that choosing to respectfully decline a church officer's request to wear a mask is in any way evidence of devices. What did I say? Respectively. Oh respectfully. There are there's still a difference. Yes, yes, there is a difference. Um Uh where are you both? We deny that choosing to respectfully decline a church officer's request to wear a mask is in any way evidence of divisiveness or rebellion against ecclesiastical authority since the ecclesiastic Ecclesiastical office does not hold jurisdiction over personal or familial health decisions. Now, this is touching on something that Daniel's pushed back on every time we this sort of thing's been alluded to, he thinks that that the church does have some authority and they're consistently maintaining it it doesn't. Um but let's let's just role play this a little bit in in a practical Since somebody shows up and they respectfully say, I know that, actually, let's make this a little more fun. A church says you're not allowed to wear a mask. And somebody shows up and says, respectfully, sir, I'm going to wear a mask. That's not them being divisive, is it? It's not them being in rebellion, is it? Or is it? It's that it's them having a uh uh it's them not agreeing and uh this is s something something interesting to think about is that it's it's okay to um is that you can have unity among brothers without having full agreement Right, without unanimity. Right, right, right. And and so I I think that's all it's an example of is that's an example of uh disagreement, but there can still be a and and that's going to create some kind of barriers to, you know, deeper uh deeper unity I suppose or it it can. Yeah, but it can also provide opportunities for iron sharpening iron, right? As you as you you really have to think through what could positions at R and Y, grapple with the scriptures more, challenge one another, kinda like what we do on the Faith Debate Show. We have a a diversity of opinions here and yet we're still in unity uh together as brothers in Christ. Diversity is our strength. That's a rather controversial phrase these days. Anyway. I mean uh there's certain things that about a church service that while not specifically biblically prescribe, I think that are the purview of the elders that can say, we we this is the way we do things here, right? For uh let's let's forget mass for a minute. Let's say you have a order of worship and you know, uh and you pray first and then you sing and then you preach and just burst kicks. Well if I come in, I want to sing first and then pray. I just start singing before you pray. But I'm not do we you know, i i i at a certain point Well yeah, but I think I was praying first or singing first. I'm not sure that fits in Jews respectfully. Yeah, but you say w uh you know, or uh and uh if I say well respectfully I want to sing the song first. Well no, we're not gonna do that. And uh we're either gonna do it or not. And I think at a certain point that's uh it it is it is the purview of the others can say, well we're not going to do it this way. Yeah, because I think that that is definitely something that speaks to the orderliness of the gathering and it it does speak to the spiritual health of the body and so that is more more solidly in the church's purview. But something has to do with the with the mask the same way? I mean you can't sing very well when you're wearing a mask You can't be understood very well. It's not very clear your voice, and so if you're if you are speaking, then you're not gonna be understood. So there are uh actual practical reasons why I think what uh the point I was mak was beginning to make is that the the the church has the right, if you will, to go about doing what the church does But the church can go about doing what the church does whether I insist on wearing a mask or I insist on not wearing a mask. The church can do what they do whether uh so uh that's where it's not necessarily infringing upon the the the elders, the leadership of the church being able to do what needs to be done. Well what if it's one of the elders that's supposed to take part in the worship service? and lead the prayer or the or the preaching or whatever. Well obviously that's a that's a discussion that the elders should be having, you know, uh in advance of of of said meeting, right? W uh worship gathering for sure. And I and you know what Th I I know of some cases where pastors left or other church leaders they they could not come to agreement on things and Yeah, this actually on these kinds of questions, yeah. Uh a very high profile example is Joe Leban. I don't know if you know Joe Leban. He was pastoring a church in California and Uh they navigated the whole COVID lockdown mandate thing as best as they could and it didn't blow up the church, so that they held it together to not destroy their church. But after having navigated it you know relatively successfully, you know, like uh like at the end of 2020, ish, I don't know the exact dates, but you know, Joel was like All right, this this is not sustainable long term. There's been too much damage done to these relationships. We s we're just not seeing eye to eye. If I if I stay here, I'm gonna be unhappy. I'm gonna be become divisive, they're gonna be divisive in response. You know what, I'm just gonna go plant a church in Texas and that's what he did. So there's one very high profile example and there's others, but that's that's the most high profile example I know as a name a lot of people are beginning to know He's got a pretty big social media presence. Uh I think he gets a little more credit for being s uh smart. He's a very smart guy. But I think he gets credit for being right more often than than he probably is. Uh because he was very good on some of the COVID-related questions back in 2020. He was early. He was a he was kind of a leader, a thought leader. And so we went, oh he's really smart, he knows what he's talking about. But um He does just because you're good on one or two issues doesn't mean you're good on issues number three or four when they come down the pike, sadly. So I think we're gonna have time for me maybe to read um this This next one, and then we'll have to talk about it next time. But it's a lengthier one, so I'll get it out of the way in the reading of it. This is article number 33. We deny that all instances of requiring masks for church meetings are necessarily sinful or divisive. In such cases, that's italicized, I believe. where the meeting is held at a venue where the property managers are not the local church and such property managers require mask wearing for entrance. Interesting. Nuance. This is a property issue. In such cases, those who choose not to fellowship because of the mask mandate at the meeting venue should not be said to be in violation of any biblical commands regarding a regular regularly meeting with the saints. To the extent possible, church officers should seek to secure a meeting venue where the local congregation will not be forced to exclude non-masking. individuals due to the whims of the building owner. And uh you might be tempted to jump right in because that's kind of an interesting article that they've got there, but uh we've got less than sixty seconds seconds so I'm going to put a wrap on this. Daniel Ramsey, thank you so much. You can find Daniel again online at uh conqueredbylove. org. David Forresey, you can find him online by just connecting with me and I'll put you in touch with him. Uh and I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me at WFMD. com of course and the best place probably is to have a one-stop shop, a hub for everything that I'm involved with, household of faith in Christ. com. That's Household of Faith. faith in Christ dot com. And if we have time, maybe next week here's a teaser. Somebody asked the question of on social media, is it sinful to block someone? Maybe we'll maybe we'll try to address that question if we have time in next week's show as well. It's just kind of a uh a short little conversation. Anyway, till next week, I want to thank you so much for spending part of your day with us. We know your time is value. We have so many listening options and the fact that you chose us, it's humbling and we're honored. Till next week, God bless. Alright, let me just most one uh I think the that number thirty two denial about the masks one of the things is I mean they're they're really just addressing that specific issue, right? They're not going after a trying to go after a principle or draw a line in that way. Right. Yeah, as we read these I've noticed. Like sometimes why house searches are important Sometimes we pick on we you know, we pick on something they're saying 'cause they didn't say it didn't go far enough or whatever and then like two articles later, oh okay they're So I I guess you have have to take it within its full context, which the way we're doing it makes it a little bit hard to do. Yeah, that's definitely one thing that you House churches don't have to deal with is uh the authority of the landlord over there. their property. Yeah. Alright, so eight and nine. So we got these four. I already read that one. I'll just kind of briefly summarize it. Or if you want to briefly summarize it, then we'll figure that out. Oh, wait a minute. I didn't save this one yet. That would be a big full So Daniel, you continue to encourage people to make investments even though it's the end times. Uh I do. I think that uh if you're not saved then your money will just transition onto the these currency and it won't affect you. Um I might as well So you cancel Christians and non-Christians differently. But for Christians, I I think you can't know exactly when the financial system is not going to be And you should conduct a business as if it will be and also prepare for when it won't. So I think you need to have both uh both avenues open. Because if you sell everything and and uh uh and live off the grid and then you don't participate at all in society then there's a lot of things that you don't have the ability to uh to do to further God's kingdom as well. So I think you should be able to take advantage of both financial systems. Yeah. Alright. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD or on your favorite podcasting source. I know a lot of people listen the uh the streaming services are out there as well. If you're curious where that is, I think we're on iTunes and uh and and uh Omni uh and And I don't know, the the the regular places people might go and find podcasts. But I make sure that we are on sermon audio at sermonaudio. com. You can find the faith debate uh on the household of faith in Christ portion of sermon audio. Also on Odyssey, that is a a platform that's kind of like YouTube or kind of like Rumble. It's not as well known as those clearly. But it uses blockchain uh technology for uh how they manage the inventory. And so even when they want to censor things, it takes them a lot of hard work to do so. So They don't really censor almost anything at all. I mean there are gross things, you know, uh illegal kinds of things or pornog pornographic things that they will hunt down and take down. Um but they they gotta really, really, really work. So they're not just like algorithms knocking you off their platform. So that's why I like Odyssey. Anyway, this is the faith debate on Troy Skinner joined by Daniel Rasby and David Forsby. David's the pastor of a of a church that meets in a variety of uh homes. uh kind of on a rotation basis throughout the uh tri-state Potomac area. And uh Daniel Rasby and his father Imron, they have a church uh in Ferramont, a house church, and also a ministry they've been involved with for a number of years that helps with family kind of matters, parenting and marriage and relationships, those sorts of things. It's called Conquered by Love Ministries online at ConqueredByLove. org. So if you were listening last week, I I read into the record, as it were. Article number 33 of the Warranton Declaration, which is talking about medical mandates and government authority and that sort of thing. And It was a long one, but the gist of what they were saying, they were trying to give some space for if a church would require their members to wear a mask because they have a landlord, like they're meeting in a like a you know government owned school building for instance or a strip mall or something that they don't own and the rules of the building, the property owner are you gotta wear a mask to be in this building then in that case it's not a sin for the church to say, okay, we g we gotta abide by what the property owners say. I'd be curious to see what we think about that. And but at the same time the church should be busy figuring out some other strategy to I think what they really as a congregant to say, Well I'm not attending such a church. And you're uh and the church could sit could tell you, Oh well you're in violation 'cause the Bible says to meet regularly. You You can't say uh uh you you you're not necessarily in sin because you don't attend the church, but you should be a looking for a church that doesn't have to be. Uh in such cases those who choose not to fellowship because of the mass mandate should not be said to be in violation of any biblical commands regarding regular meeting with the first time. Either way. That's that's pretty open. They're saying, you know, like there there might be times and, you know, if you don't have anywhere else to meet and the place that you meet requires it Maybe that's okay. But then what Daniel is saying further down, you know, but then the church shouldn't discipline people for not coming if they think it's wrong for them to wear a mask. Right. And it's it is I haven't really thought about it for for breach of contract with the lease if you're late. And it's always kind I mean, I haven't thought about it, but I mean these these y you start to think about different ways that this could apply. If you have to do what the landlord says And what about all the renters who are living in apartments or condos of some sort or renting a single family dwelling? If their landlord says it's my property, you're going to wear a mask. Do they have to listen? Well generally what uh in in American law you can't um You can't force a tenant to wear or not wear something, for example, in a dwelling. But commercial tenants are a little bit different, and so the church will be a a commercial tenant and you can enforce a lot more than you can enforce of residential. Now there are other countries such as Australia for example where the government did mandate wearing of masks inside your own home. Um and they would come in your home to enforce that. Um but that was that was the government doing it also not landors necessarily. I think there is definitely a difference in the legally speaking between a dwelling tenant than a commercial tenant. Um also also there you know there might be the issue of the of a shared space. Right. Right, so the landlord is managing multiple groups that use the same space, can they sort of make rules about the usage of that space that everybody And this is what have implications for business owners too who are renting shopkeepers who they don't own the space that they're doing business in So their landlord tells them all or something. So the government wouldn't even have to mandate it. Well that's what that was what was ending up happening because the federal government didn't really mandate a whole lot during COVID and never really did for the ma uh they just offered guidelines. Yeah. And then everybody appealed to those guidelines. I I I'm just doing it 'cause the federal government said. But it's a guideline. That's how they got around to it last time. So I'm not sure that I agree with this whole uh instance. I was uh uh I guess what they're saying is that let's say such a rule is in place. How do you go about following or not following it or whatever? I I I think where we're getting out of this conversation is that the rule shouldn't be in place. property managers and landlords shouldn't have the authority to do such a thing because it ends up being de facto government. That that's what um the DOL tried to uh use OSHA to to crammed down the mandates and stuff, but most times it would they were just providing guidelines and then individual businesses the one thing they did with public transportation and the FAA for for the air travel But even a lot of that was even in recommendations, not official mandates. And there was never any federal vaccine mandate. there was ever a any state level vaccinated. It was all individual ch churches, or schools or colleges or buildings or you know You know, a couple of shows ago David was making the point that, you know, once you let the horse out of the barn, then logically you're allowed to, you know, do certain things with that horse. He didn't use that language, that was the gist of the the thing, right? And so I wonder so he so the point you were really making, if I remember correctly, David, was so we got to go back further in the logic chain and get to the root of the issue. And and and also say If uh if it is wrong for the horse to run around the yard, maybe it's wrong to let the horse out of the barn in the first place. Right. And so do we have the is that an issue here Do churches need to be rethinking, how wise is it to put your congregation In a situation where they'll be subject to the whims of a landlord. To put our gathering under certain uh under under the someone else's authority as far as we're allowed to have a lot of things. Exactly. Maybe there's noise restrictions. You can't be loud. Oh well, should you be forbidden from singing out at the top of your lungs to worship God? That's another very common restriction in the in the tenants, uh land or setting is noise restrictions. Right? So I think it's very it this this kind of gets to the core of why I believe that house churches i are the way to go. I don't really think I'm not a big fan of buildings in general. It's one thing even if you own the building, I'm not a big fan, but especially if you don't own the building. I I'm I'm definitely not a big thing. uh has a building that they're going to use as a multi-purpose facility, like they're going to use it for schooling throughout the week or as a as as some sort of community center to to be involved with people's lives or whatever. So it's not just it sits vacant, you know, 167 hours. out of the week and for one hour, you know, it it's got forty people in it. Uh i if they've got a building that's g that's more useful, that there can be some wisdom I think in that, having good gathering places for people to come together across to have community and potlucks and Whatever. But it yeah, other than that, it's I mean so all the overhead and having been in a more traditional church mode, you have too, David. I'm sure you remember some of those leadership meetings. It's like a four hour meeting and three and a half of the hours have nothing to do with the spiritual health of the church. Who's gonna be on cleanup duty? Who's gonna pay the electric bill next month? How are we gonna come up with the funds to fix the uh HVA because you know big church building has a big H VAC unit. You know, it's not your typical household unit, which back in the day you could get a new one for like ten thousand, not sure where they are now. Back then you couldn't get a church one for ten thousand because they were huge, because the churches of square footage were gigantic. And so you spend all these times worrying about your finances and worrying about like you said, who who who's gonna coordinate this and coordinate that and what it has to do with maintenance of the building, who's gonna mow the lawn That's just a distraction. It's really something the deacons should be doing anyway, not the elders. Right? 'Cause that that's why they have deacons. And that back to the sort of the issue you know at hand that they're addressing. And and it is it is very specific. they're they're talking about a very particular sort of situation here uh in the in the statement. And we're you know trying to say, okay, what are the principles at play and and that kind of deal. You know, and I mean I guess the the question is, you know, if they're and and they're saying, okay, so a church can't uh should not say because you don't want to wear a mask if you don't come You know, you're breaking you're breaking fellowship. Right. And uh and they're saying that the churches shouldn't shouldn't do that. But I mean the a believer should also take into consideration if if a church is requiring you continually to do something that is against your conscience, may maybe there ought to be a break of fellowship Fellowship. Right. Right, then they're not really speaking to whether the landlord should have Right. They're just they're saying if it if it exists, you know. Yeah. I know I just bunch of issues all tangled up in this one particular item. It's going to be an interesting And we ended up talking about it for like the first uh ten twelve minutes of today's episode. Yeah, we affirm that maintaining personal health and personal health decisions, including decisions about which medical interventions to to adopt or forego are the role and jurisdiction of each individual and their family. It's a family issue or a personal issue or both. But it's not a government issue and it's not a church issue. We've talked about the church one uh a number of times. They keep bringing that up, they're reinforcing it over and over again, which I'm sure is like, you know, uh pricking Danny a little bit Yeah. Oh no, I think in in all cases except specifically what's prescribed, symptomatic uh, you know, quarantine. But other than that, yeah. I wonder if this is a way to think about that as opposed to uh because it it's not just a a uh a personal health decision at that point. point. It becomes a community safety issue. Right. Right. So it's a different there's something different you're symptomatic or you're carrying something that's deadly or a serious illness, like well we we don't you don't want people getting that. Um it's not just personal health at that point. So if it crosses the line to being something that's more than personal health and you could demonstrate, somehow prove, make the case that David is a risk to Daniel and Troy. He shouldn't be in the room right now, and I can say so because and I can point to very specific things, there's a case to be made. I think there's a pet tiger uh who he keeps uh uh you know walking around town with him. You might make the case that the tiger is not sufficiently uh protected from escaping the leash and mauling somebody. And you could Could ask David to keep it on the other side of town. You know, maybe. There is a law about that in one city that's still on the books. About tiger specifically? I think it might be lions. Lions? Yes. Who's making a distinction here? Not a different than a gun because a tiger can act on its own. The gun can't act on its own. So that's true. Um the Razzies have lots of animals. They're like Doctor Doolittle. But I don't think they have tigers and lions. No No bears either. And he likes guns, but I don't think he has a bazooka or or a grenade launcher. Although I'm the I'm not gonna put him on the record with that. I I think every American should own bazookas and F sixteens with Hellfire You're here. Who's got the money for that? That's why they tax you as the way that they do. So that you can't afford to buy an F six D and an airfield. So back to medical things. Let's read the next one. Article thirty five. We deny that parents are guilty of neglect or abuse if they choose to forego a given medical intervention such as a medical procedure or again they use the vaccine word of surprise they were inconsistent. They had different writers involved in some of these articles due to the fact that they are not convinced of the short and long-term risk profile or effectiveness effectiveness of the action. This remains true regardless of what recommendations they have or haven't received from a doctor. So if They're saying par parents are ultimately to be responsible for the the care of their children. And and I don't think this prevents parents from becoming guilty of neglect or abuse and this being one of the factors that's used to determine whether they are, but you can't have a presumption that just because you didn't take a doctor's recommendation, therefore you're abusing your child. Right. You can't start with that premise. It could certainly be, you know, you could take a case of malnourishment. Oh you haven't fed your child in three months. Um, you know, the doctors do recommend you if you do ch well okay, that's one reason, but also uh it's obvious to everybody that the child eats food, right? So I I don't think they're saying that you can't ever hold parents responsible for abusing and neglecting their children. But I think th you can't start with that premise. Now this they did not because they they're sticking very closely to their topic, which is d uh COVID basically, but you can definitely apply this to so called uh gender treatments, mutilations and and and and Yeah, the the logic would play out the same. One thing that they are steering clear of, either they didn't think of it or they just didn't want to go there. But they're saying if a parent says, I'm not going to let my child get that shot or take that medicine or per or participate in the way the government is saying that that that they should or whatever, that I can't be But what about the parents who give their have their kids get the shot? Could there ever be a case? I'm not talking specifically about the shots that are marketed for the COVID thing. Right. Hypothetically, in the future, if there ever were a shot of some sort Where he they injected a substance of some kind uh into people and there was some sort of demonstrable harm caused and it became known cocaine or heroin, right? Those exist. Those are substances that people parents do sometimes. So if the kids usually they go to jail for doing so. So can the parents be uh but in that case, yeah. That's an interesting example. So a parent decides that there are medicinal benefits to injecting my child multiple times a year with heroin. And the evidence, the data would seem to indicate otherwise, but they're persuaded I'm injecting I'm gonna go find somebody somewhere who's gonna give me the heroin so I can inject or they can inject my child for me. Could they be charged with abuse? I I think the answer is probably yes. I think so how to prove it. I think you have to be able to prove that the action call is a specific harm and then you prosecute just like any other criminal action that causes specific harm. Prosecute for the for the harm. For the harm, not for the yeah So what if a parent gave a child, you know, uh in in uh flying in the face of data and evidence, some sort of uh medical quote unquote treatment, quote unquote, uh that cause a brain aneurysm or, you know, problem with the kidneys, or inflammation around the heart, something like that. for there to be a a prosecution right of the action. Would reports on something like theirs be demonstrable as a there's another cocaine and cough drops and Yeah. Coca-Cola apparently is. And another another element is, you know, and depending on the case that has to come into play is like, you know, what Was this w did they do this knowingly? You know, did they did they have the evidence? You know, was it not available to them? Was it not made available to them? What about parents that send their kids to public school? Maybe we have a responsible bu from I I I've taken this kind of far afield. Let's let's uh do the last one here, number thirty-six. We affirm that it is anti-scriptural for a parent to categorically deny all medical inform uh interventions to their children at all times with the rationale that all medical intervention is as a category evidence of a lack of faith in God. There are some some sects and some cults that believe that and I think that's specifically trying to combat those here. And like Christian science, which isn't Christian, but that they're they're famous for uh I think Jehovah's Witnesses is also not Christian. I think they don't do blood transfusions maybe. Right, but that's a specific thing. They'll do a a lot of other stuff. transmissions. Yeah, I I I think they're just trying to make sure that people don't accuse them of being whack whack jobs here and they're covering a basement. They're gonna accuse them anyway. Oh yeah what if they're It's this uh is this proof text where Paul tells Timothy to take a little wine. Yeah, first Timothy chapter five. I'm sure the bag just love that first. So this whole thing ends with this. If you are not sure where your local church officers and communities stand on these issues, do not be afraid to raise questions in a respectful manner. If you have good and godly leaders, you won't be criticized. or dismissed for raising them. If you have been neglected or mistreated by your current local church on these grounds and appeals have not been heard, we encourage you to find a community where medical liberty is understood and practiced. I think that's fair. And if you feel like uh you know you you you left your church because and you haven't made your way back to a church sense because the people they feel very disaffected, right? The church attendance is down, like big time across the board. Uh and if you if that's you And maybe you don't like me, you don't like Daniel, I don't like David, I don't know you have no taste in people if that's the case. But if you don't, you can still reach out. I've helped people find other churches You know, it doesn't have to be our church. If you're looking for a church you want to know, who can I who can I trust? I will help you figure that out. I desire for you to not neglect gathering together with the saints. Right. As so many are want to do these days. So um so I I teased this last week. What do you think? You're not on social media, are you, David? Not really. Not really. No. You're not really either. I'm not, no. So this might just be a theoretical question. If if somebody you know comments on your stuff or tries to hijack things or is very offensive or whatever, you can actually block them so that you don't see their stuff, they can't see your stuff and you're not Twitter anymore. Okay. Well but again. Is that right? Okay. Well you can on yeah, see that's how we'll say I pay pay attention to pay attention to these things. Uh in one case it was because the person kept uh insisting on hijacking every I don't care what the post was about. It c it could be about what we've been talking about on the show the last number of weeks. And he would put a comment in there about the earth being flat. And I said to him, and and he was, you know, kind of Not a friend, but a friend I knew him personally. It wasn't just a social media contact. And I reached out to him and I said, dude, you gotta stop. Stop. If you want to talk about flat earth, fine. Do it on your page. Don't be hijacking every single post. And he refused to I blocked him. And then there was somebody else who got rather uh kind of a jerk in in my in my view, but not I mean towards me, but whatever. I I I I can handle that. But was very mm jerky towards other people who were commenting under the post, you know, people who are Facebook friends or Twitter followers of mine or whatever. Give them a heart I said, you know what? And I reached out to that person too. Used to work with them once upon a time And I said, look, if if you're going to keep badgering people and being that disrespectful and that foul with people, then you're not welcome on my page anymore. So this is your last warning. And he he didn't change, so I blocked him. Those are the only two people in all my years on social media that I blocked. But somebody asked the question if if it's a sin to block someone and I'm not sure why they think it would be. So I have a verse that that goes with that. Okay while you're talking. Proverbs twenty six. It's got two seemingly contradictory verses in a row, I'll leave them both. You know what I'm talking about. Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him. Next verse says, Answer a fool according to his his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit. And then he goes on and says, He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cuteth off cutteth off the feet and drinketh damage. So I think there are times to deal with fools by talking with them and there are times to deal with fools by cutting them off and not talking with them And use you should be using the guiding of the spirit and discernment to know when those times uh are now. Uh Um but they both times exist. It's not a contradiction to both answer and answer not of who. Uh and I I think that's what I was saying. Yeah, I I think we're on the same I wasn't sure where he was coming from. I think in some ways you're you're responsible for what goes on on your page on your own page, on your feed, you know. within the platforms allow you. Some of them don't allow you as much policing post power. And so uh you know, if something not good is happening there. it is okay for you to stop that and maybe it's your responsibility to stop that. Well I mean think about forget uh social media. I mean if if you you and I and Dave and we all go out to the to a um a restaurant together and we meet a whole bunch of other friends and one friend is just kind of being a jerk. I mean we might just choose to go out somewhere else next time. Not invite them. You can do that. It's not uh it's kind of like different platforms allow you to snooze someone for thirty days, meaning that you know you're just gonna take a break from seeing their stuff for a while Uh you can mute someone where they you're not blocking them, but they're not gonna be you're not gonna see their stuff. I'm not sure if they can post on your stuff. I don't know. And there's other things you can just informally, like you know if somebody is just You don't feel like they're playing the game straight, you just stop interacting with them. You don't block them, they can still come and do what they want. You're just like, you know, I d I don't have time for the for what feels like nonsense. Whether it's nonsense or not, you know, I might you could be wrong in making that determination But anyway, alright. Well, thank you for helping me uh answer that question. One of our listeners asked that question, so we gave them a group answer Daniel Razby, he he he went to the Bible, that's his habit, he gave us a biblical answer on that, that's good. David Force, he was glad that we went to the Bible, that's his his way as well. I'm Troy Skinner, and I'm glad you listened to the show. Till next week, 106 So logically you mean you're not a fan of using the Bible yesterday question. I like using the Bible and David likes using the Bible and he said that I like you listen to the show. That's all Well having been to Troy's church, I know that he does read the Bible during services. This is true. Yeah, I uh We have a designated time of just scripture reading and then we also have whatever the passage is being preached on. Can we call it scripture as well? Yes, you can. We even snap us out on the show. We all agree. We all agree that. Yes, you can. Yeah. Uh I would not call the message scripture though. Yeah, no, I I don't know what to call it. Commentary at best. And my best my wife, Dina, was was kind of curious as she was reading the message. And uh And she was and she was and which I'm fine, she can read it. She just but she was reading it as part of a parallel Bible, so I was more okay with it. 'Cause she could see how the message differed from more authentic Bible. But she kept referring to it. Wow, that's interesting. These different these different translations. And I said, the message is not a translation. It's a paraphrase. Not a translation. At best, it's a paraphrase. Yeah, at best, right. So the it's a kind of a loose paraphrase. So I I I think after like a year and a half I broke her of calling the her calling the message a translation. But yeah, I agree with you, it's not a whole thing. Yeah, like a three-minute sermon based on just one. Someone's thoughts on those verses. And and for the most part it's pretty good. There's some stuff that makes you scratch your head, but for the most part it's kind of okay. Eugene Peterson wasn't wasn't perfect. You know, not like the three of us, you know. What an undertaking, right? Think about that. Could you imagine writing a paraphrase in the whole a narrative paraphrase of the whole Bible? That's quite the undertaking. Yeah. It had to take him at least a weekend. the original languages as well. Yeah you'd have to be, right? But uh like I I don't think he was just going off of, you know, an English translation. No. So i I I think he I think he put in some good effort. Uh it's not um All right. We have reached the end of this. We've done, what, three shows? It is eight twenty two, so we have time to do more. You guys want to do more? Do you want me to be into how far into November are we? Or are we into November yet? Yeah, we're in November. What the last one we did was for Uh the last Sunday in November. So we're in December now. So the next show we do would be in December would be in December. So in October we could now we could potentially get into the next year Yeah. If we have time, the next one's pretty short. The Frankfurt decl Frankfurt Declaration is only two pages. Oh like in this. What what's that one on? Christian civil liberties. This is from 2022. Chronological, yeah. You're you're true to it. You want you want to start it? You want to try it? Sure. Franklin Declaration. Two pages are the first. Frank F Frankfurt. Declaration on of Christian and Civil Liberties, if you want to look it up real quick. Frankfurter. Frank Furt. Well yeah, we might be over. I don't know if we'll get through the whole thing in one show or not, but we'll see. But what did this come out in response to? It has to do is kind of with with ab abuse of power kind of stuff. Frankfurt Declaration dot com. Alright. Well interesting. Number three's against the use of power. Frankfurt Declaration, you said? Yeah, Frankfurt Declaration. com. We should uh put out a declaration that's in support of abuse of power. We get a lot. The Frankfurt Declaration is also uh the re uh general name of the aims and tasks of democratic socialism on July nineteen fifty one by the Socialist International. Yeah it's an unfortunate uh name that they chose. I discovered that originally way back when as well. Ooh. But I guess they're just naming they were based in Frankfurt and so it's a declaration from Yeah. Maybe it should be the Frankfurt Declaration of twenty twenty two. Yeah, something. Yeah, something to Something to differentiate. Well it does add of Christian civil liberties, that's the differentiation. I have four pages. That was just Yeah, two pages front and back. And I'm not going to read every single word. I've got some portions that are highlighted. Okay. We will get Raz back till we get off the declarations. Yeah Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB and on your favorite podcasting service. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by David Forcy and Daniel Razley, who are all pastors of house churches. You can uh follow along with uh us at household of faith in Christ dot com. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. The Rasbies, they also have a Website it's conqueredbylove. org. That's conqueredbylove. org. We've been systematically working through some noteworthy Christian declarations over the last 50 or so years, and we're up to the year 2022 That would be last year, if memory serves. It's called the Frankfurt Declaration, not to be confused with other Frankfurt Declarations. This is the Frankfurt Declaration. of Christian and civil liberties. And in his opening paragraph, these are some words. In the course of human events, it's very flowery language. It sometimes becomes necessary for people of good faith to speak out against the abuse of power. Cut it out, you guys. That's what they're saying. Pastors from different continents moved by an emergent totalitarianism of the state over all realms of society, and particularly the church. joined in common cause to craft a solemn declaration which seeks to address these threats with the timeless truths So a lot of the things we've been talking about early on when we we started these declarations, it was more general in scope. It was about scripture and and and what it is and and how to grapple with it and how to apply it and and then it got into some some broadly cultural kinds of of issues uh having to do with you know sexuality or marriage or you know, c church governance or what have uh broadly speaking, uh powers of the state, that sort of thing. But you notice it's gotten much more refined and and narrowed down as we've gone uh with very particular declarations about very particular things. And I think it's because the moment, right, that we've been in these these last number of years, there have been big issues that are all kind of interrelated, but there are there's specific things that you can't say everything about everything in one declaration. You'd have like a thousand articles in your Declaration. So they're they're breaking it up and somebody says, okay, you had talked about the medical tyranny and you talked about this the the mandates and you talked about you know the church's response, but we haven't had anybody do this one particularly, so let's Some guys got together and wrote this Frankfurt Declaration. So you guys ready? I'm going to read the first article and uh see what we think. Okay? I'm not gonna read the whole thing. I'm just gonna read maybe uh I don't know half of it or parts I highlighted. I highlighted about half of it, but what I feel like the key gist of it We affirm that the triune God has revealed in the holy scriptures and the conscience of men an unchangeable morality which is rooted in his own character. Since God is the ultimate lawgiver and judge, we deny the right of any earthly authority to require unconditional obedience of their citizens when contrary to his law. We also have good grounds to question the modern state's ethical pronouncements and moral vision, since their secular humanism and relativistic ethics have no transcendent basis for human behavior or morality. I left out some talk about God being lawgiver of the Trinity and all that sort of stuff. That's just, you know, boilerplate biblical Christian stuff that's not specific to the Declaration. That's why I didn't read it. That's the common argument Christians have against atheism saying atheists cannot be moral because you cannot uh create morality accepted by something that is greater than yourself, and atheists believe that there is nothing greater than the man or the human and so if you don't believe in God, you know that's that's the thing. Right. Maybe. But then but then truth is not absolute because it's subject to the will and the in the whims of humanity. Yeah. Now they say they can't be moral at all, I'm not sure I've ever heard anybody say that, but if they did I would I I I don't know if I could agree with that because God, you know, in his providence he takes care of things outside of the realm of his church as well. the the the general grace uh that that's out there. So people who are not believers in God might even be in active rebellion, wearing satanic shirts and whatever, shaking their fist, they still can have moments or aspects of their life that are moral. Sure. Because of God's provision even in their lives. Because of the the golden rule. I think that'd be like the the atheist's sort of ultimate claim to morality is, you know, I we ought to to treat each other the way that we we would want to be treated. And that's I think that's where the idea of the atheist saying, well it's the it's the collective, it's the group that ends up. And and and you're right in the sense that then, well, that that can change based on the the whims of the Yeah, and I think that they only say that they're not consistent, I don't believe. Probably not. They only say that when the group agrees with them. When the group disagrees with them, then they assert their independence and their autonomy to do what they want to do. to function with society, well then they're they're going to reject that and that was Pretty basic. I don't know if there's a whole lot of fodder for debate or discussion on that. He's the law giver, he's the judge, the state is not. That's the gist of it. Right, and the the state has to uh the state has to submit to God because he is Here, here. A thief article two is as boilerplate as that one. We affirm that objective truth exists. And can be derived from his revelation in Scripture and nature. We endorse science, which seeks to discover through the scientific method and debate. We also affirm the limitations of science. Since man has fallen into sin, institutions contain degrees of corruption which tend to distort, manipulate, or suppress the truth. We therefore deny that human governments always know or seek what is good for their citizens. We reject any deception, fear-mongering, propagandizing, and indoctrination by the state and mass media. We further reject the assertions of any so-called scientific consensus which abandons the scientific method. Now this is interesting because the scientific method isn't necessarily something that's pulled straight out of the pages of Scripture, but is it something that's tied to Scripture out of a good and necessary consequence? Well, what is the scientific method? Let's define that. Observable, repeatable. True. That's the basics of the scientific and then you continue to test and but you're never going to uh necessarily arrive at a at a firm conclusion of what must always be the case with the scientific method. Um but it it does help to determine what is true or is likely to be true. And well and yeah and so so what they're saying is only those things that are absolutely provable for anyone to observe should be the factual things on which the Well right. I mean the scientific method is based in logic and they're saying God is the father of logic and so you can certainly use deductive reasoning and logical reasoning to arrive at conclusions. Um but it does have limitations, uh logic does have limitations because it can lead you to wrong conclusions. And even those who want to do the right thing because we're fallen, you know, we've got what are called the noetic effects of the sin. You know, our brains don't work consistently the way that they're supposed to, and so you're gonna accidentally make mistakes that might not necessarily be sin, but they're the result. of our sinful condition. And so there's that. But then they're also saying, basically, we're all for science, but we're opposed to the science. Which I think that's what they're saying here when they're talking about deception, fear mongering, propagandizing, indoctrination. You know, that's the science which is different. Scientism, if you will, or what passes for s for scientism even. Since even when scientific findings correctly describe something, they can't adequately address complex social realities or prescribe policies that have ethical implications. Yeah. So I think we're in pretty stunch agreement with this, right? Yep. Article three? We affirm that every human being has inherent dignity and worth, along with certain inalienable rights and liberties. These rights and liberties include the right to corporate worship, pershap, personal, and in-person relationships. vocational employments, and participation in the important events of human life, such as the right to comfort the sick and the dying. to attend funerals, to witness the birth of one's child, to marry in a public gathering, to fellowship and eat together with others and to engage in honorable work We therefore deny the dehumanizing actions of a governmental authority or any other institution to subject any person to psychological manipulation and intimidation. We likewise oppose the state's mandating of medical decisions for its citizens. This includes the implementation of vaccine passes, social distancing, or mask wearing. Or vocational disempowerment. Uh saying you can't work in certain occupations just because we say so. There's a lot of other things to get. Yeah, I yeah, I mean in the interest of time, uh because these are the there's like a you know a couple of chunky paragraphs per article and um I think if you're reading it, like you have the page in front of you it's not that bad, but as a listener, I think it's a little hard to track, so I tried to hit what felt like the highlights capturing the gist of what they're trying to say. Frankfurtdeclaration. com, by the way. If you wanted to look it up, Frankfurtdeclaration. com, you can read it yourself. Global trends towards transhumanism and technological surveillance and control over human beings, we also oppose since they undermine the human agency which is so fundamental to our God given calling. It does they don't talk too much about it's a uh there's a one sp spot that says the right to have relationships and the right to marry. Um i I they don't really deal with the LGBT question here but obviously you have uh as Woody Bachman said famously, a gay man perfectly has has the right to marry any woman he wants So we're not prohibiting anybody's right to marry by saying that marriage is one man and one woman's. Uh reasonably well written, I think, and they're using a lot of scripture. I just counted really quickly the first three articles, which is what we have read so far now, uh combined have thirty-nine proof texts. So, you know, they're they're averaging what, thirteen proof texts per article so far. So using a lot of scripture to try to back up what they're saying, which is why it feels like it's pretty soundly biblical kind of positions that they're taking Right? So I don't think we have a whole lot of pushback on this one either. Nope. Alright. By the way, we've we're almost halfway uh through the show, so let me pause for a second to reset. This is a habit I used to have and I got out of the habit, but but listening to the show back a little bit, doing some uh self policing and and and some uh some air checks, I realized that you know if somebody missed the first like minute or two of the show, they can be a little lost. So I'm gonna try to get back in the habit of of resetting halfway ish through the show. So you're listening to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. Daniel Razvi is the pastor of the Church of East Imran's house, I think is what they kind of playfully call it. I don't think it has an official name. And David Forcey is a pastor of a multi-location house church that meets in various households depending on the week throughout the tri-state Potomac region. We we only meet in one house. One house that a week as well. But but it's kind of it's not exactly a a a cycle where it's a predictable rotation, but it's but it's pe turn taking. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's cool. All right. Anyway, so we're we're working our way through the Frank Frankfurt declaration on of a Christian and civil liberties. We've done the first three articles. Now here's article number four. Again, hitting the highlights, I'm I'm gonna read approximately half of what they have for us here. But Daniel's doing a good job speed reading along and important items I might have uh skipped by, he'll he'll throw them in there. if he seems to think it's necessary. We affirm that God has established different spheres of responsibility. God has delegated authority to civil governments. for the purpose of rewarding good and punishing evil, and to protect the God-given rights and freedoms granted to all people. He has also delegated authority to the church and to the family We therefore deny totalitarian ideology ideologies, rather, easy for me to say, of governments which do not recognize the boundaries of their authority. Totalitarianism and statism is built upon beliefs that have fundamentally redefined good and evil and the nature of human beings, and are contrary to the divine order of things. We also oppose the view that children are the property of the state. And again, a whole bunch of proof text here, and it looks like there's at least a dozen. And the parts I skipped over, not that they weren't important, but there is some overlap with some of the issues we've discussed throughout these declarations in in recent months, and it seemed like it was just overly redundant. We oppose encouragement or manipulation of children to undergo medical procedures without parental consent. That's a big one that we haven't talked about much yet. uh in summary saying there are there are spheres of authority that God has authorized and you know and then they're giving some specifics as to what falls within each of those spheres authority. Right. Yeah, so there are um thirty-four proof texts in the last half. So they're pretty consistently right around thirteen proof texts per article on average. So they're trying to use a lot of Bible uh here. And I'm trying to remember now. I I knew the the background on this better and I should have written it down 'cause I tried to can get committed to memory, but you know I'm getting old now, my memory But I think it was basically just kind of a couple of guys in Europe that got together to put this Maybe hand for me three guys or something to put this together and then they kind of put it out there for publicans consumption. Like, hey, what do you guys think And a whole bunch of people kind of rallied around it and they started doing interviews on a bunch of podcasts and getting a lot of retweets and shares on different social media and and it kinda took on a life of its own, but it wasn't put together like a lot of these have been where it's a confab of a whole bunch of theological thinkers get together and and iron it out and then they all are in agreement and then they publish it. These guys kinda put it together on their own and put it out there and say, hey, what do you think So it's it's in it's interesting what the technology and uh you know the era that we live in uh allows things to be differently done. Yeah. All right, so we're done with Article Four? Anything you want? Anything okay. Article 5. We affirm that the church of the Lord Jesus Christ belongs to him. We further affirm that the activities of the local church, insofar as they are essential acts of worship, are to be regulated by Christ alone We therefore deny that any other authority has jurisdiction over the church to regulate any of its affairs in matters of faith and practice We thus repudiate all actions of the state that impose coercive measures over the church. Lastly, we resist the trend of digital platforms. in Christian worship and ministry to become substitutes for congregational and in-person ministry. Stepped on some toes there, I'm sure. Amen. in here. Um not just in this article but in the in the whole statement. Um Try to get it all into one statement before we basically it's kind of a good summary of what we've talked about for the last six months. Yeah, yeah, they're just kind of hitting the highlights, punching it up, and really but focusing like not in the particulars. just just reaffirm the broadly speaking what it is we're standing for. They're not getting although they they throw in a couple of particulars, like that last one that we gave the amen to, right? That's a particular and digital church is not church. Well they're saying uh th there's a couple of times it's like we resist the trend of this. We can see where you're going with it and we don't like where it's going. Like we said they said transhumanism and AI and stuff like that they were talking about uh earlier and surveillance. of uh citizens. And we can see where you're going. We don't like that direction. And the same thing here. But i it's uh the here the trend of digital platforms, the idea that oh well I just watched this I just watched the uh this service from home, you know. And you hear that more and more. That's good enough. That's a classic question for me. If I meet somebody for the first time, you know, I have like four or five kind of go-tos, and one of those go-tos, depending on the circumstances, is where do you go to church? And if very rarely in the past, it would happen, but it's pretty rare, would I get the oh I just watch sermons on TV or whatever. Now it's very common. Very, very common. The church trained people up that it was okay back in twenty twenty. And if it was oh I can just watch at home, I guess that's what I'll do. I would encourage you, listener. Work from home, church from home. Yeah. I if if you're listening right now and that's you, you know, and maybe the faith debate part of your diet, you know, that's fine. I think the faith debate hopefully more times than not is helpful But that's not gathering together. How how do you greet one another with a holy kiss? You know, virtual reality, you know, and in today's way that would might be a hug or a or or a handshake or something like that, uh cultural differences. Um maybe some people would disagree and say you should still be the Holy Kiss, I don't know. But but at the very least the idea of the Holy Kiss is that there's a physical proximity. There's There's, you know, flesh meeting flesh kind of thing. And that doesn't happen electronically. That's why I'm not a big fan of these multi-cap campus locations where there's one pastor who preaches in location, live on location in one place, but then that's piped to like two, three, four, five other locations via a giant Jumbotron screen. It's it's not it's it's not the same and and that trend into the language of this uh uh declaration does trouble me. Yeah. Yeah, it's and nothing wrong with getting more edifying sermons from different locations. The internet's been great for I mean you're listening if you if you're not listening live, you're listening now. I listen to a lot of sermons. I do. That's not what we're saying. We're saying don't call it church or a substitute for fellowship with with the believers. Yeah. And if you don't have a fellowship with believers that you can trust that that they're actually following the word And contact Troya. He'll set you off with somebody. Yeah, I I and I I say this on on you know irregular occasion, but I've done it quite a number of times now because we have a website and we're b you know apparently our Um what do they call that? The the where the the little spider crawlers find you online? The the optimization Or something. Must be pretty good because the FEO. Must be okay that the design of the website must be okay because w quite a few quite a number of people, surprising to me, have have found us and have asked that question, even from out of state. Their closing uh paragraph, let me read this and and uh and we'll have our closing thoughts uh on this declaration. A call for respect, repentance, and resistance is the heading. We commend and express our gratitude to those civil authorities who respect the essential nature of these Christian beliefs and practices and who have a high regard for individual and religious freedoms. To those civil authorities who have disregarded these freedoms, we call on you to repent, lest in the abuse of your God-given authority you become liable to God's wrath. The tone of this on both the positive and negative has been absent of any other declaration to my memory Jumping down to the next paragraph, it appears that the world may be entering a time of testing, not only for the church, but for everyone who believes in freedom and who opposes tyranny. Let us pray that God would give us the courage to stand firm in our faith as He is His as His witnesses, and that He who is Lord over all would give us the strength to remain faithful and persevere to the end. Amen. And a woman. One of the things that I think is interesting in this, and and maybe maybe it came out in some of the parts that we didn't read, but uh You know, they they mention Christ is Lord of the Church and because Christ is Lord of the Church, the government should stay out of the church. And uh but I think I think Maybe they're sort of getting at it here a little bit. Christ is Lord of Lord of all, which which they did say, but uh but he's he's Lord of all civil authorities. And therefore civil authorities should submit to Christ. Yeah, and I like the the the pastoral notes that got sounded here at the end, because that's that's a pastor's heart You know, if if you've been faithful, if you're a civil authority who hasn't gotten out of your lanes and you're doing what you're supposed to do, you keep that up. Be encouraged. I want to encourage you. I want you to know that we stand with you. Be encouraged. But for those of you that haven't, you should feel convicted. You need to repent, a call to repentance. I mean that's what that's a good pastor's heart. So the the I don't know a lot about the three men. I think it was three men uh however many it was that were involved in mostly writing this. I don't know if they're pastors or not, but I'm gonna guess they are, given that sensitivity at at the end to have the sounding of pastoral No, and even ending with the, you know, God would give us all the courage to stand firm that that's like the close to a sermon. There's actually quite a few quite a few initial sirs listed on the on the website. I th I don't know who the original ones were. Bodhi Bakum's up there on the number two. Is he? In that list yeah. Yeah. Bodhi uh uh he carries a lot of weight. You know those who are Bible believers and and and and kind of you know conservative in their approach to the Bible. Uh Bodhi has has been in the fights for a long time, uh fighting the good fight, and so yeah, he signs this that that gets people's attention. That might be the signature that actually got them the attention. It might be. Right. Oh, oh. Because that's one of the things you have people like James White on here. Um Yeah, and James is the real deal as well. He's been in ministry on the front lines of ministry for like forty years. MacArthur's been around for like sixty years. MacArthur and and Bacham together are are if you get their two names on something then you know that you go viral. Yeah. Did you sign it? I have not. Yeah Yeah. If you can sign if you can sign digitally, I signed it. So there's a yeah. It says sixty two hundred siers. Well without me they'd only have sixty one hundred and ninety-nine. All right, well thank you gentlemen. We made it through an entire declaration in one episode. That's gotta be a record for sure Thank you guys so much. Daniel Rasby, David Forcy, I'm Frey Skinner, URU. Find us online at WFMD. com and Household of FaithInChrist. com. Not sure what we're doing next week just yet, but we'll figure it out. Till then, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless Where where all those top ones Were they just initial signers? I I don't get it because it says initial signers and there's like and there's a notable sign section. Yeah, the notable signers. Which is a little sh about the same it's basically the same list. Yeah, my understanding is the guys did it on their own and then they put it out there and they might have targeted some people they were hoping would sign. Bodie and MacArthur and White and stuff like that maybe. But that I don't think that Bodie and MacArthur and White, those guys I don't think they had anything to do with the the composition of it. That's my understanding. They even let Doug Wilson's name be on their uh signage. Oh You're just looking for trouble. Not a not a fan of Doug Wilson? No, he's just a lightning rod, that's all. No, I y you know, I actually had a conversation No conversation. Uh a text conversation. I don't know what you call those. What do you call a text thing? I don't know. Uh with with somebody earlier this year uh talking about Doug Wilson. And I said, look, there Doug's an interesting guy, 'cause there are times when he is so unfairly criticized it's ridiculous, and I'm one of his staunchest supporters. I will f I will fight To defend even when I'm not sure that I think he's right or uh I I'm not saying he's wrong that I know he's wrong. I was like, I'm not sure if he's right, but you know what? Uh we can't be sure he's wrong. And I'm gonna fight to defend that. Well you'll you'll you're gonna you're gonna take the time to try and understand what he's Yeah, and then there's some other times like, yeah, I don't I don't think he got that one right, but but so he's an interesting character, but he's the lightning rod because he puts himself out there and he's he's a very um Very loqu loquacious writer, you know, he uses very uh uh almost overly flowery language at times. Um I don't think you can get through three of his posts without needing a dictionary. Not unless your vocabulary is a lot. You can get through You know, one here and there. But I don't think you can get through three in a row. That's one of the things that I like about him is is for the most part he's he's very easy to understand. And then he throws a humdinger word in there and and I and I I think I think part of that is to is to push push people to be better educated. Yeah, God no. Right if you want a if you want a word that's new, you go go home tonight and tell your wife that she looks like Very poker to do this. Pokerdunus? Polkratuditus. Polkurdin I. P-U-L-C-H-R-I T U D I N O U S I think. And it means it sounds awful. Yeah. It means like very beautiful. Very good looking. So you can tell your wife you look very polcatinous today. And it i it's it's gonna i i it sounds very shocking, but no that's it up. I wonder if that's uh if that if that's a word that stands behind that Elvis hit, poke salad annie 'Cause the lyrics to that song have always fulmocks me. I've never been able to figure out what the he what who why is she calling Polk so maybe Polk is is shorthand for a polk tuminous or whatever you just say. Polk retunidis. Polk retunitus That's too many syllabus, man. I I don't think that that uh the roots of that are found in The romance language. Yeah, you helped ever see that. Polkritinous. Okay, now I've seen it. Polkritinus. Huh, that's a good word. That'd be a really good spelling B word. That'd be like a knockout word right there. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. We we played Boggle. I don't know if you've ever played Boggle, but uh it's like a word game and you write down the words that you see in the little grid and and if you make up a word if it's in the dictionary and our rule is if it's in the underbridge dictionary then you get the points for it. Sure. And so if it looks like it could be a word we write them down and we Came up with a lot of interesting ones. I like unusual words like that. I like creating nice paragraphs that nobody understands. That drainway may look bar your first plus dream squatting if you go down might become we have a development and then up quite a bucket chair. I think that's quite a what? That's that's all English, that's all video normal words, but nobody has any clue what I'm talking about. So here's the thinking about new there would be completely intention for next time believe it or not there is one more declaration. It came out this year and it is very controversial and we talked about the subject matter already when Elijah was in town. Oh with the Christian nationalism. Yeah I think it would be good for us to walk through uh that declaration with you and Imran participating if possible. So that we can all kind of be here but that won't be. Because that is for the last year has been just dominating the Christian headlines and it's caused all sorts of fractures and it's been unfortunate in my view because Is it long? Like it was a several episodes worth probab yeah probably but I I can figure out how to uh make sure that we can do one recording session Maybe. Do you generally agree with it or generally disagree with it? The thing is no, I I it's interesting. The people who decided would they consider themselves Christian nationalists They would, but here's the thing that's so confusing to me. I know some of these guys, not personally, but like I know of them, I've seen them around, here they have to say. And what they're saying Sometimes has me go like, I'm not sure I can go there with you. I'm not just telling more. None of that's in this So um so I was like what's the point at some so that's part of what I would like to talk about is did they you know did they pull it up short? Yeah, like a golfing term, right? They they did they didn't think they'd clear the water so they so they laid up You know, they they put it about twenty yards in front of the water instead of trying to kick it the ex the extra thirty yards to get it over the water. I just wonder, now this was the draft, so what these guys did, I think in the spirit of the Frankfurt Declaration, they uh there was I let's see, one, two Two primary writers and one, two, three, four contributing editors. So these guys wrote it and then put it out. as a draft, welcoming, encouraging feedback, saying that they were going to then put out a final draft later this year, which to my knowledge hasn't happened yet, but probably will have be happening very, very soon. So um I'll be curious to see how different that is from this. If they got criticism like, hey, it's not meaty enough, put yourself out there more, or as safe as they tried to play it, if they got pushed back and they make it even safer, I don't No. They're they're trying to basically say Christian nationalism is okay without doing a strong enough job, in my view, defining it. And and articulating how it plays out in practice. I was like, this is not it's not advancing the conversation. There'd be a lot to that That'd be a big declaration. So if you wanted to look at the draft version, you can just look for the statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel The draft came out in May. Statement on Christian nationalism. The statement on Christian nationalism, Ambersand the Gospel. Statement on Christian Nationalism dot com. Okay, there you go. So they were saying initially that the final one would come out in July, but I don't think it's come out yet. Although is there a new one? Does it say it's the final draft? On their website? No, it says this. Yeah, because they said that the final version would would come out in July, but that were past July. So It says it will take shape Whatever that means. What does that mean? That's a weasel word. Take shape. Which of these guys are you familiar with? They're all of them. Um Dusty Beavers, William Wolfe, Joel Webin. Actually Joel Levin came up earlier this evening William Wolf is the one you retained. He wrote a book on the book. Yeah, no, I got I get them confused all the time. last name. And they both happen to be in the same camp, by the way. Sort of. Well, that's why we have to have a discussion, right? Because I'm telling you, is Willi is William Wolf uh is he Is he a uh he's a youngish guy. He's like in his thirties probably. I think. Or to guess. But that's the problem. You talk to somebody, oh Christian National, yes, and then you start to get in particulars and you're like Oh, wait a minute. That's not how I've ever heard somebody else say it's it's such a I don't think it's helpful. Are we doing anything more tonight? No, it's it's it's nine o'clock and yeah and and we would have this down. Hey Stacey, thanks for uh checking in. Uh I'm going to post this and you if you missed joined it in progress you can watch the whole thing later on. God bless everybody