All right, looks like we're going. Looks like there was a glitch there for a second, so hopefully it's gonna hold up. This is a live studio recording session of the uh face-to-face show that's going to be broadcast uh actually in a couple minutes months from now. The way the world is going, who knows if it will be a world for the shows to broadcast uh in a couple of months. Anyway, you're getting a sneak peek as we talk about the statement on Christian nationalism today. So we're gonna jump right in. If you have any comments or thoughts you'd like to share the comments. I can't do it live because I'm a little preoccupied recording the radio show, but I will definitely interact later on. And this will be posted on Rumble at some point, and then the uh probably will end up on Odyssey and sermon audio at some point as well. All of my sermons and faith debate shows and other theologically related content always ends up eventually on sermon audio and odyssey. So I'd encourage you to uh to check Try to follow along there as best as you can if you're interested. Alright, so we're gonna get going. You ready? Oh, I think so. You got it pulled up? Yeah. Wow, this is this is a statement. Yes it is. Yes it is Yes it is. This is a faith debate on news radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Yes I am. With David Forcy. David Forcy is a pastor in the area of a house church that meets at a multitude of locations. So if you're interested in finding out where those are, maybe he meets maybe he meets right down the street from where you live. And you don't know it yet. So if you're interested to find out, reach out to me and I'll try to connect you. You can reach out to me. The easiest way is to go to household of faith in Christ. com. That's the name of my church. And so our website is just our name plus a dot com, Household of FaithInChrist. com. Again, this is the Faith Debate News Reading at 930 WFMD. So you can follow us there too, wfmd. com, find the faith debate page. There you'll be able to link to past programs, see what's coming up on future programs, and link to some helpful resources and that sort of stuff. So today we are going to grapple with the statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel. And this is a statement, boy, statement and a half. Although there's uh th there it could have been longer. It could have been Um even more clarified. Yeah. So what we're gonna do here, uh if you listen to this show a few months back, or probably more than a few months now, um We did a show on the Christian nationalism that wasn't following the statement per se. It was just talking about the issues as they were appearing on social media and all the fighting that's going on among Christian brothers and sisters. And so we addressed it with a series of, I don't know, three, four, five shows, something like that. But now we're going to follow this structure and use this statement as our outline, and David Forstey and I are going to do our best to to grapple with it in a in a fair uh and forthright manner. So are we up to this task? Oh I think so. Alright so uh by the time this airs, because we do tend to record the show a little bit in advance, things could change. So let me give you the context. Here's what it says at the top of the statement that is currently available as we record. This is a draft version, it says. Please send recommendations for changes below or through a direct message and they give their Twitter handle It says draft one is released on May 1st, 2023. Version 2 is released on May 23rd, 2023. The final version will take shape in mid-July at the Council on Christian Nationalism with a single-day conference to follow. Well, this is well past July. I don't know so I don't know what happened, but they never actually did what they were intending to do. I don't know if they had their little conference and everything blew up. Or if they didn't have their conference, I don't know. But for some reason, they didn't follow through. And so this is still the uh the version that came out back in May. Anyway, the authors are James Silverman and Dusty Devers with contributing editors William Wolf, Joel Webin, Jeff Wright. Corey Anderson. If you're paying attention to the Christian nationalism debate on social media and all that sort of the mudslinging and this sort of thing, a lot of those names I just mentioned will sound familiar because they're they're very much involved in in the discussion. So anyway, so there's the preamble. Now they give us a definition. Let's see what we think about this definition. Okay. Christian nationalism is a set of governing principles rooted in Scripture's teaching that Christ rules the supreme Lord and King of all creation. who has ordained civil magistrates with delegated authority to be under him, over the people, to order their ordained jurisdiction by punishing evil and promoting good for his own glory and the common good of the nation. a handful of proof text that they provide. So uh I've got a thought on this, but what you do you have an initial thought or should I share my initial thought first? Uh uh my initial thought is that that's about that's about right. Hmm Maybe if it uh we will I a lot a lot uh maybe the rest of this is what are these governing principles? Yeah because uh Yeah, I don't think there's anything they say here that's untrue. Right. So if that's what you mean, I'm I'm agreeing. Yeah, there's nothing here that's untrue. However, I this is the this is supposed to be the the definition And I feel as a definition I think it's vague enough to be mostly inoffensive, because everything they say is true, but it's I think also vague enough to be unhelpful. I don't know that this is really definitive as a definition. I don't I I I I don't think this is exacting enough. I would have I would have liked something a little bit more incisive And and like spot on like this is our definition as opposed to just these broadly theological biblical truths that we're talking about. I don't know. I I I f when I first when I read this the first time, well I just read it to you, listener, for the first time but when I read it in my you know in my uh study you know all lonesome alone in my study when I read this for the first time and I read this I was like oh boy They're not going to say anything that's going to be clarifying. I think they're playing it safe. That was my first that was my first reaction when I read this definition the first first time months ago. We'll find out if you're ready to go. So we'll see if you're ready. We will find out. So introduction. Christian nationalism is primarily concerned with the righteous rule of civil authorities, not spiritual matters pertaining to salvation. The desire for a Christian nation is not a distraction from the gospel, but rather an effort to faithfully apply all of Scripture to all of life, including the public square. As such, Christian nationalism is not just for civil authorities. just as submitting to Christ's Lordship is not just for civil authorities, but for all people. After the Lord Jesus declared his sovereign authority, they cite Matthew Matthew 28, he gave the great commission and commanded his followers, empowered by his everlasting presence, to make disciples of, quote, all nations, and to baptize them and quote, teach them to obey all that I have commanded. Our Lord did not exclude all civil authorities from the command to submit to his authority and display allegiance to him. I'm going to pause there because there's a whole nother second half to the introduction, but there's some things to talk about there, and that's Allah. Uh I'll give you my first thoughts. You can either spin off of what I said or you can spin off of the words that I just read. But uh they go out of their way to say something if Daniel uh Rasley were here uh they they they used a phrase that that he would use a lot uh pertaining to salvation we're not saying this is a salvation issue this isn't going to keep you out of heaven this isn't about salvation this is something other than salvation It's about spiritual matters, maybe, but not spiritual matters that pertain to salvation. So they want to make that clear. They're not saying if you disagree with them that you're consigned to hell. Okay, fair enough. Um I I I I would I I would pick at that a little bit as a as a annoying scab, but I'll I'll leave it for now. But then the thing that really It's a little dissatisfying to me as the very next sentence, the desire for a Christian nation. Well, isn't that the whole point? What is that? They don't define it. They just they just put it out there. It's the desire for a Christian nation, whatever that might be, because it's not hasn't been well defined because their Christian national uh nationalism dis definition at the top really doesn't nail that down for me. And so I'm still not sure what they're meaning to say when they use that phrase. And why is that important, listener? Because it means so many different things to so many different people. You know there's the old cliche if you get a hundred people in a room and you ask them a question, you get a hundred different opinions I don't think it's quite that bad with this kind of question. But I will say in my experience, if you got into a room with ten people that are talking about Christian nationalism and you ask them all to define it, you probably get six different definitions. We might not get ten. They wouldn't all have their own unique. But they have like a half a dozen different definitions. And so I think something like this should help us to get on the same page. And I don't know that they do that very well. Anyway, so it should not be a uh a distraction from the gospel, but rather an effort to faithfully apply all of Scripture to all of life And m what this is one of the questions I have as somebody who's trying to I'm not anti-Christian nationalism, by the way. If you listen to the shows we did earlier this year on this topic, I'm not opposed to it. I'm I'm I I'm I'm I don't want to forever be agnostic, but I'm kind of agnostic. I don't know exactly what position uh on all of this to take. So I'm I'm actually a an inter FOIL, I think, in this. But when they're talking about it should be about faithfully applying all of Scripture to all of life, are they including unbelievers? Like That the government should be in the business of getting unbelievers to live the Christian life, applying all of Scripture? You know, th that that's one of the questions that people have, and I don't know that this statement does a good job of helping us know how they would answer. Yeah, I I mean I I get the feeling that they're trying to say that uh that a that a Christian nation is one that would whose whose governing authorities, right, whose civil magistrates would say what does Christ say is good. and promote that and what does Christ say is evil and punish that. So Well, if that's what they mean, I agree. So I think that's gonna and I'll I'll I'll try not to hammer it on that hobby horse. too much. I think that's one of my one of my frustrations is. Well if I find myself saying they lah. If that's what they mean, I agree Right. But then someone will say that's not what they mean, they mean this. And then I'll say, well, if they mean that, then I don't agree. But I can't be sure what they mean. That's been my my struggle with this. Okay. Uh you have anything else on the first half of the introduction? Otherwise you want me to read the second half? Yeah, we can move on. All right, we recognize the existence of other definitions of Christian naturalism. Other than the one they just gave. Okay. What are we supposed to do with that anyway? Maybe I should maybe should be a little bit more just in the moment as I read these, right? Because I seriously, that's that's my core complaint with all of this, is somebody please just tell me what it means. Right? This is they're putting out a statement that that they're hoping will be kind of this will be the definitive statement that we're all gonna argue about and and and connect to, right? This is We're all going to respond to this. We're either accepting or rejecting what is outlined in this statement. Right? That's kind of the goal. Why would you put out a statement otherwise? Yeah. To clarify and say, no, when we say Christian nationalists, we mean this. And yet, I'm saying I don't feel like you're doing that. And they admit as much. We recognize the existence of other definitions of Christian nationalism. What in the world? Then they go on to say, we certainly do not endorse every iteration of Christian nationalism. Okay, which ones don't you endorse? It would be really helpful for me to know And they explicitly repudiate some such forms, really? Such as can you give me one example? Just one. Well, are are any of the others well defined? But shouldn't they right? Shouldn't they define them? Or isn't that their goal? Maybe, but if they if they give a a label to something. Anyway, well they're claiming here in fairness. I'm being a little bit, you know, I mean it's a radio show and I I've got to have a lot of enthusiasm and energy to to to carry the listener along on this ride because these statements can sometimes be a little dry. I get that So in fairness, they do go on to say that these things they repudiate and the iterations that they either are or aren't on board with uh will be clear as uh they say will be evident in our affirmations in the models. So we'll see if we'll see if that's true. See if they Based on what I've said so far, I've kind of given you a little bit of a precursor of what my attitude towards that will be. But anyway, they're at least saying that that's what we should expect around the corner You may, they're talking to you now, David. You're you may sign this document and delineate if you affirm civil authorities legislating both tables of the law or only the second table. after the article. I I assume they'll tell us what tables about the uh you know the the the The Ten Commandments, you've got the first table that's mostly focused on the spiritual worship of God, not having idols, you know, Sabbath keeping. You know, it's it's more of a spiritual thing and you got the second table that's more about loving your neighbors. Interest. Don't kill them, don't steal their stuff, don't come at their wife. So they're splitting it along those kinds of lines. They're saying if you wanna make a a separation between the overtly religious spiritual stuff and the more uh civil sphere kind of stuff. We're gonna allow you to do that. So the the first table going from love God to honor your parents. They might some people might say that is the personal and household sphere Right so and then the the second one is the public sphere. Okay. Yeah I see what I think. Generally, although they uh they might uh include honor your parents with the second table. That that I don't want to speak for them but I think that they might Interesting. Okay. One of my concerns with this is it it seems like a like a I I feel like it's an unforced error. It's a hedge So they'll paint my number. It's like, dudes, James, Dusty, William, Joel, Jeff, Corey, tell me what you think, man. Just put it out there. And I'll sign on or I won't. And if I won't, I'll tell you why. Right. Just put it out there. What's with this hedging? It's an unforced error. Anyway. Uh Troy will stand for no vagaries. I I hope yours has as being used by me as the look on David's face indicates that he is. Anyway, so it wraps up here with uh we are honored to receive signatures now if you affirm the statement as it stands. We do not accept anonymous signatures, which I think it's hilarious. Is that a thing? Are people assigning things anonymously? What does that even mean? I don't know. Yeah, I maybe. Maybe certain petitions you can Who assigns things anonymously? That's funny. Anyway. And then they go on to say in July, which didn't happen, we will host an editorial summit to discuss well the summit might have happened. Any necessary amendments followed the next day by a conference details forthcoming. We affirm and deny the filing propositions. So they may or may not have had the summit. That I don't know. Did they have the conference? I don't know. But they they didn't put out an update on their statement. So what does that mean And I didn't look to see if anybody that I know has signed off on this as it is. I will say for the record, I have not, and nor would I, based on its current uh articulation of of the issues. I'm not saying I I'm not saying that I disagree per se with the tr because but like David said at the beginning. Troy won't sign off on inarticulation. What yeah, what they're saying is is basically true, but given what they're talking about and the moment that we're in fighting about this sort of stuff, it's gotta be clearer before I'll sign it. And I don't think they're clear enough Anyway. David disagrees, and that's okay. He's allowed to be wrong. So these are the these are the affirmations and denials. We'll probably be able to at le at least start uh Article 1, the source of truth Whether we finish it in today's show or not depends on how long winded I continue to be. We affirm that the Bible is God's word. Amen. The Amen, I added, by the way. Breathed out by him as the only sufficient, certain, inerrant, infallible, necessary, and final authority for all saving knowledge Faith, what we must believe, and obedience, how we must live. Not only amen, but hallelujah. I could not agree any more strongly than I do with that We affirm that the light of nature in man and God's works in creation and providence reveal God's power and nature, leaving civil authorities without excuse for failing to govern justly as his servants. Okay, I agree, right? Romans 1. Yet this knowledge is insufficient for repentance unto life and salvation. Okay All truth claims and ethical standards must be tested by God's final word, which is Scripture alone, stated like a true Reformation adherent. We affirm that the Bible is clear in all essential matters. And then there's a denial here. We denied that all true beliefs, good character, or good conduct can be dictated by any authority other than God's revelation, which is a shorter way of of saying what they just said in longer words uh in reverse. So yeah, I I I I love everything about that. The only question I have, and you might have s you're probably just Echoing my a amen as I'm imagining. Um but in addition to that, the only thing that kind of made me scratch my head a little bit here is they say we affirm the Bible is clear in all essential matters. And so given that this is a statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel. Is Christian nationalism one of the essential matters? All matters are essential, true Wow. That's my answer. If uh So the Bible would be clear on this. Well uh yeah. And the uh the problem with saying something like essential matters is unless you list the matters that are essential Or non-essential. If you delineate that, then we're vague. Right. See? Welcome to my world. I'm winning you over. I'm winning a conversation. All right, this is uh well we've got through that one pretty quick because I think everything they say there is true, but I mean it's true enough But it's not fully true enough. Like I feel there's more clarity that that would be beneficial here. Right? Yeah. Uh you know uh I I think, you know, do they mean essential yeah, it that just needs some more definition there to be helpful, you know, if uh You know, if if by essential are we talking about uh how to navigate our our relationship with God, our relationship with other people, understand our purpose and how to go about our lives, that yes, that's essential. If it's You know, if it's not essential as in like what are what are the details of various theoretical mathematics. you know, non non essential. Yeah, and and and essential under what ends too? Right, what are they w exact uh unto salvation, essential I in in life practice, essential and political theory issues, like they're not. Like if I if I get to decide what they mean by essential matters or not Then I agree. Right, and and in fairness, and you know maybe I'll I'll see if I I'll I'll I'll see. I I I might I do because it might feel like I'm poking the bear and I'm not trying to do that. But I might see if I can provide a link to the shows that we're doing, write in the comment section of their Twitter thing. Or tag them somehow. And maybe the guys who wrote this they'll they'll they'll hear our obnoxious complaints and they'll incorporate a couple of suggestions from our obnoxious complaints. You know, maybe some of this will be helpful to them. Who knows? We ready to move on to Article 2? Yeah. Orthodox Christian faith. We affirm that nations are commanded to honor God by officially affirming the Orthodox Christian faith. I'm going to swing back to that in a minute. As historically and universally defined and affirmed in the creeds, for example, the Apostles' Creed, the Nicene Creed, the Athens. We affirm that many denominational confessions articulate the Orthodox Christian faith. We affirm that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone. in Christ alone, revealed in Scripture alone to the glory of God alone. So they just knocked out all the Roman Catholics. We deny that a Christian nation must require or preclude membership in any particular confessional tradition or denomination. And my question to that and my response I guess to that denial is well why not? Um Oh, okay. There are some confessional traditions or denominations that just wouldn't fit with what they're advocating, so wouldn't that knock them out? I would preclude them, I think, at some level. Hmm. Maybe maybe the idea there is that they deny that just one particular denominator. is should be the only denomination. But I understand why they're saying it. And they're saying it to try to help un uh to help explain to soften the language of the first sentence why I said we swing back to the the officially affirming, right? That uh nations are to officially affirm the Orthodox Christian faith. Okay, well that's scary language to certain traditions. I mean that's what sparked the letter from the uh the Baptist to Thomas Jefferson that ignited the whole separation of church and state thing that we're living with to this day, right? The the Danbury Bapt Baptists were concerned that they weren't going to be considered Orthodox enough And they would be they would be uh punished by this newly established government and Jefferson, no no no. Don't worry about it. So these guys are trying in the statement now are are trying to hedge uh against that, but they're not somebody's in and somebody's out. I I mean I jokingly said they just knocked out all the Roman Catholics, but I only said that as a joke for levity's purposes, but there's truth in that joke Yeah. Because the Roman Catholics do not believe in salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, revealed in the scripture alone, through the glory of God alone. I mean those are the solas of the Reformation. That's the that's the Protestant position. It's not the Roman Catholic position. So should the Roman Catholics be concerned? They're not considered Orthodox, I guess. by what they've said here. And so what do we do with that? That's the question people want to know. Okay. And if they say, no no, Roman Catholics are fine. Really? Then why did you go out of your way to point out all the solas? I I you know only alones, right? This alone, that alone. Why are you pointing that out when you know the Catholics don't agree with that? Well I I So they're either in or they're out. I think they're excluding Catholics. Roman Catholics, yeah. So what do we do with the denial then, right? A Christian nation must require or preclude we deny, they're denying that a Christian nation must require or preclude membership in any particular confessional tradition. or denomination. Wouldn't the Roman Catholics want to make the argument that they're one of the traditions? They would say they're the tradition, right? They're not just a denomination. They're the one true church historically speaking. That would be their case. I disagree with them, but that would be their case. How does this statement help answer that question? I don't I don't know that it does. I'm doing a lot of talking. I don't wanna I don't want to keep rambling. You have anything you wanna wanna add? No, I uh again It seems it seems that if uh you know if I get to decide what some of these things mean, uh particularly that I can agree, but then someone else could easily and again it w you know what what it seems to me that they are implicating is uh Is is accurate, is correct. But there I I think someone could think else could think that they're implying something else. Right. And hence all the mud swinging has been taking place over the past, you know, more than a year now. Anyway, so we got through the uh the the uh introductory stuff, the definition, we got through Article I, Article II, so I guess in our next show we'll pick up with with Article III, which is the standard of justice. And I'm gonna try not to to chitter chatter as much, but you know I almost can't help myself. I apologize. And it doesn't help that David, he's he's so, you know, pensive and thoughtful and quick to listen and slow to speak that, you know, it just doesn't help me. Sorry, Frey. It brings out the worst in me, and I apologize for that. Anyway, uh thanks for listening regardless of uh bringing out the worst in me into the Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty, WFMD. I am Froy Skinner, the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household. of faith in Christ dot com. Uh David Forcy, also a pastor of a of a house church. It's one house church but it meets in a whole bunch of different locations. They kind of rotate. There's like four, five, six, I don't know, seventy different churches that that rotate something like that throughout the uh Like the Frederick County area and uh areas adjacent to Frederick County. Anyway, if you'd like to connect with any of us on the show, whether it be the two who are on panel today or David and Imran Razby or Steven Jurger who's sometimes on this show rather irregularly but he's connected what we do here. Just reach out to me. I'd be glad to put you in touch with anybody that you're you're interested in talking to Till next time, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless So you haven't really read this or studied this in depth until now? Uh I've uh I've given some thought to Christian nationalism and And I am aware of some of the the back and forth and the you know the the seeming multitude of positions, but uh no, I haven't read through this particular statement. Yeah, so that that's put you at a little bit of a disadvantage as I'm uh flying off the handle Sorry. Very pretty passionate for it. It's fine. I use some best The thing I'm most passionate about, and this is actually what sparked what I mentioned before when I stood up and spoke for like 10 minutes 12 minutes, a week and a half ago, about the need for us to actually be the body, to love one another, to demonstrate love Okay. That are treating each other like like heretic like false teachers, like like scum. And it's just heartbreaking. That's weird. It's heartbreaking. On this question, on this issue. Who in particular are you thinking of? Um go to uh you ever do you ever pay attention to what uh Michael O'Fallon's Sovereign Nations Mm. Booksite does. Go to his YouTube or well, go to his Rumble channel. Don't give YouTube for business. Go to the Sovereign Nations Rumble Channel and look at some of the videos they most recently posted. Okay. They did a conference at a church probably I think was in Florida if I'm not mistaken. It doesn't really matter. And there's like, I don't know, a dozen or more videos. And some of them are fine. And the information is is good. Like as far as just getting information, the information's good. I think you'd find that part of it helpful. Yeah. But pay attention to the to the tone in in a handful of those people that spoke and the taking a Christian brother and their position and throwing under a bus. Uh not being a generous hearer at all. Like like you said, well it could mean this, it could mean that. They made up their mind it means this and I hate it But maybe they don't mean that. Maybe they mean that. Why wouldn't you be a little more generous? Why wouldn't you hear what they have to say? So that'll give you an example. But uh also some I'm disappointed actually with like dies of G three. Um you know, Owen Stran and uh uh um Virgil Walker, uh Josh Bice, these are as far as I can tell, really good guys. I mean I I the out of those I just mentioned I feel like I know Virgil the best. I've I've consumed a lot of Virgil Walker's content over the years and I just love his heart for the Lord and his his heart for truth and righteousness and God's people. I mean he's got a pastor's heart And yet, from what I understand, there are people who disagree with him on the Christian nationalism question and they're talking past each other and on social media and stuff And so they've re so people that have a platform, you know, like he has a platform, but these aren't just the knuckleheads. These are people platform people reaching out and saying, Virgil, maybe we should talk. Maybe we can come to a meeting of the minds here and um from what I understand Virgil won't won't have the conversation. Weird. Yeah. Weird, right? Like what is that? And you got people like we I've had one on this show. We I count him as a as as a friend or maybe a better way of putting it as as a good acquaintance, and we're not that close to call somebody up friend necessarily, but you know, A. D. Robles. He's got a very big following on a YouTube channel and he's written a book on social justice that did okay I think and he's a he's a he's a mover and shaker if not people listen to him Yeah. And you know, he's he's treating some of the guys at like G three and some of the people who disagree with him on Christian nationalism the way he treated the the wolves teaching another gospel at Gospel Coalition with the social justice wars. Like there's no distinction. Like the guys that that you know the the the the the the you know what you you know what I'm talking about when I'm saying that like the Tim Keller types go on gospel coalition are publishing articles that are promoting another gospel. Yeah. The social justice gospel and not the true gospel. And yeah, they need to identify or at least those points of view need to be identified as false teachings People propose putting them forward are are in that moment at least false teachers. And you've identified, give in your sights, pull the trigger, shoot 'em. You identify the wolves and you shoot them. You've got to protect the flock. But then you don't turn your sights on Christian brothers who disagree with you on a non-gospel issue and pull the trigger. You just don't do that. That's my understanding of scripture. And yet that's what's happening on both sides. Both sides. This is like the Ukraine war. There's no good guys. What do you mean both sides? Are there are there only two sides? There are two there are two primary sides. Interesting. There are multi there are multiple sides. But there are two primary sides. Yeah. There are those that have decided that Stephen Wolfe's book is great and needs to be defended and we need to somehow redeem the Christian nationalist label. Maybe we should be doing this on the show, I don't know. So maybe we'll maybe we'll do that. Remind me of these thoughts because this is this might be helpful because I was explaining to Daniel and he gets frustrated sometimes by these uh uh these statements shows that we do. And I said, you know, we're trying to entertain and all that sort of stuff, but it's it's kind of a it's a teaching industry. We're trying to help people to understand what the issues are, help to equip them to learn how to grapple with these issues themselves that come the their own biblical understanding of things, what the Bible actually says, to model hopefully how to do that, you know, to do it sometimes playfully, sometimes seriously. But And I think these statements are are helpful. And so maybe I don't want to leave that on the cutting room floor. So let me uh Let me make sure I save the last show we just did. And now let me do a new one. Are you gonna remember what we were just talking about? 'Cause once I get into the show I forget. Um Yeah, let me nail it down. And do you need anything to jot down notes or anything, by the way? You know, that would probably be helpful. I should do that. Here's uh that's the back of the first page which I'm not gonna need until the show's over, so Okay. Um Picking up with uh Article Three, right? Okay. Yeah, we you can maybe open with some of some of this discussion as background. Before we get an article three? Uh that's me? Yeah, I don't know. I don't know how we would insert it in the middle, but Yeah. Okay. And here we go. Good morning if you're listening to the radio or if you're listening to a podcast in a happy Z morning. Good good midday, good afternoon, good evening if you're listening to the podcast perhaps another time of the day. This is the Faith Debate uh on the radio and uh available on demand as well on the radio at 9 30 WFMD each and every Sunday morning at 9 o'clock and uh available via podcast through the WFMD. com website Also through my social media platforms, primarily the easiest and best way probably is just to follow along on either sermon audio, sermonaudio. com. or at odyssey. com. Those are the two main places I try to put everything. And all the other places I put things, you can connect to it just going through the website that I manage and host. It's my church's website, Household of Faith in Christ. Household of Faithinchr. com is the website. So again, I'm Freud Skinner and joined again this week by David Forcy, another pastor in the area who uh has a house church that is yet unnamed. And I don't think he's ever gonna give a name to his church because I think he just likes making it difficult for me to introduce him every week without having a a name for his church. I do. I I feel like it uh gives me more publicity. More airtime that I explain how the whole thing works. But uh we we started last week looking at the statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel, which um the statement itself hasn't spurred a whole lot of debate I mean it has, but it it hasn't sparked it. It's in response to a debate that got sparked over a year ago now and is really just uh it was like a wildfire. uh May twenty twenty three, uh what was the what was the precursor do you think that uh gave them reason to do that I'm sure there's a longer history on this than I'm aware, but it's first started to enter my field of vision at some point in 2022 Maybe the first half of 2022 I started noticing uh certain people on social media raising questions, making arguments, going back and forth, memeing each other to death, whatever, about questions related to uh uh the sovereignty of nations, Christian nations theonomy, those sorts of things that kind of turned into this Christian nationalist, Christian nationalism kind of discussion And so it was gaining some momentum and then um I don't think it was written because of it, but boy, the timing worked out well. Stephen Wolfe put out a book in the fall of twenty twenty-two called uh called Christian Christian nationalism, right? Something like that. Did he define it well? And well see, so yeah, so that's how this is it I think this is a helpful background I'm not saying that Stephen Wolf is wrong. I'm saying that I can't tell for sure that Stephen Wolf is right. Okay. So he wrote this tome. I mean it's it's a book, boy. It's you know, it's many hundreds of pages long. It's a book. And it's a little academic. Uh and he's making a case using a lot of political theory and a lot of history and he's he he's kind of connecting to the Bible, but he's not really making a he's not exegeting scripture, right? He's not grappling with scripture and applying it uh to the present moment Uh he he's he's a he's making use of the Bible in in more broad brush strokes than that. To be honest, I think that's been part of the problem because people have used his argument as the uh uh kind of the pivot point for all discussion since that book came out. And so the book hasn't been as clear as it could be. And uh this is gonna sound mean-spirited, I'm just trying to be descriptive, you know. And if it's mean, I'm not mean to be mean I'm just trying to be accurate in my description. Um his book is a little longer than it could be I think that Stephen's natural propensity is one that I share. I I think that he can be a little long-winded. And this comes out in his book. I think his book uh could have been edited to be a little shorter, a little tighter, and not quite so long-winded. I think that would have been helpful. Um but anyway, so it led to some dialogue about what is he really saying, what does he really mean? And he and he used some language that I think was taken out of context and quoted on you know Twitter and that sort of thing that was unfair to him and his book. Uh which is gonna happen, I guess, unfortunately. And so the people who have podcast platforms and stuff, they invited him on to be a guest to explain himself. And so I've taken in a few of those and I found them to be unhelpful. I found them to again be a little bit less clear than than than than would really be good for the moment. and a little long winded. So he's on a show for like, you know, an hour plus and uh being asked questions and when he could give an answer that might have been concise and helpful in like two or three minutes He rambles for five or six minutes and doesn't really say anything. And that's that that's really sounds mean. I'm not not that he doesn't say anything, but he's not moving the ball uh at a at a very uh quick clip. And he leaves a lot of room for some people to put their own opinions on top of his and say that's what he meant And then he goes, well, I'd say, no, that's not what I meant. Well, why don't you clarify what you mean? And in this clarification, he's not clarifying enough. And it's just, it's created this brew This you know, there's this stew of this brew or whatever, it's creating a brew ha ha you know, and all these people and the thing that really and I I'm not that passionate about this issue per se. It's mostly, in my opinion, it's a political theory issue Interesting. And I care and I care about p politics and I'm interested in politics and and it connects to history and I do care about history. But all those things are secondary and tertiary issues. What I care most about is what does God's word say? How do I bet better understand those words? on those pages. Like that's my heartbeat. That's what I'm really caring about. So anything that's not doing that in a more direct, overt way is going to be a not uninteresting, but a little less important for me to make time for. Okay? So I'm open to Stephen Wolfe's argument. I think he makes some interesting points if he's saying what I think he's saying, and if he's saying what other people think he's saying Uh but I think he maybe makes some dangerous points if he's saying what his detractors say that he's saying, which he might not be saying, but if he is, I'm not so sure. And so anyway, people have decided to set up camp It's really weird. And what's been frustrated to me, and you and I were talking about this off air, if you go back a few years, and it started more than a few years ago, but it didn't really catch fire until just a few years ago, and then I I think that stimulated a lot of people's interest in how does the government operate? What is the right thing Exactly, because of what the government was doing with regards to the government. It was raising a lot of these kinds of questions And some people were putting, you know, w were putting a fine line on it, like pointing one of those guns with little laser lights, you know. And they and the laser light was on the right spot. They're saying, hey, part of what's going on here is The problem with uh with what defining that hasn't been a lack of clarity of of what we're talking about, but it's been a a a lack of one umbrella term. So sometimes it's called ethnic Gnosticism, some Sometimes it's called critical race theory, sometimes it's called social justice theology, sometimes it's called uh a manifestation of of neo-Marxism, some it's liberation theology, you know, uh and you throw into the mix intersectionality and all the you know standpoint epistemology and all the other things. This this this cocktail that this stands for this this leftist theological thing. That was another gospel. It's what the Apostle Paul would call another gospel. Salvation through works and works defined as modern-day heresy, uh modern-day uh uh Uh Pharisees would put it, they make up their own traditions, their own rules, and say, you need to live up to this man-made standard in order to find your salvation, if you will. It's a false gospel, it's the enemy of the true gospel, and so people identified that were in the minority, uh culturally speaking, and even within the church, sadly, uh with what the visible church, the institutional church. But they became some trusted voices. And some of those guys were at the G3. Some of those guys were, you know Connected to John MacArthur's uh Grace to You Ministry, some of those guys were were independent people like John Harris on YouTube, wrote a couple of books, and A. D. Robles on on social media and YouTube and stuff and if they get a following, they become trusted voices. Some other guys too become trusted voices. Uh Edwin Ramirez. Uh I'm mentioning people that I know. People in most cases that I'm mentioning, a lot of these names now aren't are from friends of mine at some l or or good acquaintances, put it that way, friend. You're a friend. I know you I see you a lot. You're a friend. You're more than acquaintance. Some of these are people I've met them, I've talked to them, but that's not exactly what I'm talking about here. So I don't want I'm not trying to name drop. I'm just saying these guys are good guys. And some of the guys, um, you know, uh some of the T3 guys, uh uh Josh Weiss, uh Owen Strand, uh Virgil Walker, uh, those guys were great on the social justice question. And other issues. I mean, really solid. And then guys like A. D. Robles and you know John Harris or Edwin Ramirez or whoever. Great on these questions. Michael O'Fallon with Sovereign Nations and his ministry Uh great uh m uh James White with uh with Alpha and Omega. Great on social justice issues. And they're all on the same team. Right? They're all identifying the wolves, you know, putting them in their sights, pulling trigger, like we gotta we gotta shoot the wolves, man. We gotta protect the sheep. Good good on them. So they they they they circled the wagons, protected the gospel And then the Stephen Wolf book came out, and it feels like that triggered, it might not be the thing, but from my understanding of looking at this from a 30,000-foot view Feels like that was the the hinge point where things pivoted and all of a sudden all the people who have circled the wagons shooting at the wolves, they maintained their circular position and they turned around. And they started shooting at each other. It's a circular firing squad and the it's it's it's i i i it's enemy fire. I mean it's um a friendly fire. We're killing each other with with friendly fire. It's it's been so heartbreaking And I've tried to talk to some of these guys and they're so firm in their position, like, well that guy offended me with what he said on social media, so there's just no forgiveness basically becomes the attitude. I'm going to say what I'm going to say and I'm not going to apologize for it. It's like, but he's your brother in Christ. Come on, man! And so I'm feeling like if something like the statement on Christian nationalism would bring clarity into the discussion, Then the focus can become more about the words that are on the page of this as opposed to the random statements that are put on Twitter or or whatever. Twitter's the main place where the fighting takes place, sadly. It's true. You know. Um and I've heard stories where, you know, I mean I have really high regard for some of these guys Some of them I do know personally, and they're on the edge of being people I would call more than just good acquaintances. They're on the edge of me saying, you know what, that's a friend. good people, good hearts. They love Jesus. They love j uh the people of God. They love the people in their country. They love their neighbor. They're good people. Their hearts beating the right way And yet they disagree about how these terms about Christian nationalism should be defined, understood, whether the term should be used at all, all these sorts of things. And if these good guys would have a dialogue They could then be tone setters for a whole bunch of other people who maybe uh aren't as mature in their walk and working out their their faith. and growing in their sanctification, they they would benefit from that. And these guys are unable, unwilling, whatever, to have the conversation. It's just it's mind-numbingly stupid that they won't have the conversation And I'm concerned that it's just mace it's basically guilt by association, like you're a really good guy, David, but you know me. Some people don't like me. I'm not gonna talk to David. He's friends with Troy. He's on that faith debate show with him all the time. Why would I want to talk to David? He's with that that knucklehead Troy. Right? There's that guilt by association, but no Don't hold it against David because he knows me. If if you feel like David's got a heartbeat for the Lord for biblical truth, have the conversation with him in spite of me. But that's not happening in these uh Twitter wars or uh X wars or whatever you're supposed to call them now. It's it's it's really it's really unfortunate. It's a it's a sad sad state of affairs and I was really hoping that this statement I didn't think this this Christian nationalist statement was going to solve it. I'm not naive, but I was hoping it would be helpful. And I don't think it has. I I don't think I don't think it's necessarily caused any more problems But it's been a missed opportunity it's been a swing and a miss largely in my opinion. So I'm not opposed to this statement. I'm just a little disappointed, slightly discouraged that it didn't actually move the ball. You know, now it's uh it was first and tenth in the twenty, now it's second and tenth of the twenty. Like we just lost it down. No damage done really But nothing positive happened. It's just it's been a non-starter. It's gone nowhere. Yeah. It seems to me. So uh using the the circling the wagons analogy is um You think that uh that there are are that many different positions around the outside? Uh or and and and maybe just Stephen Wolfe's book sort of brought up a either sort of like a I don't know. Acted as a lightning rod to say, all right, you're for or against this, but then realizing that there's many iterations Yeah, there are a variety of views, and this has been one of the things I've been working on with people that I do have more direct personal, you know f touching the flesh kind of interaction with who are you know hot to trot on these questions is try to get them to understand look your understanding and view on this is not the only one that exists And trying to get them off of that position is oftentimes hard. Like n because they're in a bubble. Right? They're listening to the same one, two, three, four, five guys who have podcasts or write articles or have a strong what you know internet social media presence or something and they're just getting fed from those from that tribe over and over and they're like, well that's the only way to look at this issue. Now, in fairness, maybe it'll prove that it's the only right way to look at the issue, but that's not the point I'm trying to make. The point it's not the only way to look at the issue would you just look at all the fighting that's taking place? And it it's rooted very s very strongly in theotomy. and the very stripes of theonomy. There's not just one theonomic position. There's not. There are multitudes of positions even on theotomy. Are you a hardcore theatomist? you know, uh like like a legalist almost theonymist. Are you a are you a general equity theonymist? Are you a kind of middle of the road theonymist? Are you theonomy light? There's at least four or five and if you want to see how those threads get pulled together. I would encourage you to listen to the Faith Debate show uh shows. We did a handful of shows that aired I want to say in the spring of I don't know the exact dates off the top of my head, but I I think they were the spring or early summer of twenty twenty three. You can find those shows you do four or five shows. It was with me. Well, theonomy is talking about Theo God, nominee, the root word there is is nomos, law. So it's about God's law. So it's about how you apply God's law. So that's what so for the listener, I'm not I'm not sure you know what I mean, but for the listener, you know we throw out a word like that, we probably should define it, it'll help them define it. So it's it's rooted in uh you in the Latin I guess and and what those root words mean. So the theonomy is talking about how to apply God's law. Okay. So there are the the guys on the more uh uh um uh more st more exacting, more stringent uh part of the spectrum that are going to say we need to take the law as we find it in the Old Testament You know, the Torah, the books of Moses, the Pentateuch, right? The first five books of the Bible, we take the law that we find in in Deuteronomy, for example, and basically make that the Constitution of the United States. That every country should make that their constitution. We should apply the law as it was written to and for Israel those thousands of years ago and apply it today in a very direct manner. Hardcore. And then and there's an argument for that. I reject it, but I underst I think I understand their argument. I respect it. I think that they're missing a few big pieces of how to understand the Bible. But anyway, but that said, that's one position. Then there's a no no no. We basically agree with that, however, we do understand that there are some cultural differences between then and now. So we should not exactly take the Old Testament language and make it our Constitution, but we should basically take the Old Language Okay. From the old test and and applied as our with with some slight modifications. So that would be a a a half step in a different different direction. Somebody that you and I know, Daniel Razzle fits into that category, by the way. based on the shows that we had uh earlier this year. So uh so if you want to get that position well articulated, Daniel does a good job advocating for his position on that. Then you've got guys that are more like, well I think there's general pr so go to the other end of things. There's the general principles that we find in the uh just want to make sure my my computer's lasting a message, I want to make sure it's not Messing up the recording. I think we're good. And the other end of the spectrum, well, the far, far end that's off the spectrum really would be none of that applies at all Anarchy should reign, but nobody who's a theonymist is in support of anarchy. Okay? So that would be like probably a a farm. A theonymist is going to say that we we need to take what what are the biblical principles of Right, so you have the morality to apply that to society. So you have the the umbrella. That's the theonomy like folks. They're gonna say there are general principles that we find in Scripture. And those general principles should inform how we write our laws today. So it's not as exacting. It's very general, generic. Um and maybe not as helpful as it could be, although I say that well, I I probably fit closer to that category. than any other one. So I'm not sure that my position on this is all that helpful necessarily in the moment that we're in now anyway. And then there's the one that I'm beginning to gravitate towards. It's somewhere in the middle Somebody like a Vern Poithrus, I would recommend reading stuff that Vern has written. It's pretty helpful in this regard, in my view. He's begun to help me shape my thinking a little bit, my biblical understanding. He would argue, and people like him would argue that the hardcore theonomists aren't wrong other than the fact that ancient Israel doesn't exist anymore. So we need we need to take that into account and then take the laws and see how they apply now given that we in America for instance are not ancient Israel. So we want to be like ancient Israel insofar as it's appropriate for us to be like ancient Israel, but in the ways in which we're not like ancient Israel, we need to make some changes because that was a once in That was a unique situation in history. That was a one-time only thing. There's there's one ancient Israel. Right? Never to be repeated. That's it. And so we got m I think that there's value in thinking about so that's at least what I just mentioned, three, four, five different ways of thinking about theonymy. So now the question is, those theonomy principles, how do we apply how do they apply to the Christian nationalism question? Well, some people hear Christian nationalism and they hear middle 20th century Central Europe language They're hearing the kinds of language that that Hitler used with Nazi Germany. And so they don't like the language. It's loaded language, it's pejorative language, it's unhelpful language, it's sending exactly the wrong message. We don't want to use this kind of language Another is saying, well, we should be allowed to use a language. It's not our fault that some knucklehead in central Germany seventy years ago, you know, kind of screwed up what that what those words are supposed to mean. Uh I'm sensitive with that. I think that we need to win the language wars and I think we need to fight to defend the the words that are uh that that uh need to be defended, but I don't think we need to be wasting our time and energy on words that don't need to be defended. defend it. We need to defend biblical understandings, biblical words and labels. I I don't think we need to get hung up on on labeling when it's I'm I'm willing to sacrifice semantics unless it's a biblical concept that's at at root. So Some some people think uh when they hear Christian nationalism, they think uh the the the pope is a higher authority than all presidents and prime ministers. Right. And that's with some of the language in the Twitter wars, right? Or the X wars, if you want to call it like oh you're just asking for a Protestant Pope And they're saying, No, it's not what we're saying at all. But without me even bringing it up, you went there. So it's the kind of thing people think of. Yeah. And so people get mad at them for thinking of it. But why? It's the kind of thing people think of So you need to clarify your language, clarify your definitions. It's not their fault that you haven't been clear enough to keep them from making that leap. Right. So again, you know, and then there are people that aren't religious at all, they're not biblical at all, and you've got the You know, they're literal skinheads, like actual white supremacists. And if you want to know that they exist and you want proof that they exist, just open a gab account. GABA's a good social media platform as far as freedom of speech and there's some good stuff there on occasion, but I gotta say it's a free-for-all. And you get the best and the worst. on Gab. Those idiots are there. I mean they exist. And so they'll call themselves Christian nationalists. Or they might call themselves nationalists, not necessarily not necessarily a Christian, although some of them will call themselves Christian nationalists too because anybody can call themselves a Christian. Right? Who's to say if they're a Christian or not? Well the Bible says But if we're not going to use the Bible as our standard, then anybody can call themselves a Christian. A lot of them do. See how a bunch of you know white supremacist skinheads out there calling themselves Christian nationalists And so people who are like concerned about that say, well, Christian nationalism, that's what it is. I don't like it. And then you've got people on the Stephen Wolfe side that, well, that's not what we're saying. But you're using some of the same language. Okay, but that's guilt by association. Yeah, but still using some of the same language, it's not clarifying. It's a real problem. And so that's why, with all that background now, when this statement comes out, I'm like, okay This isn't gonna solve the problem. But at least it'll center the discussion if we all point to this. Let's argue about the articles You don't spend the next month arguing about Article I of the Christian Nationalist State. Let's do that on Twitter. But it didn't happen, and I think it didn't happen because these guys One, maybe they're not as clear in their own thinking as they think they are. That's possible. Yeah. I think also perhaps they're a little bit more concerned about the environment than they would even care to admit. So I think they hedged a little bit. I think there were times when they pulled their punches. Okay. You know, they they checked their swing, you know, but sadly they checked their swing and made contact anyway, and so they ended up hitting a dribbler back to the mound to use a sports analogy You know, they didn't swing for the fences. They they tried to hold up and they still made contact, but not really in a helpful way I think that happens recurringly. That's not to say it's a total garbage. There's some good stuff here. I think we said last show how many times we agree. Oh, that's Amen. Hallelujah. I agree with that. That's good. That's good. That's good. But it's not quite clear enough in this part And the point that they get to where it's not clear enough is the point where it needs to be clear. All the things that are so good that we're saying amen, how we get to, everybody who's a Christian, a tr actual Christian Agrees with that. Yeah. But there's points of discontent. There's areas of disagreement. That's where we need clarity and that's where the statement just doesn't quite land its punches. Do you do you think some of it's to give uh give wiggle room to to time and place application of Christian nationalism. Maybe we'll maybe maybe that'll become more clear as we go through the stage. Yeah, that that could be what they're talking about, and it might be them trying to uh address the issue that this has become a significantly American debate in a lot of ways They're trying to say it's not only an American debate and so I kinda wanna give them that that out. Except you'll see when we get later into the the uh statement, they they kind of rob themselves of that out. Okay. Probably by accident, right? So I don't know. I think I I think that's kind of what's happened here. I think they're trying so hard to be inclusive to everybody who's involved in this debate that they that they ended up not really moving the needle. Okay. Sadly. Tent's too big. Yeah, tent yeah, tenth's too big. So anyway, well that's the whole show. Good. But that's that's that's been good, I think, to provide a context. So now next week we'll actually get into article Three. And uh we'll we'll and that'll give you the listeners some context if you've heard this. And a lot of people who listen to the podcast listen to them in sequence, so it'll be really helpful for you to listen to them all in a row. This will be a nice little Thanks. Anyway, David Forcey, I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. Follow us online at householdofynchrist. com and WFMD. com. Till next week. God bless Hello, is that helpful to you? Yes. I felt uh felt like uh I don't know, not not an interviewer that So you ended up being a foil for me to do an extended monologue is what happened. So but No, I I I think that's all very helpful information that and background. Sort of catching it in our in our time and place and uh both You know, as a both as a country, I I don't think that this all of a sudden is necessarily uh you know A a a global debate, I wonder if it's Well I don't even get to get into it, but I'm not going to continue on the show. But the other thing I I I probably could have added or maybe should have added is It in addition to those skinheads, there are other non-skinheads they're only looking at as a political question. And so they're going to say, look, we need to secure our borders Uh we need to keep our nose out of other people's business. We need to take care of our own. We need to not be having a whole bunch of refugees uh uh uh you know, drinking off the teeth of the uh of the social welfare state you know, all of those sorts of things and that's a nationalist type of a mindset and it's purely political. And they'll say, I'm a Christian nationalist. And they happen to identify as a Christian because most people do whether they're Christian or not And so it becomes like the Marjorie Taylor Green where she says, Well, I'm a Christian and I love my nation, I'm a Christian nationalist. Well if that's all it means, then what are we fighting about? But that's not all it means. That's the problem. And others say, well, what do you mean by Christian? What kind of Christian? What do you mean? So you've got to define your terms and Marjorie Taylor Green's not a position. to define that very well, I don't think. And then what do you mean by nationalists? And nationalists, they get upset with people, some of the people in this argument that would call themselves nationalists, they would get upset with another person who agrees with them on almost everything but calls themselves a patriot Because Patriots is pejorative now. Because it carries baggage. Because it's the it's the boobercon generation. It's all about the the moral majority and the and the the neocon movement that it defined the last seventy years of American foreign policy and actually domestic policy too and and that's so out of touch so that that patriot language connects to that. Are you kidding me? Like come on. Yeah. Why aren't we fighting about that? Yeah, it's it's an issue of uh in a large part I think an issue of words have you know, you you're right to mention the the the word war essentially. But a lot of it is words have actual definitions uh but then they have uh um not necessarily uh associations. And so the problem is people use words and uh uh and then When people hear that, they just they define it by the association they have with that word, not by what the word actually means. It's not by the strict definition. Right. Which is uh I I that's the words change meaning over time because of that. Yeah, well and that's that's ultimately the result of an uneducated society That's because I you you go into I I I find that my best communication with uh with people is is almost always people who have English as a second language, clearest communication. Hmm. Because they're they're thinking in terms of lexical definitions. Right, right. And you go to a subculture in the US. You go to a subculture in the US And especially you know, in areas where there's the education isn't great when it comes to English grammar and uh and vocabulary. And and you can only communicate by association of what that means what that word means to them or in their experience. And then it's even worse when they make up words and then and they get to define really what those words mean and not everybody's going to use those exact same words the same way. I I had people use the word BoomerCon for a long I was like, what exactly do you mean by that? Yeah. And uh but if you don't know then you're just out to lunch and you don't matter anyway, there's that problem. Yeah. But they use all this jargon, all this like social media jargon, and so they're not using real words anymore. Yeah. Slang slang is a A society destroyer. Yeah. It can be. Yeah. Absolutely. For this sort of thing, when you're trying to have clarity, yeah, you gotta go w what are the tried and true definitions of the thing. If it's a society that's ruled by a particular class or small group, then they're the only ones that need to be clearly educated and the common people can have whatever slang they want. And it also is helpful for a small group to rule well if the common people doesn't have a very has a lot of slang, doesn't communicate well, isn't able to Yeah, well in hindsight, it couldn't have gone anyway. I don't know if your schedule would have allowed it, but I I attended a uh a uh a men's retreat slash conference uh last month. Uh there were about, I don't know, fifty or so people there, a small, small group retreat flash conference kind of thing. And it was good. And the the prevailing discussion was about these issues. That's what everybody wanted to talk about. And so I had a lot of really good conversations with a lot of men. And uh I think you would have really enjoyed it. Yeah, it was it was interesting to hear perspectives that helped to fill in some gaps of my understanding. Okay. Like somebody I kind of vaguely knew what they meant, but they were the fill in the gap. so I understood better what that position was all about, so that was good. It also helped me to uh clarify for some people that they don't know as much as they think they do Uh you know, the way I put that is, you know, I'd ask 'em a like a generic question, you know, so what do you think about it? Okay, and and so what does that mean? And they'd answer that and then depending on what they said in the in that first round of of interchange, that first couple of rounds of rounds of interchange. Almost without exception, whatever whatever my third question was, it was going to be based upon what was said earlier. So it wasn't the it wasn't the same third question. But as a general rule, every time I asked the third question, they didn't have a stool to sit on But their their understanding was was so shallow that once you got past the veneer, you know that surface level stuff, Right. There was nothing there. Once you got past like the jargon. Yeah. Once you got yeah, once you got past the the the the slang and the jargon and and the and the positions from their bubble and you ask them to really dig in and explain with a like a direct question they were in in large measure a lot of them were ill equipped and I think it was good for them to feel exposed, not the negative like, oh I'm so exposed, but to realize, well I I need to think about this a little bit better. That's good. Yeah. And it was encouraging for me to see how common that is. Because all these guys that are fighting with one each other, they're they're fighting, but they're not deeply rooted in their fight. They haven't dug in their heels yet. So that gives me some hope that they're teachable, that they're not that they're not gonna have to you know 'cause sometimes the worst thing to do is break a bad habit before you can establish a new one. Yeah. I don't know that their bad habits are so firmly rooted that they they can't be changed in a more helpful direction. So that's encouraging to me. humility. Yeah. Yeah, people need more of that. Me too. Alright, well might I get started on the show? Sure. I I can I can I can do one more. Okay. Alright, let's see. I gotta uh hit up here um this one so I don't lose it. Let's do you Uh I can cut Well as it turns out this one's gonna actually air on Christmas Eve. Good talk before Christmas Eve. I know you guys haven't done them, so you probably wonder. But trust me, in all the years of doing this show, we've done quite a few shows about Christmas, Christmas traditions, what's good, what's bad, the purity view on such things, all that so we've we've done on those shows a zillion times in the past, so I don't feel any compelling reason to have to do shows that are right on the money with Right. But then someday we'll probably swing back. If if we ever have a chance to might be good. To do it. All right, here we go. We affirm that God's word is authoritative on everything to which it speaks, and we affirm that God's word speaks abundantly. abundantly regarding the nature and importance of civil government and justice. We affirm that God's moral law is enduring and binding in all people throughout all time, including civil authorities and nations, and that it is summarily comprehended in the Ten Commandments. We further affirm that every political thought must be taken captive to the obedience of Christ. We affirm that Christ will judge every civil authority according to their conformity to his command. That's the the first half, the affirmation portion of Article III, the Standard of Justice, in a statement called the Statement on Christian Nationalism and the Gospel. It came out in the first half of twenty twenty three with a promise to update it before the end of twenty twenty-three and to my knowledge they haven't done so yet. At least as we record today's show. Um It hasn't been updated. And yes, we're recording because who's gonna do a live radio show on the morning of Christmas Eve? Ho! Merry Christmas Did Sinterklaas leave anything nice in your stocking? All right, don't get me started. We've done shows on that in the past. If you go back in the archive you can find my opinions on Christmas Just like everything else, they are are passionate and a little bit outside the norm. So it makes it interesting Yeah, so all right, so I just read uh we're we're working our way through the this statement on Christian nationalism. David Forcey's on the show with me. I'm Troy Skinner, I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. Find uh me in this show and David, for that matter, online at householdfaith in Christ dot com. David's church doesn't have a website, so the best way to reach him is to reach me and I can put you in touch if you're interested. So we've been working through this. Uh two weeks ago on the show we talked about the the opening part of this statement and got through Article 1 and 2 and then the intention was to tackle Article 3 last week but we got into the background of how we got to this place on these sorts of issues. And ended up taking the whole show. Like I said, Steve the Wolf's a little long-winded and so am I. Alright, so what do we think about this uh this Article 3, the start, the affirmation part Any thoughts? Uh I'm gonna say that one of the things that that I I found that I uh that I found uh interesting about this is it's not all that practical really, it's more theoretical. I argue it's very theoretical, very theory-based, which is fine. We have to understand our theory. But when it comes down to this Christian national thing, the debate has really been about how to apply The application is really where people are having their disagreements. So you have to ask the question, you know, how does this apply to issues of idolatry? How do you legislate that? You know, what does it mean with regards to the Sabbath? You know, we've had people on this show in the past year, like Stephen Jurker, for example, he is passionately committed to the idea that the Sabbath and worship gathering should be on what we call Saturday Right? Yes. Yeah. David Forcey's church meets on Sunday. I have pastored churches in the past that meet on Sunday. In fact, there was a time when Household of Faith in Christ met on Sunday We now meet on Saturday, but it's not out of theological conviction. It's it has to do with, you know, lifestyle questions and our family needing to have a day of rest and those sorts of things. Saturday evening works better uh for us in that regard. So what would a Christian nationalism statement like this have to say about that? Would they side with Steven Jurger? Would they s side with David Forcy? Would they side with me? Who doesn't really care? Like who would they about that question? Who would they who would they side with? And and and when it's all theory, I I don't know that it really helps answer that. That's my that's my sense and my my uh my feedback on this Yeah. Yeah, uh this I mean this just seems to say uh that God's law is right and true and so we should I agree we should do it. So now what? Right? It's like a s it's like a sermon, right? A good sermon is gonna Yeah, it it it it's gonna help you to understand the context of what being said. It's gonna walk through the text and explain the meaning of the text, what God's Word says. This is the truth, this is God's word. But then of course it's if it's a good sermon, it's going to have some points of application. How do you put it into practice? And at least this part of the statement doesn't really help us Yeah. of civil authority, then they should seek to promote God's law and and judge according to that But this is talking about uh uh you know all all civil authorities. Maybe it's just saying all civil authorities should be should be called Christian authorities. Some of them would would try to say no, but then you try to ask them, well how does that work then? And they haven't thought that part through yet Right. But those who have thought it through in a particular way, they say, Well absolutely, we should only have Christians. I'm like, well who gets to decide who the Christians are? And or yeah, or or Did the government decide that? That's ecclesiastical matter. Or maybe they're saying uh all people, all civil authorities, whether they agree with it or not or like it or not, should act according to and enforce the other thing. And that's a real problem, right? 'Cause then we're putting a yoke uh a burden upon them that even the Christians really can't withstand themselves. How how how can the non-Christian walk a Christian life? Without the power of the Holy Spirit, it's impossible. Yeah. I mean it it it's not even possible for Christians. Were we kidding? Like w right, but to put that burden on them, I I I don't see how it's I think that's a real weakness in some of these arguments. By the way, it's not going to spend a lot of time, but just to put it read it into the record. Maybe it'll spark a thought that David has. I don't have a whole lot more to say, I don't think, um this article But the denial here says, we deny there is any objective standard by which to discern justice from injustice outside of God's revelation, written on the heart and most perfectly revealed in Scripture. We deny that faithful civil authorities may rule autonomously from the rule of Christ. We deny that God approves of Christians embracing any political ideology or position prohibited by scripture. See, the the again, the battle is over where the rubber meets the road, and this doesn't help us to see how the batter rubber is supposed to meet the road. And if we try to apply it, this theory it seems to me it falls apart pretty quickly. Because they're saying that um there they they're saying there's no objective standard by which to discern justice from injustice. Okay, I agree Insofar as it goes, by God's common grace, there are plenty of examples where there are standards of justice and injustice that are godly, that are biblical, that are based on objective truth that aren't instituted by Christians Right. And and the it looks like they would say, well that that came from uh God's revelation written on men's hearts. Correct. Right. And so they were able to find their way to some truth. You know, a part of the truth. And bear the image of God as you know God has made all men able to do, all mankind. Yeah, when it says we deny that faithful civil authorities may rule autonomously from the rule of Christ, uh understood one way and and I try to be a generous generous reader and a generous hearer, so I'm gonna say, yeah, understood one way, I agree with that. But I also understand there's all this f fighting going on And so I'm like, okay, those who dis who would disagree, why are they disagreeing? And there is room to disagree with that, the way they've stated it. Yeah. Yeah, with the wording. Yeah, so that's that's the the the the fluxing part of all this. Anyway, Article Four. Here we go. The definition of a nation. I think you asked this question a couple weeks ago, if I'm not mistaken. We affirm that a nation is not merely an idea. I like to add the word merely there, by the way. Because that's been common these days in these places, a nation is not an idea. And people say, America is an idea. You've heard that, right? America is an idea. You ever hear that? Oh, I've heard it a lot. It's weird. Yeah, well it is weird. But I think it part of it is part of it is an idea, right? This it's this great experiment, it's about freedom. about God-given rights, there are this collection of ideas that if you wanted to encapsulate them as an idea, you could say that's part of the foundation of this country. But this to only say that America is an idea isn't saying enough. But there are some people who say, no, America is not an idea. And I'll say, well, that's saying too much. Because it the idea is part of what this nation is all all nations are about. There's some idea you know, whether it's a Marxist country, the Marxist idea is part of that nation. Right. Exactly right. Association Yeah. Anyway, uh it goes on to say so that we affirm that a nation is not merely an idea, abstract principle or ideology, but also I think the word should say say, I've inserted the word also, tangibly defined by a particular body of people in a particular place. And I think that idea of place is important. That's why we have borders. It's part of what our cultural heritage. I think place is an important part. And and particular body of people, right? Either it it it you are either a member of the nation or you're not. Right. Right. And the people that are a member of the nation are the people of that nation. Right. And they live in a particular place. That's what they're saying here. Yeah, in our more localized context, you either live in Verda County or you don't. You know, the places and then the people that live there, it's important part of defining what what that is. Next sentence, we affirm that a particular people are necessarily bound together by a shared culture, customs, history, and lineage. Well, sharing common interests, virtues, languages, and worship. I feel I'm not sure what they're meaning to say by lineage. But I feel like that's an unforced error. Because a lot of people are criticizing people who are self-identifying as Christian nationalists. as kinists. Right? Kinism meaning that, you know, whites need to stay with whites, blacks need to stay with blacks, Chinese need to stay with Chinese. Right. Exactly. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Germans need to stay with Germans, whatever. And uh that would be anti-scriptural. Right. And they push back against it. They say, no, no, no, we're not now there are some who called themselves Christi we talked about this last week. They would call themselves Christian nationals and they are chinists. But that doesn't mean all people who say that Christian nationals are kinists. I would say the majority who are calling themselves Christian nationalists, based on what I can tell, are not kinists. But then they put a word like lineage in the middle of this statement. I'm like, wow What do you mean to say there? And could you have used a different word? I guess limiting it has to do with uh I I'm so I'll if I give them the benefit of the doubt, I think they They mean the idea that people of a nation are generally born in that nation and are more generally born of people of that nation. Okay. So so would be a is there a different word? So unless unless you're changing uh nations every generation. you develop a a a lineage in a nation. Right, so there may be there may be transitional generations. So the people that are the particular people are necessarily bound together. What if we it just said necessarily bound together by And necessarily, that's an interesting philosophical term to throw in the middle of all this. I'm not sure what I think about that. But anyway, how to get bogged down. Bound together by a shared culture, customs, and history while sharing common interests, virtues, languages, and worship. Like I I think they're kind of saying the same thing without bringing a loaded or easily un misunderstood word, right? It feels like a a a a forced error, I feel uh on forced error. I feel like those who want to criticize them of being kinists are gonna pick up on that word and they're gonna spend all their time defending that word when I don't know if it was necessary And using that physical philosophical term myself. I don't know that it was necessary for them to accomplish what they're trying to say here, unless they Can help me to understand what they mean by lineage. Maybe there's a different word. Get out my thes my thesaurus and see what the options are for lineage. That would be a because that's doesn't that sound in today's vernacular you're talking about race? Like genetic connection? Isn't that doesn't that isn't that kind of what lineage brings to mind? Uh I mean I just think in terms of uh you know uh descendants and Uh, you know, the the generations before and the generations after, right? That's just a line. Yeah, see and that's I well okay if that's what they mean I think that they probably do mean that. That I uh it's not only on unforced error, but I think it shouldn't even be in here. Because as far as I know, you and I do not share a lineage Um I mean, unless we go all the way back to like Adam and Eve, of course then we do, or or Noah. Then we all do. That's what they're talking about. They're talking about in the context of America F in our case. Right. In the context of America, you and I, as far as I know, don't sare share a limit lineage. I don't think that if we go back f five hundred years that we have a common an ancestor that we could prove. We might Yeah, somebody who's going to be on the air shortly after our program ends, the Neil Chempong, one of the pastors in town, does a show on WFMBA. airs at 9. 30. Neil and I are friends. And uh I mean he his first generation in this country came from Africa. I can say with a little more assurance and confidence that I don't think we share any lineage. And yet we share a country, we share a nation. We're part of this particular people that's here that now have uh assimilated and so we have a shared culture and custom and history as far as it relates around America, but we don't have a shared lineage. I just feel like that's I don't think that word should be there. I would suggest they take it out. Okay. Anyway. Over over complicating the definition. Yeah, I don't think I I that's not what we need right now. We affirm in regards to place, quote unquote, that a nation is definitively set by both its borders and times, I don't know what that means, physically defined by God. They reference Act 17 there. What do you mean by times that are physically defined by God? Do you have any idea? Uh I I mean I think that they're just referencing that verse. Um in in Acts seventeen. X seventeen twenty six. I I think it says something to the degree of God God determining the the borders and times of of nations. And and my my understanding of that verse is that God determines the rise and fall of empires. Yeah, I just don't think of in terms of time being physical. So I guess that's what's throwing me Oh. Yeah, of course it's physical. Time is physical? Yeah. It is? Okay. Uh-huh. I learned something then. I'm gonna trust you on that one. Well i it if uh if you are doing gonna do a physics problem, right? You're talking about something in motion. Mm-hmm. Time is an aspect of that, right? How long it how long it takes for the physical thing to move through space. I'm persuaded. I'm persuaded. I just wasn't smart enough to know what that meant. So now now I'm I I'm still not smart enough, but um Uh I'm buying what you're selling. Thus we affirm that nations should rightly maintain autonomous government of their people and place with the necessary rights and duties to Prioritize the security of its people by maintaining its borders, providing for its common defense, and repelling invasions from without and I'm not sure what autonomous is supposed to mean there at the beginning of all this To rightly maintain autonomous government? Autonomous from what? I guess from other nations. From outside nations interfering? If that's what they mean? Okay. Yeah, I I feel like they could add an additional phrase to make it effortly clear what autonomous is supposed to be talking to, because we're not autonomous from God. They've said that in their own definitions. Right. So and then to promote the prosperity of its citizens Hmm. I I I'm not sure w how should I feel about that word, promote? Is it the is it the the government Is it is it the government of our nation is it their role to promote my prosperity? Yeah. It is? Mm-hmm. Because of their uh encouraging what's good and punishing evil then they're they're promoting prosperity. If evil is if evil is judged, right? If there's uh if there's good punishment of crime in order to minimize crime that increases the the peace. Okay. Plus the prosperity. Okay, the reason that yeah, and I I I guess as far as that goes, I I agree with that. The thing that popped in my mind and made me wonder just a little bit is isn't that kind of the argument? for things like affirmative action and welfare. Well that's uh Yeah. The good of its citizens. Right. So we we need better messaging. You get our message out there, control the narrative. Alright, so we deny that a nation should cede its sovereignty to international bodies. So they're clarifying what was above. So I think that is what they meant above. Yeah. So nations shouldn't cede their sovereignty to international bodies that may subvert the will of the national interest for a global order. We deny any efforts to establish a one-world governmental system before the return of Christ, as such efforts are reenactment of the Tower of Babel. We further deny that sovereign nations must only be composed of mono-ethnic populations to be united under God. Therefore, as Christian nationalists, we utterly repudiate sinful ethnic partiality in all its various forms. So there's that's that's their way of clarifying what they mean by linear. Or or at least defending against the kinest charge without necessarily defining what they mean by the same thing. Right. You know, it's interesting to me though, 'cause a lot of the guys that are into this Christian nationalism thing, like big time, some of the big voices in in proponents of this, are post mill guys Yeah. Well isn't kind of the post-mill idea ideal that there's gonna be like Christianity sweeps the world and there's this great age of everybody's r under the rule of Christ. Isn't that isn't that some sort of form almost of a one world government? Well if uh If the Great Commission is make disciples of all the nations, if there's if there's just one nation, one world order, then that's no, that that's doesn't fit. There still need to be separate nations, just all of which are discipled. Gotcha. All right. I'll take your word for it. We don't have a whole lot of time. This is a long one. I'm gonna I'm gonna do my best to just do this concisely so we can try to just finish Article Five and when we pick up in our next show someday we'll pick up with Article. So Article five, the nature of Christ's Lordship and Kingdom. We affirm that in addition to possessing the titles of Savior, Messiah, and many others, Jesus, the Son of God, who is truly God, is also the king of all earthly kings The Lord of all earthly Lords and the lawmaker for all earthly lawmakers. He is the possessor of all authority in heaven and on earth. We affirm that as God Jesus Christ is preeminent over all creation sovereignly rules over all things visible and invisible in heaven, earth, and hell, and ordains all things according to the counsel of his perfect will for the good of those We affirm that in his mediatorial role, Christ rules by his spirit and word through the saints in their earthly authority. We also affirm that as sovereign kings of kings, or king of kings, rather singular king on the first one. Christ has commanded all civil authorities, Christian and non-Christian alike, to execute his will on the earth to orient humankind toward himself through the moral law. We affirm that Christ alone, through the blood of his cross, grants repentance and forgiveness of sins to reconcile sinners to his Father. And uh yeah I'm going to read the denials real quick. We deny any theology which would seek to segregate sacred aspects of life where God's Word is authoritative and supposedly secular aspects of life where the Christian must operate by a standard other than God's word. We deny any theology which claims that bringing God's word into the civic civil sphere is unwise, unfruitful It it is it looks like it's still going, so we're gonna so you said there's a lot to talk about on that on the denial. Yeah, I felt like there was there's some stuff going on there. Let's see Proceed to segregate. Uh sh I mean they're denying, you know, anything where Christians would operate under anything other than God's word as the standard. Good. Uh they're trying to make sure everybody understands that Jesus is king. uh not merely in a heavenly way, but he is king over everything. So I I I'm agreeing with that. Um I I I think the the part of the denial so when we deny that Jesus' kingship and lordship are merely heavenly or that his word is only authoritative over confessing Christians I I yeah, if I get to define what that means, I agree with that. Um right to it You know, you you'd you'd say, okay, so uh do not non-Christian you know, if if by authority what is meant is everyone is held to the account of the truth that's in God's word. And I think that's what they're I'm assuming that's what they're trying to say, which is why I like it. But you're right, this is a case where maybe getting some feedback from different people will help them to parse this slightly differently so that there's no question hanging in the air as to what they mean. And again, that's where I get into the overrealized eschatology, because there are these realities that are just cosmic reality. and their ultimate realities in glory. Yeah. But when we take these cosmic ultimate realities and put them into the context of a broken, fallen, sin-riddled world What are we meaning exactly? Because we don't live there yet. That's our hope, right? That's what we're looking forward to, but we're not there yet. So to to pretend that we're there already makes this a little bit difficult to apply. Well, yeah, I don't know if it's a pretending we're there already or if it's a Um you know, I mean like I like I said, like uh you know, I'm I am not glorified yet. I don't have a glorified body. And so but that doesn't doesn't mean that I don't you know and and and so that means that you know understanding uh understanding that I you know that I have have crisis righteousness uh that I have his spirit within me, uh I seek to you know, imitate him, try to be just like him even now. Right. You know, I seek for my my household, you know, I seek to be without sin. I seek for my household to be without sin. You know, I seek for my nation to be without sin. Right. And and and then there's a blessing in that. Right, yeah. Because God's word is true. And so when we abide by what's authoritative and what's true, you know, God knows what's best and when we do that, there's blessing in it. So maybe that would be some language they could add here where it's talking about how there's There's blessing in this. So he's authoritative. God is in charge of all things. He's sovereign. Um and in the here and now, when we acknowledge that and behave in accord with that, there's great blessing to be experienced. Otherwise The the government can and does all too often do things that are out of line with God's authoritative word. And there's not blessing in that. There's there's curses in that. Maybe maybe if they could add some curse and blessing kind of language Which would be good because there's not a lot that there is, but there's not enough biblical kind of touchstone phrases and words in this. So adding more of that kind of stuff might be helpful to this. Than Yeah. Then then then it's gonna require additional clarification to say, you know, just because we it's gonna require additional gospel clarification to make sure that people don't think that they're advocating for a uh you know a a genie god who when we do these things that's part of the channel we didn't get a chance to re we touched on it but we didn't get a chance to really handle this home point I think I alluded to early on. They're trying to accomplish too much. Yeah, probably. This this sort of thing would benefit from a series of statements. Let's let's narrow this down. Let's talk about the definition of a nation and let's do Article IV. I'm just happening to be looking at that one. And let's do a whole statement on what is a nation. And do like a half a dozen articles or a dozen articles, whatever it takes, to really clarify and flesh out what we mean by nation. instead of just two paragraphs. And then I mean that's a lot more work. It's time consuming. It's hard. I get it. You know, the nature of Christ's lordship. Let's do a whole statement on that. What do we mean by his lordship? How does it apply in the context, how does his kingdom rule apply in the context of civic application of that nations in today's world. And yeah, one of the difficulties here too is right to so if you do a statement on that, uh to To include the yeah, to do a statement on that is to probably fall into a pretty particular camp. Which is what they're trying to avoid doing. Right. Which is why this is never probably going to reach a resolution. What I think is likely to happen in all of this is with everything else going on in the world, all the challenges and struggles that we're dealing with, I mean new things are coming at us every month. deals are coming at us every month. Um that this just won't be able to sustain the kind of it won't be able to command attention the way that it has been. It'll begin to fizzle And then 'cause that's what's I say that based on history. I was gonna jokingly found this last one by the way. It says we deny that solely by virtue of their claims to authority, claims to authority or the claims of those who support them, that any human group of humans Who claim to be civil authorities are in actuality recognized by God to be civil authority? I was wondering if this was some sort of backhanded sway that Joe Biden Not truly being president. Yeah, I'm reading what I want to see. Anyway, you have anything you want to say before the stream ends? Um officially on the record? Thanks Uh thanks for uh watching. Looks like uh somebody's still watching even right now. So uh uh God bless you if you have a comment leave it below and uh And we will get to it later. Troy likes that kind of stuff. God bless