Hi, it's Laura from 99. 9 WFRE. I'm here with Troy Skinner. And he might be familiar to you because he's actually an account executive for WFRE and WFMG. Not just that though, you are also the host of WFND's uh Project Forum Forum right now and as well as Project Face Debate. But outside of working for our stations, um you uh do things, don't you? Yeah, uh people who know me well come to know that I'm actually the the the pastor uh or have been the pastor of a couple of different churches over the years. Um Currently a pastor of Hustle to Faith in Christ. It's a kind of a start up house uh church right now, church plant. So Yeah. So how did you get you start Well, it's not unusual to hear people that get into the pastorate to feel, you know, when they're younger at some point in their life they feel a strong tug uh towards the ministry. Uh Uh I was no different in that regard. And kind of a turning point for me was about almost twenty years ago now, uh one of my pastors pulled me aside and said, Hey, have you ever thought about being a pastor? And I said, It's funny you should ask because for a long time I had kind of thought about it and he said, I think you'd be good at it. I should think you should consider it. You and your wife should pray about it. And so that started me on the path. I went to uh went to seminary, got my master's degree. It's called the MD Master of Divinity. And um it took me a while 'cause I was going to school while working. So I was only go to school part-time, but finally finished that. Yeah, exciting. So what do you think is the best part of of that job for you? I think the best part is having a sense of of feeling like the work that you're doing uh has a real meaning and purpose beyond just the here and now. Knowing that you're affecting lives. Yeah, that in an everlasting way, not just for the next, you know, twenty, fifty, seventy, ninety years they have left on the planet. We're trying to help them there too But it's a it's it's a it's a bigger purpose, a bigger following. And I'm a huge fan of the idea of there being truth and being an advocate for truth. Um is is rather uh fulfilling. It's hard uh to to make sure that you're being uh honest with the biblical text and and and honest with your own understanding of to figure out what the truth is. But then once you get to a place where you feel like you've arrived at this is the truth Yeah. It's uh really fulfilling to share that truth with others. Wow, it's very pretty rewarding too. Yeah, I've seen people's lives uh uh changed pretty dramatically. I've seen some people's lives that refuse to uh change at all or maybe change for the worse in spite of the best efforts. But when you see somebody's life change uh in a pretty dramatic way. And you've watched the transformation play out over years, that is really cool. Hmm. I'm sure there might be some hardships though along the way, but you think it's the hardest Well, there's a couple of things. One, um every pastor uh has a challenge with their flock. You're trying to shepherd the people that God has given you to be responsible for their souls, kind of thing put up a theological idea around that. Uh and people, you know, we have stubborn streets, independent streets. We don't like to be led, we don't like to be shepherded. As much as people will say that we want a good pastor who will invest in us and shepherd us. Our human instinct is to not want that and so that overcome that hurdle and get people to allow you to help them can be a challenge Uh and then bigger picture, the climate we have right now is the uh the American Christian Church is in a bit of a crisis right now. And so you can feel a little bit on an island. Those who are advocating for biblical truth are more and more increasingly in the minority. and you can feel rather isolated and and lonely. So you don't have your people that always want to be a pastor and you've got your colleagues that aren't even on the same page with you, biblically and theologically. That can it can be a it can be a lonely thing. If somebody wanted to um get into this, what would you say to them? What would you recommend? Well the first thing is to make sure that you've that you are properly identifying what's called an inward call. You know, you you feel a call on your life. Uh and I'm not so sure I go this far, but there have been some really heavyweight theologians over the years that advocate for this and they're smarter than me. So Uh those heavyweights would say that if you can imagine yourself doing anything else, don't do it. Uh but if you can't imagine your life without preaching the good news without studying the Bible and sharing that truth from the pulpit on a regular basis. If you can't imagine living without doing that, you should pursue it. If you can imagine living without doing that, you probably shouldn't. So that's the first step The the second thing really is kind of affirmation. Like I mentioned in my story, you know, I had a pastor about 20 years ago say, hey, very about being a pastor. I've had other instances like that too where people have suggested to me that, hey, you know, a pastor could be something you should think about So you have people affirming you, maybe even you're not even soliciting it. They just kinda mention to you, hey. Or you start getting position put in positions of teaching and leadership where you're asked repeatedly to lead Bible studies and prayer groups and things like that. and and uh maybe ask to consider becoming an elder of your church or some other leader, that might be an affirmation you're looking for. And then the last, well you want to well maybe leading up to this is you want to be prepared, you want to get trained up. Like I said, the church is in a crisis right now because a lot of pastors are properly trained up. So it doesn't mean you have to go to seminary. Uh but if you do go to seminary wanna you want to go to the right ones. Uh some of them aren't worth the anymore these days. Or you want to have a really good training program within your church context that can can get you to where you need to be so you know that when you're shepherding meeting people the shepherding and leading them properly. And so then when all that has happened, the last step really is to have an outward call. Somebody else says, hey, we would like you to be an elder here. We would like you to be a pastor for our church. Uh so begins with the inward call you want to confirm that with some external kinds of things and some training things and then if nobody calls you to be a pastor Everything else can be in line, but if if if nobody calls me a pastor, then maybe everything else was misunderstood. Interesting. Well Troy, thank you so much for joining us. And I'm a huge fan of you as well. I have a number stay up late and I just to hear her talk on the radio. Career Day, you can check out all the interviews on our websites wfre. com and wfm. com