And also the last time we were together, David Forcey and I were talking about the statement on Christian nationalism, and we got through kind of sort of the first five articles, but didn't really And uh Daniel Razby, who I just mentioned, he is uh pastor, one of the pastors at uh a church that meets at Imran's house. We're welcome to the party. Alright, so are we ready to move on to Article 6 and dive into the weeds? We'll continue. So anyway, David Forcy, good friend of mine, good friend of the show, and a good friend of Jesus And I don't I I don't know if they're defining government very specifically 'cause uh the one of the other statements we read on was it health or something, didn't they have more clear definition of federal versus state and very local jurisdictions and cities and townships And uh David Forcey, yeah, you just gotta walk around and see him so you bump into him sometimes on the streets around Frederick. And that sounded a little bit like Charlie Brown's teacher all of a sudden, right? I just can't help but imagine that they purposely avoided the word flourishing because that has become a buzzword. I'm saying that as somebody who's like, oh, they put something in here that might be for me. I'm Troy Skinner. Yeah, but my job is to tell you you should become a Christian. I don't know if they have a whole lot to say about that because like the last paragraph, it seems pretty orthodox, seems on point. I guess it'd be about the first half if we if we start. And I gotta tell you, this has been uh fighting words uh among the body. And that's all fine, but it's all in the spirit of building up, of edifying up, being iron sharpening iron. What are they fighting about? And they're all about the government and the church and American history, and they're going to point to a lot of things that Daniel Razley has pointed to about the founding of this country. Mm-hmm. And then the definition of a nation was number four. Maybe we'll get to that. But the point but the point I'm making is this is not really a new concept, right? kind of according to Romans 13. Okay. So if they're looking to make tweaks, I think adding the word legitimate there would be a nice tweak. before I don't know if it's really good. I'll just pause to say uh I sort of agree with that, uh except I I would I will say they should write the laws and enforce the laws that the Bible teaches, not just their own laws that they think happen to line up with those moral codes. They're gonna say, well, okay, you can't. That's interesting. of tolerance toward depravity, like child sacrifice and mutilation and promotion of open sexual perversion. If you're not one of the left you're never gonna get saved, but I should preach to you because the Bible says to preach to you. uh payment of liability for verifying proven harm and uh proportionality of punishment. We'll give this a shot. Right, because the federal government, sure, but how did church how did public education start? for a per school year and then it turned into a building and and then it became overseen by larger jurisdictions. And it's right on the coin is the image and likeness of Caesar. you know, having to do with multiple people together. We deny that civil authorities may assume to themselves the administration of the word and sacraments or the power of the keys of the kingdom of heaven for church discipline. Right. But they did or they did they did define it in the first article they said these historic apostles' creed and Nicene Creed that all d right all real denominations will abide Mm-hmm. All right, where are we? They said ethnic impartiality. I think it's to be expected because this whole paragraph seems rather hastily written. Because God said it. The sentence structure there is kind of odd to me, but anyway. And then a relatively short denial, we deny any theology which holds that Christian participation in the civil realm is necessarily unwise, unfruitful, sinful, or anything other than a fitting and necessary vocation and calling for That that's missing from this whole statement of Christian nationalism. Then we're not but right now we're on track to do it in six. We deny the law keeping contributes in any way to justification before God or declaring the sinner righteous based on anything other than faith in Christ. So I'm not completely out in left field. Right. It doesn't really matter whether you intended to do this or whatever, you were breaking the law and the government's already decreed that this would be reckless. you can have some things to say about that. And David Forcy, he's another pastor in the area, and the three of us represent pretty much the three core churches of what we of it and these are shows that will air actually in a couple months from now so you're getting a sneak preview uh what we think and how this whole process works. Hope is a emerging and forever growing network of house churches that do some things together or cooperate and one of those things that we do is the faith debate. say but they basically say that they don't agree with that concept, that there really is no difference between the way you conduct yourself in supposedly secular settings and in Then you can listen to last week's show because I read the whole thing at some point in last week's show, I'm pretty sure if memory serves. haven't really gotten to whether you can force everybody else in the country to believe or do certain things that are supposedly godly and You can look it up online. to do the show live. than God in this state and that ever it's the duty of every man in this state to worship God the way he feels like God's wanting him to worship him. I I'm sure that I'm overthinking it because that is my habit. you know, navigate through the weeds I create for myself. uh any human or group of humans who claim to be civil authorities are inactually recognized by God to be civil authorities. the Chinese Communist Party. uh that authority is authorities are authority is something that that God establishes that God uh And then he's God has established certain spheres for authority, and humans don't get to decide Right, and that's what I think. So I'm gonna read until I get a stop sign for my jump in and say something. So the next paragraph in this article says we affirm that civil authorities must ensure that the church shall enjoy the full, free, and unquestioned liberty of discharging every part of their sacred functions without violence or danger. We affirm that civil authorities must discharge this duty without showing favoritism to or bias against any Christian denomination for their historic beliefs and teachings. what the historic teachings are. It's like LARPing. had polygamous relationships, right? And we talk about it. uh moral sanction or covering for it. I think what they're saying in this statement is, you know, as they said in the last article, like they're going to be held accountable for those the duty to stop any ceremonial practices that violate the moral law, right? to punish civil crimes like assault, murder, rape, theft, fraud, man stealing, and false witness, and to ensure proper, due process through the civil courts I continue to show my hand on where I stand on this issue. that they do so to the benefit of society. whose education tends to debauch children with godless philosophies and perverse instruction. Which is what they mean by that. You can get ten out of ten people to raise their hands and say child sacrifice is wrong, but you're not gonna get ten out of ten people to to say abortion is wrong because they don't view it as killing a the baby. In the affer affirmations and denials of this particular article, they're sort of laying out um, okay, what uh what is the sphere of of authority that you know, um charity work, uh things like that. And uh six and seven. And uh and that's that's that's the common argument in favor of segregated church um services. It's that's a great analogy and and the pastor that uh heard Scott Brown, he was saying that uh actually my dad was there at the for that summer and he was saying that in response to people who say, Well we need to do Sunday school because the parents are not discipling their children so we should have Sunday schools and by the government. and the good of all people. uh I guess our twentieth calendar year. I can't point you to anything to help promote David. The uh church at Meets at Imran's house, and they have a ministry that is called Conquered by Love Ministries on Lena ConqueredBylove. was secular and godless. the kind of objection that you brought up last week. and and so on, there are different levels of authority that they do have as well. Do not conflict with God's following God. God's image. answer to Yeah. It could come back to bite us if we were to sign off on this and say, well, heck, your whole statement doesn't even mention personal responsibility and authority. The g they're all government. You know what I'm saying? I because all I can think of is, you know, like okay to love God and and love our neighbor, right? You know, in the natural course of every human life, every human is in authority over some other human at some point in time Which is either affirming, you know, agreeing So my professions have they relate to you? I should look it up. So I think they have defined or made an attempt to define what Orthodox Christian faith is. Mm-hmm. And policy priorities. next week's show. to coerce nations into one particular form of government. We deny the sinful ethnic partiality as any place in the Church of Jesus Christ or in a nation that seeks to honor Him. and gay marriage and all these things. I am because I didn't do that and um probably at some point I I I maybe should or somebody I'm sure somebody has, but uh if you have You know, message me, let me know if they check out or not. Connect. That has nothing to do with the point you're making. the the statement itself is wrong. But they don't really explain why they're trying to defend themselves against that accusation because that is a great common accusation. I mean they got it yeah, it comes out of it's like a lightning bolt. organization. ten and come back. See Article 2, as a Christian consensus under Jesus Christ as Supreme Lord and King of all creation, and the establishment of the general equity of the Ten Commandments as the household of faith in Christ dot com that's household of faith in Christ dot com. Uh David Forresty, good friend and one of the pastors in the area as well. provide some oversight for each other and that sort of thing. supposedly ceremonial law followers, so they're probably not saying we should all just celebrate Yom Kippur now. The additional step and say, hey, the Bible teaches that abortion is wrong and uh you know gay marriage is wrong and all those things. what where that comes from. You know, you don't just acknowledge the lordship of Christ and say, Okay, what do we do from here on? the kinds of languages I appreciate. is suspect. partiality thing. E even in uh uh the Great Commission where it says go preach to the nations, it's it's the ethnos, like the ethnic groups, right? groups and cultures and so on. disobey him he then very much unprefers them. And what they try to mean by that is only they they say it right here in the statement, it's only for the United States. But this it's easier if if you can see it. to get rid of censorship and persecution because of being a Christian, to secure the borders, to to defend against foreign invas like which item on this list would they not have other nations do? But why do we I guess that probably is their point, but then why wouldn't that sentence say we affirm that the specific short-term priorities of Christian nationalism is to call that formally do acknowledge the Lordship of Christ in their state constitutions. And the way they they've structured the denial on Article ten, it it it it kind of in my mind almost it's like, wow, so has any nation ever been Christian based on what they're denying here? The conscience of unbelievers placing on them a yoke that they could never carry because we can't even carry it. that all right. And then church authority, civil authority, right? five through ten uh and one through four being the thing, I think you would probably agree more with what David was saying that the government should be having the job of g of uh stopping you from harming other people commandments. to uh a Buddhist statue or something? you know, are called to farm, right? uh uh mystical and it's mystical I think. uh uh full, your optimist and the pessimist will see the glass half empty. as it as it rev re uh uh relates to the liquid within it, it is both half empty and half full. Yeah, much to a lot of people's chagrin of who share life with me. Well let me hit okay on this. We affirm that the church is to instruct civil authorities regarding their identity and duties as servants before the throne of Christ. What's the subheading of The Great Commission? Some of it actually pretty good, I think. you know, uh and religious groups and like it's not that you only preach to the President and the Senate, right? I think they're not s saying that but they they could be a little more complicated. See that's a Well we're we're gonna we're gonna ask them to be a good employer, which Sure. and the individual and they're very clearly saying this is not the duty of the government to go and disciple nations. them to become a very good thing. That's the duty of the church to tell people. Right. everything Christ commanded, and just one little last couple of phrases here. that we talked about last year. country that's proof of that because murder is illegal. D to make me feel like that's the right word choice there. that we will um right that we will be that we will actually be punishing what is actually evil and wicked and orient citizens toward truth and morality, whether good or evil. Christian governments who are just Christian governments. Mm-hmm. 'Cause I don't think that the framework of this is addressing that question particularly. Revealed in Scripture alone and to the glory of God alone. Upon doing so, are justified before God, indwelt by the Holy Spirit, and caused to love God and His law, and to walk zealously in good works that God has Prepare. I th I think that's a good idea. Alrighty then. We affirm that the general equity of this law is the essential moral principle embedded by God in each command, which all men are bound by God to obey reflects God's holy character and applies in various circumstances in each sphere of life. Those empowered by the Holy Spirit to love God and their neighbors as themselves by doing the good works that God has planned for them Did not uh if they were not engaging in sexual immorality and depravity. Check check us out next week. women I'm not noticing them enter the fray as much. Heading down the home stretch of the statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel. the the structure forces it into a box. uh what that should look like. But when we disagree about how politics should shape out or what the best path forward uh and what obedience to God best looks like, where there's maybe some room for that we're forthright in our disagreements, right? You know, and so we're trying to model how we can talk about a very contentious issue that has been just hugely problematic within the American church at least for the last Because you're talking you've got to start with the breaking of the law and sharing the gospel. Right. that is enforcing the moral law of God, right? If th is what they say. is somehow the higher, better, bigger magistrate compared to the states. I don't I think it'd be understood in today's context. Yeah, well they've done that in other places though, right? particularly then those other levels should definitely be enforcing that. There's not enough emphasis on the idea that we aren't citizens of the United States. Not it not only am I saying not we I'm saying that's like the least important type of citizenship that we have like far uh like for example But the Apostle Paul appeals to his Roman citizenship he does, he does Uh I agree, but like l let's say you you get in a room with uh some uh g uh believer in child, right? The person in China, I don't speak his language. Right. member of the force family by God's ordination. um like a a a bigger perspective on everything. we relate uh citizenship. to squelch civil disobedience if the free and necessary worship of and obedience to the triune God is being hindered. endangers other people's lives unnecessarily. This isn't necessarily a biblical argument, but it kind of is. they were breaking a law while they were doing it. you know, Jay all the time and things like that. Jesus Christ. So that and this whatever we can pass, that's gonna be good enough. I'm not excited necessarily, wow, although it's fine, but I'm not there's nothing to push back on either. All right, well then will we have time maybe to squeeze one more in on this show then and this is an interesting one and uh this could be more this could be a whole series of shows probably and only inflicts as much violence as is necessary for the achievement of the objective. that many wars throughout history have been waged for sinful purposes such as greed, revenge, and lust for power and fortune. proves the rule, but there are exceptions. So there are exceptions for that. and and you're considering going to war, these are some considerations that would be reasonable for you to have. on the last show. via podcast because the faith debate is now uh on the radio and on demand. Faith debate there. And then we got into the articles, the source of truth was number one, and then Orthodox Christian faith was number two, and the standard of justice was number three. quickly that you feel like you know you'd want to address it's important otherwise we can move right into Article six but I don't want to short shrift this one. We affirm it's one of the shortest articles, by the way, in the whole statement. and accordingly are accountable to him to serve the people as revealed in his word. has established for them so they deny that the civil officials have the authority to do that. But we we won't get into all of that. Only uh you could be deemed disqualified as a witness or juror or or something else if you don't believe in God. have similar wordings. You know, people like to think that America's well it was always the you know it was all religions could be welcome here. safe or otherwise, of elections maybe not being giving the results that were accurate. to do that. experience in the real world to me. um theonomy discussions. uh to prevent or stop any ceremonial practices that violate the moral law. or Buddhism or uh uh atheism or any of the other belief systems. Right. Yeah, so I I I pr I I like that they're trying to do that, so good on them uh for that. And he does no such thing. even in some circumstance that the family and the government is not do family and the and and the church is not doing its job, then the government's not allowed to then just step in and do it for them. people are uh the kids don't actually hear good instructions. a family that was not able to feed themselves. their need for a savior. Yeah, point you don't like his his uh his blog spot or something, he doesn't do that. and make the case. you you know we can divide the labor up. you know, at each sort of consecutive level. government. a civil order, what I think in today's parlance might be called a secular order, because it's not necessarily about religion and practice of religion. The civil government has been given the sword as God's servants to maintain justice and civil order by punishing evildoers, avenging the innocent, commanding the professions, i. ending the good and thereby promoting citizens' general well being. And the same with church leadership and the same with family leadership. You're responsible to take charge of yourself and leave your heart as God would have you lead it. individual parent is responsible for how they govern themselves in their role in governing their children. All right. And then actually there's uh gets right into denial. even within their sphere, as Christ delegates all human authority, therefore all are accountable to Christ and his moral law, whether they acknowledge it or not. but must be uniquely protective of the free exercise of the Christian faith according to the dictates of conscience under the Orthodox Christian faith. And no law of any government should and I think they mean s civil government should interfere or hinder the due exercise thereof among the voluntary members of any assembly of Christians according to their own profession and belief And so so what do you think they would uh these people would say about the historic laws in the colonies and in America that uh you had to be in church on Sunday morning and if you weren't and you couldn't prove that you were in church for like three or four Sundays and We affirm that the specific short-term priorities of Christian nationalism in the context of the United States are to call our nation in her laws formally to acknowledge the lordship of Christ. To declare solemn days of humility and repentance. for censorship and persecution, to secure our borders and defend against foreign invaders, to recapture our national sovereignty from godless global entities who present a grave threat to civilization. like the United Nations, the World Health Organization, the World Economic Forum, etc. and adventurism in overseas quote unquote democracy building. Well now they're getting specific. from. to you know make their arguments and point to a whole bunch of you know passages as proof tests. For listening today, I'm Troy Skinner. Okay. Keep this going through try to get them all in before everybody's gonna dart out of here. Foundational law of the nation, we affirm the responsibility of civil authorities to protect the soul, not to convert the soul at household of faith in Christ. There's a lot to be said there because they jump right into a whole bunch of issues. American province, what that means to uh generally is actually an ungodly thing, right. Christ. that uh were not Jewish in but they joined in and they joined in and they became part of Israel. Righteous things. And prosperity of their own citizens. we have control uh if any control we have is over the United States. seem like they're generic, right? to have laws that formally acknowledge the Lordship of Christ. it doesn't apply to other nations. They're not even addressing what other nations can or shouldn't or or should or shouldn't do. Some nations already do some of these things. Uh I'm probably wrong. Which I think weakens their argument. Ten Commandments, right, being part of this. The second half of the affirmation says we affirm that the Christian Nationalist Project entails national recognition of essential Christian Orthodoxy, again, referencing Article II as a Christian consensus under Jesus Christ, the Supreme Lord, King of all creation, the establishment of the general equity of the second table of the Ten Commandments, Laws 5 through 10 for the uninitiated. uh as the foundational law of the nation with warnings informing citizens of the consequences of blasph so just warnings of blaspheming uh the one true and living God often resulting in you would like them to include uh individual like authority, personal authority over oneself, right? looking at the Ten Commandments and saying, okay, like who what sphere of authority, you know, is supposed to enforce? uh have to do with neighbor to neighbor. I mean so if those are negotiable, why aren't the others negotiable? Pick one. civil government, at least the ones commanded in the in the Old Testament. It we deny that laws against public blasphemy coerce conversion or hinder re religious liberty in private. converts to the religion, right? You can pray to God as long as he can't catch you, as long as he don't see you, and he, out of a conviction of wanting to worship the one true God worshiping God and he's just not accepting the worship of the Buddha. Christians. Most of them are much more precise than this. you over the language and make sure they're being as crystal clear. Uh not so much the the worldview that's I think that they're all in agreement on their worldview, but how to articulate that worldview in a way that would be for mass consumption. uh for getting to have such good discussions. a a Christian nation or nations, it's not gonna end up being like that. accuse as hey well you're a pessimist. have a lot to say or get long-winded or something, get off track that we would that we would need six. stress over it. is a great commission issue. know about that. I would have wished they would have included another line saying, um, one of the ways that you do the convert great conversation is this, but you also do need to preach the gospel to individuals and families and and civil authority. You I mean you would agree with that. Well I think that what they're saying is you should have an a Well shame on them. One, reflects to citizens both the perfect righteousness of God and our own sinfulness and shortcomings. the righteous uh from the wicked. thus uh applying these laws is an essential aspect of creep keeping the Great Commission? Maybe would be b I don't know. It pursues civil order because you're never going to have perfect civil order as long as there's sin and rain. How is that related to the uses of the law, other than maybe the law points us to our need? So I I I may that's probably what they're trying to do there, but I think they maybe do flesh that out a little more. in a sort of a backdoor way saying just remember that the right that that the civil government isn't the brings you know peace and harmony. We affirm that no man will be saved by works done under the law, yet we affirm that the law is a tutor. typos you were mentioning. Glitch McConnell might have written that one. truth and morality, whether good or evil, I guess by making them recognize what the lies are, right? That that said, but it's uh the Bible says that you know the gospel first to the Jews then to the Gentiles. would say. Making a poor distinction, a faulty distinction between law and gospel, or not making a distinction actually. We affirm that the gospel is the royal announcement to the world about God acting in the person and work of Jesus Christ through the power of the Holy Spirit to abolish sin and death and reconcile sinners sentence I think is. They're saying, essentially here, right, the gospel is not just the good news that, you know, you your sins are forgiven as an image. individual. The gospel was in the previous period. Alright, so now the last part of the affirmation says we affirm that a Christian nation provides cultural conditions Right. section. fifteen. Or a hair behind, but we might where where were we trying to get six shows? Nicer to have like a s very short, brief statement that we can expound a lot more on rather than going through a whole bunch of bullet points. in a God glorifying Christian nation or anything outside of the above affirmation has any saving power. Daniel Razby, David Forcy, and me and Troy Skinner. WFMD. Christ. some disagreement because we just don't know everything. It's long. Right? We repent of our sin when God saves us from it, He He turns our hearts so that we now love the law. for for society to be able to function. anything like that. Command what God forbids. 4. any orders, statute, or ruling from a higher magistrate, such as the federal government, I got something to say about that, instructing them to allow abortion. is rarely the normative relationship between a citizen and their civil government. Um now I I I would uh put myself in that camp and uh this because abortion is murder and every government, no matter whether they're federal or state, should always prohibit murder and if the uh you know, one level is not doing that job of Christ's kingdom. So I have an awful lot in common with my next door neighbor who doesn't profess to be a Christian. That is something that's missing from this statement. of them and I have, you know, nothing but earthly things in common with my relative who is not a believer. I I think every I mean what we do in the body is of heavenly importance. are are are uh bound by these legal or moral inventions of men apart from the word of God. of a Christian movement, which is interesting because I feel like almost definitively the uh American the the unofficial American religion over the last couple of generations has been pragmatism. a rarity. But Article eighteen as dealing with war and the and uh at the time of recording this show there's been a recent war breaking out in the Middle East. in pursuit of achievable goals, four, with the pure motive and intention of establishing peace and justice as quickly as possible, and five, by moral means that scrupulously avoid civilian casualties. Nations should be extremely cautious in discerning whether a proposed war is wise, taking every contingency into account. This is the only way that you can or should wage war. each other. Turn that on. He is the possessor of all authority in heaven and on earth. give a full-fledged response to Article No. holy settings because if you're a believer then every breath you take is for God. Anything on the first part, the the introduction, the definitions, the first handful of articles that you feel like if you were here you would have wanted to draw special attention to, or you just trust that David and I did a really nice job. I s I I I'm telling ya, this is true. Capital M is, and what he, Capital H, requires of them. I mean what are they saying here? But there's been all sorts of speculation about the legitimacy of certain Stacey Abrams in Georgia is a good example, right? uh to contradict God. are God's servants of justice. to be aware of that. there's really a as much there as as you seem to find. we will give an account for what we uh are responsible for. By one, writing and force and enforcing just laws that are uh a terror to those who do evil, two, very dramatic language there by the way. a series of shows that we did uh where their uh their intent to try to make this as broad as possible has made it kind of squishy and it's just not landing the way I think they intended The people that are in power are supposed to be a good thing. putting this on you guys. That's the horse. I wouldn't have a problem with Joe Biden or Mitch McConnell making help making these decisions at the government if they were actual believers. Well I've I've uh uh a great pastor I heard once uh said, Hey Troy, if you're if you stop loving your wife, then you God commands you to love your wife, should I then go love your wife for you No, because that's not my command, right? Anyway, that's Daniel Rasby. Uh there we go. The gospel. We deny that the purpose of civil government is to establish a secular, neutral, or godless order. ultimate allegiances and ultimate standards by which they judge reality. Commandments. um for them to yeah, distinguish, okay, if uh, you know, if the government bears the the civil government bears the sword, what does that what does that look like? Yeah, because that's why me when I kinda had a little aside as I was reading it and talking about Rome, I was specifically thinking in terms of Jesus saying, Give unto Caesar what is Caesar's, give unto God what is God's. you know, taking care of crime and punishment, those kinds of things aren't necessarily religious, and some people would understand that as secular concern. a possibility, right? Can't say that. We affirm that authorities in each sphere are subject to the rule of Christ, each retaining authority over its own sphere while being checked and balanced by others. We affirm that parents, as the authority in the home, have been given the rod for instruction, training, and discipline in wisdom and righteousness. And and those are all biblical terms that are used. And that's a sphere of responsibility and we have uh and we have a certain authority, if you will, to to take care of those things. where it's all about groupthink and group responsibility and and it diminishes individual personal responsibility. by God so that we are free to then live out our responsibilities, to govern our lives in accord with His word as He would command us. Yeah, but again, I think it begins with a still. something. by those. Well and that's And perhaps rightfully so. We originally had going for the people in this country really had going for them initially, right? Nation I know is that that word. We affirm that implementing Christian nationalism in each nation will pursue punishment of each nation's great evils and promote each nation's thriving. to define marriage as the covenant union of a biological male and a biological female, to deweaponize the federal and state bureaucracies which target Christian for citing proof text that don't really prove anything, at least not what he's trying to say. Are you friends with that Troy Skinner knucklehead? Daniel's one of the pastors at the church at Meets at Imran's house. Rep repentance like Young Kippur for example. um biblical language where they can, they're avoiding, they haven't s mentioned like racism, right? of of God is going to be a follower of Christ in in Judaism, right? put in here it says we deny that sinful ethnic partiality has any place. Trying to go in both directions at once is being of divided mind and I think it weakens their argument. second table violations, namely the harming of our neighbors' lives and property. I know I'm the bad guy. Right? But so what? We affirm that God extends the rule of Christ in the world by calling to and gifting Christians as his servants on vocation as civil authorities. Whatever that means, I don't know. Hey, my presupposition might have been wrong. David Forcy, he is the pastor of a church in the area that meets at a whole bunch of different locations. And uh basically the same location week after week, because they're kind of boring that way. you know, individuals on the street, but individuals in all places at all levels, kind of deal. But it's a command that's given to believers, for believers. They cannot do it. About God. Are the people in the church who won't tell the truth to somebody because they happen to be the mayor? to Christ. We affirm that applying the core moral principle of each of the Ten Commandments to a nation's laws, also known as general equity, And I have a problem because saying you should apply the core moral principles of these to the laws, I'm saying those should be the laws themselves and you don't need other ones. the applying the laws that's for the government to do, which has nothing to do with getting saved. who who does any of those things that actually God does. Um, but to your point earlier, I'm agreeing with something Daniel said, I think was last week's show. and the world to himself through his sinless life, substitutionary death, resurrection, ascension, reign, and future return, just as God graciously planned from eternity. Um I actually agree with that. That this same law continued to be the perfect rule of righteousness after the fall, and that God delivered it upon Mount Sinai and Ten Commandments. or or sociological questions or whatever, and they're just talking about Bible truth, uh that they're doing a good job. believing. society where moral just laws exist. We deny that the content of the gospel includes obedience to the law, and that any work of obedience merits salvation number of months, probably about two years I would say at least, it's been a real problem. until they are completely given over and their heart becomes so hardened that they don't even respond to their own conscience anymore. thing there. We affirm that categorical opposition to civil disobedience is idolatry of the state. They put in parentheses. For example, lesser magistrates, such as state governments, counties, and municipalities must disregard that they don't understand that originally the federal government is supposed to be the lesser magistrate. throwing any sort of hint at shade at that because I agree with that 100%. the family of God. So I I didn't I was more complaining that they really didn't even address address this topic at all. But it it's kind of part of what I think is an undergirding problem with my pushback on this whole movement and this idea that it is so worldly I don't think. So you're supposed to do that to protect your neighbor, somebody falls off and kills themselves or breaks a leg or whatever. We affirm that the kingdom of God does not advance by carnal means, but by the working of the Spirit in bringing men to repentance and faith in Jesus. without, above, and against them at his pleasure. It uh this area might be World War III or it may have already been over by then. says that uh of Article 5. Yes, that's it. that the the government can't show favoritism based on whatever the historical beliefs and teachings are of any Would you trust the government, the city government where we live, the county government, the state government, the the the national uh uh general government to make these determinations for the church as it exists now? And so they shouldn't be doing it. Right. to um you know just where they're where they're actually not capable. Why do we have freedoms? If I have no kids, if I never get married, if I go live on a deserted island somewhere and it's just me, I have responsibility to do what I'm supposed to do. Well if you're abandoned there or something, right? Like what do you do? You're missing a step. Well, yeah, it's good. And then they said, therefore the government should do these things. bad actors within American Christianity have centered a lot of their arguments on this whole human flourishing word and it be and it became a negative. ruled a whole empire filled with a lot of different ethnic peoples, but individual communities were very ethnocentric. You you can s uh say that there that God doesn't notice or doesn't uh or or or doesn't want anybody to notice that there are differences in ethnic Whatever nation you live into, in her laws to formally like why are they s sectioning all the time? Right? Not going to relitigate all that right now, but David, do you have any thoughts? Uh so going back to who has what sphere of authority, right? So they should be government any laws of God that have to do with interactions between humans. But we don't think that if there were to be a law against public blasphemy, that that actually is the same thing as the Catholic Church or Muslim congregations just wholesale forcing everybody to become Debates. uh being able to live in a society like this and not be stoned to death by Thursday. But anyway, we've got uh time to at least read Article 12. Christians are called to participate as civil civil government as civil authorities. non believers to obedience, we called nonbelievers to repentance. Discipling of all nations, baptizing them, teaching them to obey all his commands includes uh employers, right? Right? So um and the first half is most is all affirmation, the second half will be part affirmation, part comment. the the morality that's laid out biblically that we will be pointed to right what is what is good and true and right. Right. conducive to the perpetuation and thriving of the family. You know, now I uh I love the law, but I am still in a uh broken body in a Yeah, and and then again just getting back to to what they're saying here that you know they're I think they're trying to be very clear, okay, even if there is a civil government We'll have that debate on a different show. to any of the extent that it ever applies, it is always far, far, far and away subordinate to our place as citizens. uh focused. Then you should add a fence. But if you're doing ninety and you're doing so safely, I don't think you should get whacked. that should be the main focus of uh of rest uh of government is restitution, you know or or of criminal uh law is restitution rather than, you know, fines or punishment I I I th I I I affirm that these are good th th these would be uh uh uh just ways of waging war, but I I I don't I wouldn't say that Huh. So I I I'm sorry they're trying to say that merely by claiming to be a s in authority that they're the governors is not the governor of Georgia. You can't uh claim to have authority beyond that. We deny the legitimate authority of civil authority. A terror to those who do evil. Alright, so the denial, I'm gonna read this real quick and then you guys can can comment to your heart's content until we run out of time. Um so again this is the Christian nationalism statement, Christian a statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel if you're interested in reading it and seeing what all the details are. panorama of definitions. to render unto Caesar whether or not Caesar is godly, and there's a separate command to Caesar to be godly, right? All right. summarize in a word what each sphere is responsible for. And we affirm that many denominational confessions are associated with the Orthodox Christian faith. They they might they might accept some of the those inquires to already. Right? That's that that's all in their pretext so we haven't been uh Yeah, it's true. Yeah, they they didn't provide what did you say? Which is a good word, but it's not unusual in certain circles to hear instead of the word thriving to hear the word flourishing. All throughout scripture. Maybe that we could have at some point. nation like uh there other nations in the world. Uh their identity as a nation, what makes them actually a nation. declarations that are supposed to be for the church. Okay, well it says it's the statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel. you know, or or has enforcement in what area. Praise God for Jesus Christ and His blood on the Cross. I I think they're almost saying like no Christians uh right so just like Christians are called to do That's what they're saying. I've been I have been accused of being a glass hat empty guy because of the uh world view I have when about when Christ comes back. Now we fell over and we fell back on back on time, yeah. Um initial thoughts. uh on Christian businesses and the gospel. I I think Yeah, it's hard to point them to the solution if you haven't identified the problem. This is a typo that I think it's that it represents or they they it just rather they it represent the enduring righteousness of God that is to be loved and obeyed for the good of man and the glory of God. you know, biblically aligned moral laws points to the fact that we need good news, right? the first half, right? And that's the cultural context, that's the societal norm. Right. family for what I do as as a citizen of the United States. And and you're saying, well, you were negligent, you you're liable to you owe me damages, you're you already win the argument to begin with if you can prove it. God works most powerfully through bold proclamation of his truth by his people. Um we affirm that war is only to be waged one for a just cause by a just magistrate involving the protection of human life from persecution. And me. Those insurrectionists, whoever they are, at whatever time that happens, are gonna claim to be the civil authorities. Regardless. And the punishments should be biblically based punishments, which means jail it shouldn't exist 'cause that's not a biblical punishment. there are uh there is no command in the scripture that says that. is not a reason not to attempt it if it's commanded by God. You know, yeah when's the last time outside of a Christian discussion you heard man stealing come up, right? uh educational because it was a lot of times taking children who were illiterate and teaching them to read using the Bible. push back on last week where that the government's not capable of doing these things and when they say yes we deny that they are capable of being neutral or uh 'cause they're always gonna have their own preferences and functional government You're gonna worship somebody. Other than, you know, just that we're all held accountable for all individually responsible. Uh I put a question mark. Yeah. So the the uh the last half of the affirmations here, so I don't think I read them yet, right? your life shows the fruit of a professional. Like they wouldn't spend a long time saying the government needs to do moral and godly things as the Bible says and then it says okay here's the specific priorities So that that's all. But that is still you know we're part of Israel, but there's other nations as well and and they it's to the Jew verse and then also to the Gentile. Right. And then five through nine. made sure he was seen. Yeah, if if you come into reading this with particular presuppositions in place, you could find yourself agree because this was my experience, like, oh I can agree with that until I read it like a second time or a third time. Yeah. continue to proclaim to i in in the Christian nationalism sort of idea is simply to proclaim biblical truth to the Who are to be called or repentance. who might hear this show someday, to keep in in mind the order of things, right? And as you and then you have the disciples and you baptize them as believers, and then as baptized believers you're teaching them to obey all that Christ has commanded. And that's my job as a believer or as a member of my church. But we we start by saying stop that. So, uh I've got a couple of thoughts on that, but you guys go first. And it's saying it guides Christians into good works, so I guess it doesn't provide any guidance for non-Christians. um isn't ultimately the one that it not even ultimately isn't the one who gives grace, who saves. And this is probably what's making you a little bit uncomfortable, Troy. Uh y I believe so, yeah. We couldn't necessarily write this any better than they have. What do we think about the denial here on Article 15? buddy down the street that's a politician in in in in your town or whatever, you have a lot more in common with this believer in China who doesn't even speak your language. We affirm that in addition to possessing the titles of Savior, Messiah, and many others, Jesus, the Son of God, who is truly God, is also the King of all earthly kings, the Lord of all earthly lords, and the lawmaker for all earthly lawmakers. what is inside or outside of that sphere. Because God is the one who has established their realm of authority, you know, what's included in that realm, they're responsible to civil the civil government is allowed to have. And they they made a good make a good point, basically that hey, there's all these things that the government is not supposed to be doing because families and churches are supposed to do them, such as educating children, such as uh We'll pick up with article number eight next week. So you said uh in in your uh in your text you said give you articles six and seven and then second show to address articles And that and that's a that's a practical skill thing. They don't specifically address that issue here, but they're talking about the purpose of civil government. But not necessarily 'cause 'cause even a group of a few families together that make an agreement to do s to share some kind of duty, that's that is already a government. Right, and that is I think the point of the statement really is give unto God what is God's. But they might be defining the word secular more narrowly and saying, no, secular meaning by definition kind of an ungodly. Right. That's what they did define it. Denominations. You know. Yeah. Yeah. Oh well then why aren't you enforcing the blasphemy? And you can find him and information about what they do at a website for one of the ministries that they launched a number of years ago, Concord by Love Ministries, online at conqueredbylove. Uh so if we see uh uh a parent who is abusing their children uh you know secular secular, right, a a religious, right? Or how this related to much of anything that's in this. We have unity that has been won for us in Christ, and we need to live that out, and we need to uh to fight to defend Uh when we are enemies of God and dead in our sins, right, we love our sin, right? Well, that's the whole thing with the abortion movement. per se, there's a lot of other moral rules that apply that. I think the the whole especially the whole civilian casualty thing. So the the uh funny thing w reading this specific article it reminds me of what the Maryland Constitution still states. So I guess what they're really meaning here is to say that they're pushing a ban against the legitimacy of that authority. They're trying to do too much and be too many things to too many people is is my biggest concern with this being effective the way they want it to be. Right? I agree. So that's why I kind of agree with you know. Exactly, yes. Uh probably the idea that there could somehow be a a non-religious civil And it was secular. So he belongs to God. Exactly. I don't care which one but pick it. What if what what role does the civil government have to play within their sphere of authority in each of those? So say goodbye to the Pietists. This this this Great Commission includes civil authorities as in it's not, you know, we It doesn't say include though. And I think that's what they're meaning to say. So I mean even even as a e even sinners stumble across, you know, stumble into abiding by the law from time to time. That if to what extent, to any extent, any of these this involvement with the government, teaching by the government, Christians' roles in government or in voting or anything a lot more c in common with him than anybody that's your neighbor or your or your or your country. Welcome to the live stream as we record a number of shows for the faith debate, talk about the statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel. Yeah. Um, you know, it they're saying here y it's it i that uh civil authorities are going to be And uh I I think they've got them flipped. Seven, eight, and nine. Well right, right. And in between shows you guys were talking about the purpose of civil government as related to education and other things that might be family matters or church matters. And I I think it's important, and this is why I think they should include it, because I know that the guys who wrote this would agree on the concerns over the whole woke social justice gospel nonsense. As universally defined, historically and universally defined and affirmed in the Creeds, e. But anyway, we affirm that nations possess an invaluable right to establish justice and safeguard the peace and prosperity of their own citizens. It'll be a little disjointed, but uh in the interest of time. So I I I wonder if they purposely avoided using it there. But see and that's the thing. And the the whole the number three I think is the is is the most problematic in this statement. uh that will be encouraged to walk uprightly and I think pursues would be a better word than secures. So not that they need to say that, but um I feel like somebody like you might want to do that. We affirm that Christ's kingdom is at hand and that he will continue to work until all his enemies are defeated, and the knowledge of his glory covers the earth as the waters cover the sea. Yeah. Might be the only one I'm trying to think of. Right, as far as what's morally right and wrong. Um but that doesn't stop them from being required to act in a godly manner. I profess to be a Christian. I agree with you. Anyway. Yes, but why were you saying that? You can't do it. you know, a Christian civil uh government in enforcing the the things that are particularly Anyway, you can find me online at household of faith in Christ dot com. Well no, I I uh I I think I'm also saying like we need to look at the government and we need to say, Stop that because Jesus is Lord. Right? It's like I'm not it's like 10-12 pages or something. Bind the conscience where God alone has jurisdiction. So um but uh I But which is more important, the heavenly things, the earthly things. We affirm that cultures or culture rather culture affects law and that law also affects culture. That's it. And so what say you, gentlemen? We're responsible for self-control, self-government. Um you know, for the members of the body. I I feel like that's a I I don't I I'm not gonna fight for it, but I just feel it would be stronger if it was on here. So there's a little more to be said about Article 10, so I think we'll we'll pick up next week's show with some comments on that, and then we'll get right into Article 11. Which is sh okay, but the problem is that is the number one thing people are gonna say in the media when they read the statement say, well yeah, but you guys are racist. So that wouldn't be one of their short-term priorities. by by what sphere, right? So that's how we're defining our terms, right? We affirm that Christ's commissioning of his church to make disciples of all nations, baptizing them and teaching them to obey all that he has commanded, includes civil authorities who are to be called to repentance, faith, and obedience to Christ. Speaking truth to power. Yeah, the th the thing I just want to make sure that you know we're careful as we as we all as as uh Christian, not just people in this room, but anybody You're gonna repent and then what do you do what next? Right, okay. Right? And and there is forgiveness for breaking that law, right? Oh no. But I think uh also what they're meaning though is there is a blessing, you know, just in general. No, no, we actually ended like almost exactly on time because I just ended. It's so simple. So I I think what they're getting at here, which I would agree with, is that um that keeping the law is what saves. Yeah. The idea that we are citizens first of Christ's kingdom and a distance second is anything relating to our government. So there have been sinful wars in the past, I agree with that. Hopefully you caught that. Well you always do a great job, so um I'm sure there's there's various nuances, but I know we have we have to get to some. And you'd be correct. And honestly, I think what Jesus is kind of getting at there is is along the same lines in the sense that when he says, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar. No, that's how you define what is the church. And I think probably in their minds they're talking they're thinking about the Jewish people, the the people of Israel. Why wouldn't every nation in the USA? That's what they mean by that. Honoring parents is on the first table. The coveting issue. Right. We say stop that. Let's see if we can make heads or tails of this word solid. And I agree with that. Yeah. Um so I I don't know. So we were here on here driving to the studio for the recording session. So the denial of the authority of civil officials and documents to contradict what God has said in his word or to govern beyond the bounds of God's word has a It still exists as far as I know. If China starts to land paratroops in here uh tomorrow and we have a long drawn out war with China and event eventually the US military is decimated and now everybody's speaking Chinese, uh at what point are you stop following the constitution and you start following Article 8. This is the Faith Debate. Yeah, there's there's no such thing as as r religiously neutral You guys ready to move on to number nine? Yeah and and and specifically to say okay, like take the time to say what is it that we need to repent of. Yeah, this raises all sorts of questions in today's political climate, and I don't want to get canceled on social media or have this show taken off the air because of an aside. Do they know anything about church history? It's it's live action role playing because we don't actually have Christians in leadership for the most part. So I that's excuse me for a minute, I had to restart my brain. I'm saying broadly speaking, those that are engaged in the crossfire in this debate, I I put it out there and say, okay, so what's the cart, what's the horse? Sunday school end of things, right? Yeah, yeah. I keep saying fears. Okay, so that's Article 10 on Nationalism and Policy Priorities. Troy I haven't I haven't been at Frederick I haven't been at Frederick in months. Who shall remain nameless? So anyway. This is the crux of it. They're going to discuss missions in the next article. That's the that's the order. Yeah, I well uh okay, and I think maybe as I'm thinking about this now, maybe the reason I projected my concerns elsewhere is now I'm asking the question you asked last week, okay, so who's not doing this in the church? Yeah if you get a congressman who says, Hey well I'm a I'm I'm I'm believing God but I can't really enforce that I wrote morality on you, I'm just gonna do secular things while I'm in power they're telling Christians go call that person out and say, No, you're wrong. This is written by the Apostle Paul. They're defining the gospel. The gospel is also that uh not just that Jesus came to save individual sinners, but to save the world. So yeah, we're we're a little bit behind. Okay. I think it's just Christian national uh statement on Christian Nationalism dot com or something like that. Yeah, well and I think I I I'll I'd be willing to bet that they're self consciously trying to avoid some of the uh infighting in in Is that was that where I texted originally? We affirm that unjust laws harm people and that just laws reflect the character of God and point people toward But anyway, we deny that any government is capable of neutrality as every individual and system has moral preferences and functional gods. Yeah, so so authority in regards to you know having responsibility for the good of others and not to do them ill, like the the church for e. Well I maybe. It feels it feels a little uh a little Catholic and it's uh Yeah, I don't know. Who gets to decide? It's the fundamental, most foundational law that you could possibly have. You can find me online at HouseholdofInChrist dot com, HouseholdfaithinChrist. Yeah, and as it relates specifically to the water, I I try to just be as realistic and all-encompassing in how I talk about things. And then the last part? Hey, Daniel, welcome to the party. I I think one of the things they're saying here is that uh or at least implying and maybe they'll say it more clearly later on, is that uh I think I agree with what they're intending to say, and this was really the point I was uh and in all three of us are kind of saying the same thing. Do we want uh um do we want uh Mitch McConnell? The uh the uh civil authorities, they have responsibilities to do certain things and they're and they're given rights by God, if you will, to do those things and and not anything more than those things All right. Like yes and no, right? They say the first sentence says all nations need to do godly things. I I I think ultimately they're they're saying that the church's role is simply to And so uh sort of like the um I mean what comes to mind is like the idea of like repent, right? Th there's there is there is a point at which the old government and nation ceases to exist just because it's been a little bit of a continue to watch NFL Red Zone on Sundays. As these duties belong primarily to the church and to families, respectively. That's the affirmation. com as well. Right. So like I would agree in the same sense that uh that I have more in common with someone who I'm not blood related to who's in Christ. No, but that isn't extend the whole fa how fast one to travel that is based in a moral law 'cause it's based in the idea well it it would be immoral to be driving in a reckless manner the You can also connect to it, of course, from WFMD. And that's very dramatic, but one that we've had as experience uh in America's history, the previous incarnation, not today's version, but the previous incarnation of Mormonism, the LDS. Daniel Razby is on the show. the practice of church membership and discipline, as well as God's word for the preaching of the law and gospel with the aims of conversion, sanctification, and discipline It's a weird wording. The government should do what the Bible says. Right. This is probably one of my least favorite parts. Well, if we need to do a six-show like as the start of our next recording session and put the wraps on it, we can do that. Good Christian employers. That's all I was saying. This would have been a really important thing for the social justice folks to have uh thought about. I think the non believing might disagree here but blessings to the non believing. It's not just a mere stumbling. Because those are like man-made kinds of laws that are not bound like there's nothing in the Bible about how fast too one should travel. God commanded Israel to wipe out every man, woman and child in various king that tribes. And I think that they've tried to be a little bit too much too many people. Right. And that's why the government should be doing XYZ. Probably it's it's so ridiculous of an accusation that we couldn't even possibly be partial that we don't need to bother ourselves with answering that accusation. But I I don't necessarily disagree with what they're talking about. I haven't heard a lot of calls for that specifically. Right? I think that that's that would be an example. Yeah, because they're saying here, right, each of the Ten Commandments when they split the baby earlier. Just Christian governments serve the church in its mission of evangelism. Yeah, but either but they represent or but it represents but rather it represents. And then they tell you what they think the simple answer is like, yeah, your answer is too simple. I've got a friend who's got who has just wro wrote like a whole big dissertation on that subject. And I'm like, wait a minute, what about the heavenly focus? Yeah. That would mean I'd have to be a better talker, Troy. Yeah. The way that you uh you know establish your borders can be godly or ungodly The word throws me because it because that's why I put the question now I remember because it says i. So you should be telling influential people about the gospel. That there might be a reason they went with Christians there. Alright, so this next one is a whopper. Till then, God bless. Okay, and that's all played correctly. It doesn't contribute in any way to justification to before God. Yeah. So but spiritual or it ultimately matters, yes, but I think proximate familiarity is is important too. Well the denial here is uh the men's consciences, homes, churches, or states are bound by legal or moral inventions. Two, as a last resort when peaceful methods of conflict resolution have been diligently pursued and exhausted. And then broadly speaking, because we have uh you know scanned this at least, I don't know if you've done a deep dive study of it, but is there Not that that's that's probably the most important thing is the scripture, but I mean we we would never finish getting through this if we read every single scripture reference that they that they highlight. Back when uh back when Maryland was a Catholic state. Are they saying that certain administrations or regimes aren't in fact in authority? Right, there is no way to simply issue. I mean this is kind of a bringing in into some philosophical things, but we are granted freedoms, if you will Um I'm gonna well I'm gonna at least probably try to read Article ten, which is a lengthier one. He ethnically prefers the Jews, right? So all nations have that. Did they split the second split? I think well I'm saying is Christ's gonna come s soon 'cause it's getting in that direction. I can tell them till the cows come home that they need to become a Christian, but i i i i i if if we see if we see that doesn't mean you don't say it. And it's probably again a uh an issue towards when we do that show, we'll have to that we'll have that particular discussion. We affirm that lesser magistrates may and sometimes must disobey a lawless higher magistrate to obey God. Right. At what point during an invasion or revolution or takeover, at what point do you stop obeying the old regime and start obeying But not but from time to time there's gonna be plenty of people that claim to be in authority. Uh and I think it might be more clear and helpful if they use that t if they put in bo in parentheses such as abortion. And I think there's going to be a lot of talk to be had on this one. And they'll say why we didn't say anything about race. com. Theologically sound Christians to enter the political realm to proclaim the excellencies of Christ and His law Right, yeah. Well, yeah, full proters uh maybe they should be goodbye. And I don't know that that's necessarily like uh an accident or a blind spot. I might be somewhere in a shallow center, but I'm not completely out in left field. All right. I I I would be. Professor saying and the church saying, you know, you're a member in good standing because So they're saying that that's what they think the government's gonna be bound by those creeds Because that's the that's those are defined sources. And I'm very happy like like you were mentioned in Troy and one of these other statements, they still use the term. And I couldn't help but notice the in in uh the affirmation for Article 10, they talk about each nation's thriving. You're on the radio, you can't hear it. There are countries where gay marriage is illegal. Or pick or or or explain the reason of why they picked only five and through ten, right? By definition they cannot do it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, but those who are in power, in reality, they kind of do sort of in practice have that authority. I guess I'm trying to figure out what do they mean by gospel profession. You're no no respecter of person. They did seem to mention a couple of times that hey we we don't like racism. I mean uh w if if you're a Christian you've been grafted into Israel, so you're subordinate to the root of Israel, which is uh any true uh f uh follower of uh of Um but whatever we disagree, of course you know, I'll be I'll be right. So they have an opening paragraph, and then they have right underneath that opening paragraph, which I already read, says, here's an alternative option for those who affirm legislating only the second table of the table They cross polidate. And so I still stumble in sin, right, in that regard. So uh that's that's kind of the the Are you suggesting that we like our cake so much we want to have it and eat it too? So if they want to say, look, the guidelines are this road you shouldn't go any faster than sixty five miles an hour and somebody's doing ninety and they get in an accident, then it's like you got an accident, you're doing ninety, we said it should be sixty five, you're getting you're getting whacked. Oh, so I see. And that's that's the that's the thing. I'm Froy Skinner. That's how it started, right? Right, yeah. If you're just interested to learn more, or if you're part of a house church and you'd like to maybe connect and see if you can you know join us in some of what we do, just reach out to me. All the things that they're saying that we in the context of the good old USA are specifically calling our nation. God's law is God's law. So I guess one through the Sabbath day I guess does not be They just lost the argument. Th that is that is a law of God that you you don't have the option to just blatantly blaspheme the the creator of the universe. And uh some of it, well, mostly by me, not so good, but you know what, just edit that part out later and I'll in fact I should do that. Right, yeah. And uh it's one thing to be poking holes in and going after those who are preaching a false gospel The the way they've structured this is it's the general government, the big government that meets in Washington, DC Right. To me a profession of sap it I think it's a poor choice of words because gospel professions is kinda like somebody saying, Oh, I profess Christ, so that means the church gets to decide if you're saved or not. The government's gonna decide that? They don't really mean yeah, they might have a word like they might be making a point about love, a very specific point about love, for example, and they'll just take a verse that happens to have the word love in it and say proof taxes You're saying that because people are accusing you of being racist. So I started today's show reading the beginning part of Article 11, which is the big picture agenda. They didn't provide a foundation for it or something. Or rub his belly. Are called to uh are called to missions, you know. Yeah. We deny that there is any sphere of life in which the command teach them to obey all that I have commanded does not apply, including politics and government. Thank you for spending part of your day with us here on the Faith Debate as we work through this statement. Right. Plus, even though it's a marred image, uh even the the unrepentant uh reprobates still bear some image of God on their person. Because y even though you're not they're not being charged with a crime, but you can say, hey, you were speeding and you hit me well by default you're already liable to me. Do you have anything else on Article 16 or should I move on to seventeen? I've had other times like this. I I think one of the things they're doing. Sounds almost biblical. I get it. Rather, such quote unquote charity displaces families by creating a culture of dependence upon the state And they were they were denying that it was the government's role essentially to for education of children. I'm not exactly sure how I how we should draw those lines. Yeah. The s the Bible doesn't actually tell us which which ones are in which table. Yeah. We affirm that citizens are to submit to our civil authorities as unto Christ for his glory and our good. The word include is not in there. And the necessary first half of of the gospel, which is that we we need repentance. That groans. Yeah, Is this the last statement that you have to go through before we can get back to fun topics like current events and theology and I think this is well f as far as the church is concerned, I think this is very current. They've sidebared in other places. I would have liked to see more discussion of the heavenly polity versus the earthly polity. The reason I started this week with it on the Faith Debate is because we've got a new panel, well in addition to the panel, assembled this time. So they're leaving it kind of broad, making this as big tent as they can, which is actually a weakness on the state. Do they know anything about theology? They had multiple wives. I agree they shouldn't be doing it, but uh I also not uh I'm not gonna be willing to say that the Bible says it can never happen or or that it is inherently evil to be polygamous. Denial will come in a second. I point you to like his Twitter feed or something, but he doesn't do that. Yeah, this is almost like the opening monologue of a cook cook you know, Tucker Carlson show or something. It was very common back then, and so we shouldn't just take for granted because they reference a I mean uh this will be fighting worse for some people, but Thomas Aquinas actually is famous for that. Because God also said that. So that's that's that's why it's like more, whatever that's supposed to mean. Oh look at that. So in other words, you know, you don't just we we shouldn't just be speaking we shouldn't just be speaking to And it's very clear they're saying Christian denomination, not religion, right? How do you think that they're defining secular in the first line of the d of the denial, you know, civil government to establish a secular, neutral, or godless order? All things belong to God. Spheres of authorities such as the home, the church, the civil government. Maybe, yeah. Well um well so you know maybe I have authority over that soccer ball that has, you know, Wilson's face painted on it. But anyway, we're probably beating a uh a beginning of a desktop. You can find me online at household of faith in Christ dot com. Correct. You don't think that a Muslim, a faithful Muslim, is going to go out of their way to be seen worshiping Allah? It's part of the statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel. This this this whole article has nothing to do with what the government does. I'm joking. Yeah. Oh good answer. Right? Okay. I mean it was a pagan religion type of a thing. So right, it's the the parents have responsibility for their children, right? And so it makes me wonder though, like so it says teach them to obey all that I have commanded. All it's saying is that the church needs to teach everybody, including senators and congressmen I mean uh seriously, the people are uh not behaving nicely with one another right now. And so what is a reckless name? But anyway that's a totally separate kind of a show. Bum ba ba. So so all all that the government does, but none of it is actually secular in the sense that people think of A couple of things that stood out to me a little bit. This article is a mess because they're splitting the baby. Goodbye. Yeah, yeah. That's one long sentence, but we affirm that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, reveal to by Catholics, right? They try to define the gospel and then they're going to define the law in a minute and then they're going to say the since this is Christ this is the statement on Christian nationals and the gospel, so they're getting around to defining the gospel part of the Senate. I I I I think they should say it. No, the last part is actually going to have to wait till next uh show because we're out of time. And make sure I can find sixteen when I need it. All right, let's see, it's so I don't make a note. Now now you don't know that you need saved until you know that you're a lawbreaker. Two, forbid what God commands. I'm a citizen of the United States by you know by God's sovereign decree. And and that's one of those things like, okay, like if their parents don't know how to read, they don't have the ability to teach them And again, as I've said a few times now in our look at the statement, I think that that is to their detriment. Is it really a nation? So so where I I I think that is worthwhile in when I don't think it won't be. So I can do one more full show then. Yeah, when when we're in yeah, when it gets to the point you gotta leave, then you know, you do it and we'll we'll impersonate your voice. But I I think it's a good discipline and it's exposed some things. I think we can have some grace. We deny that solely by virtue of their claims to authority or the claims of those who support them, any human group uh or group of As long as I get NFL CJ ticket, I'm good with whoever leads me down the path, Primrose Path, you know. The last part of the affirmation, by the way, we affirm that civil magistrates have lawful authority. Gladly and broadly, I mean they would have a uh a narrow personal definition, but they would fit themselves within a broad Because for example, back in like the the Middle Ages, it w the the the height of scholasticism, it was not uncommon at all for some of the big thinkers uh in in church history Yeah, this is kind of like the reverse of what happened with Daniel. It aims to secure or it it it makes it better than it would be otherwise, but I d to say that it secures the order, I just don't see any evidence from the Bible or human history to to I mean if if Daniel says something knuckleheaded or I say something knuckleheaded we call each other on it. And we covered the the introduction and and their their definition that starts off the statement, the uh statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel. I have my own sphere of authority in my That sounds like a prime time drama on one of the networks They keep trying to kick us off the air and we keep dodging them. But at the same time, the government does have a have a responsibility to govern in a godly manner, and I think that's what they're getting at here. They already did that. So they don't want other nations to do that? What gets enforced by parental authority, what gets enforced by uh, you know, Troy is as Yeah that's that's why I I was I was thinking would be a better way Troy even even the the way they differentiate it I don't think you're necessarily agree with. Maybe they mean this. They're saying they start with a whole list here's what this word means this, this word means this, this word means okay, now I'm gonna use those words and craft a statement that we can all agree to based on what the we know these words mean. And three, guides Christians into the good works that God has planned for them and thus are an essential aspect of keeping the Great Commission and teaching all nations to obey Even that is even if you want to call it stumbling. And again they're they're they're leaving the uh Roman Catholics at the curb on on this sort of language. I didn't grow up in that context. Uh it's so it's so arbitrary. If you have any comments, you can we you're welcome to put them there. Sure, yeah. But I'm wondering the final sentence of the previous article, which we didn't read just now on today's show, but to refresh your memory, the final sentence Then I'd be like, okay, they nailed it. This one saved in the can. The purpose of civil government. Yeah. Wah wah wah wah wah. Like they just they the the premise that there's an inconsistency in their argumentation, this is a mess. Are we? I yeah, I think essentially what they're getting at is the idea that if our if our laws reflect God's I agree with it. And I I don't know that the Bible ever really prohibits nations conquesting other nations. I get it. And the and all this this other legal mumbo jumbo is the cart that follows. But I don't want to. Now I'm going to jump in and start this next one because it's also this purpose of civil government and if you guys want to continue these thoughts it might tie into this at least by tan by tangent it might so Sure. Um you know, especially just thinking, okay, well, there's also now neither Jew nor Greek, right? But they're trying to, in my view, split the baby and not stand on their convictions. And I think they're gonna go other way? This is the crux of it. But what if they're Hindu? I mean that's a tax ban coming. But but but if they're trying to articulate things and define things precisely I would f and they haven't put out the final draft. I'm probably just too dense to understand what they're meaning. And we've been reading and discussing in from our knowledge of Scripture, we're recognizing that a lot of things they're saying are true. They're ignoring. That's a solemn day of humility and repentance. Did they split the baby or stretch the tent? Look at that glass half full. But because they've written it and they've and they're putting it out there for consumption, we're trying to say, okay, how could this be strengthened? Article sixteen on civil disobedience. Oh well, let's just pass a six week ban because we can get that passed. On my way here to the studio uh on the drive over, I was praying about the show and and this and the we record these shows in advance. It in the same sense that every person is responsible to be aware that God is, that He you know, um that He has I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. But they didn't explain why these things are godly things. So I started the show today by reading um the first part of Article 11, which and I stopped at a split point because they split the baby here It's like this random we affirm that God's a creator, good. It's long. They're absolutely right in how they've said this, other than I'm surprised that they didn't use this as an opportunity to to clarify. And he's like, war is supposed to be evil. Woo-hoo! Yeah, almost. Oh, we might be ahead of the game then because I can't count. So I I think they're using spheres of authority in the sense of uh you know the mo there being more than one person, right? That's it it gets very dicey. The Bible says X, therefore the government should do X. I mean, that that's the piece that really troubles me on some of this stuff Five solos right there. But I agree with you. And we know that this is the case. 5 and we are joined this week by Daniel Rasby. And then Article 5, the nature of Christ's Lordship and Kingdom, which is what I just started with. Like current versions of constitutions mean anything anymore. Yeah, just like all of us individually will. We have to take care of our own heart and actions. That that's the p problem, I think, with getting into these discussions. And he says, Okay then then what? Right? Mm-hmm. Uh but yeah, I mean i if you are let's say you happen to be the king of a Christian country and you are a Christian then But again, uh how does the how does the state determine that? So if you say, Hey, my denomination uh sacrifices babies to Moloch then Yeah. He is a pastor as well in the area. We affirm that the Christian Nationalist Project entails national recognition of essential Christian orthodoxy. So you you are going to be only a in in the legitimate tri tribes of Judah or tribes of uh Israel As far as Israel. If you violate law number six, you violated law number one. Alright, well let's pick up the pace guys. Yeah we are we're gonna we're gonna tell them they need to obey. And and and they will because they're just be serving the interests of the church in its mission of evangelism. If you're citizens in the United States. I just don't want to go so well regardless of how they would have addressed it, they don't seem to address that much at all in this whole statement. And so so particularly saying to civil authorities, hey, you civil authorities, God has actually determined what your realm of authority is. But that's been one of my big frustrations broadly speaking with this debate that's going on two years really now. I I say kind of half joking, but only half joking. Number nine? And they're saying, but we who are signing the statement live in the United States, so we don't have control over China and Uganda and Australia, so we're Did you write the Christian nationalist statement? We affirm that God is the creator of all and gives grace to the world. I'm not sure. Are you heading out now or are you going to stick around for the first half of the minute? Uh it's been discouraging. And that's how the Article 5 begins on the nature of Christ's Lordship and Kingdom. All right, so this one is headed, The Identity of Civil Authorities and the Source of Their Authority. I think the point of the people writing this ar this statement is that they are supposed to know It is. Well I I'm saying I'm saying all all you know all humans bear the image and likeness of God. You know, I ha I had respect for you until I found that out. So here's our short term priorities for our own country. No no no but I right. Right? We affirm that God gave Adam a law of universal obedience written on his heart. It is not the keeping of that moral law of God that saves anyone. I'm surprised they didn't sidebar the other. We affirm that civil authorities are God's servants of justice who must know who their master How about you, David? To abolish abortion. Well let me uh see that out there, see that out there, boom. And so I I I like the idea. We'll see if we have time to have a lot of discussion about it. But anyway, um That's funny they said we affirm the need for more theologically sound Christians to enter the political realm. Technically the glass is always full. We're asking to do something impossible. Okay. We were close to finish fifteen for this one. It's a lot of words. I don't know if I have any thoughts really about this one. No, Article 6 is one of the shortest, possibly the shortest article. It does say Jesus said from the beginning they were one man and one woman. I think they've got 'em flipped. We're joined this week by David Forcy. Yeah, well I think that's a good example of the the church uh helping families With a with a co-op. That are not United States may actually be very ethnocentric. So they have other short-term priorities to bring in more so that that's all. We talked about this in Artheonomy discussions and other discussions that we've had. There's a couple of guys that uh my understanding that wrote it and then ran it past a c a few other guys that they trusted and said, what do you guys think? So uh anyway, so in in the affirmations talk about spiritual for foundation and orient citizens towards You can find me online at Household of Faithinchrist. Or five, have no basis in rationality rationality. As we continue our march through a look at the statement on Christian nationalism and I think they missed a sphere. And David Forcy, he's on the panel again. Well they they provided a basic foundation and they skipped a step, right? He's this these are God's chosen people. Um but in that uh that sentence it says nations possess the uh the right to establish their justice and seek or the peace It's not for the church. We don't we don't call um And we say, we stay stop that because Jesus is Lord I think I think what what they're saying is you should have a special focus of t telling and teaching government authorities about God because they're the ones that are gonna have a a huge impact. We deny the content of the gospel includes obedience to the law. All right. Is it a combination of nations? Wait, where'd that come from? But I what what David's saying actually makes sense, at least it has some logic to it, that hey, whatever is interacting between humans, between each other, that's what the government And so the government's the one that's gonna say to stop that and the Christians gonna say, Well it's because Jesus is Lord. But they are still trying to be very careful to say in this way alone the government will be evangelized. They avoided flourishing again, by the way. And we're behind or we're on schedule still with the sixth show plan. You gotta share the bad news first. Alright. And the denial says we deny that pragmatism should be the driving force behind the decision making Yeah. Right. I think I agree with that. Yeah. All of us are pastors of house churches. There's several typos, there's several grammar issues in the paragraph. Yeah, and I I I'm not sure why that is. I also have a problem with number two by the way for what it's worth. I think the non-believing ultimately might disagree with this statement. Even though that's been this country's history, right? That was never the intention. Well we're trying to define reckless. I do the best job of of listening. Right. So they're trying to have a broad tent, but clearly not as broad as I originally imagined. And if they mean that, I'm not so sure I agree anymore. It's gonna turn into a one world evil government, tyrannical, that is gonna precede Christ's return. Okay. And once they've repented, we then instruct them and call them to obedience. Yeah, it makes me uncomfortable long with me having gained some weight and my pants are binding me a little bit now. Oh, there we go then. Uh two, defending and approving those who do good, and three, avenging victims of crimes with speedy justice and proportional punishments for evildoers. I have not heard that word being used by any of these so a lot of the Tim Keller types uh you know, really big on using the flourishing word anyway. I'm not sure I understood what I was reading there. Right. com. Yeah, no there are yeah, there are examples that are provided, but those mere examples don't necessarily provide uh Till then, God bless. Are we on I think we're on uh other words, are we on on time? So so it wasn't yeah. That's not a and it should still be done by the church or by other families. We further deny the natural law is a different standard from God's moral and universal law, summarily comprehended in the ten But I think if if especially if they want this to have very broad reach, you need to really to say clearly say have have a section. Uh yeah, teaching to obey all that he has commanded includes civil authorities. Mm-hmm. Takes up an entire page as I printed it out. I think it's a good thing, but maybe there's a way I don't know what the right way to say it is, but I think they can tweak this a little bit to get rid of the the gray area that we were pushing back on a little bit. And so we're trying to at least model that and sh s and for those who say, oh, this is really simple, because I've had have we had those conversations? I don't know their history the way I know my history and vice versa. Christ might have already turned by then. Yeah, so I gotta say I know Daniel doesn't like this one. And they've got a number of uh proof text scripture references and stuff as they do for all the articles. Well it started with the frontier town where you know ten families moved out to start a town together and they said, Hey, can you tutor my kids for the w during the week 'cause To declare solemn basic baby repentance, abolish abortion, define marriages between a man and a woman, deweaponize uh the government against uh t you know, Chris targeting Christians. It doesn't say specifically United States. And I still don't think they should have done it. And as you know, and as we discussed this show before, I think those are two totally different things. And that's where the the blending of this Christian nationalist debate and the theonomy Now a physicist will see the glass is totally full, half of water and half of air. Well no, I think what I said uh well I can't remember for sure, but I think I was like if we have nothing to say, we'll be done to four shows. There's there's the shed blood of Jesus Christ, but we start with pointing out what is wrong. Yeah. It says tell spread the gospel to everyone, right? Both both and by saying this is what it is and this isn't. Yeah, I think I think that's something that is going to be helpful for them to uh and I think they might be working backwards here a little bit, but Yeah, if they were walking around like that, I would think they were a s uh United States Senator from Pennsylvania. So the idea of what people when people think the word racist in in Yeah, and that's part of one of the questions I had about this. There are countries when where abortion is illegal. Well it's good to get ahead then. Now, a as a a reformed guy, it's not up to them, right? Unless you want me to go first. Uh Holy Spirit's John. Um we deny that God intended the Ten Commandments solely for old covenant Israel, but rather Bang, bang, bang, bang, bang. Where's that? I'm as a Star Trek fan I'm reminded of the Star Trek episode where where Captain Kirk is telling this the these aliens that have been waging pretend war and the computers decide who dies and then they My name Troy Skinner. So no, I mean just because you're not following the command of God doesn't mean I get to do it for you. Whether or not this particular article falls in dead or not. But also in myself, like you know, again, it ties into so many things that are part of the vernacular today. Um the Bible does command certain solemn days of uh uh of But it there's sort of here is this idea we failed him and so we need to That's household of faithinchrist. Well, it famously don't work, right? Encourages civil order. That's that's Daniel for uh Daniel Razzi and David Forcy's job. And they tried hard. I'd I was more something on the dual citizenship of the idea. So the nature of Christ's Lordship and Kingdom. Yeah. Number nine? We affirm that Jesus Christ has appointed over his church both government and discipline Out of curiosity, did you have a chance to to double check and make sure that there's proof texts are actually on point So maybe do a little bit more groundwork to explain why. We're making pretty good time on our pacing. We'll explain all that in just a second on the paperway. Um you know, formally the government should acknowledge the worship of Christ. I mean it's a good idea. Yeah. Um and on this show I think we demonstrate it and hope that we do. Well there's lots of times the government does things that they don't have the authority to do, even even like like you mentioned, the Um Article 7, the duty of civil authorities. And th we would argue, again I think rightfully so, that they really shouldn't be doing that And so then the uh that kind of begs the question, okay, well, what image and likeness does Caesar bear? Well all is God's. And I'll pause there and see if you have any comments. Well I think it's the the par parenthetical that follows it explains the practice of church membership and discipline. And so the Catholics are out. Some but maybe not at all. Right. At the end of show five. And it's not just a a a a stumbling, I mean by God's providence and his his uh you know his common grace. But I think the absence of that word it makes it a little bit squishy to me. I I it's more of a playful. I think you're mis misreading it, but I I don't think that's a that's um the So a lot of these things are actually in a so they would have different short term priorities. It's for the the church the citizens of the church who live in America. Yeah but I'm not sure. Yeah. Like he the Creator is the one who gives the law and and and and and the law then demonstrates our need for the Savior, but they don't say that This is the Faith Debate. I find it fascinating that these guys that are going to be very sharp and smart on because they're talking specifically in a USA context We're citizens of heaven. So I I I don't right, I I don't disagree in the sense that okay we as Christians have a I think that would fall in line. A lot of it just deals with how Israel is supposed to interact with other nations. That's part of what makes this show possible, I think. But that's a kind of an issue. Yeah, the plan is to is to uh be useful to God in the advance of his kingdom so that he will change hearts. Like so David, he I mean his his outreach and media exposure is pretty much the show. And with the tech in our nation's early years Oh the uh it'd be a new dress code for the Senate. David Forcy. Alright, so we left I gotta make a mark. And the government's job is to punish you for acting in an ungodly manner, whether you're Christian or not. So because I think there's going to be some some fodder for discussion on that and we could go off all the rails. We further deny that civil authorities have the right to coerce or command obedience to the dictates of men apart from God's word. I could preach to you and if you're not one of the elect you would say as a reformed pastor We deny that human authority in any sphere possesses absolute or unchecked authority Salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, rebuilding scripture alone, to the glory of God alone. Uh I'm gonna try that and see if it works. We need more time on this show, darn it. And then they have a very short denial. And so uh you know part of the question is well. Yeah. Or killing their babies and all those things, yeah, that would that would be a blessing for them. Now as for the affirmation itself, I gotta say this might be uh Tell Troy that you like this. Yeah, I I mean I think they're just kind of making it clear, hey, the uh g. So we'll we'll at least get it read and then we'll we'll maybe hold our fire if we don't have time to get deep into it and pick it up on We deny that seeking to maintain and assert national sovereignty has anything to do with prejudice against any particular ethnicity or nation. We've got about two-ish minutes or so initial thoughts on this one. Specifically. Well I mean it it did come first to the Jews. I'm not entirely sure what role it plays within the statement. Go ahead and move on. And if they want to acknowledge that they're responsible or not, they will give an account. Right. And insofar as God you're falling under the leadership of the Holy Spirit in in leading your heart, well then you follow your heart as it's being led That might be a totally separate show, I don't know. They they didn't mention kidnapping. And and and that's you know uh and maybe there's a point there to say, okay, maybe you just need to specify what you mean by enforcing all ten years. Because a good employer is one who we're gonna ask them to become a Christian. Now the the uh denial here says we deny that men's consciences homes Oh yeah more to say on the information than the other. Is that what it is? We affirm that all human authorities, including civil, possess authority only as it has been delegated to them by God. Yeah, I don't know that um it has to be in there. That's but then the love your neighbor part means you're interacting with other people. Because the laws of other nations are are very And and so so I I but this this whole article is only talking about what the church is supposed to be doing. Apostles' Creed, Nicene Creed, Athanasian Creed. Right. So let's uh get that going there. That's true. Then it says in our nation specifically, because when we're talking we live in the United States, so what can we do here? Do you even know what I'm alluding to? Without religion. We affirm that obedience to this moral law is the delight of all who are born again in Christ. Yeah, where it ultimately matters from a heavenly perspective, I would say yes, but in a practical uh living out our life in the world manner, I'm not so sure because And uh but there was no sanction for not having the fence. I'm I I'm not disagreeing with that. I don't know if I prayed for that, but I'm going to pray now. Hold on a second, I gotta do something technical for half a second We affirm that God's purpose for civil government is to establish justice for his glory. So whether we're going to accept their gospel professions as is accurate and true. I agree. There you can connect with my social media and everything else. And Dan, you were saying that one of the problems is that they jump right into a whole bunch of issues, right? I was thinking we would potentially need six. Yes. I uh yeah, I mean I think I think they're So when they when they're talking about gospel stuff, I think they're pretty good. Uh dishearten discouraging it's a little disheartening. Three, overstep their jurisdiction Well a lot of Christians we tend to want it both ways, right? But but everything that we do uh and this and this might be a good this might be a good topic to to have more to say If only in specific circumstances there are exceptions, and maybe you could say the exception Um you know, but then there's the question comes up, well what about Mormons? We deny that the civil government should endeavor to take on these responsibilities, and we deny Yeah. So I think the larger jurisdiction is really the issue that people have And I'm not done. Daniel Razley, you can probably connect with him online through conqueredbylove. Daniel Razby and the uh the church that meets at Imran's house. Are we going to ask the the Hindu owner to be a good Christian employer when he's a Hindu or she's a Hindu? It's not that simple. I have a lot in common just because of proximity. What we do right, so I'm I'm a member of the family of God, right? It is. We affirm that even when a war is just, according to the above criteria, You can learn more about us at household of faith in Christ dot com. The idea that a and certain not a new concept in America even So that's the origins of it. Right. Right. Roman Catholics were allowed. That's been one of my concerns is who gets to decide. So I wouldn't take the time to do that. Which is six through nine. What do they mean? Yeah. It even came up last week and the week before as some things that would be fodder for other shows, topics that we might not have stumbled upon if not working through these sorts of things. Even that stumbling is ordained by God. And it feels like there's that's kind of missing a little bit. Yeah, they light up the White House in rainbow colors. We sneak in, we record, we put it on the air, I don't even know it's airing anymore, I don't think And he's one of the two pastors, I guess, at the e. So in the common vernacular, I'm just using what everybody understands. David uh was prescient on that one And I I think any Christian reading this is gonna know, oh yeah, these are the godly things. It it's it's included in One hundred percent full. So maybe I'm projecting my concerns in other areas of the statement into this one. But do you have any initial uh responses or reactions to that? On this road, reckless will be over sixty five. It's like, okay, good. So again, this is a faith debate. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faithinchrist. One of the things I specifically asked God was that His Holy Spirit would lead me in this recording session to be a better listener. Well no it was really just Christianity, just different denominations of Christianity were welcome here. That's what happens in a revolution. Right? Um th they're there's kind of trying to answer what you You bear his image and so y you belong to God. I might say that, but you're not gonna say it. Um but I don't think 'cause the people that are generally these Christianities generally are not like really strong Old Testament com. No. The states were supposed to be the higher magistrate and the the the what we call the federal government now was to be the lesser magistrate. The Daniel has got it, I think, pulled up. Yeah. Let's go let's be fair on the political parties. I maybe I don't understand what professions mean Uh and anyway, till next week, 167. And I to be honest, I actually probably would be one who, if I were to agree, would probably take this second option Right? Which would which would actually be a uh a blessing to them if they if they Where were we trying to get? And here we are picking it apart word by word. Well they're they're saying it uh the content of the gospel Uh right, yeah. Um in fact I think that I don't think that's necessarily something I disagree with. So I guess I guess a couple things on that. Little Beatles reference for those who know. I think a couple things. Right. All these things on the list, they don't apply to all nations. You're not only sharing the gospel with Biden, you also share it with Joe Smith down the street, right? Alright. Do you know what I was saying? Okay, yeah, that's prop that's true, but definitely first for the Jews, right? We've been working through this statement for a number of weeks now and gathered together at least one more time. But anyway. Alright, Article 17, the the heading here is methodology Or or maybe there's it's out into nothing. Anyway, David and I gave our first cursory response to it, but Daniel wasn't here and we didn't do a full-fledged response, so But it it it it was a civil institution. I think they should have included, or we should think in terms of including personal responsibility. the practice of church membership and discipline. And so so they they they leave open the possibility that there may be a non sinful ethnic partial I'm sorry. And particularly if Mr. So no, I disagree with number three here. Yeah. Anyway, so the first paragraph here, which is pretty hefty paragraph. It's not throwing pies to the face. I think it I'd be okay with it, I think, if they were to set it up like they did with the um uh putting the fences on the roofs of the houses They use the word insurrection earlier in here. And this gets into I don't know how the civil authority is supposed to try to make these ecclesiastical determinations. I I none of those things are biblical requirements. Catholics are out. So there's and there's plenty of example when it says the nations and even even in the um Thanks so much for listening. Yeah We affirm, this is by the way, the subheading is the uses of the law. Right? All right. Okay. And I feel like that would have been one of the main points that they want to get out of the way when they're discussing how I'm Troy Skinner. And so I guess the fact that they don't mention it is just them saying well they could have denied that, right? Because I don't know that that would fit within what That's a logical uh um i i uh But if you check them out, they don't I'll throw them off your scent. They didn't use the word racism, which I'm really happy with I don't know. You can't do that. Um but also even believers who would fail to keep the law, because none of us keep the law perfectly. And if that as long as long as that's clear, I think I had no problem with that Anyway, let's go to fourteen's a longer one. Doing this is gonna guide Christians into the good works that God has planned for them in Um and then it's solely uh that they deny that it's solely for old covenant Israel I mean the gu that message of the gospel is you don't believe you're going to hell. So to finish fifteen in order to in order to have six shows. That's good. Maybe. So they we do have that kind of a but only on the st civil side. But there's been a lot of safe examples. You know, and and in all of our roles of and areas of responsibility. And I agree with that. So you know, they have the rod in quotes, they have keys of the kingdom in quote, they have sword, in quotes. Right? We were talking uh I think it was last week or maybe it was the week before about how they they're they're purposely using Right. This one is headed on the vocation and calling of Christian officials and legislators. Right. They would say, you know, that this Essentially what they're saying here is that uh that the government uh upholding The preservation and advancement of the Christian Church, the spread of the gospel for salvation by the church, and the abundance of blessings to the non- We affirm that God uses means, yet is free to work Well that's not minimizing civilian casualties, that's killing everybody. We deny that civil authorities are tasked with being the caretakers of citizens, the caretakers of citizens or educators of the children. I think that's what they're trying to say. Yeah, well, the people who wrote this are clearly in favor of the entire More in quantity, more in quality, what are they talking about here? Yeah that's they we can't even obey. But th that it sort of like to your point, Troy, that the civil government is not going to be the one that actually changes hearts and We affirm that all sinners are commanded to repent and believe the gospel and com. I can't remember for sure, but I think that was the intended goal to get through the review at five Okay. I d uh anyway. And we're assuming that involved in that at all. And so I think I think this sort of ties it this is a another shot at those people that would say, well we we don't need to tell the government what to do Encourages yeah. We affirm that God is the savior, good. Yeah. That's it's not being enforced, but it certainly is in the Maryland Constitution. If you do, it's illegitimate If they had Yeah, if they if they had their hearts of stone removed and replaced with a heart of flesh, I'd be fine. But but they make it clear that if Daniel was talking about that not too long ago. Profession as in do you profess They have more to say. And then so anyway separate. If this was a formal debate, they just lost the debate because they just sacrificed the first four commandments So if you're you want to connect with him and find out how to where he's meeting and stuff, maybe just reach out to me and I'll try to connect with David and we'll figure all that out That word secures. So it is it it is uh that they're sort of putting on display the It started then, but it was a it's a current version of the of the Maryland Do you want and I'm not picking on the old man in the White House, but do we want Joe Biden making that decision Orthodoxy Christian faith. Feels too parochial to me. It's not arbitrary. So I uh you're right, there are going to be people Are are called to accounting. We're doing pretty good on time. Because the Great Commission is for individuals and and and churches to preach the gospel of how to get saved Yeah. Well the gospel is also first to the Jews. Of course you can find the show online at And this just demonstrates these guys put a lot of thought into this statement. Well that still leaves so many babies being killed, right? That's the intent of God. I agree with that. You should not use the term, you know, because it's it's factually and true. Yeah. We're working together and trying to build and grow a a network of house churches that work together and we have we've got a number of us that that do some things together and We deny that laws against public blasphemy coerce conversion or hinder religious liberty in private. And Daniel Rasby is over there. Come on. It's the duty of the church and the believer, which does not possess a sword, right? We'll go to the horse's mouth on that one if we can. I will say. Right? And so who are we kidding? I mean they're using biblical, affirming biblical language. It's a good word too. And I don't know that And the and there th the argument is well I'm an optimist because I think we're gonna build all these Christian nations. That might be a word they would have stuck in there. This is article number 15 on the distinction between law and gospel. Maybe that's what they're addressing here, I don't know. So let's keep going. If you have a nation filled with Christians So there's some Well it's a blind spot, but I think it's kind of baked into the cake to use an old phrase that was used on the talk shows for a long time that I got tired of hearing. I think that I wouldn't even raise the question and be wondering exactly what they're meaning to say if they added the word legitimate Right. You know they're they're talking about uh you know some sort of partiality, ethnic partiality or or man stealing. Right. And first of all, what's it mean to safeguard prosperity and Smith goes to Washington then they would really agree with you on the Joe Smith example. But that you made the point a second ago. We affirm that God is the savior of many, calling them through the gospel. Uh promise throughout scripture and achieves uh within history. With the editor, boom boom. And I know that uh trust me, even for us, we get a little bit frustrated, like, man And we always need to have that focus. And so you have these potentially illegitimate claims to authority. This has been one of my big you know uh the question I keep asking is that nobody seems to and I'm not Self- self-control. This is the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Not necessarily specifically country borders. I lean towards the com. I'm gonna read the last half of this article, which is gonna be part affirmation and then part denial. Yeah, when they're talking again when I'm the gospel. Yeah I can stick around for for the first few minutes or so. That's interesting because it feels like David was maybe thinking differently about that in last week's show, unless they're defining things differently I think it just yeah, okay, whatever. Move on. So under the statement you can show uh bias against Islam or Hinduism And I feel like we've flipped them and I I think we're just setting ourselves up for disaster as So even if even in that specific circumstance, if you somehow knew that that person wasn't gonna get saved, you still were supposed to take Like seriously, I mean there's some zaney stuff going on out there. I mean Maryland was a Catholic state. And uh anybody who hangs out with him on the radio is no friend of mine But so they say, well we're not ethnic partiality people. I have a concern here about the binding of I don't know how they're gonna inter This is the Faith Debate. They probably avoided saying that on purpose. And I agree, I can't and I can't believe I've even given So uh right, so our citizenship is in heaven. Anything on this article? This is the Faith Debate. So I think that's supposed it was meant to try to answer So uh but all all that being said, uh be a good show. I think part of it could be that they didn't have a big committee and a long conference with a bunch of really smart guys get together and argue We'll be back next week around the same time. Anytime somebody kills another person in the And when laws are just, they accurately reflect the character of God, and in this way alone So we're just talking about obedience. We affirm that civil disobedience is a proper Christian response to civil dictates, which one I'm I'm just I'm not willing to put my foot down and say these are the only methods you could ever wage uh I I I don't know. Because otherwise it just doesn't it's self-contradictory based on just But now you have youth groups in Sunday schools and stuff and and the So you have your responsibility as a believer to follow the government as long as the direct command is One, um right, obviously this will come down to individuals, right? And then I had a question mark, I can't remember why I wrote a question mark, for the binding and loosing of gospel professions But it feels like it feels like they haven't laid the proper foundation for people who may not be as familiar with where these priorities come from Christian nationalism means white supremacy. Article ten, which was on on nationalism and policy priorities. There are co there and there are cut are several African countries specifically They probably say yes. Eighteen. They have a ministry as well called Conquered by Love, online, uh, Conquered by Love Ministries, I guess, online at conquered by love. Thanks for making us part of your Sunday morning if you're listening live on the radio or part of whatever day it happens to be if you're listening to us No I I think I is they're there's they seem to be making clear and they don't use the term of separation of church and It's really hard. So if you just like with charity, right? Well, yeah, no, I have. I don't know if we're gonna have much time to talk about it in today's episode or not. Let's uh see if we can I think mostly Daniel and I were in those discussions. Yeah. Yeah. Can't promise we'll be getting to them tonight, but uh at some point I will respond to them if you leave a comment I I I thought it was interesting they say depravity like child sacrifice and they did not say abortion Or we should just preach that people need to design org. Apparently. And once you're saved, you should ob you should obey as well. Keeping that law doesn't make your salvation better than it was or more complete than it was or Uh their family structures and units might be a little bit different than what I'm used to. I overthink everybody else helps me to Uh I I like sort of the that they're that they're trying to sort of Uh unless they're saying we don't even want to give cre What what what gets enforced Joined this week again by If they don't obey, then what? And they might feel very stifled because they can't What what article was this? And that is the final portion of Article 15 on the distinction between law and gospel, which finds itself within the middle and Like if you agree. The the and that's an interesting thing, right? We deny that in Scripture God ever approves of So I interesting. But that doesn't also mean that the the So which I I think is to your point that they're just God's law is God's law and everyone is intricately intertwined with it's like trying to split the Godhead. Like David has a reasonable I I don't uh and as as you know, I mean I'm in favor of all of the law laws of God being enforced by the three We left off at here, that's where we left off. The goal was to do it in five, so we'll see. Two, secures civil order by restraining evil, though protecting the righteous from the wicked, through protecting. Christian governments who are just is what they meant. And the and as a pastor, you know, who believes strongly in in agreement with the Apostle Paul that we have union in Yeah. So um Yeah, and I also like that they're being self conscious, you alluded to this earlier in t today's show, that they're being self conscious about trying to use biblical language. And David Forza, he's a pastor, doesn't have a website or anything like that. By the way, let me finish reading the article because it's pretty short. Right? They're way smarter than me. Cannot chase him away. They said the government should do godly things But why if why if this is a godly biblical Well as as you know. Unless it's in a vacuum. We affirm that this duty And it and it applies to p politicians and government for sure. Really? Right. And by the way, I d I don't know. W right. We affirm that while political maneuvering and cultural expertise can be good and helpful I read about the first half or so of the affirmation, didn't get to the denial, but again, if you We would follow our king Right. Like, how is that a profession? Here it goes. Yes To make disciples, so you start there. The only thing that comes to my mind here is speed limit laws and where they Who knows by the time I And you know what? I didn't compare them for sure, but it's definitely a short one. And then they go on to say, and to exercise restraint in international military intervention And therefore the government should be Um I mean the the uh so I can point it out Well it's some of the difference between this and several of the other statements we've gone over the last year Like that being if that's the first thing we say, then we're saying there's a law and you're breaking it. You ready for the next paragraph? So he got a little bit of time, uh hit the highlights. Who does a better job? And then uh you want me to read the denial right away or you want to talk about the affirmation first? Yeah, you can't attack them for their historic beliefs and teachings. Article two is the definition of Orthodox Christian faith. And if if if they insisted on it being Sunday, but if you have a conviction it should be on Saturday Daniel Rasby, he's got a website. And I too They gotta fix this, they gotta pick one. Yeah, so there's some sort of a glitch there. And so then when we And yet somehow they have this blind spot. We know a lot about traffic patterns in Frederick is It doesn't really talk a lot about what other nations are supposed to do to Find us online at householdtofaith in Christ. And that turned into okay, well then we'll just send them to your house every every day for I I think what they're saying is that what people think of as secular is not actually But God actually does show ethnic partiality But other than democracy building, these But you disagree. But only by being just by being just but only in that way, and they're very very clear and this they're not preaching the gospel. Um and if we say something good we try to affirm e each other in that. That would be reckless. Three But then they start off Article 6 affirming that civil authorities are God's servants of justice That's what they're saying that They're contradicting God all the time and they have a worldly authority We affirm that God has armed civil authorities with the sword of justice to promote citizens' welfare without partiality. I think they should have picked a spot that they're going to land and fight for and defend that turf. Yeah. So I I don't know. Yeah, and you know, and that and that might be a part of their I say that we we are we are determined uh we we are destined to not have uh Right? Right? So And I'm held responsible for what I do in the body, for what I do as my role in the force Make David a better talker. Um and that you know you're all I mean it's we'll go longer, but the fervency of the debate for going on two years now Right. I've been the longtime uh host of the Faith Debate. We affirm that only the church has been given the keys of the kingdom, quote unquote, for the binding and loosing of gospel. And our conscience bound by somebody else, we have our own conscience too. 5 hours from right now. Thanks for spending part of your day with us here. Unfortunately, too many of the Both are true. We've been working our way through this statement in systematic fashion for a number of shows now. I'm not so sure that it like absolutely secures civil order. Even those who don't believe are blessed by living within that environment. So then clearly it's not only does it not save anybody, it doesn't even contribute towards saving or justifying anybody Uh so i I think Um which Eastern Orthodox are probably out. It doesn't really differentiate between the two tables as one being better or worse or more uh more important than the other. It may be one of the callings for a Christian. We deny that the law can be separated from the love of the personal God who gave the law. It's not trying to trash somebody on social media, trying to diminish their ministry or their or or their personhood. How could how could this you know be improved in some way? It goes on from there. And in the interest of time we're jumping right in today. Yeah. I I I I I kind of wish that they would though. Sure, great. So th so that part that they say on the uh The Muslim is actually They're also called to politics I'm not doing that as a representative of the government who does bear the sword. I wasn't even paying attention to the clock, but we are completely flat out of time, not even any closing music. If there's an insurrection then the civil authorities should have the uh right to stamp out the insurrection Um but there are uh men So they're they're already in the position where they're making those kinds of decisions, right? Because now there's some people that are gonna be very offended by this And uh you know, so then the and then Right. Yeah, I think there's concerns for not only the non-believer. We affirm the inescapable reality that civil authorities possess a moral and spiritual foundation Well, I mean when we when we are um I agree with you. As we record this, they still haven't put out the final draft. But anyway, at least it seems to me that they're saying Do we want Mitch McConnell making that decision? And you have to have both. So we have the governments have certain things they have to do. I I think what they're getting at here is that to Do you b should it be both tables of the law or not? Alright, we'll see if we can get there. We want, on the one hand, states to be more powerful than the government. We affirm We will be giving a reaction and some critique. We talked about this in our last recording session So that worked. Raises questions about whether, you know, like Rome, for example Yeah. Spheres of authority. I'm gonna start by just reading the first part of Article 11, but then we'll swing back and address our things on Actually, no, that's that's number five. It's not a big deal. Should edit the show, make myself sound brilliant. It's not easy. I don't think it's a I don't think it's a second, I think they're You can connect to the Everybody is is uh but in terms of a of a governmental order, a a a On the contrary, a Christian nation would be impartial in judgment And I just did that kind of in the Yeah, yeah. That's what this statement is for. Yeah, I think this is I I I would say the glass is uh Now here's civil disobedience. And then uh some uh If not then you know we'll trust you to But that's a whole nother thing we've talked about But but you know, uh i it's it's simple. Now it's different when and what Sunday school actually started as was an outreach to the community Or that a Buddhist isn't going to be seen publicly trying to uh pay some sort of homage to uh Right. Which doesn't uh doesn't evangelize, right? Oops. Um anyway, now the denial I wonder, because they're saying here they deny the authority of civil officials Great. We affirm that different forms of just government can achieve just laws and we do not seek Yes. Thanks. Well there's a difference between your command as a Christian I don't get it. So they're not set. That's fine. So if you know uh now they do say like right after this, I don't think we've read this part yet. Well then how do they pick which laws to have on the books at all? I think yes. Indeed. I think if this were say they were writing a statement on Yeah, we uh And it's interesting I'm encouraged that you're agreeing But in any case it's definitely relevant the year. So you can look at it yourself. Not Mm-hmm. I don't care how offensive I act. Be consistent. It guides people into good works. But not first in order, but also in priority. Because that was the big swing and miss for the social justice warriors We're about to finish up article fifteen. Where it was going with that is also that, okay, so then even though I may For example, I'm having a hard time speaking all of a sudden. Right. Sure. And this is a bit of an aside a little inside baseball maybe, but you know One, they they make that decision now. The mere argument or even if it can be proven, the fact that it could not be done successfully. Right, yeah. And it begs the question, who defines what is orthodox for the government? Declare solemn days of humility and repentance. We affirm the need for more Or do this because Jesus When they're talking about Bible stuff specifically, they're not getting political theory or Are they a Christian denomination? Till then, God bless. And making sure employers know how to be good Christian employees. Yeah we got so close th I I don't We affirm that God has given unique responsibilities and instructions to authorities within each sphere. You have the history of the Quakers. That way you don't have to worry about people you know giving you a hard time. Yeah. And then when you know God's people as the Jews in the Old Testament did We're uh we're still on track. Well you're gonna have a problem because of the Ten Commandments thing. Maybe it's me, but that last couple of sentences I read, I don't see how it's related to the uses of the law. That's not really a blessing. Let's turn that on. We affirm that civil disobedience, although sometimes necessary And my and my concern from a this is just a concern citizen. So when you're suing somebody We read the whole thing So we're uh interesting. Because Rome I don't know. And we're Christian. Well they say gospel and this is law. I don't want to throw the baby out of the bathwater. I don't think you've walked down the streets of uh Frederick, Maryland in a while. Okay. You can't have one or the other. So we should verify that it's You go talk to a person down the street and tell them about the gospel, that includes obedience David or me? But I think that's that was the intention. For example But but all of those you know God bless. And so that's that's the world I live in. And I think a lot of a lot of Christians don't like like to hear that Which, you know You know, that w w we believe It's not really about our responsibilities to the government, it's about the government's responsibility Well church church membership and church discipline both have to do with profession in the sense of the church. And they haven't even brought it up I think that's the As Christian brothers and sisters, mostly Christian brothers I gotta say. The sanction was if you didn't have the fence and somebody hurt themselves And that comes put back plays back into my whole recommendation that So when we were together last time, it was just, I think memory serves, I think it was just the good looking David Forcey. But there's been lots of examples. So really Protestant But if they're drying trying to market this to a broad audience, they may want to do the ex And is he proximed? Like if you did have I think that I mean w we have to govern our own actions. Not other nations, our nation For And what supersedes that citizenship Yeah I I not every country is as woke as America is. Absolutely, yeah. Well his glass is probably half full too anyway. Okay. And I'm not when we pick it apart. But God has also made me a a forcey, so I'm a mm And I think a lot of state If you're as a Christian, if you're supposed to obey the civil authority, you're obeying Article seven is one of the longer ones, possibly the longest one. They might in future articles. That's what I guess what they're meaning by that. org. You don't want to start off just by reading a list of text. Well he and his family they have an organization called Concordby Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. Um more more of Um but i I I I just feel like that's a little more realistic. Yeah, yeah. You're either an authority or under authority. I'm Troy Skinner. It's almost like, oh, somebody who uses the word flourishing too often And uh that's been I've been s So they're inching closer and closer to having the government evangelize and I think so. Thus thus it was actually Well Caesar was not godly Oh, well then the Mormons are out They're saying one through four and then five through ten. Right, absolutely. We have the Holy Spirit we can't obey. And I think the I the process of ongoing sanction A just law is always a rational law The denial on the purpose of civil government says And and uh some people might ask the question then, well which government It's just about, you know, defending borders, um I mean do you do you do you want to include it in here that each person is uh Thanks so much Let's see I I think, you know, I mean just Yeah, I think they're talking about in uh in in practical senses living in a Okay. com or WFME. com We affirm that God has established fears spheres. That's a that's a gospel profession? org. So that's the first But I think that would be great. But on our Article ten is on nationalism I I think ultimately they're saying, right, that Not only Christian governments. No, it it's relevant, it's just uh maybe it's Um right, we are members of the So not just the my point is not just as parents. I'll just play. And it's not protecting human life from anybody, it's killing human life. And if you just want to hear it read, in my dose tones Well who decides when Well they would say they are. So the and You you can't do that. And they tweaked it and made some editing choices and it just didn't run through the vetting process. And they made it very clear earlier in the statement that the tr the government does not do the church's job. If not, we'll do what we do. But Faith jumped out at me and and Yeah and I I just feel like there's a little bit of a hole here that I think i He keeps coming back for more. Easiest thing to do again, go to my website, get on my email, all my contact information. I think it was Uganda that just passed a law banning whole So I just read Article 13 on the Great Commission. I'm going to pause there because that was an awful lot of words I think you're probably right You already owe me the money Um they They deny this. I'll break it in in half. So let me uh get this ball rolling Written by people who would call themselves Christian nationalism So I like that We affirm that the government has the duty to intervene What do you what do you think they're meaning by secular Well, he bears Just follow your heart. Where do they fit in the context of this statement But we can't we can't compel That's the solution. Therefore we all owe ourselves to God. You can find me online at Here's some things we can do specifically here to further that Not gonna scream. That's a lot of editing though. And but that's that's the duty of the church and the and It's way past due based on what they said it'd be out. Say here's the Bible defines uh and and prohibits abortion. This was just a a pretty generic single face actually this whole We didn't quite get to the Nile. They said we denied the oh but they kinda got it into in the last one, maybe is the I'm not really sure w So this is not the gospel I sure don't Um that because child sacrifice Yeah, absolutely. They're gonna have cultural norms that are different I think there's very valid points that we're both thinking on there. Could he make it into the studio? What are some of the things you just don't like about We're now uh entering into our So uh But my job is to tell you to become a Christian It doesn't bring good news We're not saying we could do better I'm trying to think biblically, like is there uh You're missing the point. I can't quite see his glass. We're gonna ask a non Christian to obey. Right. That is Article 13 What part should be taken out or whatever? I don't know Now it says they do say the affirm the government has I would say they're not, right For better or for worse, this is it No, you have to lead your heart. No. There are individuals that we know of Um they they do It should not be allowed in any society So Okay. In correct Tell me where you stand and argue the point. But I've also said that, you know, if you see the glass half So you're saying, Well and what if I don't? Sometimes we do it playfully, sometimes we do it very directly. com. Uh yes Right. None of us do We're not, you know, here on Sunday mornings bright and early. It's just a very tiny one. And Yeah, I'm splitting it like We haven't lost we got a little bit ahead and So um Yeah, to not to not live on a deserted island. Well yeah, that is optimistical. I'll read the first half and then we'll pause and then I'll do the second half. So each individual Mm-hmm. So that So I I I I And this then would of course include anybody who's a Christian who's Okay, gotcha. So this is the Faith Debate. They have a conscience I don't I don't understand what that means And we're and we're well how do you know? Moreover, we deny the authority of rulers I I I think both in the That's a dangerous path to go down You're not saying that I don't know, it's a very long article So um Mine's always half empty. We done four shows now I'm I'm generally speaking on these sorts of sweeping I w I would say also even on the ethnic I have, you know, all things in common. So that We deny that citizenship Those roles have flipped and I find it just What ecclesial ecclesiastical determinations? Um because I'm not sure you can get ten out of ten to agree with you. Exactly. They're gonna say, wait a minute. So This is an example of those And and and they're Oh They can't From the soul predists. I know I have something to say about that. We've had a lot to say. And I I don't think so So in that spirit You need to be obedient. Daniel, David, I'm Troy. And so that's good They're using different They were they I I feel like org. Well then you don't. Sorry I said that just now. And I think I mean org. So