Only names. Yes. Right. He was the father, he was the father, he was the father, he was the father. So that's that's a culture um culture misunderstanding to to make the action. um stat effets. But there are people that do actually pray to them and have uh spiritual significance. Oh that the church would teach to that It's not really that religion. They just face some difficulties in life. They will they just emotionally want to choose some temples to it's not very religious things. Alright, ready to go? Alright, let's do this. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks for spending part of your day with us, whether it's live on the radio. or later on via Memorex, via podcast. You can follow us uh online at WFMD. com, also at household of faith in Christ dot com. That's the name of my church, Household of Faith in Christ. I'm Troy Skinner, the host of the Faith Debate and the pastor of said church. Joined this week again by Daniel Razvi, one of the pastors at the Church of Mesa Imran's house. And this week we're joined by Imran, Imran Razvi, Raz to his friends. They also have a ministry conquered by love. uh ministries conquered by love. org is the website there. And we're joined this week as well for at least one more final round with Moses Fu. He's Currently in s well, currently he's in the United States, but he lives in Singapore and uh he grew up in China. He was not a Christian growing up, but he is now and we've been talking about that the last several weeks on the show and we're gonna do another round here and we were we're talking toward the end of last week's show uh uh about the difference between what it's like in the West in America particularly for us Uh and China and I was making the comment that doesn't sound that different. Uh we've just gotten there from different starting points, which is uh rather um I don't know, maddening in in so many ways actually. It's it shows us how much ground we've surrendered in the West, but that's subjects for other shows, I think. But we're talking mostly last week's show about uh the importance of the Chinese culture and respecting the the the the heritage and the traditions. and and the things that are uh distinctly Chinese that people hold dear and Chinese and and trying to interface with that as a Christian so that people don't just close off their minds and and and and send you away like you're you're just a a total you know an income poop because you believe there's a God and and all that sort of stuff. So we're talking about that and I was beginning to get some some understanding uh along those lines I think but I had this question it popped back in my head. I was uh had forgotten it since last week's show, but it popped back in my head, thank goodness. So the pardon the play on words, but the crux of the matter in Christianity is that there is a man who is also God who died, gave his life on a cross only to take it back up again and to ascend into heaven. So in a Chinese cultural setting where there's not this sense of of sin or I or I need someone to pay for the dishonor in my life. How do you get there? How do you explain the cross of Christ in a Chinese culture? We don't have that kind of teaching in our education system. But but in the church, like in the whether it's the underground church or even the the government uh registered churches, hopefully they're preaching the gospel and that that should come up pretty regularly that Christ died on the cross. So how do How is that understood or how is there a way to present that in a deeply secular Chinese culture? I'm asking because that may be helpful in an American context. Now. Right? Maybe not 20 years ago, but now it might be really helpful for us. How how do you do that? Okay, um in 1990s. um there'd be more easier to to preach the gospel people were easily trust. Uh it is because uh once uh Uh China opened the gate after 1978. We joined the global economic system slowly. Um people are eager to learn uh English and other kinds. countries cultures. And also um also God doing some amazing job in China. because those political persecution, the church leaders, they are released slowly from the prison. So government think If we persecute, let them to put put in the prison the church will die if they burn the Bibles, close down all the churches. Seem like nobody is Christian in China. But once these kind of seeds that planted in the in the deeper ground once they open the gate that the church can be open Even not officially open, but they release those leaders, the churches, just like a spring. All the flowers bloom. And s suddenly so many people, thousands of people, uh declare their children uh they are Christians. And uh Uh more uh work done by God is in 1990s, countryside people start to believe Christ tremensily because The Holy Spirit uses healing power to do a lot of amazing healings in the countryside people. They are not intellectual. But it they experience those pastors, those leaders in church, pray for them. They have the authority to declare you raise up, you'll be healed A lot of amazing things happen in the same thing, in the same way in the Gospels, in Matthew, in Luke, and also in John Th these miracles happen. So all intellectual person join the church first, the first wave, then slowly influence those citizens uh in between of countryside and the city. But once come to the intellectual people of group, that will be more difficult. Because their success, they will identify, they use their own strength and own intellectual power to to earn it. It's not related with God. So if you see me as a sinner, I earn money, I have success, I use my own effort to reach this position. How can you see me as a sinner? They don't accept So the barrier uh the the most difficult uh battles in China is those high moral value and the success and high intellectual persons to come to Christ. They are so proud of the rich menace. Yeah, this is the right in the Bible was it's hard for a rich man to go there, right? To be saved. Um because if you don't have any need, then how do you find the need for God? You everything's fulfilled. You have all your needs met and you're not looking for anything There's now there are some rich people that find that being rich does not fulfill their inner soul and they are searching and they look and they find God that way. But But it's it's a difficult journey, it's it's hardly a rich man, right? That's just it doesn't say you can't, but it's hardly. I I guess the question really is then some of them do get saved. Right. So you do explain the gospel to them. What do you say not about works but you do say about the grace of Christ? He died on the cross. How do you explain that uh uh to to somebody in child? During Christmas we have so many um events happen uh when I was just become Christian in two z two thousand six. I go back to China, I join some uh uh college fellowships. The apostles try to build some city church. Just not mentioned the first wave is all intellectual and countryside people come to Christ. But They rent the theater, movie theater, that is very old but cheap. They're holding the events to invite a lot of college students. They're eager to listen the gospel. Why? Because during the Cultural Revolution, all traditional gods are washed away by the government. So people's religion needs is empty. They a their their mind for the spiritual world is empty. If you just put the Christ to them at that point of time It's a harvest. Lack of workers to to to to receive all the all the all the harvest fields, like Jesus said. We lack of workers. So many people believe Christ. You just preach to Yeah. It's a it's a occurred to me, you know, when we uh first set up to do these series of shows, uh Daniel, it might have been at your recommendation was I don't know, but Daniel suggested that uh one of the areas we touch upon in in in the discussions was uh talking about pre-Christ versus post-Christ society and the implications for growing the church in various cultures. And I wasn't entirely sure what the heck that meant. I figured we'd just kind of get to it when we got there. And I realized we've been talking about that now for like two shows. Uh because China is coming at things from a pre-Christ background and now America's in a post-Christ environment which and I think that we uh Moses does isn't fully uh accepting it I don't think. But as you spend a little more time, I think you're going from Maryland to Texas and if you spend a little more time I I think you're gonna begin to see how true it is that the America of today isn't that different from the China of today. Clearly the China of fifty years ago and America fifty years ago very different and the China of two hundred years ago probably even more different than the America of 200 years. But today I don't know there's that much daylight between them. It it's striking to me, actually. It's been quite the education for me. But I want to ask you this. You became a Christian. In spite of not having been raised a Christian. And you were, you know, part of the Chinese culture and that was important to you and all that sort of stuff. And yet now you would say, right, that I was a sinner and I needed to be saved by the blood of Jesus Christ on the cross, right? How did you cross that bridge? How did you because it sounds like if they presented the gospel to you the way you've been suggesting in Chinese people need to hear it. You didn't hear about the sin right away. So at what point was it introduced or what point did you discover it and and then apply it to your situation? How did that work for you? There's many uh many contexts in my personal life uh that's uh fine I'm a singer. Uh so join the club. Yeah. So um Yes, one most uh landmark landmark in my uh uh milestones in my life is uh When I graduate, saw the pastor and a lot of families receive us to cooking, dinners, to work on them, to fellowship with us, we take for granted. As a one child pol policy uh educator, uh a person, a young teenager, I I always enjoy those six of my parents, grandparents focus on me. So I don't have the mindset I need to um consider other people or love other people uh in in in in a certain way. So I graduate, then the pastor invited me to a living thing in his place. That maybe not very common in in local thing for church pastors. But he really uh does this uh uh offer to me because uh I need to find a job at the time and also I need to save money So after uh I moving to his place, he told me that what you eat we eat. What we eat you eat. And also he mentioned about uh the rental fees that I need to pay because he asked some financial uh background check. How how how is a parent job? Everything I told that uh my parents all uh all the uh government officials official officer so they they earn uh regular money salaries. So no problem. So you you should pay the rental fees. He he politely to tell me that So a month later, that's a date I should pay for it. And I didn't get the meaning of the pastor saying what they eat I eat. I I actually eat whatever they buy and they prepare. But the another phrase is what you eat, we eat. That's Chinese culture. It's hidden message behind that you should contribute also. If you buy certain fruits or other stuff, we can also enjoy with you. But I never get that meaning. I didn't bought anything. And during the day that I need to pay for the rental fees, I didn't I didn't pay anything. I just forget the date. And I even don't change the money because I hold in the R and B. You should I should change to Singapore dollars to pay for the rental fees, but I didn't do that So that point of time, Pastor talking to me at the night, to really string to talk to me that such people take for granted. and point out my laziness and forget for forgetfulness of all these important things. And I even gave the excuse that I don't have time to change the money. He don't give you any uh any uh r uh faces just point your heart to to To your sin. So at that point, Holy Spirit also also working on me. I really kneel down to God declare I'm a singer. I really never think about others, just care for myself. Right selfish attitude in life and and that was and how did you how did you know to to label that and call that sin, 'cause your Chinese culture wouldn't have called it that. I guess your pastor at that point had been teaching about sin and you kind of knew, oh, I get it. That sin thing you've been talking about, I get it, that's me. Interesting. Yes. One of the things you talked about wanting to get into, I think, um was misunderstandings between the Chinese government and the churches, maybe particularly the House churches So what are some of those misunderstandings? The government has the wrong idea about the churches, I guess? And that the that the church maybe isn't as uh uh uh as anti-government uh as they as the as the government thinks they are or what are some of the things that the the government would benefit from knowing about the churches Okay, um there's uh events that uh broke uh uh uh to to a lot of the whole world should know that uh uh there's uh persecutions in in a few years ago the Chinese churches um the top of the church buildings the cross be taken down by the government because they say it's illegal. And why? Why? Because the height of the church is too high. It's unsafe. Uh I don't know, but uh but the the key point they can think of whatever reason they want. Yeah. They even uh uh uh even call those military powers to to to do that because church members holding hand to hand to uh defense the church do not allow any people to go up to take down the cross because they feel the cause is symbolic Meaning for the Christ. Could it stay then? Okay. But as as our um our understanding later, a few years later we understand that because just after COVID, we can see different denominations of different backgrounds of Chinese churches start to connect each other. become a body of Christ. They listen to each other, they help each other. But before COVID-19, there are so individual denomination and leadership in Chinese church. So they just like different mountains. They're not connected to each other. And they the only thinking about glorifying God is building a beautiful and high church and put the course on top That is really not the biblical values that God wants to glorify that the churches united together, but we didn't do it. the important things, but do the architecture uh architecture things to be higher And and uh that's not the point. So God allowed the government to correct the church directions. So the church don't understand the how to influence society and persuade the government in the more efficient way. It's not a building. right uh more efficient the way. Actually government need uh a lot of support like uh education because right now a lot of uh kids uh in the education system not how to say um they they they need more more teachers and helpers so we I know that there's uh one church that uh uh apply the license to open the kin uh kindergartens. They hire all the church members teachers to nurturing kids, their own kids and also um have some non-believer kids in in in the in the kindergarten. So that will be more efficient way to to help, although you need to cover a lot to do not let uh government uh clearly understand it's from church. But you can do a certain job. Now it looks like everyone was leaning in to ask a question. So my understanding I think is that what happened was the the Western um influence on some of the churches is what caused a lot of the problems 'cause the Western church is is fight the government, make the government like the West. and then you'll have freedom and we need freedom for the church to grow. And that caused a lot of angst and problems. And then as the churches grew and built these big buildings, the the government saw them as a competition or a a threat to the government leadership. And what uh here Moses saying is that that really actually opened up a lot of the eyes of the church leaders and said, hey, this is not what we're trying to do. We're not trying to um uh to offset or or give an alternative to the government. What we want to do is help the Chinese people and as the government starts seeing that we're not trying to take over, we're not gonna try to do that, we just want to help the Chinese people grow and they see that we're actually giving giving to the Chinese people and not trying to take them away. See the Western Church as it comes in, they're trying to disrupt the government And the Chinese church, as they learned from this these persecutions, said look, we don't want to disrupt, we don't want to just tear down the government. The government was placed there by God And God could take the government down whenever they want. So w our our role here is to build up the Chinese people, to you know, to let the government know that hey, we're Chinese. Yes we're Christians, but we're Chinese. And we and China is important to us and use us. You know? people and I think that's where it's coming together and the Western church doesn't see that. They they're saying, Oh no no, you gotta have freedom. You gotta have you gotta have freedom from the top down. But the Chinese Church is saying, No, we have freedom from the bottom up. We have freedom in Christ And what no matter what slave owners or the government or whatever you want to call them do, we have freedom in Christ. And we're going to do our best to just honor Christ and serve the people. Yes. I think that this these discussions actually have implications uh that could be applied into the current Christian nationalism debates in this country. Right? It's almost like we're looking at the same issues inside out and upside down. Right. And so that's been one of my concerns as we've done a lot of shows on that this past year uh on that topic. But one of my concerns is if it's biblical Christian truth, it should somehow fit and work in all cultural contexts. Right. And what's being advocated by a lot of the uh people that wear the Christian national label would only work in an American context if it even works there. But if it could work anywhere, it could only work in America, it might not even work in Canada, much less in China or Singapore or something. And there's something feels wrong about that to me. So whatever our approach about what the interplay between government and church should be and and faith and secular matters should be It's gotta fit o a a myriad of of scenarios. It can't just fit one particular idealized version of what we hope the truth to be. Yeah, and I think in this situation we can actually learn from the Chinese truth. church and instead of trying to change the government, let's change our hearts, let's ch let's help the people, let's focus on uh witnessing and ministering and discipling people and go from the bottom up. It's just that we're so used to the government being on On the Christian side, that we're s so shocked and angry that we're reacting in a different way. We're reacting in anger of our lost hope, of our lost uh heritage of Christian you know, foundations. And because of that we're not seeing who is actually Christ. Christ didn't say that this is a um theistic government. This is a secular government. Yes, it has Christian foundations, but w why are you upset about that? Just let's start changing ourselves to follow Christ and influence the nation that way. And I think that's one of the things that the Christian nationalism in the US is not getting. They're still trying to change from the top down, where the Chinese nationalism uh Christian nationalism is changing from the bottom up. They're saying, hey, you can rule us any way you like. We're still going to love Christ. Yeah, the real problem is it's it's pointing the finger and saying somebody ought to do something about that. And the somebody is always somebody else Right. The government should do this, the elected officials should do that, the schools should teach this, the even the church leadership should do that. Never Focusing it inward and and saying, I need to change. Where can I be better? I mean the your boldness in going home after you first became converted and you're a Christian for two weeks and you share the gospel with your your grandfather. I mean that uh that boldness is is largely absent in in in today's day and age, uh probably in China too, but certainly in America it's just not that common We've only got a little bit of time left and and I and I would be remiss if I didn't ask you to say something like, you know, uh Jesus Christ is Lord and Savior today in Mandarin. So what what would something like how would you say give some sort of a gospel, short little gospel phrase in Mandarin? All right. For me, um in Chinese, Yesu Du Chu Shu, Shen Minhou, Tao S that Shizia Shanghai, I think. Young Shen without Jesus Christ we cannot have the internal life. So uh one thing I want to add on for uh Pastor Razvi is If you um think further, if Chinese government be taking over Who will ruling this such a huge population countries? Our Chinese church be ready to hold this high responsibility position and working load is so huge? I don't think so because For the Puritan in the Mayflower moving to US, they are well educated. They have very clear political uh landscape to building yeah to building the new countries. Right. Because for Chinese church we have pre-Christ society. We don't even have the right theology uh uh teachings We are so anti-intellectual that we just focus on the spiritual things. But talking about political is so far from the Chinese church. We are not even ready. We are just a baby Church, a baby Christian. But today hopefully is coming, right? Maybe it's a baby church, but soon enough it'll be a teenager church and uh and then an old man church. Just like Imran and I, right? Thank you, Moses Fu for the uh last few weeks on the Faith Debate. Thank you, uh Imran and Daniel Rasby for being on the show. Thank you for listening. This is the Faith Debate. Follow us at WFMD. com and Household of FaithInChrist. com We'll be back again next week with probably a different topic, I imagine, on the Faith Debate. Until then, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless. Oh it's four shows, right? Yep. Well I mean finish it. Yeah you must be tired, huh? Just so you know. It's not like a big big thing that was that's a good thing. last message. It's locked out of our cars. Yeah, that's all. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So you said the please say uh my uh love to Moses But uh I'm sorry I didn't get to say I'm thinking. Yeah and it's it's kinda cold we locked out of your car. David uh here said he's gonna be a little bit more than a little bit. Okay. That's what he was saying. So you do not you do not offend him. Okay, okay, okay. I'm not sure he's offendable, but I've tried. That's what I was telling Moses earlier. I said I don't think it's possible for you to say anything that Would offend Troy or offend us. That's become a little joke I use from time to time. You know, after a while and somebody's not offended, I'll actually stop and he'll say, Moses, what can I say to offend you? That's crucial question. It's a fake debate, darn it. We're gonna offend somebody. In America especially, people get offended way too easily now. Could you do a show like this in China? Um it's too too sensitive. Yeah. Sensitive. Even the things we talked about today would be easier or not. You're not being political, you're not saying anything against the Uh there. And I think it's a very valid point. And anyway, if you if the government got overthrown, it would be a big thing. Any religion religion uh background things they will be uh prohibited bit. Yeah. Yeah. Anything in in Chinese version of uh um what uh teeth tiktok tick talk yeah they will do the check in the same term. Anything mentioned. Jesus Christ in Chinese of so there's no TikTok. Turn down the channel. There's no TikTok in China. There is, but And say they will do the system check teach math to get big big data check a AI check. See they know. They know, they know you'll find your IP, then if you continue to do that, they will send some people to harass you. Yeah. I'm telling you we're in different trajectories. Right? And we're meeting in the middle. Yeah. And they're moving up. Yeah. And we're moving down. And we're still looking for the up to fix it. And they're saying we don't need the up, we're just gonna keep it. The up's not there. Exactly. Yeah. That's what's missing in Christian nationalism. Say goodbye to the with the uh the screen. Anyway, leave a comment if you like and we'll get to them later.