Hello America, welcome to the Talking with Timbo Show. And tonight we've got a guest, his name is Troy from Truth Social, who's going to come on and give us his feelings on the free speech platform here that we provide at GCD Network and we want to we want to hear from Troy and his concerns. Because there's a few places where you can go out and speak your mind. So Troy, come on and tell us what's on your mind. Well hey Temo, it's a pleasure to be on your program on this platform. Appreciate uh making your acquaintance. Um As we were uh talking about coming on the show, I was uh I was asked to think about the question of is God uh trying to or is the country, the government, trying to remove God from the country And uh it's the question I think I could have some thoughts on. I'm a pastor of a of a house church, it meets in Maryland uh the People's Republic of Maryland. And uh and it's an interesting question. I and I thought about it for a minute and I thought, well of course they are. Yeah, I'm very familiar with Maryland. My Yeah, well you're right, yes. Because if you're going to have a Marxist government, which is what this government wants to be, then you can't have religion And so but of course they're trying to remove religion from the population and make themselves be religious. Yeah, so clearly the evidence is that they would like to remove God from our country. So the system But you're breaking up and frozen on my end. I'm not sure if that's across the network or just on my end Yeah. Um Yeah I was he was breaking up from eTube it it happens on Zoom sometimes. Sometimes yeah. Anyway, the the the point I was uh about to make is that yes, of course they're trying, but the reality is I'm a I'm a Christian, I think you are too Timo, and the reality is the Bible tells us that Jesus Christ is the King of Kings. and the government authorities are granted by God and so the government can try to kick God out, but they can't because they answer to him. He doesn't answer to them. And so, but there's obviously Lots of evidence that they want to try to kick God out because they're trying to kick the the truth out. There's there's fake news, there's there's fake the science uh fake so-called marriage, fake boys, fake girls, all sorts of fakeness that is out there. And uh Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. And so if they're trying to get rid of the truth, they're trying to get rid of God But they can't succeed. The big direct question I think that we in this country need to be thinking about. God is here The question is, are we experiencing God's favorable presence or his unfavorable presence? And uh I'm beginning to wonder if we as a people in this country aren't beginning to face the judgment of God to maybe slap us silly and bring us back to uh to bowing the knee to him the way the way that we should, or if he's um uh you know, kind of done with us and we've seen the fall of empires before. I think we've got to wake up. And if we're waiting for the GOP or some of the R behind their name to solve this, or if we're waiting for some great leader in the church even to solve this, I think we're missing the point. Uh there are spheres of government. Is the government trying to kick God out of the country? Well, you know what? There's the Bible uh talks about four different spheres of government. There's the there's the civic level, the what we call politics and all that sort of stuff. And that's what we typically think of when we're talking about government. But there's also church government, there's family government And there's the one that oftentimes gets forgotten, and that is self-government, self-control, doing what you can do. And I think if if we're gonna have this country turn things around, we need a revival And we we can't make revival happen. The Holy Spirit is in charge of that sort of thing. However, God is a God that He's proven to delight in working through means. And so we have an opportunity to partner in what God might be trying to do here in the United States of America and around the world for that matter. And so if if we're talking about government, let's talk about our self government. Are we reading the Bible? Are we pressing into God's Word? Are we attending church? Are we on our knees in prayer? Are we witnessing the gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ to those who need to hear? Are we doing those things faithfully? And if we are, we're trying to live that kind of a life. We're probably then governing our families well. And fathers and husbands are leading well and everybody knows their role and is pitching and doing what they're supposed to do in a in a God honoring biblical kind of a way. And then if we do that The churches are going to be better off, particularly to have a good church leadership in place. And what ends up happening if we start doing what we're supposed to do we're going to end up being better neighbors. And when you have better neighbors, you have better neighborhoods. And when you have better neighborhoods, you have better government. Because particularly in this country where it's a government that's of the people, by the people, for the people. So if the people step up and self-govern better, we're gonna be much closer to getting to a solution. If we refuse to agree with you somebody else weren't I agree with you and I think that you know I think one of the problems, major issues in this country is we have a crisis of morality. It's a morality crisis. Individuals have lost their moral base And they're willing, you know, they're subject to being influenced by all these outside sources That actually go against their best interests because they've lost their way. They've lost their moral background Yeah, we don't have don't have a moral standard anymore in this country. You know, that's that's that's that's forgetting at. Yeah Yeah, and you know, we're fortunate only that we don't still have an Old Testament God, or God hasn't decided to go Old Testament on us already. Yes, that one and tomorrow got nothing on us, right? I don't know if you speak the story about Saddam Gomorrah that the men weren't cutting off their junk and the women weren't uh chopping off their breasts as far as we know. I mean Saddam and Gomorrah's got nothing on us. It's it's it's the It's the patience and mercy of God that we haven't had fire and brimstone fall from heaven on this country. Absolutely. Yeah, I mean we're just lucky that he hasn't decided to go old testament on us. He absolutely could. Now I think we need to be sharing these kinds of not just the fire and brimstone, hellfire, damnation kinds of message, but we need to those who count themselves as followers of Jesus Christ, we need to be willing to put ourselves out there. You know, uh years ago when I was growing up, probably you too Timo, it was very common to hear that in polite company you don't talk religion or politics. Uh and that we had people like Rush Limbaugh come along and he taught us how to talk about politics and do so in a winsome way, in a friendly manner. And and uh and so now people are more comfortable talking politics. But most people still aren't very comfortable talking religion and I think that That falls on us who are members of the church. We need to put that out there a little more boldly, more frequently, and share the good news with people who need to hear whether they recognize that or not. Well, you know, it it's interesting about me in this situation, because like you said We grew up at a time when you know you you weren't supposed to bring up politics or religion in political company because you didn't want to cause controversy or conflict And maybe it's because I wasn't raised properly, I don't know. But I've never I've never been one to fear bringing either one of those those topics up because I thought they were important for people to talk about. And I thought that if people publicly ought to say what's on their mind in these things, because how else are you ever going to come to terms with unless you are willing to talk about it. And I think I think that politics and religion do mix because one is dependent on the other. You first have to have a sense of morality in order to depict a good leader. If you don't have any sense of morality, you can't pick a good leader. And not only can you not pick a good leader You can't judge a good leader and hold his feet to fire when he does wrong. And that's important to do. And in I mean, we've got a situation right now where it's excruciatingly obvious that Secretary Myorkas, for example, has failed at his job And he's not doing his job, and he has to go. But we can't get a Republican to impeach you And it's painfully obvious he's against he's against the American people because you couldn't allow what's happening on our southern border to to happen unless you were intentionally doing it. So Yeah, navigating life successfully, um the Bible would term that wizard. We're breaking up a little bit. I'm sure we're breaking up too, but you're definitely breaking up on my end. You're frozen at the moment. I'm not sure if you can hear me. Okay Okay. Yeah. Anyway, the the point you were making there about you're absolutely right with morals and and and and making political decisions and stuff, the the Bible would phrase that in terms of wisdom. Successfully navigating this world, doing so in a God honoring way is is a person who has wisdom. And you're not going to have biblical wisdom if you don't have a biblical worldview. And so it it it all ties together. You're right, you can't separate religion and politics. You can't s separate religion from life. Everybody's got a religion. Even the atheist is claiming they have no religion. They've made themselves by default their own God. Everybody's got a religion. We live in a secular humanist sort of environment right now. That's a religion. Uh you can make an argument that the critical race theory, the CRT stuff, that's a religion all its own. All of these things are very religious commitments And uh the question is, are you going to follow the true religion or one of the vast varieties of false religions that are out there? And the true religion is pretty simple. I mean there's a lot of complex and nuanced uh aspects to it, but The real simple thing is just the gospel, which is we have a maker who created mankind in his image, man and women he created them, and yet man and women they they we have fallen into sin We have a marred image therefore, so we need a Redeemer. That Redeemer is Jesus Christ. And we recognize that Jesus has saved us from our own sinfulness. Then out of gratitude and humility we want to live a a a life that honors him with a hope for that future glory that's to come That's the gospel. There's five pieces to a full-orbed gospel. There's we have a creator. We've fallen into sin. We need a savior. That savior is Jesus Christ of the cross. And we want to live a life filled with fruit, and then um there's future glory that awaits. Those five pieces are things that most churchgoers don't even fully understand anymore. And if we don't have those pieces in place, it's hard to make good um family decisions, good economic decisions, good political decisions. It's really difficult. Most people know more about their favorite football team than they know about Anything that's in the Bible. More people know about the inside the beltway politics than they know about what should be going on in the church Most people know about their favorite TV shows or movies. They know about how to have a good, God-honoring, biblical family. That's the problem we have, and because of that we've got an absence of men. And by the way, I'm I'm not one that kisses butts very easily, so I'm not meaning this to kiss your butt. But we need more people who are willing to do what they can. I understand you've had some medical issues recently, had some strokes and that sort of thing. And so you're thinking, boy, I'm Timo, what can I do? And so you're on this platform and you're trying to be a voice, you're trying to point people to a better way and try to be bold and talk about religion and politics or whatever is important to talk about. Whatever we are capable of doing, particularly the men We've got to step up and start doing it, or this country's lost. And I'm I'm fearful that it might be too late. But you know what? With God all things are possible. Well you're right. You know, I do this because if I were the old Timo, I would be running for office somewhere. And I'd be out there trying to s to set things right again. Would Tim O'Candidate and be the America that we started out as But I'm I'm not that that Timo anymore. I don't ha I have physical limitations. I couldn't I couldn't do the job as well as my standard would be if I ran for office. I have a standard that's that's high and I fall short of that and I don't want to fall short of that, but I can do this And I can make a platform for people to come on and share their thoughts and exercise their free speech. and make their political pitch if they're running for office. You know, because that there's a lot of small time candidates A grass fluids people that they need a place to be able to have themselves heard