Looks like we're rolling. Welcome to the recording session for the Faith Debate Radio Program. It airs on Sunday mornings on WFMD. This is the screen we're getting a sneak preview of the show that we're doing today. And so you can leave comments and all that sort of stuff, but I'm not going to be able to get to it until everything is done later because I'm a little bit busy. Okay? So forgive me for turning my back on you. There's plenty of space. I don't bite usually. Welcome to the Face Debate. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here on News Radio 930, WFM D. I'm Troy Skinner, the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. You can find us online at household of faith in Christ. com. You can find the faith debate, of course, at WFMD. dot com as well. Joined as per usual these days, Daniel Razby is here with us today. Hello, Daniel. Hello. And uh David Forcey, he's uh with us as well. Hello, David. Howdy. Uh the three of us are pastors in the area. Um If you want to learn more about Daniel and his church and what they do, they've got a not-for-profit organization they set up years ago that's related to their church. It's Conquered by Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. org. David, he's a Luddite, he has no web presence whatsoever except for the presence I pretty much give him. Although he has a Facebook page, but I think he checks it like once every three years, I think He's got it on his calendar to remind him. Every three years check my Facebook page. So that's how you get in touch with David. And we've got the pleasure of being joined for this episode by Dan Cox. Might be a name you're familiar with. The four years served as the uh in the Maryland House of Delegates for the 4th District. He's uh made made a name for himself across the state running for governor uh back in 2022 Uh where he ousted the uh establishment Republican candidate in the primary, but then uh unfortunately did not win in the uh in the general uh election. And now in twenty twenty four he is running for Congress uh to represent Maryland's sixth congressional district, the uh the the the job that has belonged to David Trone for a number of years now. So um having a politician on the show is is not completely unique. We've had politicians uh US Senate candidates and and local politicians. Uh trying to think who else we've had. So this is like maybe the sixth time in the uh twenty ish year history of the show But it's relatively unique. It's always a fun thing where we cross pollinate, where we talk about you know, religion and politics, you know, church and state, that kind of thing. And we haven't had more, not because we're resistant to it, but because usually the candidates don't want to come on a show like this. So I I thank you for taking the time to come on and and and share your your worldview as it relates to all matters, not just political. Well it's my privilege. Thank you for the opportunity. And I would I always kind of uh cringe when I hear say, you know, people saying, well, it's nice to talk to a politician because uh I think of myself as somebody other than a politician. Well, I'm a dad, you know, I'm a husband. But you've been either in office or running for office for quite a long time now. So you're a politician. I understand that that's that's what people think. No, actually I'm just a guy. I'm I'm a dad who is uh you know honored to serve when in and out of uh politics, in and out of government, and um grateful for the opportunity. Now I've obviously paid attention to the news, you know, locally and statewide, and so I have a sense of who you are. And we've we've uh you know full disclosure, I've I've met uh Dan two other occasions, I think combined. We spoke for six minutes On those two occasions. So I don't know him well. And I imagine you listening to the show, you know him, but you might not know him real well either. And I I mentioned before we started the show today, I said, So Dan, I know you profess to be a Christian? Uh I know that you're a pastor's kid. I know that um you're an attorney and you've got a big family. I think it's like ten kids. Is that right? That's correct. And that's like all I know. So I thought, you know, I don't know how often a long form interview uh situation you have, just kind of share the man a little bit. So can you talk a little bit about what it was like being a uh a pastor's kid, what kind of church you went to growing up and w what helped to form your worldview and those sorts of things. Sure, well I started out um my earliest memories were at Bible college with my father, Washington Bible College in S seminary uh in Washington, D. C. So I was born in D. C. and raised the first four years of my life in Tacoma Park, a little place called Hamilton Gardens. And I um saw my father as as I um as we uh launched into his ministry uh moved to Frederick, bringing the family and establishing a church. He was ordained and sent out to to church plant. So that began um about when I was five, I think. And who sent him out? Was it a denom denomination or a a network of churches? And I think it was called uh South River Bible Church was the affiliating church. There were multiple churches, obviously, that affiliated with the seminary. I'm not quite sure. um how that network worked. But I do know that it was South River and Pastor Gary Smith there and the elders at that church that that sent my dad and mom to do a a church plan here in Frederick. And the vision was, as they shared it with me, was that Frederick did not um have a a lot of uh non-denominational churches per se, from what they could tell. there was no um Bible church movement here yet and it was a a ripe opportunity to really reach a lot of people who might have come from uh traditional church backgrounds but yet may not be attending church and um to preach the gospel, bring the gospel to Frederick. So that I think began the ministry. My dad has stayed faithful to that all of these years. And he is still pastoring. Uh I forget how many years it's been, but I think it's over forty. Um because uh I'm forty nine, so it's got to be over forty. Uh and I'm not quite sure um uh exactly um all of the uh the details that allowed him to to uh plant the church other than the fact that I remember a lot of hard work A lot of blue collar work where he would run a construction company on the side and I'd be with him on top of a roof at age eight. And then on Sundays he was church planning. We were building that congregation. He was working hard with with mom to do that. So you were violating child Edward laws right off the bat. In in that day. Uh there are things called internships and they still are actually plus I know the rules are different when it's a family related kind of a thing too anyway. So I'm joking, obviously. I'll get you with some doctrine questions later. That was one of them. It ties into my life story. Believe it or not. It ties into my life story and a passion I have for young people today, that aspect So I don't know if I can get into that now or not. But real quick, a snapshot is because my father launched his ministry w side by side with the tent making business to be able to make ends meet. And because he included me, I learned some construction skills at a young age. So by the time I was uh seventeen, I had uh helped build a very large addition on my parents' house, as well as replace the roof, as well as work on external buildings like barns. And um I had done an incredible uh wide array of construction projects. Um everything from foundation work to the framing to the roofing to the external And that experience launched me the w when I was married. Um my wife and I, we were young, she's 19, I was 21, and at age 22 and 20. We were able to purchase a little lot with my savings for $2,000 and with a construction of perm loan use our construction experience with my father. Father's um guidance, you know, his his kind uh benefits uh beneficial help in the background and and every day on the job many times as my GC. uh we we built their house at age twenty two. And that prepared a a as a young man, we had no option. I didn't have many options I was making my income was so tight that I was barely able to to afford the rent. And as as we know, it's only gotten worse in the last twenty years. I was just thinking if you were to if that lot still existed today, it probably would go for like fifty thousand dollars. or something. Well, I mean it actually I I bought it for fifty at the time. Oh gosh. Or they okay it'd be several hundred thousand today then probably crazy how things have gone up. So I I firmly believe that young people need hope and opportunity. And I think the church can help assist in that, giving opportunity and vision to young people who want to get started. The end result, long story short, was I used that money, I used that house, that sweat equity. To launch our ability to go to law school. We were able to sell the house later to a great Frederick County Sheriff's Deputy and the rest is history in time. terms of why I was able to become an attorney and work in politics. Go back even further than being, you know, twenty newly married buying a house and stuff. Your dad being a a pastor, can you remember a time when you wouldn't have thought of yourself as a Christian? Do you have a conversion story? What like what's the testimony of your walk with the Lord, you know, the early part of your life? Sure. Uh no, I do not remember ever uh not being um someone who put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I remember distinctly uh being concerned when I was five coming h coming home from school of whether or not um I was truly a Christian and whether or not I was um I had um as a small five year old um been given a little tract at school from my teacher. It's a little smiley track, you might have seen those in the past, but the little smiley tract he opened it up And said, um, Jesus loves you. But it's kinda like um the four laws or whatever they call it, and that you're separated from God and going, you know, to on your path of sin and darkness to hell unless you trust Jesus as your Savior and that in that trust He Himself saves you, redeems you and comes into your heart. And it was a very simplistic track. It was for kids. You were five. I was five. But I understood it enough to be concerned and I came home and spoke with my parents about it. And I distinctly remember um kneeling down in the living room and asking Christ to save me. I don't remember the date and my father jokingly says a uh today says uh yes you did Did that. Maybe five or ten times we did that. Is that right? So he he thinks that I I uh multiple times uh wanted to be um be sure of sure of my salvation. Yeah do you remember the multiple times you just remember the one? I just remember one. I remember it that day in the living room. I remember getting off the bus. Well, you know, a kid sometimes um may impute things. But yeah, I think I think you're right. I think the Holy Spirit awakened my heart at that moment. And that became a a very helpful point in my life. as a young man growing up who it wasn't always perfect as a teenager, for instance, but it certainly informed my motivation and like the um the press, I have got to get back. And so at age 12, um I asked to be baptized because we came from a background, non-denominational, more baptistic viewpoint that it would be on profession of faith. as um as you got older. Some some Baptists are more younger profession, some are older, so you know, we were kind of like a happy medium like Whenever Jesus and Dad said that's a joke. Um but it was something that my father wanted to make sure was sincere and not a not a uh Not a false profession, so that was age twelve for me. Either one of you guys have something you wanted to ask about No. Not off the top of your head? No. Okay. So I have I have I have a stack of questions. Sure. Go for it. I'm sure I'll get to some of the So um So I was going to ask you some of the non-denominational doesn't help give you any markers, but you said, you know, Baptist in orientation, um probably maybe congregational in its uh holiday and it's church government and you know that kind of a typical Baptist kind of thing. No? No, you elder led? Yeah, it's more like uh Bible church um along the lines of say a John MacArthur t style. Okay. A little more elder it was always elderled. Okay, and they mentioned John MacArthur, so reformed? No, not entirely. Okay. Um although I always joke with my father that he's about four and a half pointer. Okay. He jokes back and says that he's not deformed. Please understand. It's a joke. But I am reformed, so we can joke like that. Okay. Okay. So So a four and a half pointer reformed uh Baptist kind of a uh of a thing. So uh so it's interesting. So you diverted from your father on that half a point. Where did that influence come from? What are some of the the leading voices? Pastors you like to listen to their sermons or resources you've tried, you know, names that we might recognize, not like the local pastor down the street, oh, you can mention that too, but you know Who are some of the people that we might know you're like, yeah, it had a huge influence on me. So obviously the Holy Spirit, Word of God, my my father actually, because he always put the Word of God first. Now my dad came from a background of uh a Catholic background. He was um I always joke about this. It's true. Um he studied to be a a uh Catholic priest with the Roman Catholic Church. He was top of his uh game, top of his class, sings Latin um you name it he's good and the Lord allowed him to um come out of that simply because he shut the seminary down the seminary got closed So he ended up wandering in uh high s public high school and then Towson State University and almost lost his faith entirely through the um uh degree program he was studying um to uh I forget exactly the degree. I think it had something to do with um well he w he was going for his uh potential for his um medical doctorate, and I think he was studying the um uh the social sciences and the mental health uh world at the time for undergrad. But in any case, it was the Lord through a what we joke about, and it's true. Um uh a a the seventies Jesus Freak the seventies movement called the Jesus Freak Thing had a um uh a young man uh That was kinda like so my dad was the the nice Catholic boy with the perfectly combed hair and he never overpartied or anything like that. He never drank. He wasn't a drinker or anything like that. And uh this This guy comes in and where my dad worked and befriended him and he was this long-haired hippie kami freak, is what my dad said. My dad was raised very conservative. And this guy found Jesus, this long haired hippie kami freak had uh found Jesus on the beaches of somewhere, probably California. California. Like the Jesus Revolution movie. It was to the T, that was the kind of guy who came and grabbed my dad and and he said, You need to be saved. You need to you need to know Jesus. And my dad said, um, I know him every day. I pray the rosary and I've done that all my life and I don't ev th I don't necessarily see whether you know he had some questions and doubts. And so he dragged him to church Got him to go on a Sunday morning and um in that church, which was uh Hereford Baptist in Hereford um near Monday in Maryland where my grandmother's from. Uh my mom went to that church and in that church um he heard the altar calling went forward. And felt the Holy Spirit tugging in his heart. He went forward in the altar call and then the pre the the preacher had him recite the sinner's prayer. And my father was totally deflated. And went back to his seat and said, Lord Oh, and the reason he was deflated is because he had said this in his prayer um as part of you know, Catholic rituals, part of the Catholic ritual and he had never really felt um the Holy Spirit's encouragement. He didn't really connect. It was just part of ritualism to him and he was pretty much over that. So he went back to his seat and he was just like, God, if you're real you gotta you gotta find me 'cause I can't find He said at that instant he knew the Holy Spirit was alive. He said it was like a lightning bolt. As his back was turned, he was walking back to his pew. And um he decided, okay, I'm gonna go get a Bible because he saw everybody in the church with Bibles. He's like, Man, these guys are all like serious about their Bibles. Because remember back then it was even though it was post-Vatican II the Catholics were not reading not encouraged to have their own Bibles. So long story short. God did that miracle in him. God saved my dad. God brought him to Christ, established, and then everything that he had been taught as a kid as a Catholic became fresh and real. For instance, every Sunday at Mass he heard the scriptures read and all of those scriptures came to life. He realized this isn't Santa Claus. This is the God of the universe. And uh sounds like quite the the transformation. Raised Roman Catholic, then almost loses his faith and then becomes uh uh four and a half point Calvinist and his conversion story sounds reformed, right? I can't do this, God do it for me kind of thing. So how does that compare with your story? Well and that's kind of where I was um meandering and and wanting to go, but um because in our home he established the scriptures as the authority. It really meant meant something to me. Without the Word of God as the foundation for what we believe, we are kind of uh more than on shaky ground. And one of the interesting points was when he was when he was graduating from Bible college, the professor said, um, you have to sign this doctrinal statement that says that all Pentecostals are going to burn in hell. And my father said, this is Dr. Pendell, which is a really nice man. It's just their doctoral statement. Yeah. Well that they've since no longer open, but that's the John MacArthur might have signed it. He might have. But uh it w and I don't think I'm overstating that, okay. So 'cause this is the story that he tells, that that they were very strict. They have to sign this thing that's saying that those are documents. Well you don't get your diploma, right? Well you don't get your degree. You're done. And he refused, and they said, Well, why? We know your faith. It's clear that you're walking with God. We want to give you a degree. Why can't you sign this statement of faith? It's a simple statement of faith. We also know that you're not a Pentecostal. My father said, Well, sir, I stopped following the Pope when I became a Christian, as the finality of my doctrine. The finality is scripture, and I see the scripture doesn't quite say it the way this says it So I can't say anything. And Dr. Pindell look quite Dr. Pindell looked at my father and said, Son, you'll receive your diploma. So that kind of created a foundation for the way that I view life and as a family, you know, we have grown in our faith and and grown in our perspective. You say your dad's still a pastor. Do you still attend that church? Uh we support him, but um no we actually attend uh Presbyterian PCA church in Hagerstown. And it was somewhat because of the similar story you had with COVID. The church we were going to at the time had some issues with uh c shutting down and other regulations. Not my dad's church. My dad's church kept stayed open and then the church that we went to stayed open. But no we we have amicably um been worshiping uh and members at a PCA church because of my doctrine of the way I want to raise my kids in the doctrine of of faith. But it sounds like you you came to some mm m maybe minor doctrinal differences more from reading scripture rather than just hearing various pastures or reading other books. It's more from as a Berean studying scripture as kind of Yeah, so the historic Christian faith became very Much deeper to me and a dear brother who today I just got a text. I'm praying for him, John McCullough. Um a dear brother who's a uh Reformed Baptist. on the eastern shore and very well renowned he's been also a leader in various aspects of business and politics but he is um fighting uh fighting uh pang Cancer, I just found out very sad. But that man, Mr. John McCullough, stayed in my law office till two in the morning one night. Um convincing me from Romans 9 that I need to trust in the sovereignty of God over salvation. That if he is sovereign enough over the hairs of my head, how can we say that he's not sovereign over the salvation of our souls. And uh studying the scripture drove me to that final understanding that we can trust God. He's in control, including of us our salvation. He's a good God. And um, you know, we went over things like my attack was well, how in the world could pre God predestine people to hell and it was like no no no no that's false teaching that's called double predestination it's not biblical so that was helpful and we had those good conversations Now you haven't name dropped but maybe that's on purpose because Daniel's kind of hinting at that, but are there uh you know, may maybe even at this stage in your life, who who are some of the notable names that I might recognize or somebody hearing your voice on the radio might recognize you know, like an RC scroll or somebody like that. Certainly, certainly. So you mentioned that you lived in Orlando once and I was realizing uh and I was wanting to mention that uh before we got on the air that um that's actually a special place for us just north of there um because of uh my daughter graduated from reform Reformation Bible College. Oh RC Sproll's um yeah um his vision and his college there and that is that's been a real blessing. My daughter, Patience, is um more skilled at doctrine than I than I am. And uh I've been so blessed with that. So we love RC probably a great with him almost almost every time. What I like about him, like for instance, I'll just give you an example. When it came to the eschatology discussions, he said, I just want to start out by saying this Uh of the four main views of eschatology, I have believed every single one of them at some point in my life. So everybody basically take a chill pill and let's study this biblically. Um some of the others would be Alistair Ban. I I love Alistair Feg. He's more Baptistic. Yeah. Oh, but he stepped in it recently. Have you heard about the controversy with Alistair? I did not. Shocking. Shocking. And John MacArthur is an American hero in my view because he's one of the only pastors in America that defied the illegal shutdown orders. And um I was in the mix at that time fighting for the um you know for the first time in four hundred years we had for the first time a governor close our churches. Not even King George the Third had done that. And what was the result of most of America, most of the pastors of America, was to acquiesce. How dare they? Shame. And the blessing. Of John MacArthur leading the way and telling the nation's pastors and the Canadian pastors stand up against this tyranny. It opposes everything that we believe in in the history of Christianity, all through uh the history of a thousand years in Europe. Um let's stand up and not be so grateful for that. So those are three quick ones. Yeah, well the last uh couple of things you've said have sparked uh some thoughts for how we might begin the next week's show. So I think there's some uh some good stuff there. Thank you for being so transparent and sharing all that background. We barely I think we heard David say hello. Do we want to hear David say goodbye? See you next week. No, no, no. You're our special guest, right? David Forcey, Daniel Razby, I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Dan Cox, running for Congress, US Congressman. Oh, what makes you think he can do that job? We'll ask him those questions too. Ma if not next week, maybe in a a show after that if he's willing to just stick around to do that many shows with us, that many weeks in a row. He's got a busy schedule Anyway, I want to thank you for listening and spending part of your day with us here. You can find us online, of course, at WFME. com and the church website, the Church I Pastor, Connects to the Faith Debate and all sorts of other stuff and vetted resources and that sort of thing. That website is household of faith in Christ. com. We'll be back next week. I think I'm checking my watch here. Yep, about 167. 5 hours. 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless Now we're off the air, but we're still on it. Yeah, the screen's still gone though, so just yes. But that's that that's a funny thing because um I think in this room wh I'm not sure exactly your eschatolog eschatological views, but we uh we have pretty much all the viewpoints covered as well over the point. We differ greatly on eschatology. We've had several very heated discussions on that. Well at least Troy and I have. David is kind of like a few years. But as as you get to know David Rugg, he doesn't get into very many heated discussions. Not his way. Right? Troy and I and and Dan can make up for that. We're very opinionated people. Yeah. It takes me just like a minute. I gotta save this file and then do the labeling for the next one so it doesn't take me two or three minutes. Did it feel comfortable for you though? Oh yeah, yeah. I I didn't mean to No, that's I mean I I asked you the questions. No Yes, somebody's hearing your testimony. It's gonna take a while. Either ask a question or disagree or that's all. That's all. So what's this about Alistair Bay? So Alistair, yeah. Um It just unearthed. It happened in September, but it just became public a few weeks ago, and then the news as of last couple of days, a bad situation got worse. Back in September, I don't know if it's a show or podcast that he does or if he's a guest on somebody else's show, I don't know that, but he was sharing, relaying a story about how a grandmother who's part of his congregation called him up and asked for his opinion about what she should do. She's got a uh grandson who thinks he's a woman and he's going to get married to another transgender person or whatever and anyway They're gonna reverse nature but end up coming back around. Anyway, it's unclear about whether or not they would end up being two biological opposites getting married or not, but uh that was left a little fuzzy and he didn't share that part of it, so The implication was that this was a not biblical kind of a marriage situation, so what should I do? And the advice that he gave her was, I think you should go, and what's more you should give them a gift to show them that you're not this hardcore judgmental person. And this just it can again it happens. Go to the wedding. Mm-hmm. and and give them a gift, which is like adding insult to to to the injury there. It comes out in September and everybody's, you know, like He's been in ministry for what forty years. He's really rock solid. He's one of the best voices on the biblical side of things. Like what is this must be out of context. There's gotta be something wrong here. Maybe he As he thought about it, he realized, oh, I didn't mean to say it that way. So he finally, after two weeks of some controversy, finally came out to address the controversy and he doubled down Serious. Which I mean reached down and picked my jaw up off the floor. I mean, uh you never see that. That's why I said this When R C and he R. C. Sproul died in two thousand eighteen. And then everything went everything began to go crazy in two thousand sixteen, really, fifteen, sixteen. But in two thousand nineteen is when the the MLK spelled or was it twenty eighteen? But the the MLK stuff and the MLK celebration which gave rise to all the CRT nonsense and everything and RC really wasn't around to address it because he was dead. And then COVID happened, and we were so disappointed, as you mentioned, all these pastors just caved. Uh and hoped that he wouldn't have. MacArthur caved initially, but then ultimately didn't Uh so the Alistair. So you hope that RC wouldn't have caved, but you know what? I sounds mean spirited, but I'm still thankful that R. C. died before Yeah. Because you can only trust the dead guys. You c I mean if you live long enough, they're gonna let you down. I mean z uh I was never a huge fan but Rabbi Zacharias and all the nonsense going on with him, with you know the the sexual stuff and whatever. Um Well see all the children. All that does is prove what this past these pastors have been telling us for decades is that they're sinners. They're gonna do evil things. We're all gonna do bad things. Now the question is whether it is repentance, so that's that's a that's a different story. I I get it. But it it always makes me mad when the get the the left especially will say, Oh you hypocr no, they're not hypocrites. They said they were bad people. Right. They admit it. They said, Look, I deserve to go to hell but it's only by God's grace that I'm still breathing today. Right. Well, so then when they commit as uh some bad thing then y you you should shouldn't be surprised. But on the other hand, you know, you definitely you want your Castro to be strong on doctrine, especially the very core and and you know, obvious doctrines. I have a a friend, we've we've talked about this on the show before, saying Not only should he not be going to the wedding or whatever, uh you shouldn't even be calling them the name that they want. You shouldn't even say any of the pronouns, even in private to them. Right. Because it's blasphemy Because you are saying that God made a mistake, or you're saying that God is a liar. He didn't create man and woman. So you're actually blaspheming the creator of the universe if you use the wrong prona person. It is not just a preference. It is not just, oh, this is this is factually inaccurate but I'll indulge your fantasy just because I want to be nice to you and not make you mad today. It's actually blasphemy. And so he uses that in when he's trying to get religious to exemptions for different things at workplaces and stuff and he's you know he says this is my religious uh um freedom you cannot force me to actively commit blasphemy by uh stay state somebody's a pretend pronoun. When you say blasphemy, you're talking about tarnishing the image of God because we are made the Imagod Yeah. We are made in the image of God. And if you if you say if I say that you are a woman. Then I I'm saying one of two things. I'm saying God maybe well yes. But I'm saying Or blind or something. God made a mistake and you know made you look like a man when you really should be a woman, well then God is weak So that's blasphemy. Or I'm saying that God is a liar and he didn't actually make man and woman the way they are. So that's that's where he you know my my friend friend gets at. So it it's it goes to the very core of We ready to jump back in? Alright, here we go. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thank you so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here on News Radio 930 WFMD. I haven't done that in a while. Every once in a while I gotta wake up the people on Sunday morning, you know. Anyway, if you're uh if you're on your way to church, pull on over, we're gonna shock you We're talking to a politician. Who know who knows what might film out of that mouth, huh? No, seriously what? Yeah, yeah. He pushed back on that last week, but I'm not uh you're gonna own that. You're a politician Until the day that you're a former politician you stop running for office until you until that day comes you're a politician. Even Donald Trump is owning it now. He he admits he's a politician now. What are you gonna do? Anyway, I'm rambling. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor, and don't it's no reflection on the church that I'm the pastor of this church. Household of faith in Christ. I'm line in household of faith in Christ. David Forcy is a pastor in the area as well. He doesn't have a website. And Daniel Razby, he is a pastor in the area. And uh his church, they have an organ uh a ministry that has a website. It's uh Concord by Love Ministries Online at Concord. uh by love. org. So we had uh Dan Cox, the esteemed Dan Cox, on the show last week. If you're not familiar with who who Dan is, he's he's the father of ten children. He turns 50 this year. We found that out last week Uh he's been married goodness um twenty eight years. I'm sorry, don't do the math, that's close to three decades, something like that, right? So lots of kids and I think you grew up in a big family. How many kids did you grow up with? As old as the ten Okay, so you're copying your dad like right down the line here. What's going on? So uh we talked last week and and I would encourage you if you didn't if you missed last week's show to go find uh the podcast. Um uh on WFMD's website or you can access it through Household of Faithandchrist dot com's website because all the podcast shows end up there eventually on Sermon Audio and on Odyssey and uh we're live streaming and you'll find the video of that on Rumble. uh things like that. So uh I would encourage you to find out. He shared his background growing up as the uh the son of a of a of a preacher. He's a preacher kid, preacher's kid, a PK as they uh say in the in the church Uh I think you were a PK too. I was. Yeah. And goodness gracious, all three of you. David, Daniel, Dan, you're all you're all preacher kids. Right. Well I d just made that connection, no. And we got uh two Daniels, I'm assuming, named after the biblical prophet. Yep, sir. Wow. We're going to find some other commonalities before this is all over. But before I I wanted to pick up the thread from from last week's show because uh it came up almost as an aside But I am curious because it does affect politics, and we're going to start to transition slowly into those kinds of areas on our discussion time here Uh eschatology, and you mentioned how R. C. Sprohl, a guy who's uh you know pretty well known and very influential before he passed in twenty eighteen. He was influential for you, is influen uh b a huge influence for me. Uh and he was all over the map. He's rather f famous really for having publicly changed his esc uh eschatol eschatological view as a big word. His view of the end times, how things are going to play out at the at the end of time um in life as we know it. He he changed quite a bit. I'm not sure if he was ever dispensational, but I think he was historic pre-mill, I think he was a mill, and I think he might have ended his life as post mill, if I'm not mistaken, but I'm not sure about that Anyway, you brought up the eschatology thing and with what's going on with Israel in the news and all that sort of stuff, that has an impact on things. So, you know, how would you describe your millennial view. Which which camp would you most neatly fit within? That's a good question. As a historic Christian, what I mean by that is um reformed Whatever you want to call me. No. I I'm technically I mean as a historic Christian, I believe in the creeds. Very firmly that the church is the uh vehicle that God has put on earth for salvation for all. And so I would politically separate out our um national alliances good or bad or in between from our from any escal eschatological viewpoints because I would want to make sure that justice is done politically and government-wise for promises that are done on on paper and promises that are not being kept or or should not be kept or should be kept, those discussions need to be done. uh without a sense of um a debate on whether or not you know for instance in the Israel case whether or not Israel is is um Um you know, has uh God's special uh place re being reunited there in the land. Um that That's you know obviously a lot of Christians believe that, but that's that should not interfere with with the government uh carefully reviewing the rights of man. D do you mean uh are you are you sort of referring to um the idea of not not seeking to use Use uh political uh influence to uh uh I don't know, br bring about God's God's will on earth kind of deal or Yeah, I don't exactly I I don't see government as a um an end all for God's I I I see government as just another calling by God to help with the peace on earth until because remember as Christians we believe Christ is king. He's not will be king. He not he's not was king. He is king And so as Christians we serve Jesus Christ and He is the answer to everyone's problems. But he has also ordained, you know, Romans 13 and other passages that Christians are to be involved in government and that's not the answer. It's just an ordination temporary on earth to establish justice. So you would not be in the camp of like trying to build a kingdom in the government or you know, w by theonymy or that type of thing. You must be a Christian nationalist. I'm not a Christian nationalist. You must be, you're a Christian. You know what's funny is I've been smeared as a Christian nationalist, but they've never asked me that question in a debate. And if they ask me that question in a debate, they'll find out I'm a Christian internationalist because Christ is King of the nations all over the earth. And we are equal as Christians. Christians um before him. It's not you know, there's no American Christian uh exalted position in heaven. you know, because we're both saved than I do with you know, my neighbor down the street in Thermont, who may not be saved, just because even though we live we have a d very similar culture here, but the culture of of Christ is is what really binds us. And so that's that's certainly as where our citizenship is. No, you're you're absolutely right. The citizenship that we have in heaven uh is far superior. And so that's that's what drives Christians to be so hopeful Whether it's in communist China like you mentioned, or in America right now where we have a lot of upheaval going on. Communist America, you mean? Yeah, I mean we're dealing with we're we're dealing with uh communists in our land and statist and uh authoritarianism uh from you know the current administration trying to uh literally undermine and destroy the very foundation that they seek to govern with, uh, throwing out the only and sole authority that they have to do justice, the Constitution, and uh pretending with a with a um uh sh you know very uh inappropriate misuse of uh of the government, weaponizing it as a pretense for doing what is right. And it is the epitome of every evil government on earth of of how they have handled things towards their political opponents is what's going on. going on at this very moment in America. Yet Christians especially can exhibit hope, can exude hope to to all of Americans and to into the world because no matter our circumstances like you were just saying we have uh we serve a risen king and we have a uh a more perfect um country. If I can take a stab, I'm gonna guess of all the the different camps and you you mentioned earlier there's four major camps I'm gonna guess and see if I'm good at this based on what I'm trying to read tweet the lines a little bit. Not dispensational Probably not historic pre-mill either. I'm gonna guess probably ah mil, and if I'm wrong, post-mill. So those I'm gonna I'm gonna put Ninety percent of my money on aw mill and ten percent of my money on postmill. Am I am I close? You're very close. You're very close. To be honest, I don't know exactly. Um I do know this. My dad has always taught this very well as someone who comes from a background at WBC that taught in premillennial uh whatever. He hasn't embraced that, but he what he has seen in Scripture and taught is a pre-wrath position of God's church being delivered through the grace of Christ. Christ and the return of Christ from the um the evil lest they be completely destroyed. Jesus says this too. He said, you know, that time is shortened lest we lose all the church. uh I'm paraphrasing, but basically my the best that I can see, and I've studied it, um the the best that I can see in scripture is uh more of a post uh millennial in the sense that Um we are living in the kingdom now. That's the my the all-millennialist position. This is the kingdom of Christ, but it's not so much as what Paul warned of. where he said, um some people say that Christ you know that Christ has already returned. They're misguided. That's what Paul said. And he's right. I mean you know, Christ is coming. We can all as Christians, no matter what you know position we are, I think we all as Christians should a uh acknowledge the fact that we long for that day when we see the risen Savior, our Savior, returning to establish peace on earth. And to establish his his um already reigning kingdom. And this is where a lot of my friends that are maybe um you know premillennial are or Baptistic and the the pre trib rapture or whatever they believe um get so confused I think and and uh despairing and thinking well You know, can't get much worse than this. You know, Jesus must be coming back any day. They've been saying that my whole lifetime. Exactly. And I what I like to share is what my dad taught me and what I've read in in the um uh the hiding place. When um Cory Tenboom lost her father, uh Mr. Tenboom was killed by the Nazis through neglect and misuse and and and and torture. Her her sister then died similarly, and in the midst of that pain and suffering, the women that she was trying to minister to in that barrack there at um at the uh concentration camp, one of the women was a Baptist woman who told her, and Corey was Reformed Dutch, but she had a problem with her pastor who had completely handed over the church to the Nazis. But um Corey was confronted while she was reading the scriptures. Had a you know she had snuck her Bible in her she had miraculously re gotten the Bible into the um concentration camp through the grace of God turning the Nazi guard's eyes away right as she went through the line and then so here she is reading at night secretly and she was confronted with anger by the uh the young the the lady who was baptistic who had always believed that Christ would return before such horrors would ever happen. And she said, I don't believe in God anymore because it can't get worse than this. And he didn't come back. And so Cory had an opportunity, she was able to teach her, Well, keep your faith and keep your hope, because Christ is reigning. He's doing stuff we don't understand. Look at Job. Look at these other greats in scripture where we see Christ is at work. And yet that doesn't mean that we have to accept the evil around us as um as good. God will turn it to good We can acknowledge its evilness, the the the evil nature of it. But ultimately Christ will recompense this. Just because he's not doing it now. the dispensational, you know, pre premillennial they're they're they're very much of the opinion, well we would be raptured before anything really bad ever happens and and we haven't truly been persecuted in America. I mean we're starting to see some of them and there there's that pastor that was shot in the head in Arizona while he's street preaching recently. I don't know if you saw that article. So there there's there's hints at it, right? And there's a lot of people that are killing us with words and you know, forcing us out of our jobs and things like that. But we don't have persecution the way people be inverted to stake and stuff on a regular basis in America. And when that happens, if that happens uh that's gonna cause a lot of people to lose their faith because you know or or to i if maybe you could argue they weren't saved in the first place but they won't be part of the part of part of uh calling themselves Christians And I think that that is the danger. That that in and of itself, that danger does not make the position invalid necessarily. You know, we I I don't agree with the position You should expect persecution. Yes. I mean Christ I mean if you're not being persecuted then maybe you're not, you know, fighting hard enough for God right now because it means you're not much of a threat to the devil. I just had the privilege of returning from uh Oxford So because we home educate my son uh who just graduated from high school had an opportunity, was invited to do a a study course there. It was brilliant. And I told him that um I'd like to tag along so he let me tag along. And I, for the first time, um had the privilege of standing at the site where they burned three bishops. And it's right outside of the square at Oxford, there's a memorial that stands, I don't know, 60-some feet high And the the memorial is there, and the story is Bishop uh Latmer had turned, uh, he had Um turn to Bishop Ridley, whether well I think it's Bishop Latimer and Ridley, or might have been the other bishop. Anyway, two of the bishops were there. One was a young man in his 20 The other one was an old man. Ridley was in his twenties. And the older gentleman, as they were being burned, turned to the despairing young man. And he said, play the man, Master Ridley, for we shall this day light a fire for the gospel that shall never go out into England. And I contemplated that when I stood there. And then I walked through Oxford wondering if Christ was um still alive in this place of this ancient uh Christianity where all All these buildings are a thousand years old, and I heard the bells playing Christian hymns on the half hour. And I thought, This is amazing. This is very amazing. And then by God's grace I was able to connect to a hall. There's an evangelical hall there called the Wycliffe Hall, that to this day is the old one of the oldest evangelical missions in a university in the world and I was able to meet gospel leading university people there. And it just reminded me of this point. No matter the persecution, we need to hold fast to our King. And play the man. And at the end, Christ will do the rest. Saying the kinds of things that you've said on um this week's episode of the show Um those who would be likely to not support you, they're gonna be offended at everything any of us have said on this show, probably, right? Because we're Bible believers, Christians, conservative, they hate us. But it seems to me that political I think they might vote for me. Okay. Because I'm the only guy gonna defend their religious freedom. But okay. And I'll I'll pick up maybe remember that thread. Remember that thread. But I'm wondering are you if you feel any sense of taking political risk uh with the what would seem to me would be the core constituency. Because most of them, if they understand what their end times view is, would probably call it dispensational. And you're not saying you really identify with that. And then those who are younger and on fire for changing and winning back the country and you know those twenty and thirty somethings, the the they they wanna they wanna restore everything and they're mostly hardcore post mill take you know, build the kingdom Take society by the throat and slam it to the ground and win it back kind of thing and you're not really there either. Do you have concern that you're, you know a The faith debate is unintentionally alienating part of your base in these conversations? Good question. I don't think so, because practically To serve in government means to serve with honesty, integrity, and I believe firmly in the fear of the Lord. You know, Jesus or God said to um David that um uh the qualifications for a ruler of the people were to be humble and to fear in the uh to rule in the fear of God. And then we see in Micah 6 8 saying the same thing that what is the qual what is what does God require of you? To do justly, to love mercy, and to walk Walk humbly with your God. And then when you look at people that are out there in the Christian circles, those who are voters Um, they get it. They understand that the mission is to be consistent as a conservative to our historic constitutional principles. And And um that's what they want. They don't want they're not out there voting for, you know, the best preacher or the best pastor or the best theologian. They want somebody who's going to obey the Constitution. And people are fed up with whether it's a Christian waving his Bible or somebody who's an atheist. They're fed up with the politicians trampling on the Constitution. And that connects to the thread, I think, is where you're going, but what religious liberty are they worried about losing? Do they have religion that they have Well sure. I mean just look, I I was the guy. People on the left? Well sure. I uh believe it or not, I had a huge following and I still do of those who object to being forcibly experimented upon by injections without their consent. The informed consent crowd was the first group of people to endorse me before any Christian group. So it'd be like the RSA supporters. Well half of them for sure. Um because the informed consent people include uh I would say, you know, seventy percent uh Trump supporters and maybe twenty, thirty percent RFK supporters now. But in theory, it they're not anti-vaxxers, they're informed consent constitu institutionalist meaning. I even had the endorsement of Nancy Pelosi's niece, who is a a Democrat of Democrats. And she came up to me and I have a picture with her in her dreadlocks and she tell she told me I am voting for you and a lot of our Democrat friends are voting for you for one reason and one reason alone. No one else will defend my rights for informed consent before the government takes possession of my body and starts injecting me. And they're terrified of this. Because they've seen it in other cultures where you now you can't in China for instance The communism in China has progressed to where you can't even open a uh a you know a a door to go to a restaurant without swiping your card and seeing if your social credit score you know, it gives you a green light. And that's tied in too. It's funny because on the left it used to be a lot of free speech advocates and you had all the Berkeley stuff. And And now it it's it's really s swelling the opposite direction. But I think there's a lot of liberals who really th maybe they're scared to speak up, but they really don't have a lot of the anti free speech beliefs that you're seeing in many of the very woke uh activists. Yeah, I I would agree. I I think uh there is a large crowd of Democrat liberals who are what I would call traditional liberals. They still believe that. Like a Bill Maher, for example. Right. They still believe in the Bill of Rights. And they their party's been totally hijacked by communists, by insurrectionists. Yes, I said that word by them. They're the insurrectionists. They're the ones that are trying to destroy and upend our Constitution and they're doing it at this very moment. And their party doesn't know what to do. And a lot of these uh Democrat friends of mine are like they're just shaking their head like wow we just gotta, you know, navigate this because these people look the president of the Senate of Maryland, who is a liberal, it's a liberal Catholic um had Antifa protesting his house, terrifying his wife and kids from my understanding. I wasn't there or anything. I just heard about it and I saw some of the Eclipse. I mean this is how violent their party has become. I don't know what's going on with Vetterman, but I mean he I seriously, he's as a senator is more conservative than Oz would have been. I don't know what's going on with that guy. Maybe the the brain damage from his issues or something has made him more conservative, which is a weird thing to say. But seriously he's he's he's he's been almost based for like the last four months. I don't know what's going on with that guy. Yeah. Well I I have anyway. I have two political answers for that. His poll numbers were trash and he had to bring 'em up because I remember Pennsylvania. is a swing stack. Right, right. And uh secondly, uh look at his votes. You were involved with the Mastriano thing, I think, right? His campaign, weren't you? Uh no, I was on his uh I was chief of staff for Mastriano. Right, right. And uh yeah, so I was very much in the Capitol there watching what was going on. Uh if you look at Fetterman's votes, uh you'll see they do not add up to his rhetoric. His votes are hardcore against everything he's saying in public. Oh is that right, okay. You paid much better attention than I do. It's a typical uh you know the typical liberal politician. This is why the American people are so fed up They might get excited when they see somebody on TV getting pumped up and they're like, Yeah, I like that guy and then they're told later, by the way, do you know the guy's a slime ball because look what he's voting for and they're like, Oh, I can't trust anybody Well, that's the way politicians run things and that's the what they're doing in our country right now. And so that's why people are so appreciative of those who stand up for the thing. Then and and you're well if it i it' If you don't vote for it, then I'm never going to speak to you again. You're never going to get any of your bills passed. And if you if you do vote for it, your opponents are going to say, Well, key voted for XYZ terrible thing But i that's kind of the the state of things in politics, how how do you get around that? I mean you've been in Annapolis so you have some experience with that We might have to uh give him a whole week to think about the answer to that question. Uh make a note though so we don't forget to begin next week's show with it, because we we've got less than a minute left on this week's show So, um this we had a little more participation, although we've got to get David we I think we stuck him in the corner and that's that's a problem. We've got to figure out how to get David to to to to to give Dan Cox a hard time here. I mean Daniel and I can't do all the heavy lifting to try to destroy this guy's candidacy. Come on. Anyway, uh I am Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Dan Cox, who's running for U. S. Congress. Um, Daniel Rasby and David Forcey on the panel as per usual these days. You can uh connect with us all through WFMD. com or uh the easiest way is probably to go to household of faith in Christ uh com. And you know what? I've neglected to do this. Next week, remind me I've got to ask you how people find you online, Dan. There you go. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless. Do you remember the question that you were asking him? Yes, I do. I kinda do, but I'll for I'll forget in the next two minutes though. I have that and I have the one bigger question which which Which I I do want to get to at some point, which is what I'm saying. Did you feel like I I answered it? Entirely. I'm trying to remember. Uh yeah, I mean I was kind of I I I I thought sort of where you were going is um you know, not using uh like geopolitical influence to, you know, make make something happen very particular Bring grace back here now. As you know, a as as certain groups of end time views would say, you know, like with this these particular events need to happen in this order in this place and then Jesus can come back and you're not you're not bought into that. Like the third temple if we build it he will come and so we should support building the third temple or whatever. type of thing. No, I I do not believe that. What was it again? Dan Cox? Sir. No, CoxforCongress. com. Oh just Cox for Congress. Yes sir. Co not Dan Cox for Congress, just Cox for Congress. And it's the word for? O R G. O R G. But it's F-O-R? Yes. Okay. F-O-R. Cox for Congress. Yes. I have a quick question on words. When you put the mute on yours, on your microphone, the on air button goes off We're still recording though, right? They should have that connected to all these buttons to be honest with me. Yeah. The light has nothing to do with what's being recorded. Okay. I just this when I move this arm of this, you can actually hear it. So I turn my mic off to move it around, that's all. Okay. But you can still hear us. Yes. Yeah. Whether I want to or not. Yeah, I want to get to that and I want to get to that one question which besides the one I just asked, which uh uh and and uh we've talked about this before, it's amazing how big of a shift there's been in the Republican Party from 2016 where you got tens of thousands of even Amish voting for Trump and now you completely flipped so people that have been voting for decades have said that they're never gonna vote again because there's no point, you know, 'cause it's so this this huge like one eighty that we've done as as a as a conservative movement in the last four years and that's a really tough thing to deal with if you are a conservative still trying to run for office because the people that you would consider, you know, your base like the most faithful supporters of most of them many of them, I don't want to be too pessimistic to say most of them, but many of them 'cause I I know I've talked to them Like they're just well, what's the point? They're just completely fallen away from support. And that's that's a really difficult thing. You know. Uh it especially if you're somewhat sympathetic, if not entirely factually sympathetic, but at least somewhat sympathetic to the reasons for their change in opinion. Right. You know. So uh I'll I wanted to get to that question at least before I don't know if you do I have a restroom. Absolutely, yes. I was about to pause and ask if you want Do you know where it is? I believe so. Yeah, right there. Look at that. I asked the politician a harsh question, he's rushing away. Uh-huh. Didn't hear me. You know what he's killed here, so I'm sure he's c and his own. That's fine. That's your fault for it. We've had more. Yeah my gosh. We had a situation once where I had I think it was three people on one mic and four on the other. It was insane. Wow. It was really hard to try to juggle that. And it sounded horrible because you know you especially try to share the mic. It it's Somebody's here, somebody's here. It was it was horrible. Huh. Technical show was good, but the technical quality of it was working. Yeah. We need one of those omnidirectional mics. Yeah. Yeah. pick up the whole room. Yeah one of the problems there we might get a lot of feedback though because then they'd be picking up the only way to do that is with one mic really, but that's that's really hard to to Okay, yeah, so we've kinda shifted, so we're gonna go more in a overtly kind of. Yeah, because you he was talking about you know you should look at somebody's voting record rather than than what they say to see and I think well but the voting record is really hard because a lot of times they don't like what they were voting for either but it was to get some other thing passed which they assigned a higher priority. Right. And and it it you know the sausage a a they they call 'em pork barrel for for a reason. I mean these these are some really nasty bills and sometimes the argument goes that's actually the only way to get anything done, you know, and so you gotta kind of take the good with the bad and hopefully you don't vote for too bad of a thing and you know have some compromise. And that's but that that's that's really difficult. Especially when you're voting on like omnibus budget packages. Well you're basically guaranteed to be voting for killing babies. But if you don't vote for that then the then then the uh uh Um the defense doesn't get funded and and whatever else, you know. Well that's one of my frustrations. I'm like Yeah, why not? Well the thing is and and let's try that for a while, see what happens. Those are continuous then what these uh non-essential services just get rid of them. Why are they funded to begin with? Yes. Exactly. I was joking that I asked you I asked a politician a tough question and you rushed out of the room or asked you before you could answer. And uh but we weren't on air, so it's okay. We're still basically live on page. You ready to jump back in? Sir yes sir. I know you don't like being called a politician. We'll try to remember that. I mean like Good morning. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com We're joined this week, of course, by Daniel actually of course because he's here pretty much every week. Daniel Razby. He's with the the one of the pastors at the church that meets at Imran's house and they've got a organization called Concord by Love Ministries and they're online at conqueredbylove. org and David Forcey, he's a pastor in the area and they they kind of hopscotch around the the the the counties around this area to to see where they're gonna meet from week to week and so if you ever want to catch up with him, he might be meeting at a next door neighbor's house, you don't even know it yet. So if you'd like to find out, reach out to me and I'll put you in touch with David. You can crash his party one of these Sunday mornings. And we're also joined, of course Uh if you've been listening the last couple of weeks, you know it's of course. Dan Cox. I'm gonna do it this time. You can find out about Dan Cox and his run for US Congress at CoxforCongress. org. That's His last name, Cox, and then the word for as opposed to the number for, uh, Congress. org, and you can find out all about the what he's trying to to accomplish in his run, even though he's not a politician, he's running for office. 'Cause he doesn't like being called a politician. So we're not gonna call him that anymore. I'm gonna see if my research is okay on some of this. Let's see. Undergrad from Maryland, uh uh University of Maryland, is that right? You got your undergrad from Maryland Uh law degree from Regent University? Yes. Okay. So really liberal school, really conservative school, back to back there. Attained rank of captain in the U. S. Civil Air Patrol. Yes, supporting my s my children that who were taking uh who were using that that uh great organization to get training and get opportunities with such So do you fly? I do not. My brother my brother is a a pilot, but not me. So you're you're a captain, but you can't fly No. No, we did a lot of groundwork. You know, they they trained so the Civil Air Patrol trains both for flights over the bay to watch out for uh potential terrorist or drug activity. Uh Um and they also though have ground recovery teams. They train the kids how to go to a crash site or to a disaster site to help out. Obviously not frontline stuff because they're kids, but um certainly uh great training training they they they teach them everything that you would want to have your kid know, just like Boy Scouts. And um then they actually do deploy and help out with things like water distribution and other non-seriously dangerous activity. So I did more of the ground work for that. But cool. And local boy grew up around here, I think Tauntown is officially what your hometown was growing up around. That's right, Frederick County side, believe it or not. And uh now we live in western, uh northwestern Preter County, so Grew up on a farm. I was honored and blessed to get out of the city. And as much as we love the city, um I had a dream to to be out in the wide open spaces and um So part of the vision that my parents had in launching their uh statewide home education program was to actually do a microcosm of training for the family. So our education became uh home based and uh I became a a small businessman at age fourteen when I had my first sheep flock and developed that and learned at age sixteen that in order to sell land I had to compete internationally with the Australians, believe it or not. And so I had to compete, learn to run my business, uh making sure that I could beat their dollar per pound um price. So that was very very good for me as a Ford H as a as a farm boy and learned a lot of hard work and that kind of I think created a lot of groundwork for me to to be able to um do the calling God had for me and to go to law school. So your your parents were very involved in the in the home education movement in Maryland in particular. Still are so were you home educate you were the oldest Yes. Of their children. Were you home educated for for all of your your years? Uh most. So I I was a student at uh the Frederick Christian Academy. Um Until uh my father launched the first homeschool program in Maryland, which was a statewide educational administration. And uh in that process, that was uh 1983 In that process he worked with the state of Maryland to uh create the regulate regulatory um permissive sphere so that uh the um the attacks uh that that some were making uh would go away to say, no, th this is an an academic program and it's been very successful. Uh I ended up uh graduating, went on to college and I came back and worked for my dad. for about 10 years in that administrative uh school administration as the uh registrar and we helped over a thousand young people uh graduate high school and ninety-five percent uh were able as we know homeschoolers are very smart ninety five percent either were accepted to college and went on to college or went to a trade school or um got another kind of certification, became successful. So very few graduates from homeschooling uh didn't have opportunities. So that was my I uh yeah, my dad was a pioneer and uh still is, he's still at it. So very you were a teacher too, weren't you at a high school? Yes, with uh uh with the home education program we had AP level courses, so I taught church history, American government. and the constitution. And I as part of that, for ten for the ten years, um, I would lead tours of my students if they would make their grades. Then I gave them a promise I would lead the the three articles tour. And You know, most people when you ask them what are the three articles they can't name. Was that purposely playing off of Gilligan's Island? No, actually. Oh. No, I'm not even a fan of that tour. But no, uh Watch Who Mike Gill again. Come on. Full disclosure. Um when you read the Constitution, when you ask anyone on the street about the Constitution, you ask them to name Article One, Article Two, Article. They can't do it. Most of us could could not. So my remedy in teaching it for high schoolers was I wanted them to see it because one of the ways that I learned uh very very well was not only by reading and absorbing and and memorizing, but of going and doing and hands on. So I wanted them to see God Article one and they they would see Congress. I wanted them to see Article Two and they we toured the White House. And I wanted them to see Article Three and we toured went into the chambers of the Supreme Court. And they got to see those three branches of the Supreme Court. government how the federal system is supposed to work and then obviously we would go down as well to Annapolis. Um and as a state delegate I I continued tours for for my constituents um of the state house so that a lot of a lot of kids don't understand or their their learning process is growing to to learn and a lot of adults don't know this that we have a federal system of government where you have have the three branches in the state and you have the three branches in in the United States and so and watching how and studying how that interplays uh under Article five of the Constitution as well and and uh in the Bill of Rights. Have you ever crossed paths with David Barton? I have not. Oh okay. Because he does tours and stuff. I didn't know if uh Yeah no I have never crossed well my tour was not really um a a Uh a tour per se it was a teacher led educational day. Right. By the way, I I shouldn't just name it up. David Barton, uh he's uh Well, I think he's a historian. People think he's a quasi-historian. He's very controversial. He's very conservative. Um he's got a number of like DVDs and streaming things you can watch about American history. Had a founder's Bible that they published, his organization published, and he does tours throughout DC, mostly I think with pastors and stuff, if I'm not mistaken. And so I was just curious if I'm gonna have to do that. My understanding is he has one of the best historical American document collections. Yeah, and he's and I think that's what m really endeared him to Glenn Beck. You know, Glenn Beck's a huge fan of his been a guest on Glenn's show and I think that was the hook. Hey Glenn, you wanna come see some of my cool stuff? So I think that was his in with Glenn. But anyway. Um you had that question that was kind of a dangling participle from last week. You want to bring it back to the back? So uh speaking of being in Annapolis and you spent a bunch of time in Annapolis, you were a delegate there for several years. And I I uh Uh I think that we had a conversation once, something to the effect that, you know, it's really difficult the way that it's one thing the way you want politics to work You know, you wish we could say, Hey, you know, I want to have a bill that that, you know, bans killing puppies or whatever it is and and they're like, Okay, you know, I second the motion. All right, the bill passed. And that was like one line, don't kill puppies, right? Like in that would be wonderful if bills got passed that way. But they don't because I'm not going to vote for your bill unless you vote for my thing, which you hate. And so we end up with this omnibus package that's three thousand pages long that has a lot of garbage in there So no matter who votes for it, you can be sure that somebody's gonna go and do a sneaker campaign, see he voted for this. But if you don't want to participate in that, then nobody really wants to work with you or get help you get anything done So how are you able to get anything done in that kind of system without compromising your principles and saying, Look, I will not vote for killing babies, I will not vote for, you know, transgender uh, you know, garbage stuff, which are things that I I believe your campaign is can has has said something to that effect. So how how do you how do you deal with that? Well you pass puppy bills because they passed unanimously. Seriously, uh in my committee uh the Republicans learned to pass bills that Everybody uh everybody appreciated and one of them were were uh almost every year there's a dog bill of some kind. Um and they tend to pass unanimously without a lot of uh back and forth because people like dogs and animals thing it's fuzzy and everybody's happy when the and nobody fights Well why can PSD why why do PSD folks have the right to take their dogs in court now? That came through my committee was unique. unanimous. You can take your dog into court if you have PTSD. Um if you have a you know a need for a a dog. Um anyway, what your your question is excellent and it is a problem in politics and that is uh twofold. It's always been there. Yeah. Um but it's sometimes gotten worse lately, uh I think with the uh incredible uh intense hatred on the left towards the conservative is on the right. Um what has happened in the last I would suggest maybe the last ten years especially is we've had a lot of the Republican Awakening to the fact that they've been voting for leadership that has lied to them in many respects and has led them potentially astray. in some respects. And so they've become much more aware. I think social media has a lot to do with this as well. They become much more aware of the issues in politics. Instantly finding out what the votes are. For instance, within a second of when those votes would post on the board in Annapolis, somebody would snap a picture and it would be on Facebook or Instagram or Twitter and a thousand constituents would be texting that delegate saying, How dare you switch your vote quick Um that's the big change. Um in the interview. Uh during a certain period of time, yes. You have to um if if the speaker calls the question then you have to do it in writing and you have to have Sorry, I did not know. But the point is, uh what you're saying is what about the big votes and uh the intensity of uh the push for compromise with the party politics and yeah it's there. I mean I I have experienced it. Uh the way that I've sought to deal with it as somebody who felt called to lead in the politic political circle is you just a lot of backroom discussions. So for instance, we would have legislation that the caucus would put forth and say we want everybody to unanimously support this. And as somebody who was a chair of one of the committees, I was the chair of the Second Amendment committee. for the caucus, which meant that they were looking to me to vet a lot of bills to make sure they didn't accidentally vote for a bad bill. So I had a lot you know, every time you're in charge of one of these areas of policy we look to each other. So you have to trust the committee process also because your ranking members on the committees are supposed to tell the rest of the caucus about bad bills. However, occasionally a a bad bill would get voted out of committee uh with the Republican support and it would be flagged by one of us in the back room where we would have our caucus meetings. Um when I say backroom it's a public, I mean it's it's there. We have our caucus meetings um sometimes public, sometimes closed, but it's You smoke cigars? But um I I would, you know, occasionally myself and some others would occasionally flag some bills and I'll never forget um on my first I think my first week or two in office. Um it was like going to be a unanimous vote. The committee had supported it. The Republicans on the committee supported the bill. And it was going to be something that that everybody was going to vote for. And if I re recall it might have even been uh well, I don't want to get anybody in trouble, so I don't want to say that the issue Um but at the end of the day, uh I looked at it and I thought this violates a constitutional principle of due process You can't be held guilty for something without an adjudication of guilt or a finding of guilt. And what they were doing was I on that particular bill was charging people up front for for uh fees and costs. um before there was any adjudication of any wrongdoing in a both a civil and a potentially criminal atmosphere. So it was geared as a civil issue But all civil charges can turn into potential criminal charges, which totally ruins your due process if you just were dragged into the mud and you had to admit things or do things that that may have But anyway, as Republicans who are law enforcement supporters, um we believe in the Constitution. And a lot of times Republicans don't necessarily see the Constitution as support. Supreme. They don't get it sometimes because they're either not trained for it or they just it's too easy just to go along with what they're afraid of having something happen that would expose a an embarrassment to make them look like they're supporting the bad guy. And so they're willing to vote for bad legislation just so that it doesn't look and this is not just Republicans. This is across the board. Any politician has this problem. Any elected official I like the term elected officials. They're all people like us. Elected officials. Somebody challenges you on something and you don't want to you're you want to make sure your judgment is not mistaken and misunderstood by by others. And so you have to kind of weigh how that is viewed in the perception as well as what's actually being done. And I I flagged it. I was like, is anybody here? I think they the call came out, is anybody it's gonna be unanimous, right? Let's report this unanimously and I had to raise my hand. in front of forty-two delegates and say, no. I'm not signing on that bill because it violates the Constitution. And of course it was like, what? Oh no, this is going to make us all look bad because if you take a position in opposition to your caucus, you have to be sensitive to the fact that your friends might look bad to their constituents. Because why did Dan Cox vote this way and now that makes them look bad? And that's not my intent. That's not any Republican's intent. And that's the beauty of our party, by the way. Republicans believe in freedom of conscience on votes. We don't hold it to each other's account. Democrats, man, if you don't vote the way you're told as a Democrat, I've watched it happen, you will lose committee assault. assignments. Boom, you're out. They they will take you off a committee. So um long story short, in that context I've had um you know the the necessity of having to stand up and say no for the budget for instance. You can look in the Frederick newspaper. The Republican caucus supported Larry Hogan's budget. I did not. And there were about twenty of us Republicans out of um Out of the 42 who did not. And it created a little bit of controversy in the caucus, like, how dare you? This is a Republican government. How could you not support his budget? And I was like, look, I think a lot of it he's trying to do what's right. There's some good stuff in there. There's there's boost money for the kids to get him out of the public schools and give them opportunities because these schools are killing them and There's this, that, and the other, but at the end of the day, it's full of pork. It's not constitutional because it's full of pork. It's lining the coffers of groups that should not be receiving it, such as Casa do Maryland. which is a communist organization and we're funding it, and all these other aspects that um, for instance I found one point two billion dollars in the budget going to serve uh sanctuary state status in Maryland. Over one point two billion dollars. going directly to fund EBT cards and other benefits for those here illegally, which in six jurisdictions can vote. Illegal aliens can vote in Maryland. Now I'm a very compassionate person when it comes to immigrants. My brother-in-law is from Mexico City. He's here legally. He's got his green c he's got his citizenship. My my niece, or excuse me, my my nephews um wife is um I helped her get her green card legally. Um she's here legally from the Ukraine. Her family is a Christian uh outreach. Her father's a pastor there. They're doing house church outreach in Ukraine. in the midst of war, um, but they some of them had to escape and you know, I get it. This is the land of opportunity, but you better do it right under law or else we don't have a country. And I'm tired of This whole mantra of Christianity saying that well we have to have compassion and love with the other but Jesus was all about to open our borders. There's even a song. I I got so disgusted there's a song on the Christian radio that came on that said open borders It's I couldn't believe it. I was like, you gotta be kidding me. And um that's not that's not love. Love is when you uphold justice and law for people because then they have a sense of security and understanding that they're not gonna have their stuff you know, robbed, raped and destroyed. Yeah, y you know, a couple of things. You mentioned the Christian radio station in name only probably. Uh most of the Christian stations, the stuff that passes Christian worldview, it's I mean it's very secular and Uh so and then you mentioned the uh Republican governor in name only probably. But anyway, um I gotta say, and I don't know if you guys would agree, I'm I'm I'm listening to that that litness that litany of how you know Hom the sausage gets made. And it I felt like I was just emotionally put through the meat grinder. It's so discouraging. I mean, you got people in the caucus that are worried about like their friends walking through the halls of Congress or in the delegates or whatever more than they're worried about their constituents who are back home. So we've got this huge country with over three hundred million people in it, represented by, you know, of you know, hundreds of people. And yet those hundreds of people are running a an albatross that's tens of thous hundreds of millions of people probably working for the the federal government system in ver various ways So we're not really a nation of that's constitutional anymore because these things that are unconstitutional get passed. Well how does it get passed if it's unconstitutional? So what hope is there? And then where's the accountability because we're not really the feels like it's not we the people, it's we the nation of a bunch of middle managers that are running all these agencies that we never really wanted to and it's unwieldy and you can't get rid of them. Right. It doesn't seem like there's a way to get I mean the you get elect to new Congress but the staffers stay there so about many administrations and and the career uh bureaucrats are still there. So walk walk me off the off the ledge here. Why shouldn't I now just jump? Well it's one of my first that's one of my first bills by the way. I would I would if I'm elected, God willing, to Congress, uh I want to submit a bill that uh provides term limits for staffers. And I the reason of I've seen this for years as an attorney I've represented government officials. And in my judgment it doesn't matter what president comes or goes, it's the staffers that think they run things. And they have targeted the presidential powers to appoint someone and if they don't like 'em, they will bring them to down and those staffers can't be removed. So if we pass term limits on them, they're out. We've got to uh reform the civil service law. Um the whole reason it was passed back a hundred years ago was because presidents were using the government government wrongly. They would come into power a hundred years ago and all the workers were fired and they would bring in all their family and friends. It was just total corruption. you can imagine. So they passed the Civil Service Reform Act where you can't fire anybody. Well, that didn't help either. It went the other way. So we gotta fix that. So I I uh but I I would encourage Christians to not jump ship because of this. This is the greatest country I believe In the world, for our voices, for our freedom, for our abilities, we have a constitution. And it's not a self-executing document You can't just sit around and look at the Constitution on the wall, no matter what country you're in. You have to have someone actually execute the Constitution And that means use it or lose it. And if you are sitting down and not overwhelming the vote, whether or not you believe people are stealing your vote. if you're gonna sit back and just give it to them anyway, you're basically lighting a a match to your own constitution, to your own family's uh heritage, to your own future. And that's never good no matter what country you're in. I mean you our founders didn't do that and the people who came from England never did that. Look at the way the Mayflower got here. I mean those dear souls. um risked life and limb and and half of their members died getting just to the soil and to the control and and that Mayflower Compact was something that they used to establish that government, that first government here But they did not sit back and just idly let uh anything go or or let things happen. They took charge of their own families, they took charge of their communities and And they established constitutional law, which was the historic rights that we had, and that we I believe that we have naturally. And I it's sad to see that judges and and lawyers, especially and politicians don't believe in natural law. Uh they they believe in positive law, which I I would love to have conversations with them and I sometimes do. So you know when you when you don't believe in natural law, guess what you're doing? You're undermining Truth and justice. Can you if we have time, can you break that down? What what do you mean by natural law versus positive law? Because I think some of the listeners may not So yes, so positive law is basically whatever the top dog says it is, and that's what most people believe nowadays. In other words, most judges will say if you if you review the US Senate confirmation notes Um they will be asked questions like Ted Cruz asked, grills them with questions, great questions. He's one of the best constitutional institutionalists in America on these issues and he will grill them and you read their responses. He says, Do you believe in the Constitution and the rights of man and women and women under God? natural legal principles. In other words, that supersedes whatever Congress might pass. And their answers are always similar, not always, but most of these judges will say, no, I believe in The Constitution as interpreted by the Supreme Court, I will apply that only. And the statutes of Congress, period. Well, welcome to the Third Reich, because that's exactly what they did So how are you going to differentiate this? Positive law can't answer this question. You have to get to the greater principles that are behind the rights of men and women, the rights of mankind. And this is lock-in theory, but it's more than that. It's a sense of our Creator. It's the understanding of why we got the Magna Carta. It's why do we have these rights. They come from things that are in each of our hearts that we know they come from God because God made us and that's going to be the last word for this week's show. Hopefully we can impose upon you to maybe join us for one more week's episode or if if you can do that because I've got some Other things I want to be an honor to try to do some uh some some tie ups and loose ends and that sort of thing and pick up on some things that were said within the last five, six minutes of of the show. And and and uh uh David's been saving his the his best questions for last, so maybe we'll get get those in next week. Thank you so much, Dan Cox online at CoxWorkCongress. org. You can find us online at Household of Faith in Christ uh. com. David, Daniel, I'm Troy. Dan, the two Dan's here. Thanks so much. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless Well once your uh live stream is still going, you don't have a warnings thing popping up and stuff. Yeah, I've learned that if I make sure that it's hooked up to the Wi-Fi, that the battery lasts longer. And it should automatically because I'm set here, it recognizes so it should. I've already checked to make sure it doesn't automatically connect. Well down the basement I can imagine the white I might be not as good, but it's working. I hope I didn't get off too much on that. next thing is it's just there are many uh what should Christians really be doing just in general you know you wouldn't want them to go vote okay great And maybe they do that whether they their heart is in it or not, that's another question. But there are are things that Christians should be doing wherever God has them in that in the position that they're in, you know, whether or not you're in politics, what what is our job? Is it just to go re preach the gospel? Is there more to it than that? That's you know some of the things we've been discussing on this on the show. Um do the right thing, you know. For what it's worth, I think everyone is a politician. Just like everyone is religious. There you go. Everyone's a theologian. He said, people hate politics, they rate it at the bottom of life. He said, but they forget something. Everything is politics. And uh unless we're hermits, you know, we have to talk to one another. That's all that is. You know, what kind of policy? Well then then you're just uh You're just trying to have your own monarchy. Right. There you go. And if there's something w some wisdom in pick your battles, pick which hill you're gonna die on But do die on a hill. Like you you can't just sit back and fight on a hill and never meant the make the other guy die. Yeah, that's true. At least do fight but but do do take battles, right? You don't just you you don't pick no battles. Yeah. Um there are certain battles that are worth taking and some that are even though it's th this is this is uh a good point. It you know, maybe just wait on that so you can you have a little more leverage on something else. I get th there there's some strategic wisdom in that, but we we do need to actually stand up for what's right. And certain things are just too Uh too important. Yeah. Well see, the average Republican elected official will be totally in agreement with that, and that's why they'll s tell you. Like even Nikki Haley probably say this, you know, I pick my battles. You know, she doesn't fight on anything except maybe five things. People hate that. But it's true. Because at the end of the day, if you start nitpicking on energy Well that it is exhausting. Well that's right. I mean like I mean Trump will say a whole bunch of stuff then you look at his policy what he actually passed. That's a lot more like a traditional Republican as government Remembers Congressman. He just has to say yay or nay. I would love to give the president the right. Oh no. So what would I do as pr if I were president, how would I handle that differently? And It's difficult because the send it back. Because especially with this long enough to get the episode in or not of Congress and the Senate ever overriding a veto. when they're trying to do omnibus stuff. Calvin Coolidge was a lot like that. Calvin Coolidge has known it to be one of the greatest custodians. Wasn't it what didn't DeSantis say he was like his favorite president recently? I think I think he did on it. I was like, no, that's cool. Welcome to Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks so much for spending part of your day with us. We do not take that for granted. Whether it's live on the radio on Sunday or if you're listening to us via podcast, so We very much appreciate your support on this show. I'm Troy Skinner, the host of this show and the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of FaithInCrist. com. Of course you can connect with the Faith Debate at the radio station's website as well. That's WFMD. com And we have an esteemed guest on the panel again this week. His name is Dan Cox. Maybe you've heard of him. I don't know. He he gets out every once in a while. And he has signs out there. There was a story out there years ago that he was peeing on signs. They will ask him about that. I don't know anything about that story. False fake news. Yeah. That was a story that people were stealing your sign and so you were gonna pee on them so they wouldn't steal them anymore. Fake news. I was gonna say there was like a kicker question at the very end, but we got it out of the way now Anyway, that's Dan Gott. You can find about his uh candidacy to represent the uh sixth district in in Maryland for the United States House of Representatives. uh coxforcongress. org. Uh Daniel Razvi, you can connect with uh him and uh the Church of Eath at Imran's house through uh conqueredbylove. org. And David Forcy, you can only connect with him through me. Sorry. I'm like his gatekeeper. I'm his secretary. I'm a glorified secretary. Thank you for that. I appreciate it. So anyway, uh Dan Cox has uh he's been a delegate uh in the state of Maryland. He ran for governor uh last cycle, uh was the re Republican nominee in in in that race, and now he's running for what was David Trone's seat in in Congress. And uh I want to talk about things specific to the race a little bit before things are out, but we had some things that came up at the I don't want to think the Republican Party necessarily But just the conservative, patriot-minded Americans, massive shift over the last several years where in 2016 You had such an overwhelming support for conservative ideas that even Amish, who never voted in any election uh we're turning on in tens of thousands to vote for Trump. And we've gone from that a complete one eighty such that there's so many JD people now because of belief about cheating that went on or whatever, raped and so on. There there's been people who believe rightly or wrongly a whole list of things that go along with that that are very patriotic and have always voted in every election for the last fifty years who have now vowed to never vote again because there is no point 'cause it's all rigged and it's all a a a farce and it's all just a game and and it's all predetermined and w why would I even bother? You know, I should just if I'm a Christian I should be still preaching the gospel and trying to build a kingdom that way way, but why would I ever want to be involved in politics or vote again? And so y you have that I think I I think it's a very large portion of conservatives who feel that way who may be agree with you on every single issue but think there's no point at all. So what what would you say to those especially those Christians that that kind of feel that way, but just an anybody Well it's a fair question, but I would say that uh think of their children and grandchildren. Think of the fact that the Constitution has stood For a very short amount of time. We haven't been around very long as a country. And countries that have stood firm and have come through severe trials. that are still upholding certain values that we would also want to uphold for our kids, uh didn't uh throw have their people throw the towel in uh completely. They might have had some of them might have had to escape and that's how we got America. But at the same time think of their families that stayed back, that continue to carry on. And they have won the day. I think when you look at our Constitution, if you do nothing, you are allowing, like I said last week, the communists that wanted to destroy this country to light a fire to that constitution. And if you do nothing, if you sit down and and you just simply shrug, uh this is not a game. This is not the WWE. This is your children's future. And we must, if we care about the, especially as Christians, about the mandate to be a salt and light, if we are going to obey Christ, then we must be involved. and the the way to legally be involved is to vote. And yes, uh there might be accusations that were not there yet and I agree with those because look, I have Indian friends, by the way we had a very large and we still do have a lot of great um Indians for Dancox, um, as well as other Asian Americans for Dancox. And they tell me they c they've escaped China, they've escaped India uh or come from India and they tell me they don't want America to become um uh uh you know trampling upon the rights that they love here because there's no system. But one thing they brought out to me that was very interesting was they said, but here we are in India with what, uh, a billion people or more. 1. 5 billion, I you can't remember the exact number, but it's a large number of people. And we don't have these vote fraud issues that you guys have, that America has. Why? Because we have voter ID. We have Uh even I think they take fingerprints when they vote. I mean they're really, really strict per vote. And look at France. You know, they have in person paper ballot hand counting. Look at Canada, same thing. Why? Because they know that shenanigans will happen if you especially use electronics. It's very easy to manipulate. And they don't want um foreign entities or uh alleged uh three-letter agencies accessing their voting machines. So they go hand in hand count only. We need to get to that, yes. But we don't get to that by sitting back and pretending that we're a pious Christian on our little couch. So is there a third option? I mean because there are people that say well it's it's already over. Nothing I do will ever make one shred of difference. And then there's other people who say well And no, I mean there's isolated areas but you know, you still should continue to fight and hopefully it won't get that bad as you say it is already. Is there a third option where like Even i even if it's it's kinda too late, then it's still worth doing something or trying to do something? I mean it it's it's definitely w I mean our country's worth fighting for I I was amazed at the thousand-year history of Christian civilization in in England. Not perfect. Severe problems. Um and O Oliver Cromwell who's somebody I I would disavow on certain issues, particularly his hatred for Christmas. Okay, I'm a big Christmas fan. But where where is he buried? He's buried Westminster Abbey at a prominent location. Interesting. Where is uh what are the statues around Parliament? Very interesting, there's one major one. Oliver Cromwell with a lion at his feet, pointing to the lion. Why do the Brits do this who disavow some of his, you know anti-religious policies because he was not a religious freedom guy like I would be. Uh why why do they appreciate some of the things? I think it goes back to the fact that it gave Parliament and the people a sense of ownership of their own government. They had had enough of of these kings that were raping, pillaging, and destroying, and using their so-called divine right of kings to hurt and kill people, innocent folks, children even And they were tired of it. It didn't matter anymore to them. And they came to the point where they established the Magna Carta by law and and they have come through thick and thin. And so what I'm trying to say is over time they organized and they made sure they kept and upheld the law And it wasn't always perfect. It's a lot of times messy. We're in a messy stage right now, but we need to uphold the law and the constitution. And we do that by organizing. We do it by making sure that we elect people in our local towns that honor. the Constitution. I mean how many of us maybe ign you know forget that, that it starts local. And I'll never forget, I mean I had the privilege of of serving as a town council president and I that was my first experience to be involved in local uh government and I realized wow there's a huge huge amount of influence and wasted taxpayer dollars if we're not careful that local officials can can take charge of and within their jurisdiction they have a tremendous ability to bless the people that are there. And so I mean we we were able to fix things without raising taxes. We did a lot of good and I learned a lot in that respect experience realizing that it's not just, you know, some boogeyman in Washington. Sometimes it's it's your local councilman. I think people forget that. They you know they assume, oh, okay, well the presidential election is all rigged predetermined. Well what about school board? I mean I mean it it's gonna be a lot harder to make the case that every single local jurisdiction in the entire country is predetermined. Right. Like that will be a lot bigger of a lot of people. But there are concerns and and and accusations about that too, because of you know the all this absentee voting that takes place. can you can drop you can drop a whole drop a whole block of votes in and they can just keep counting until they get as many as they want. And I I who's who who's to say how many of those you can prove? Mm-hmm. But I think you'd have to be an absolute idiot to not think that they haven't accomplished that in some way somewhere at some time. And we live and here's the the bigger, the broader issues, the kind of thing we often talk about on the Faith Today Show We I'm persuaded that we live in a uh now live in a post-Christian, post-modern, post-constitutional country. And I say it in that order because I feel like that's the phase Maybe so, but if you're looking at it, we're running the wind. But the win is not just this the taking the oath of office. That's what I'm aiming for. But either way you win if you're speaking the truth to the Yeah, and I and I like that perspective as similar to some advice I gave to a friend of mine that ran for office