So if you're hearing this on the radio, then you're within striking distance of where our churches are, and we would encourage you to visit us at some point if you're so inclined. And so here we are a year later, and my instincts were right, because I remember saying to Daniel, I said, look, this campaign's not going away. I I I'm assuming she's supposed to be kind of the popular girl anyway, pouring water on the feet of a girl uh who if you look closely you can see the girl had to remove her combat boots to have the foot washing experience. Yeah. So this is a different kind of a visual than we've seen before. Our pastors in the area, you can connect with the Razbeys through uh their website, concordbylove. So if you disagree with something we say on the show, it's probably because I'm misunderstanding the Bible. And if your point is to tell them this so they like it and then come to church and hear the rest, that's one thing. I'm Troy Skinner. I don't think there's any bit of good in it. It's just it's inevitable. But it wasn't ultimately about repentance and a change and a turning. I wonder how many children were exposed to the preview online, how many millions more will tune in to the series that's marketed by Disney. I mean the one of the uh popular shows from a few years ago was Lucifer, right? I don't know what it looks like in this show, but that's uh it's more and more you see that Satanism and worshiping the devil is mainstream in our culture. Next week, Imran Razby, Daniel Razby, David Forcy. And of course the radio station's website is wfmb. And so I'm doing things a little bit out of order, but I don't know that I hate that I hate this guy as much as you do after reading the article But we're going to read, I think, a pretty fair representative uh example of what he had to say to to put him in context and be fair to him. Wow, hopefully it figured it out a couple years later. Mm-hmm. Uh David Forcey is a pastor of a house church that each week meets in kind of a different location, so you kind of gotta go hunting and pecking to find him. Just reach out to me, go to household of faith in Christ. And of course, if you want to get in touch with me, you can also go to household of faith in Christ. I'm Troy Skinner, host of the Faith Debate and pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of FaithInCrist dot com. He says you have to be a professional fundraiser. You're also expected to be a counselor for people who need help. Like I I don't know that that's really the case in successful churches that are kinda run like companies, they actually do have people in all those roles. So it goes so that's what happens in these instructions. Day for you, Untroy Skinner, I am the host of the Faith Debate and also the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com in in you know intersectional uh foot washing is going on. uh well a child sacrifice center. Like I saw a paper bag earlier. in intersectional hierarchy and at worst they're very woke. to be UF guessing and settle with the main thrust of the story is that Jesus was was all about footwashing. Okay. And my partners in crime on this uh adventure are Imran Razzi, uh Daniel Razzi and David Forcey, all of us are But kind of household the faith in Christ dot com is a one-stop shop for connecting with all of the things I just mentioned. Troy Skinner have been hosting this show for far too long. like you know, to David Forcy's point, you know, say, hey, you know, we're trying to introduce them to Jesus, maybe they'll check out the Bible. Yeah. But it's characteristic that's a good thing. Mayo father figure. uh you said you're gonna ask me about the music later. This this he gets this campaign I'm convinced is completely heretical and it's it's evil uh and and it should be fought against. Maybe you know, who knows? And you can find us online at WFMD. No no no. What's it called? Uh uh that's fine if we get some of those guys, but that's not how Christianity works, right? and position him as the one who has the truth. I might you know, or or or maybe I uh uh it's it's gonna be funny, they'll tell a few good jokes or whatever. college and you're gonna get your uh you know legs kicked out from under you, you're not expecting some of the really n nefarious things that are happening out of the movie. But people get so excited they're like, oh, this person's on my side, because he agrees on XYZ topic. Uh plus I mean Satan's ancient, right? Pretty sure. I'll keep my eyes on the meters, make sure it's recording. Uh Razvi, and then calling him Raz on top of that, it gets there's lots of razzing going on. It's literally having a negative effect. Break them up to fifty hundreds. uh rarely share with others. They can't get out of their own way sometimes. Okay. and and he can't take it anymore. And that's true. Yeah, so that will be our our goal again. Yeah. Yeah. He's acting as HR director, CEO, fundraiser, all these titles which have nothing to do with God or the ministry. And he's alluded to that. built a bit of a straw man and he's used this uh okay if you're gonna put it that way I have no choice but to agree with you and that's what Daniel's reacting to and I I agree Well yes, but you should also be a Berean and search the scriptures and then when it's not true, raise your hand and say, Pastor, that's not right. I'm going to end up angry, bitter, broken, and a shell of a human being. Everything related to the show and in the sermons and the teachings that we do. Jesus is raised from the dead and ascended to heaven. of theme. Joined this week, as per usual, by Daniel Razvy, Imron Razvy, and David Forcy. uh through um one of their parachurch organizations that works alongside of their church. You can't get in touch with David. on the faith debate. You know, about biblical inerrancy and hermeneutics and statement on Christian nationalism and all that sort of stuff. uh without maybe listening to them. about this you can understand our point of view on these things. in an alley that appears to be kind of in the seedy part of town. to is. in the picture, but it's never in the picture. Uh I don't disagree by the way, there's a lot of woke. Goth really isn't in as a as a as a thing to do now. don't really go together, the patterns and the colors and stuff. Uh Indian, uh Native American, it's kind of a cowboy Indian kind of theme uh going on here. You see that uh one of the signs uh reads Save the Unborn, so clearly there are protesters trying to save babies' lives. uh in the foreground there's a middle-aged woman who's washing the feet of a of a teen who uh had removed her shoes and set down a paper bag. Empty, one lays on its side next to uh an ashtray loaded with a bunch of cigarettes. helper. The last one for sure. He he's washing the feet of an apparent environment environmental activist because you can see a sign that she has set on the ground and it reads Clean Air Now so this is like the the bad guy who's poisoning our air is washing the clean of the woman who's trying to get him to Oh man. are going to step out and humbly serve and take care of those who are oppressed as the world sees it. as you watch it more and more you pick up different ideas of what they might be trying to say. like people who know the truth are taking care of the the poor, you know, colored people, right? pleased to be receiving. You know, the left tends to say, Are you blank phobic? And in the middle of all this, there's a black woman who's washing the feet of maybe an Asian or Hispanic woman or maybe Native American. is black, but they they nobody's washing anybody's feet. Maybe there's a lot of hidden messages. Yep. to signify your repenting from your lifestyle. the Faith Debate. You know what I'm talking about? And what God is talking to us through his word. uh in abstention, right? And we were jokingly before we got started with last week's show, Imran is like, well, we're giving these guys like a platform. It is the faith debate. that we have for determining those things. you know, polling this then out there, even those who identify as evangelicals, a majority of them hold this particular view, this unbiblical view of Jesus. with them being And I think that the defenders of this campaign might say, No, that's not what they're doing. like validation and compassion. being asked saying saying, Hey, you know, are you gonna be telling the gospel message? connection maybe it's not there. natural sin struggles that you particularly struggle most about in your life is the attraction to men. It's just the way I am and so I'm gonna have to surrender myself to to celibacy. You know, I'm a porn addict uh Christian. You know, y no, y y you you can help it. for being gay. I murder people on weekends. And he can't help but that he loves somebody that looks like. Your financial advisor is new. Pretending this is okay in the culture. My father was very outside. Yeah, c and if his father was professing to be a Christian, he certainly doesn't understand what the Bible teaching is because if you have an out of control tongue and you're just cursing up a storm like a sailor all the time, you can't control that. and that he didn't curse a lot and that he uh maybe was artistic or whatever. It's not only with me. uh able to connect. uh man Giuliano's life of how part a big part of how he ended up where he is now. He wasn't able to didn't want to have a a one-on-one uh relationship with to your kids. uh we're holding services or whether we w I go and preach somewhere else and I'm gonna if there's a prayer going on, nobody sh no music should be heard. Uh well you just mentioned a lot of times they play music during prayer and one thing that I'm very strong on whenever I'm uh when you when your sermon over so when you start to do your closing prayer I want to bring in the music and I was like oh thank you for giving me a heads up to be honest I I I prefer no music under the prayer. My prayers will be short. interview. might not even have a chance to respond to what I'm about to say, but he's having a hard time finding his way to forgiveness because you you only can really, truly, consistently get there by the power of the Holy Spirit. So we'll we'll leave that an open question. Taped through Air Live on the radio later Sunday mornings at 9 o'clock. Both times. But even if you want to get, that's like saying, oh, the pastor did a good job. They're positioning this as a campaign that is promoted, funded, and put forward by far-right Christians. Yeah. If you feel like you got a quick 45 second rejoinder that would help button it up. But he's just not confident to just do a spectacular job on stage. But you'd think you'd at least try. and connections to the faith debate and the decorating date night episodes. The uh the ministry of the Razbeys, uh, Daniel and Imron are here along with David Forcey, their uh ministry connects, there's a link Uh there's definitely some influence of some leftism. Uh there there are a few things about the the overall get us campaign. me. So I guess they're refugees when they go from Texas to California. And change your life. Yeah, but yeah there was a uh Klinger was the cross dresser. true Christianity and and to not only conversion but discipleship. the prayer, no I was saved, type of thing. And um um, you know, count me as a fan, I guess. The whole movie's about what these men accomplished and how they draw and attra drew and attracted people uh and they got a little carried away with their egos and all sorts of they they depicted some of that not all of it that they could have, but they depicted some of that. Lonnie, thank you. We need a whole bunch of people. Uh I I I don't think I don't think he's a Christian, I think he's Mormon. behind the scenes is funding and supporting a lot of these m media projects, whether they're on radio or TV or movies or what's the other thing. Keep all the cool Hollywood stuff, but make it Christian. They're like, oh great, this is amazing. They're now, you know, they have children my children's age and going going back, you know, ten or so years ago and they were sending their kids I was like, you're sending them where? I think most professions it's not needed. So, no, his daughter actually is like uh forty. Disney and FX have decided to embrace and market what is clearly evil, stay far from it. And all that sort of stuff. If Disney makes good stuff you can watch it, and if they make bad stuff, don't watch that. i if i if they're doing a show or whatever then yeah that's punishable by death under God's law. any near time in the future. twenty, thirty, forty years ago people say, Oh, you're you're worshiping Satan and No, I'm not, I'm just liberal or whatever. the the big bad media conglomerates are producing it's it's it's everyday things that people do and make a part of their lives that that turn themselves away from You know, it's like it's like a habit at this point. steer away from that so I can try to make keep it clear and um but anyway i i if you know him as uh as rat yes it's uh he's the guy that's the guy Right. those who don't know. the time. I no longer have a desire to serve as a pastor in the church. the way. So this great pastor resignation came along in the wake of the pandemic. have your house in order. Forty-two percent of pastors considered quitting. And isolated number three polit uh the political divisions that are currently in this country. effect the role has on my family. You can imagine what it's like have by the way, it's not entirely true, but I hear what he's saying. uh program about before, but if you're gonna do it, you need a number of people in leadership staff that are actively discipling and knowing all these people on staff to help manage this. So he talks about the 300 people he kind of knows beyond name recognition. You're trying to think about how can you help them and you're and you're praying for them uh either aloud or in your spirit. Because they shared it with me. To weigh you down. And everybody's got challenges and some of the people that are coming to you for pastoral counseling, they really have challenges, and you're rooting for 'em, and you're trying everything you can to help them and Which we're gonna get to as we read on. However, in practice, your boss is every person who walks through the door. discontent with my leadership when that effort was unsuccessful, they went public, sending out an email to the entire congregation to build momentum to have me forcibly And and literally that that's that's the main thing. St still you should expect this type of thing. And so if that's what you're doing, if you fancy yourself some sort of church boss working behind the scenes to gather a a storm of people who want to come together and and and uh ambush the pastor to to read and understand Greek and Hebrew and how to properly execute a passage. a handful in the country, the seminaries that actually still exist that even teach that. S so many of the uh seminaries are so far gone, right? and you go three, six months or nine months or whatever and you're not in the languages, it starts to get rusty really fast. Uh uh uh alongside with that. I don't I'm not comfortable talking. We'll be back next week with the faith debate. a review on Google Maps and he says if it's a five star review, go ahead and scan that code and they and and write the review. Uh Mennonite Church or we you know, there's there's plenty of other church organization types where the pastor is kind of running the whole show. And out of that, not a single one is qualified or could be an elder or a deacon or helping with any of this responsibility? I I I got past that mental block for a while, but it it it reared its ugly head again. Yeah. s legitimate, like significant anyway. He was departing. No, all right. In a church like mine, I'm also acting as a human resource director. Which means you rarely get a break as these events often happen often happen on the weekends. twenty four seven. Between the two fathers in the f in the family doing the marrying, um but that's the topic for another day. concerns, but there's a prescription for that in Scripture. Pillar of virtue. in a normal company and uh and we're all laughing hearing that, but let's just pretend it's a company for a second. Right? with the way he's phrased this. I I don't I don't know. And and it's relevant. or obedient to God, but that's not what he's saying. And he's saying I I've discovered that I don't give Christians what they expect from a pastor. and s and uh be supporting the party line. August. says the poem represents my hopes and dreams for my church going forward. and of relationships with others. It's uh our nature. The enneagrams and all that sort of other stuff. But then there's that doubt. So that's how it starts as a doubt. So our goal here is to work through some of this stuff that the He Gets Us campaign is putting out there and to help you to understand, listener. in this year's Super Bowl, and it stirred up even more of a Hornet's Nest uh response. current fallen culture. uh videos that they have on their website, the He Gets Us website. be or as ads on streaming services because they're fifteen, thirty, or sixty seconds long. uh that wasn't produced by us and we had to go online to pull it into the show so we react to. Wise guy. About that one, so they start off innocua. um they're being very intentional with which specific uh ethnic groups are portrayed washing which other groups' feet and which which uh uh uh uh how how do I say um so the the person whose feet are being washed, right, is typically considered uh But yeah, definitely on the outcast, right? And then the fifth image, this is the one that got a lot of attention. Uh her feet are are are being washed by the younger woman, I don't know if it's supposed to be her daughter or just someone who cares about her, I don't know. Since you know, particularly right in in scripture, the foot washing starts with Jesus being the one to Privileged. it was some sinner lady washing his feet. Uh picking up on what David was saying about it seems like it's righteous people or whatever, they may be trying to give the point that look, those who understand the truth, that are rooted in the scriptures in the Bible, and they understand the importance they have a serpent's heart But that has the potential for being a backlash because then those who are oppressed, oh you think you're so good, like you have all these privileged great Apparently it seems to me the idea here is that she and a bunch of others that are pictured here disembarked recently. Right. or something. presented there. Right. I forget his full name, but anyway, they had a bit of a standoff, and the white kid was rude as far as the world was concerned, but here we've got a a black Yeah, they're kind of both washing each other's feet. And uh he's a middle-aged white guy and he's down on both knees washing the feet of um I think we're supposed to guess a certain way, but I'll just describe it as a rather effeminate-looking young black man. Right. And boy, I I should know this off the top of my head but I'm a little rusty. for us to work through the segments of the ad, so that was my bad. Uh I mean they're they're basically vaking it out to be that Jesus' whole ministry was footwashing. Mm-hmm. on the radio talking about this. Back left. uh have uh affinity for that we that we respect has been that this campaign the He Gets Us campaign is at best a very watered down, wishy washy version of like a history Or it might be that you disagree with how to understand the Bible, and it's very possible. to strike the right tone, but in the process I think they lose the message. Jesus' message of what he was here and what he did is washed away in this washing of feet. Um I I mentioned something about well they're trying to get people to see uh that they may not be interested or or in Jesus, you know, to come come Plausibly argue. a traditional gospel message or we're gonna connect you with a church that's gonna teach you that. What's the hardest thing to say? And so then in the screenshot here now as it says, I forgive you. We gotta be careful. But just because it's an interview, it's not a talking head. This is uh any organization that is promoting that you can be gay and be a Christian. asking for forgiveness for for that, which is a sin, then you somebody w might say, Well, I'm a gay Christian, but very few people are are are gonna be defining it that way. Oh, I'm a Catholic and I'm gay. Yeah. don't agree with his uh life choices. Is he giving a fair representation of what the Bible would say, masculinity? Yeah. what their accusations that well, maybe not, but they were mischaracterizing what masculinity is and their concerns about him. Um they're subliminally trying to put down masculinity by giving it bad characteristics. uh characteristics. of of fathers being involved and if they are involved, being involved in the right ways, being being joy filled and bringing a sense of of of uh of If you're if one of those dads is sitting around, bring me my beer, and that's all they ever hear from you. At some point uh it was too late. when the pastor's praying or something and it's very manipulative. But uh to me music is is a language and it's there is something being said and you cannot have two messages being shared at the same time. It's not this is enemy fire. You know, they're you're gonna take a machine gun and spray three hundred bullets into a guy's body and then feed him a salad and say, I gave you healthy uh uh food today to counteract all the lead poisoning censoring him. They're not win they're not making any money. So we don't feel like we're doing a whole bunch of completely disparate topics in one night because that we did that at first and it was a little bit awkward By the way, speaking of such things, talking about music manipulation, saw some guy on a YouTube channel or whatever, and it it caught my attention. He's not playing the song. Um John Cooker Belcast playing and it's like discordant mess, you know. Being theologically liberal and politically liberal aren't the same thing. that way in that sense that it things are are out of context and they're it's almost like uh like they're trying to but it's just it's bad eisegesis, right? He just went to a different part of a different province of the Roman Empire. Like he gets us, he's one of us. Yeah. That's the kind of Jesus he's portraying, a Jesus who gets us. That's what they're trying to do. So what's the man's role? Right. Unfortunately the Jews Revolution movie might reinforce that idea. supposedly a horror film. Who was the ambassador of truth in the movie? uh a false professing leader in the church and portrayed him in the movie as a fal false professing Christian who's in leadership in the church. That's worse than an average Hollywood movie, which you can go into say get go into the movie and watch and say, Okay, uh it's a secular movie, there's probably gonna be a bunch of bad stuff that I disagree with, but it might have an interesting storyline or a or a cool moral that that that a school that would at least be trying to supposedly be honoring God and then just make sure you encourage your children to still have your guard up. And then because I mean it's coming out from all angles in the secular institutions. Again, DeVito voices the role of Satan. coarsons our hearts and our consciences about these sorts of things. Because it's marketed actually to adults, in fairness. who ended up leaving his church and did it in a very high-profile way for interesting reasons. That y that you what? that way. So there's some but I I'm not gonna read the whole thing, but there are some some chunks that I I do intend to read and and have us respond to those portions as we go. That might take two episodes though. And uh the reason I don't call him Raz, by the way, because I think he prefers Raz. You're hearing it's it's him, it's one and the same. And he was uh well I'll just read to you how he starts off his little article and then we'll we'll have fodder for discussion here. or a so-called pastor in a so-called church. And i it's one thing to retire after a long career because you are tired with God's leading of course, but ten years doesn't seem like a really long time to be running a preaching sermon. Here's the next part, and I do want us to spend some time talking about these five bullet points that he gives us. It's all I, I, I. pastors and and and leaders uh uh you know, godly men throughout history have have felt that. place. I don't think anyone becomes a pastor not knowing this is what you're signing up for. Of those, about fifty percent attended on a regular basis, I really got to know about three hundred people beyond name recognition. Right, and and that's because his congregation is too big. in their lives like funerals, weddings, baptisms. It's a privilege to be given a window into these very private aspects of their lives, but a responsibility that comes with that privilege is a can sometimes be overwhelming. what God's placed in his heart. And yeah, uh so my point is saying I get it, I get where he's coming from. discontent with your messages or decisions, then you feel the weight of their leverage over your life. As a pastor, I don't know how I did it. As a pastor, you're ultimately responsible, ultimately he used that word by the way, I didn't insert that. removed. Or because you're wrong in some other way and they're upset with you, or just because different people have different personalities and they don't get along. It's a real, real problem in the church. It's a reality and it's got to stop. Uh m self included by the way. gang up on the on the seminaries uh too much, but I hear what you're saying. There are seven areas where a pastor is expected to be proficient. not talking over each other. you may be going and providing outreach and ministry a and and preaching in the streets and get people saved and then once you're saved, yes, come to church. of problems. Um that might be might not be the best way to think about how to describe that, but that seems like something that should be kind of expected from a pass-action. the rest of that list next week and finish out his article. If they should be done by the church at all, it's not really the head pastor that's that's having a should be having a s uh uh a full commitment to those things now even that the quote unquote conservative churches by reputation as they've gone liberal they're having a hard time filling their pulpits between the time zones. place every single week uh for his house church. And um Daniel uh Rasby did a a word search to see in this lengthy, lengthy article. They have to understand then that he's gonna be a tent maker. He's funding the ministry another way. kind of business. I think we could say, okay, yeah, maybe it it didn't work. People also look to the pastor as the keeper of the Bible and the guardian of orthodoxy, meaning they depend on you to correctly interpret the Bible. Meaning you have to love everyone in your congregation and show them grace and forgiveness no matter how poorly they treat you. Nobody is capable of being sufficient at all of these skills and yet pastors are expected to do all of these things and do them well for fifty-five thousand dollars a year. Now, I I I wanna uh uh also talk about that pillar of virtue, that last thing. The whole point of Christianity is that you're still having a sin nature. congregation in that. Now sometimes being unconditionally loving means you're saying things they don't want to hear and they will they will accuse you of being a hater, but you're telling them those hard truths be out of a place of love. When I became a pastor, I thought the reason why this group of people gathered every Sunday was to explore deep questions about life and to push ourselves to become better humans. So his that would have been a gr if you're gonna mention God, that'd be a place to We gather together to worship God. Anyway, now he talked about a bunch of stuff here that I think I can skip by because he kind of repeats himself a little bit. Nothing was off limits. Hence, I eventually came to the conclusion that my particular skill set and perspective is a mismatch for the institutional church So we need we need to get to his final service. He said, I preached my last sermon this past Sunday. As for what I plan to do next, I believe one of the most important ways we encounter God's unconditional love, now that's understand his heartbeat a little bit. Embrace. Is this a Bethel music song? in his first epistle that knows who were with us but then left us were never actually really with us from the start. Right? Be warned. You really I really should ask you why. Take this tasty fruit. To the very end and in terms of the next I'm gonna be um as accurate as I can here because in fair react live in the moment that would be possible, but leave your comments and we will we will get there. day with us. So uh last year, it was early in the year, and there was word in the news that there was going to be this but interview-based kinds of things. But also, um, the church is in trouble, and part of the reason that the the church, globally speaking, the church is having some trouble Not having a a strong enough sense of spiritual discernment, to recognize problems early enough to see why to see that it's a problem and understand why it's a problem and how to respond to it. Right, because he's kneeling down on both knees. type of a person with short red hair. At dusk, uh there's a uh a white elderly cowboy, a rancher type person kneeling uh at a uh a wash basin to wash the feet of an older He either just killed or is about to kill her baby. We might come up with two, three, four different ideas and they may all be true. But anyway. kind, whether she's an illegal immigrant or not, I I don't know. I don't know. Right? seated or kneeled uh in the front yard of what appears to be like a middle class home. You know, his posture in the cock of his head makes it look like what are you doing there, woman? So this next one is the, I don't know, seated on the front porch of a rustic-looking home are two older men, uh, an old town dog there. Is the body and head are a lighter color than the front paws, which makes me wonder if the idea is if the dog has his paws in that bucket of water at one point too. We're at the beach, there's uh a priest or you know pastor of some kind. Like there's a pitcher of water. And whenever he um Jesus didn't baptize people, his disciples baptized people. Yeah. Okay. David is uh he's a Levite. He may have washed feet, but that wasn't his his message. I lean much more towards that and uh we I'm sure we'll get into that more. Uh they're part of what they're reacting to is against the uh the accusations of the tone police. and see more about him. is actually this stuff already. that's not gonna be what turns the tide and and gets people to repent. reading actually about Jesus and what what he says. to a lot of interpretation because they were artistic and they might not have meant what we took them to me, I think that they do, but they could and and and hearing more about the true gospel after seeing these act. And if this is the kind of bait, if you will, that we're throwing at casting out there, this is our allure, and this is what they grab on to. uh edited to to to fit those prefab lengths that uh that advertisers buy. thoughts on the music by the way on on this one as we go. There are basically three categories on this issue that get bandied about and discussed and debated. what we think this guy he he's he's he's homosexual and he's embracing it, he's practicing and he thinks it should be okay. ultimately will be overcome in Christ, even if it's in glory. Isn't that wrong? More specifically. uh an evil thing. Fathers need to be bringing that to the table for their kids, and in Giuliano's case, he wasn't getting that. And I oh and they're like surprised, but like, uh okay, that's fine. sin he does not have the power of the Holy Spirit in him. These these uh interplaying with the segments took a little longer than I had anticipated and we didn't get a chance to uh opine as much as we might have wanted That fills off for us being too Christian. the national Christian nationalism is they think these rights are given to them by God, not by the Top Yeah, apparently they haven't read the Declaration of Independence ever in their life So they all do gonna relate so it won't be out of school. They have video of John Cougar Mellencamp, you know who he is? but he's not a accomplished guitarist. From our church's website to their ministry website and that website is conqueredbylove. Uh leftism has become leftism across the board because the the leftist church has totally given over leftist. But we don't I want I don't want Jesus to be like me. Because he is not sovereign God. temple and he saw these money changers and everything else. helping them to overcome their sin and to to repent and forgive and and have eternal happiness with Christ. He actually whipped people. And nobody wants to see that because that doesn't that that is not part of who we are, who God made us to be. man and that's kind of the idea. But going back to that time that the not the Korean War that the T V show was depicting, but when that show was popular was right on the heels of the Jesus Revolution time. there was a enough of that that that uh I think is still affecting the church even today. which were by and large very positive movements for the church. Uh and one of the concerns with the Jesus Revolution, it just continues to perpetuate this idea within American Christianity anyway of cult of personality. element that's involved in it and stuff. Uh but the turning point in the movie as far as the messaging from a Christian point of view is now the the truth is put forward And everybody watching the movie knows that it's Glenn Beck playing Glenn Beck. He's a polytheist. person that comes in representing the clergy. clueless, not truly faithful. But I mean I listen to a lot of podcasts, I read a lot of blog posts, I try to s pay attention to where the winds are blowing, you know, I try to stay culturally relevant within the church, mostly for this show. in many ways sending your kids to a if if you send them at all to college, because I think college is overrated, but if they're gonna go to a college, in many ways I'd recommend a secular college over a Christian college because your guard is down uh is down at a Christian college Now I don't know if I have time to This is a problem with you know because they're not actually with us. Have you guys heard of the sitcom with Danny DeVito? uh panapoli of uh of of uh entities they have. So they basically own everybody now. That's too simplistic. S Satan's real and and he's dangerous and he is powerful. them to evil is Halloween. But not like now. Now, some of the stuff you see people's yards it rivals what you see in December for, you know, what's supposed to be the advent of Christ. The end times of something for sure. reach out to me that might be the easiest way to connect or you can go straight to the the Razzleys West website which is um conquered by love. Yeah, I've got I've got some portions. It will far outweigh the what he says that's not right and treated. year in the last half of the year in the fall or leading late summer leading into the fall. Which is true. So I don't know if we have a whole lot to say, but I wanted to give the entree and give him kind of a full hearing and disclosure to the listener. Well he he's he i uh he sa he's I I I a lot. So I guess we'll hear those in a minute. But he's talking about his reasons for leaving and he didn't have time to share all those reasons in his sermon. What do we think about those as reasons for giving up on shepherding God's flock, leading and pastoring a church? you know, God will provide comfort to uh to you when when it's needed. But you can't leave being a parent. I think he's right. Right? And I I I just think of this. And I don't mean it and I don't ever feel embarrassed about that. Yeah, but everything so far as said is he is quitting a job, not a calling. to get you removed or to to get you to change something you're ha well there's one of two things could be true. In that case, blessed are you because you're persecuted for the kingdom of God. You are in gross, heinous kind of sin. Or you really are preaching heresy and should be called out, in which case that's the job of the congregation, is to create a grassroots movement to say, hey, go to the elders. That is exactly the responsibility of the church. biblical God ordained ways of dealing with it. You can work through the channels if he needs to be removed. Hear me, please. All right, next the next section here talks about unrealistic uh expectations. The degree requirements and the low pay and the student uh debt that they have to carry and all that sort of stuff. I agree with your heart on that sort of thing. in it all the time and when you're executing the new executing the New Testament, you're not executing the Old Testament, so you're not practicing your Hebrew. But at least I have that. If you fail fall into this category, immediately you have a problem since what most people see is your public speaking on Sunday. You also have to be a prohibition. You know, we're not we're not marketers. ministries or whatever and they try to r they try to run their businesses like churches. But the kinds of things he's talking about more broadly could apply to just a Christian in general. All right, so let's pay back the student loans apparently. I think one of the challenges they're having, you know, PC USA, uh they went way liberal a long time ago, and the liberal churches Hurting. He likes the personal pronouns though. So the churches that went liberal a long time ago are they they've been having a hard time filming purpose pulpits for a longer period of time. No. Pick up where we left off last week. So he was walking well we left off last week. of a pastor, right? That's the voice of David Forcy before that you heard the voice of Daniel Razvi. That's a problem. But that's a wrong expectation. you know, ongoing undealt with. I I mean, again, good riddance, don't let the door hit you on the way out. you know, is uh he he's he's not in a in a situation where he is actually a pastor or where the church is actually being by a biblical standard, so he fit right in maybe. difficult stuff they're dealing with. And then he gets into this psycho babble, he continues on this psycho babble thing talking about growth mindset versus fixed mindset. seek to seek to know God more. Right. And here we go, the music was awesome. U2, another rock band for those who don't know. He says, I would say that I gave one of the best sermons they ever preached. More to come on that in future articles because he's a blogger and stuff now as well. D, you think it's good? But that doesn't mean change your belief if it's actually in scripture. Uh you know, if it weren't for the grace of God we we might travel down that same kind of path. It's okay to have women uh as as elders and pastors in the church. is the last thing which is to completely reject God and make yourself a God, which is what Satan invites Adam and Eve to do. Why pastors are concerned about this and why if you're a Christian you should be concerned about it. um had a huge hit called um Never Tear Us Apart. Right. I can't figure out what that's like they it's like they almost went out of their way to draw your attention to. Or maybe it's the idea that the protesters are from out of town and detached and they're not there for the to support I don't know what the there had to be some reason why they probably uh You know. possibly homeless, but with the bus there makes it feel like she was brought somewhere and dropped off, like you said, a DeSantis bus kind of ID or an Abbott bus. All right. of the this this is happening very much in the midst of a chaotic kind of situation. teen, apparently, who's doing the right thing by the Native American person by not standing off and being a jerk. It was going back about I don't know how many years now, probably four years ago ish or something. And I'm going to let this play out so I can describe what happens at the very end. And then it says he gets us, all of us, and then they uh they say Jesus. unless unless I wash your feet, you have no no cart in me. Well there's more to be said about this campaign, and we're going to feature a different ad next time and have time to respond to other parts of this campaign as well. In two couple of days we'll have a once every four year day. then uh you know repent the kingdom of God is at hand and that is the message of Christ right repent yeah you know the message of Christ is not oh I'm coming to wash feet That aspect alone is true. In English was the hardest thing to say. Right. without, you know, g parsing them out and actually dealing with each individual If they had to pick one uh tangible, practical kind of a thing that's a cause for that this is it. love into the home so the children feel what are those uh there's the five I think points that you always talk about the emotional needs. And that music, I wanna I want to make sure we touch on that. cannot complete those. uh quite literally, uh I've been drawn my attention's been drawn to it beforehand. It's difficult to say I forgive him. Yeah. It's doing more whatever good it might possibly be doing is far outweighed by the bad. Like that doesn't say the name of Jesus. He spoke in the first session. literally half a dozen minutes. I chose I have a list. saying that it is affirming us, right? uh website about Jesus is just like us. There's really no male superheroes. anymore. Sounded uh Sound of Freedom. They could not handle it. So there's an animated horror comedy. And uh it's aired on FX Networks. And uh her name is Chrissy and she is the Antichrist, supposedly, in this animated sitcom. God. And it used to be we're killing ourselves slowly, but we're on a fast track now to to societal suicide. to do the departure one and it might not take just one episode so I don't want to get caught in the middle on that one. I would never hate him. And I like I said last week I tried to pay attention to these trends. And I I can't I I mean really, you know, like a a a man should not get his family into that situation in the first place All these cong uh members of the congregation. As a pastor Yes you do But anyway. Anyway, you guys. Uh his his security does not seem to be in his uh relationship with God. That's you know it's very contagious and it's spreading like crazy. Now it doesn't mean you have to be the most polished public speaker at all, but you should be able to stand up and proclaim the gospel and exhort people into obedience and and those sorts of things. I mean yeah, they used to have, you know, uh four services on Sunday with five hundred people in each service and now they're down to one service and it's got, you know, a hundred and fifty people in it or something, or eighty six people in it. and uh form those relationships so they can experience God's love in their lives. It's nine metal rule. I'm I'm trying to keep a straight face. sin when you find out that you're doing it, right? Yeah? And as we bid farewell to friends who journeyed before us, our hearts eternally whisper, aching for the timber of their voice. It the this Christian deconstructionism, it starts with little compromises. in the studio. So this music by the way, let me I'm gonna pause it right out right away, right off the bat, this music is perhaps familiar to some because it was a very big hit back in the 80s, back in 1988, uh in XS class, right? display that. A lot of the a lot of the images both of the both parties. So we got through that one and uh w any thoughts on that particular ad as we wrap up this particular uh episode on the face today. And I could agree with that statement depending on what you meant by it, but knowing this ag campaign campaign and some of the other things they said, I'm pretty sure I don't agree with what they meaning. unchurched people that that have don't know much about God, they may know very little about Jesus, but what they do know take another look at Jesus and hopefully reading their Bibles in order to do that or finding a Bible and they tend to want to make people feel like they're they're okay in their sin, right? been uh from the campaign he's like well some guy on the street said I'm glad you're showing God's love to us when he and but th that that's it. Okay, now right there he gets emotional. Oh my well that's where we're we're we're post constitutional post operation those things. Like, no. uh male role models in movies and why all these movies companies are complaining that they don't have viewership because every leading role of these fighting superheroes are all women. J-Lo? advertisements uh two weeks ago and then last week's show we went through one of their longer form interview-based uh things that you see on their website to to show how You are being baptized for a dead person. uh Christian movies and T V shows 'cause some of these are from Mass, right? And and speaking of Mormon, there was one other movie I wanted to bring up. For what it's worth, this is a pastoral note, re responding to what Dan just said. even though Satan is the girl's father and wants custody of her soul. And I gotta choose. Yeah. I've been the target of of mud slinging. Congregation, listener, if you're not a pastor, but you're part of a church, you need to hear this. And if you're participating in that, if you're one of the wolves who's trying to tear down your pastor, particularly if he's faithful, I mean if he's not faithful, you go about it in I agree. Like if an unbeliever walks in the door, like it's it's a rare thing, it's not a normal it's not what you're expecting. And there we these PC USA churches and the uh you know the ELCA churches, Evangelical Lutheran Church of America, these liberal versions of those brands. Unbiblical. Yep. Okay, okay. far left theologically and of late it means far left politically as well for what that's worth uh for a long, long, long time now. have to be. Finally, you're expected to be a pillar of virtue, meaning you must be blameless or morally pure. And that's what we've been talking about. So that that would be would be good for him to not be offended. Right. We are to be unconditional in our love that we show people, but I think it's a mistake to say that God's love is unconditional. Long lost like the breath of wind, we shall find each other once again, consoled by the tears of our long ability. Yeah. for the most part. You'll figure that out as we go. So welcome. ad run in the Super Bowl, uh, about a He Gets Us campaign. Foot Washing is the name of this particular ad. Yeah. And there was the Native American guy who was banging his drum or whatever and there was the Nate Sandman maybe was his name, I think. Um thing that's interesting here is the the uh religious guy, he's uh barefoot. Very weird. But it wasn't, it's just you gotta Yeah. of of sinner is the the eternal hellfire that you need to escape by becoming safe. If you give them the actual Jesus, they'll rebel against it. And he knows it because he's getting all emotional and vercamped like you can see on his face, you can't on the radio, I'm describing it for you. And it could just be jumping. Forgiving us and and we're forgiving. Uh and let's let's pick a piece of scripture and say that say that it is saying that. bring in a scriptural theme or message, I I I disagree with their take on what what the scripture is saying in that Well, would he be would he be a soccer star or would he have a few years ago? what the overwhelming the tsunami of of information that the culture is given by the media, the movies, those sorts of things. I'm drawing a blank. And he's interacting with an atheist, and uh, you know, all sorts of bad things happen with the atheist and and that sort of thing. There's so many Christians that are so desperate for b uh finding a way to keep death embracing destruction, right? All right, let's jump into this next. Okay. Same is true for being a pastor. I mean, seriously, they don't understand the gospel. a a biblical model for the church. All right. Yeah, so that was the first one, and now we'll play a little music here. Yeah, certainly. Yeah, yeah, right. But if you wanted to try to connect this to something in real life, given the ethnic makeup choice that they've made here, So I've been told. But from the very beginning, we've invited a whole bunch of different kinds of people onto the show. And and and I think I mean a lot of times people say, Well why are you singling out this sin if if you're saying this is the sin, why not all the other sin? Are you kidding me? men into being weak weaklings and women to be strong and all this stuff, but that doesn't jive with our nature. What we need are good Christian men to leave their home, to lead their churches, to grow other Christians to be good Christian people who lead in their spheres of influence, to lead their children, to lead in the workplace, whatever Glenn Beck is playing himself, right? He uh who's now the um Speaker of the House. But I do think we have to be very clear. service the going away service they played music by Coldplay Uh yeah well we'll get there you're you're jumping ahead you're jumping ahead was not a service I'm gonna read that part so anyway so here so I I I've noticed like so far in this article he has not mentioned God once yet or Christ or the gospel. founded and really ill thought out analogy to make because if you okay you he's right. This is this is a t a tech job or a bricklaying job that he's just tired of because too much on the uh too much on his body and his mind Also responsible to the Presbyterian. And there's too much of this. They have a reputation. And actually we did a show on that years ago. And then again, this poem represents my hopes. Not only are you raising money for your own salary and whatever staff you might have working with you, but you're also raising money to maintain the building and help people who are struggling financially. Right? a church, right? I was actually blown away by the number of people who came out to say goodbye. This this guy who is, if he was ever approximating a Christian, look, I I agree with the Apostle John, which is a good place to be. He he checked a lot of the right boxes initially, even if he didn't really truly believe them in his heart of hearts. entertain for too long or to entertain to the point of well didn't I mean it says it's a miracle, but it's not really a miracle. Well, I already should have stopped. And they definitely are on one side, it seems to me, uh of the political spectrum at least, right? If you look closely, you see the signs they say, uh, silence hate and shut him up. He was the one who wasn't rebelling. And even that has i its problems because it was it wasn't about uh true well in some cases it was. The I I mean it's been out for like almost a year, so uh spoiler alert, you know, but there's a demon-possessed prisoner. So what what's your we've got you know like two minutes on this? Yeah, depending on the neighborhood for sure. And I'm I'm just astounded that there was not that in his church. And mostly in one paragraph. Welcome to Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Well, this is one of those places where I'm looking nope, this is not one of the four places he mentions God. No actual Christian would expect this sort of nonsense. And I would say well probably um Streets with No Name, uh All You Need Is Love. Right. Uh with Jesus. And of course you can go to the radio station website, wfmb. God knows reality, he created it. Well at least I I don't see why people can't see this the similarity with hey I'm a Catholic but I'm a bank robber. So I think that's the crux of the issue in this poor man's uh life. clarity. You know, I I don't dis uh I will say depending on what their aspirations are, like they want to be a medical doctor or something like that, then they have no choice. Embodies a cautionary tale of where wimpy liberalism in the church leads. So, but if if this is the 1% time that I'm right, then what I'm hearing here is that he didn't preach a sermon. Like look, churches can find a new pastor. Yeah, and I wasn't meaning to lay blame at the church. Yeah, it's PCOSA. I'm going to pause there. We're gonna have to be. Your spouse and your children should all be perfect or close to it. Anybody wanna raise their hand and volunteer why do the uh Christians gather together every week? We're going to be talking about that on a future show. You know, I'm not so sure that God actually created everything out of nothing. a a lesser sort of person as far as uh normal society goes? So you're you're right. You know? I don't know if the Muslims are considered to be oppressed in today's world, but they are people of a minority religion. Yeah, that could be and uh call me crazy for bringing this one up, but yeah, both of their shoes are off, both of them. So this first one, there's a guy, Giuliani, he walks in, he's middle-aged, he's ethnic looking, and now he's going to start to talk here in just a second. Uh I guess not. I was gonna pivot into the next show. So all right, so Daniel wants to get into the next segment. People are coming to you, sharing the challenges, these deep, dark, scary, embarrassing challenges in their life. I think that's kind of what's going on and so No, he's not walking away from the church, he's walking away from a job. that people right, that means that uh that people in general just view the church as another Yeah. So that's not the same thing as what you call a deconstruction of faith. Okay, so this next one appears to be like in a high school. So at least she didn't kill this baby. And they were they were I mean one of them was about to betray him, but they were all professing to be followers of Christ at the time, right? Well yeah, but he used yeah, exactly. Right. So what are the difficult to work in? I will throw out an open-ended, anybody have any thoughts on the last two shows we did? And so I'd encourage you to check that out. Just as much. So David, are you saying that this is a multi pronged attack on Christianity? Right. Your mind is a repository for all sorts of secrets, and if you're human, you feel sympathy and empathy for their suffering. And they're all but the guy said he's literally dying. This could be you. If you're listening live on the radio, well it's a Sunday and good Sunday morning to you. Alright, so this first one might be familiar because it's the one that's most recently causing the hubba baloo. So we can all in the studio see what we're talking about. So so far, Daniel's theme is holding up this idea that there's a theme of of building wokeism as we go. Um because they don't really look alike. Wash his disciples' feet. David, David, David. And Jesus was privileged with not having any sin in his life. But anyway, so now the next one is going to be image number nine. Right. But yeah, this is the idea of I guess a quote unquote Christian washing the feet of a quote unquote Muslim Yeah, so this this is the one that doesn't seem to fit the overall narrative. Thank you to the Razbeys, Imran and Daniel, and also to Mr. Oh, so it's not half okay. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD online at WFMD. Yeah, that Jennifer Lopez is a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a Yeah, thank you. In fact, in many of these things are actually, in my opinion, detriments to your on your resume if you've gone to some of the one of the things that we've got to do. And he makes a side comment is like, so that if an unbeliever happens to walk in the door, he's not confused or he's he doesn't have a bad opinion of Christians. Huh, that's weird. He's saying I'm hiring and firing people. Ongoing patterns of sinful behavior. Right. Yeah, we're supposed to be left guessing. We invite different worldviews onto the show, but the idea is to have them be in in contrast to what we are firmly committed to being the truth. Is there anything more that you guys want to say on this issue? Yeah, I I feel like our commentary wasn't long winded, but I think it was on point. Paul said, right, in in in uh First Corinthians, is i if Christ is not raised, if Christ is not God himself, then our teaching is in vain. Oh that's right, the chosen. That's weird. They if they if they were without me embarrassed, they wouldn't share it. Even in a house church, you can't be a wilting flower. So you've got to pretend you like me so you can get through to the guy you really like and I'll put you in touch with David Forcey. And I said, yeah, well we'll we'll get around to it, but we got a bunch of boring shows to get out of the way first. Well yeah from a f certain perspective you would say that well actually he did. Maintain there. I'll get used to this. So here's gonna be talking about his background and what he discovers about himself, okay. Yeah. And there's a crisis in the church, there's a crisis in our political landscape, there's a crisis um just in the world, society, cultural in general, right? We talked about this, was it last week or the week before about the failure of men to step up and be men? I don't know that I hate him as much as you do. And what he's describing does not seem like that was there. I have made the decision that I am not only leaving my post as head of staff, but I'm going to be leaving the password altogether. However, there are other reasons why I'm leaving that I didn't have time to discuss in my sermon, and I want to utilize this article to do a deep dive into how I came to my decision. Um yeah, there's some larger sections that I'm excluding as we go because I'm I'm I'm actually not quite halfway through the article. That's that's kind of true. If that's what people in general are expecting Faster to do and need to be, right then and and so that's just that's already that's entirely upside down. There's a there's a leadership model problem here that would have uh alleviated some of these these issues that he's arguing That should be expected of every Christian, honestly. Hello, streaming. Um but I I I was I I was gonna say actually the f in the we'll and we'll get to their message here on foot washing, but the first example of foot washing was not actually Jesus washing as a simple speech. And now there's a couple more images. And you can take that to mean what you want of who what what or who in the society that's supposed to represent. You have your little menu of recently opened things? No, you're a misunderstanding. Alright, so this next one is a different kind on their website, they've I mentioned this last week. I I'm not asking for more. He is not a Christian and yet he is the only character that you could point to as an actual supposed Christian in the movie. This past Sunday I preached my last sermon as a pastor of First Presbyterian Church of Arlington Heights at the suburb of Chicago. Yes. Yeah, don't forget to plug the radio station. In a normal company, you would have a different person doing most of these jobs, sometimes multiple people. Yes. Something that fits within the intersectionality oppression scales of the woke movement, right? Yeah, possibly like maybe a lesbian or identifying as a different sex, possibly, although it seems pretty clear it's likely a female. So this picks up about that same theme that we've been talking about, right? Yeah. Yeah, there might be a hint of uh of of good that somebody could argue. We need the body of Christ, not a whole bunch of supposed heads of the church who are mere humans, because Christ is the head. Right. His name is Alexander Lang. And he said he doesn't he doesn't give people what you know he I I don't know if he would define Christian the way we would define Christian, but I'm gonna take him at his just the words on the page. Gag me with a spoon, man. And for half a second I was I thought I was locked out of the screen I needed to get to, but Yeah, they invented the internet. Now image number six is an unkept unkempt kitchen. Who'll prosecute any enemy of theirs for no reason at all. Yeah. Now this w next one I think really gets in my view of this really gets to the crux of what's going on in this And you and you are, like you said, it's very manipulative. But they're using those same manipulative tools, I I feel. But um I think some of us might have a little bit more that they want to add just to kind of cinch that up and put a button on it. And it's the same thing w you know, going across the culture. And so the the the last image on that the the Jesus gets us campaign we did a couple of weeks ago, the last image was this very effeminate looking I might w might want his wash his feet. My concern here is, first of all, making that connection to parenting, boy, that's an ill Since I see these people most every week, that personal information is always at the top of my mind. Yeah. And beauty, though piercing, will not leave us undone, for our love will bind us together, and we shall always know that we are truly Did God really say that? So everything is related to the basics of biblical foundational teaching, and that's what we're measuring things up again. And I think you made the point that, well, the people that they're marketing to, which are um very uh Imron Razvy, thank you for participating this week. He's there purely to make a paycheck for his for his family. You gotta be able to do that. Oh, based on like the actual song. It it's supposed to be an an uh you know uh uh an illustration of his problems, but they're not his story, so I'm skipping ahead so he's saying he's got PTSD. What I offer is not what most Christians are looking for, which is another reason I've decided to move on. There's nothing better about our nature. Um you can access all of this at sermonaudio. But we're gonna try to listen to some of them. Anyway, the I think the idea here is that she was inside this building behind them and the building behind them has a sign on it that reads Family Planning Clinic. And there's a trash bag that's uh next to this woman, seemingly uh I think the impression here is it's holding all of her worldly possessions. So in the middle of all this hate, there's somebody this is the first example of a minority group washing the feet. We're having the He Gets Us campaign featured on the show and we're we're playing portions of their campaign and responding to it. Now the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, but it doesn't have to be. I'm not gonna be having that manipulative music going underneath my prayer. I think that's his core problem. I'm censoring him? So you i if you think they can, for let's not be right. Yeah, that's why I wanted to make sure I did I jumped ahead and we can save the the other ones uh for next time because that that could be a standalone episode that probably won't need to. Joined this week, as per usual, by David Forcy, he's a pastor in the area, and Daniel Razby, a pastor in the area, and Imran Razby. And so that part really resonated with that is one of the big, big challenges of being a pastor. It is fine. Here we go. But practical realities make that the case in too many situations. Is that if if you're gonna run your church like that, yeah, you need to have multiple people. But I think what he's really saying I would disagree with. It could be it could be any of us if we're not careful. It's basically talking about the creep of liberalism and uh the need for spiritual discernment. And that's really what's causing a lot of the problems. It's not maybe not building to a climax with the with the wokeness, but all of the all of the pictures are at best neutral on the index. Yeah, let me let me uh trim the tails on this and then save this audio file and get the next one loaded and That's kind of the point. He's you know there's a s there was a song not too many years ago about what if God were one of us or something like that, right? So it looked it up. Right. Again, I don't think he still still think he hasn't mentioned the word God yet. For your own salvation, stop, because you've got to repent. It's not neither arrest. I have no problem dismantling the traditional Christian belief system in service of logic and reason particularly if it uh particularly if it helps us to make sense of the world Yeah, so and it's interesting, I can't quite make it out for sure, but the w what would appear to be the the woman the white woman's white husband is looking on and I'm not sure he's looking pleased. I don't know why it see it goes back to this welcome screen. He's an epic looking guy, so you're thinking he's gonna say, Oh, I have a hard time saying potato salad or you know, something that's difficult to pronounce. And this is the one that the Methodist campaign has put before us. So anyway, I think his father and his family doesn't accept him and he's trying to figure out how to forgive them for that and he's mischaracterizing I mean uh friendly fire. So the radio listener would be the Jew and the podcast audience would be the channel. But the message of this campaign is not that it's change Christianity to fit your feelings No, well okay, yeah, and Hulu. But that's the thing, even in these reasons, right? For at least a generation. I mean uh part of part of what seems to be a theme here is he's just he's uh he's leaving a church because it it didn't work. I'm going to be investing all my energy into a business that helps people find a form of find and form these kinds of relationships so they can experience God's love in their lives. That's the path of deconstruction. Uh and if you look close by the way it's not as an abortion clinic yeah uh a child killing mill. Yeah. I'm oppressed. Satan he's at least eighty years old, Satan. I feel isolated. Through prayer and reading from God, again, which he hasn't mentioned or talked about. So it's it's they have a Presbyterian, right? He's not in a pastoral position to care for the sheep. They can't keep their pastors. You have to grow the business. You should not expect that. Am I wrong? Right. Thank you for uh watching and listening to the pay today. Say something. Ready to go to the next one? Yeah. And we'll get to that in a second. I mean they're building up a straw man and tearing that down and saying, see, masculinity is bad. We might start next week by finishing up some thoughts and transition to something else. A man's gonna be strong, a defender who's gonna be a warrior, right, gonna protect what's important. It was it was a surprise hit last summer and and it was it was marketed and promoted as a Christian movie, even though it's not overtly Christian and actually the guy who the I think Tim Ballard is the the name of the guy the movie's based upon supposedly. But it's pretty pretty uh lame uh as a horror film if that's your thing. It's way overrated because most people that uh they changed careers three, four, five, six times in their life anyway, and almost none of those careers needed the college degree necessarily to do. Right. Which is one of the things that's surprising because he's talking about a Presbyterian church and normally those are fairly well organized from a leadership perspective. And this is again good riddance. Oh, I guess I should plug the radio station. Well whereas most times there's a few nuance in favor of black and white thinking, I believe we discovered God's presence by digging into the complexity of those details. Where was that? Um maybe if pastors weren't expected by our culture to be pr uh participating in in making the weddings happen, that would have been some pressure because I think really it should be between But then what what was the next thing that Satan, the serpent, did in the garden? Is that a picture of water over by the black gentleman? Well God could turn the time backward again. So this is nothing new. Well that's yeah, you could take it certainly in this context you could take it that way, but that they're gonna spin this uh and it's a di it it's him being forgiving by the way is what they're getting at here. What he means is he's actively living a homosexual lifestyle. The more I look at their stuff, the more I'm convinced there's not a single bit of good that this campaign is doing. It's it's it's not really a horror film. If it's if if it's a bonus to your children and your wife and stuff, like you've got to take care of that first. I know just enough Greek and Hebrew to muddle by. Do you have anything you want to say about that first image that was on there for like five seconds? I I um like when I was going to high school this would have been somebody wearing a lot of black, you know, a lot of uh goth Twenty four in the two thousand twenty four, I guess, this year. Jesus did love and he was kind and he was good and and still is. It's the Hawkeye Pierce for Mash version of masculinity. The gospel is being proclaimed in Hollywood. So uh, you know, I I I just lament that it's out in the open, you know. I mean th you had some people would put up some spooky decorations around their front door and and maybe they'd hang something to make it look like spider webs in their trees or something. Yeah. Oh look they had a church split, they fired the pastor. And I'm not sure if you're going to have a lot of things. Well that's really okay. So he's saying that people expect that the pastor is going to be the keeper of the Bible, meaning you can correctly, orthodoxy, interpret the Bible. Yes. And so the solution is to go see a therapist or a psychologist, not like another pastor or uh elder or brother in Christ. Well, he said all bad. I mean statistically that is true. I think I think it's very it's very confusing. So either he is or he isn't, but he's not like me. Yeah, right. Anyway, and they have a ministry that you can find online as well at it's conquered by love. So the last part of what he said, some of that resonates as true, but boy, the opening part of that section I just read, holy cow, you couldn't be more wrong. He's big on he's bigger than the person. I think it takes a lie to understand how to solve the whole situation. So we finished playing the audio of those two segments we wanted to focus on. The the world received him as rebellious because he wasn't going along with their rebellious ways, but he was the only one who wasn't in rebellion. And Marvel's wondering, why are our movies selling now? Danny DeVito is like the star voice in it. Do I go all in on the church and let my family burn to the ground? Even if we don't even if we don't finish. Come on. By the time we're done, I'll be used to it, but then I won't need to worry about that ever again. What can I say? I'm gonna pull I'm gonna step in and pause right there. And then they end up with that he gets us all of us Jesus and that's the end of the campaign. Like the song they're performing. But if you have Especially if you can play some of it. You're not diminished, you're not in a fresh class in my mind, not even a little bit. I was joking about drawing a blank on the chosen earlier, but now I'm l legitimately drawing a blank on the other big personality who is the movie is based on. And nobody else is as far as I know I I haven't found anybody talking about this. And the s and it's it's uh it's amazing how that that darkness that you're talking about. Yeah, uh but I don't I don't know that that's the the church's fault as much as the man's fault for not saying, Hey, these th this is how I take care of my family And not y to the governing board and to every person who walks through the door. So why aren't these people doing these other things? And you're not going to be perfect or absolutely morally pure, but you should be an example to an example for the congregation. New agey. It starts with some some doubts that you allow to become part of your biblical quote-unquote worldview, your faulty biblical worldview, and then you start denying flat truths, things like homosexuality isn't really a sin. Welcome to the Great Debate, thanks for spending part of your day with us here at News Radio 930 WFMD. I love money. And many people say that that is what causes homosexuality, not having that connection with a father figure that is Yeah, I I mean I think it's uh You know what? They don't know why. It's got a it's got like 60 topics on it that have come up over the last year and a half. com and you can follow us online at householdofinkrist. And it airs on FX I think at ten o'clock at night, so it's supposed to be for adults, but it's streamed on Hulu. One of the reasons I say good riddance, let don't let little hit you on your way out, kind of thing, is he di uh based on what I understand here, and in fairness I could be misunderstanding if that happens at least ninety-nine percent of the And what we're gonna see as we go farther in the article is he doesn't have a support structure. There are churches in this town. Maybe someday we'll bring that issue up again. Four but it does say Christ one. Yeah, so his final service. And it starts with these little and and following his pattern, it starts with yeah, and that's exactly what happens with these con these guys that deconstruct their faith. And so we're going to finally weigh in on some of this. I mean it's obvious they're saying that the privileged person is bending down to wash the feet of the unprivileged But I kill people on weekends because I was in relationship dead. We'll probably discuss more of the show we've done in the past about different types of music, but specifically Like it's it's it's one that they go hand in hand. And that's that's kind of the whole the whole message of the whole thing. And one of the I would argue the church doesn't know what it means to be a Christian these days. But the movie doesn't position that that person is positioned within the movie as a joke. You know. No, because Jesus washed feet, he didn't hate. Irrespective of how I learned their story, I carry that history wherever I go. He's preaching heresy or his leadership is completely obtuse and he needs to be held to account. And but I'm not in a position to if somebody said, Hey Pastor, can you teach me Greek? Oh, you wanted to say something about that was basically what you're about to say. Again, this is back in September, I believe. It's called and. Right. Welcome to Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. So the first image we saw was the picture of a uh a teen son, apparently, washing the feet of his father at the dining room table. Yeah, you're you're gonna find as the pictures as we go through the different pictures, they're they become increasingly woke And they each have one foot in a bucket of water. What and the foot washing that was done was either done to Jesus by this this woman who had been a sinner or it was um Alright, now I gotta pull this back boy this is wonky to do it like this, but I guess that's okay. They're highly, highly produced, very slickly edited, lots of use of music, and I'll be curious to hear Daniel Rasby's But he works through means and we can be partners in helping through that. You cannot be sensitive. Yes. I mean I that's a problem. He's LDS. Considered, not did quit. If you haven't been a pastor, I think the only thing that would be a corollary to this is if you are a counselor. Whatever you say, somebody's gonna be annoyed, either because you called them out on something that was legitimately sinful in their life and they and they know it and they're embarrassed by it. So anyway, enough sermonizing uh at you unless you guys want to sermonize. The church is not a marketing organization bringing people in to the to the Sunday morning service Bare minimum you gotta be able to do this. We're gonna do a record more. Pastors don't get arrested even if you're uh hold to a traditional Sabbath rest. Yes. I can't help it, I'm a murderer. Well, the the the I I agree with you, but their answer is gonna be well, bank robbery has nothing to do with love. So now he's not talking about homosexuality, he's talking about masculinity or supposed supposedly or legitimate. He's not playing any. I want him to be God because if he i i if if he's not sovereign God then what's the point? Now, this theme, this idea of over-emphasizing the humanity of Christ is really what they're doing here. So I I would that's good, right? So you think, oh it's a Fox show. His daughter, his real-life daughter, Lucy DeVito, plays the daughter of Satan in the show. Right he he gave a lecture of some sort, maybe I don't know. It's not come to the church, uh listen for several months, a year or two, maybe someday you'll decide you want to be sa no com. And so he he's not focused so much on God, which explains why he doesn't feel like he's ultimately as a pastor a responsible to God. In fact, I'm not a hundred percent sure, but I think our very next episode for the faith debate might be talking about that kind of issue, uh yoga and reiki and the And you need to think about it. So, you know, is this the uh uh is this is this is the righteous person washing the feet of the sinners in all these? Well, she's uh I'm looking closer now. Well dogs are people too, you know what I'm saying? And that is kind of the thrust of what we try to do on this show. He professes as a Christian, Roman Catholic, but I don't think he understands uh the gospel and so he doesn't understand yeah he's not he doesn't understand that he's forgiven so he I think he was damaged by his father. I I I think we did we did solid you guys did not disagree that it was a bad campaign. Yeah, well everything's like autotuned now probably, right? But I do want to just these little things, they add up. Playing himself. And I mean you don't even know what they own to know what the boycott is. Did you see that? It it you it's on your mind like all the freaking time. Okay. We're talking about uh what was this thing called? It's not that he has illegitimate presence online, but he doesn't have any significant presence online. We were grappling with a an article written by a pastor who left the church and told us why. You you stop doing it, you repent. I don't know. Do a dance. Sure. I'm just I'm I'm confused uh about what they're trying to portray. Even if you have like something that hints at the gospel doesn't make up for all of the trash that was included. He is a rebel. And so I mean free speech and all that, we want to defend that, but we've got to figure out how to navigate. Crystal clear. Hate him? As a pastor, you're there for all the peaks and the valleys, you're there to celebrate the weddings and the births, you're also there for the sicknesses, the tragedies, the deaths. I think he almost feels like there's that, like there's a sense of embarrassment. You don't go about it the way it's being described here. And in fairness, he's in a he's in a denomination that maybe there are some exceptions, but 99% of the congregation I'm sure they're not churches really. But anyway, he says, what he's learned is over the last ten years, my assumption was wrong. And and Troy, this is different than asking the question why. So we're going to work through these. And now so this next one is uh a kneeling police officer uh washing the feet of a black teenager who's wearing a muscle shirt kind of thing They're both just sitting there side by side with their feet in the bucket. Had Judas already left the room? Three years from now you might like it better, but right now do you know 'cause it's not it's not what you used to Oh that's good point. But it's that's not the message of Christianity. Anyway, thanks so much for making us part of your day. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. First time I've heard the pat great path, but maybe I'm just not locked in on that sphere of things. Uh and I mean and you're okay it's okay to feel isolated. You can't personally visit and talk to every one of those, even three hundred people, in a week's time. So I I mean I I I get the based on what some of the things he's saying here, I get the impression that they didn't go about it the right way, even if if that's what they were trying to do. We're about halfway through, at least halfway through the part that uh I wanted us to pay attention to. This one is actually really important because if your interpretation crosses a line into what others deem heretical, you risk members of the church questioning your authority. Oh my gosh. And so his Bible tells us what that reality is, and it is the only fully sufficient inspired source They already think this about Jesus. He doesn't know how to answer what's the hardest thing to say. Well it's enemy fire. And I used to make a strong distinction years ago. Yeah he was way ahead of his time. Your wife can't find a new husband. And I do want to take a moment here. It doesn't get talked about very much because pastors want to come across as whining cry babies and talk about it and and if once they get fired and they if they bring it up it's like oh sour grapes It's not seven forty anywhere in the world right now. Another house church in the area is uh shepherded by the Razvis, Imron and Daniel, and uh they are online at uh um conqueredbylove. And the best pastors that I've heard preach from the pulpit say, look, I make lots of mistakes. That's not that maybe what may most people be going to church actually expect, but that's not what Christians expect. Let's go back to our families. And why would you want to connect with us? Um you'll have some Christians that'll really try to mince word and say, well, you could be gay and be a Christian if by be gay you mean that one of your name There wasn't this much about everything. I have to say everybody. I should start the show by saying that Troy has not allowed me to say certain things in this radio program. I'm trying to remember it Oh it's just skating. And that's that is what our culture is doing uh you know, through and through and over and over. But if if understood and used properly, seminaries can be a blessing to the church because they helped to Could have been in the past. At least a generation. And he's not gonna be available to drop up a hat 'cause he's gonna have to earn a living making tents. It's I think a 60-second ad, but we're going to be starting and stopping it as we go so we can respond to the different stuff as we see it. Huh. And nowadays since we're ruled by the mob, nothing else matters. I don't know why they let me keep coming back, but I'm not sure they let me keep coming back or they sneak in when they're not paying attention and record some shows and get out of town. That's not what he's he was coming to do. This next one that we're going to be training today, I think they don't have a a rock to hide under. I I would I would say if you listen to what the spokesman of the campaign, the leaders have been saying about it, they're not even making that case. And we as a church are gonna come up alongside you and work with you so that you can help it. And if you want to get in touch with David Forcey, you can do that through Household of Faith in Christ dot com. He's like us. And when anything comes out that's remotely Christian or supposedly Christian or funded by people who call themselves Christian Uh if if you want to say uh what should the should the government be involved in doing things? com. The plan was to do like yoga and reiki and the enagram and all that sort of stuff, but I'm I want to make sure that we have time But anyway, let me finish reading this and we can all participate in conversation. Or of the primary pastor. And he says not acceptable. I think we'll see that actually as I continue. How do we have the miracle of the presence of the Holy Spirit within us? And I'm going to hit play and we'll we'll uh we'll go from there. Okay, so an outcast person, the oppressed person. Yes. Yeah, I thought they were getting rid of that. If you've been listening the last couple of weeks, or if you've heard the last couple of podcasts, if you're a podcaster rather than a radio listener, we love you just as much. There is no point why are you even doing any of this? Well I don't know if I say hate. All my contact information is there and say, hey, I'm trying to get in touch with David, and I'll be glad to set that up for you Sometimes you act as a confidant, other times you're helping people mediate conflicts and disputes. I'm ultimately responsible for hiring and firing as well as creating a positive workplace culture. He didn't go to Egypt. We think it's just a joke. Mm, maybe. We can talk about unconditional or something. Right. What what do you mean by that? Sing a song. Uh it I think maybe the potenti the uh potentially uh supposed to be uh uh in the LG Yeah, it's like hidden that's weird. But that's a healthy kind of a love of money isn't in itself Uh and uh If so, we can bring it up on next week's show. Yeah, I feel like we didn't really give that much commentary on the stuff. Which on our show is a big percentage of an episode. Oh we need some some new Lani Frisbees to step up and make it different. So there's that. The demon. So here we go. Okay. He says, what this means is that I know these basically these 300 people. You got twenty people in your house and you're like, oh bashful and quiet. So through experiencing beauty, we encounter God's presence in our lives. He's with a what we would call a liberal denomination, the PC USA, the Presbyterian Church of the United States of America. And the Beatles, a pop rock band that everybody knows. Come on! This is number 10 on the list of 12 images they give us. My phone battery won't laugh that long. So yeah, he wasn't acting. We'll be back next week to continue our conversation here on the Faith Debate. His friends typically call him Raz, but with two men with the last name of Raz, and then calling him That's why we have the problems we have in the world today, have you noticed? First and foremost, you're expected to be a professional speaker. I hate to say it as lately, if that sounds rude, but it's just it's just a I mean some churches I get it, but PC USA, I mean, they've been notoriously If this were the 1980s, I would right now say, guide me with a microscopic microchip, man. And it's been a long time since we've had to uh worry about such things uh on this show. I don't know I don't know if it was a trend in one direction, but uh, generally thinking you felt like it was a gathering storm. Yeah, and there's diff people of different colors and different uh you know, sexes, men and women on on both sides, although it appears there's more women on the one side of the screen than the other. Everyone was leaning in to say something to look. They're not doing that. I'm not sure I forgive my father. I don't know. Now Johnson said our job as parents is to guard the hearts and minds of our kids. So we're gonna skim through it. Yeah. But it's it's heavy on your heart. And if you've got to repent now, even if your pastor's not doing a good job, that doesn't give you an excuse to not be a good Christian com. The metric is scripture. Alright? Okay it's never in the opposite direction of woke. Alright. It's not there. Sounds like you're kind of ready to say something. I think he got a pot of water and washed their feet, right? And he's the one that has the truth. Like this is a good reason to blame your church and leave the pastor. Well what what I what I'm saying, I agree with that concept. Like you know, churches need to be run like churches, businesses should be run like businesses. Yeah, so Imron, three on the gauntlet on that one. But it's not even the right half hour. Alright, so our next image, which is image number eight, I guess. This for some reason this new setup when you minimize something it doesn't drop down here like you would expect it And I think part of what happened uh with this campaign that he gets us, which we're gonna focus on again. And he his first answer was basically no the gospel's in this in these ads, like you can see what Jesus message was, which is not true. And he's very emotional. And I think a certain view breached as well. And I think plenty of people did really get saved in the Jesus Revolution. I think they tried to market it to be hipper and cooler than than they really were. They own they don't they own Hulu. I was surprised with the whole lack of support structure that he talks about in the Presbyterian church. None of them have anything to do with God or godly things or or the calling you a pastor Now one of these four strikes me as a legit like a legitimate reason for someone to seriously prayerfully consider whether they need to leave the pastorate and that would be number four. But the next thing to say is, okay, but so what? Start with God. Wfmd. Probably a an amalgam of of Buddhism and Hinduism and some of the esoteric psychology stuff. We're live, so if you want to leave a comment, I will get to it later, but as you probably can tell, a little bit preoccupied. And there's what would appear to be the stereotypical suburban white woman uh washing her feet. Jesus didn't teach hate, he washed feet. com, and there is a faith debate landing page there that gives you a whole bunch of information So he lets his guitarist do the work, but his images, he's a rock and roll star playing guitar. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. He believes in an infinite number of gods. I I hear exactly where you're coming from. In my sermon I told my congregation that I was exhausted from writing, memorizing, and preaching sermons week after week for ten years. The analogy falls down almost immediately. It's like a rotisserie league. Well he's still younger probably. Yeah. We could make a a a joke of of of being a pastor if we're not careful. Yeah. But hopefully that's your reason for disagreeing with me because I'm not getting the Bible right. Right? That's side B. Yeah, I can't help it. It's never been contentious, but I've been able to stay ahead of it. He is a refugee. And then positioning him as any any sort of idea that he would be a rebel Some of the people may have been saved but never grew in their faith because they weren't truly discipled on what it means to be a Christian, to be a follower of Christ. No, Disney bought FX Networks. Where Satan became a cop and he was throwing criminals in in jail or whatever 'cause he got bored in hell. So size does matter. If it's hate mail related, though, I'm not interested in it. Well it should be it should be expected that the that the pastor is is leading the con And uh there's I'm I'm gonna leave some of this out because he gets into details about the final service that aren't gonna be relevant for us to talk, but the the portions that are are are relevant, at least I that struck me as relevant, I'm going to read. I wanted to leave them with something beautiful. And if you can't answer why, then go back and study, because you need to know why you believe all the things Get to a point where you can write an entire seven-page article about being a pastor and not mention God once. Now it's all, you know, weird colored hair and that sort of thing. Um and I I mean they walk a real real thin line and I mean the so there's there's a difference between uh What's that? He's not playing that. Well if you know your child well enough and you know that they can handle it, that's one thing, but you better be right. Thank you, gentlemen. Uh however the reality of what this does to you mentally and emotionally is taxing over the long haul. Who's supposed to handle that? Oh. All bad oh okay. Uh and uh the thing that's striking to me is uh the the image of the police officer that jumps out at me. So in that sense it's actually good art, right? It's a pre washed soak. Yeah, we're not even really ruled by the the mob. And at worst it it is completely heretical and And it's interesting in the campaign he gets us, you know, there's an old cliche in church circles. So I'm gonna uh this one we stopped and started last week a lot. Pretty popular singer back from like the seventies and eighties mostly. But uh so he will play the guitar on some of his recordings when he has a chance to do retakes and do some editing and stuff. He was a generation ahead of his time uh uh on on things Alright, I I dominated that one. David Forse, the habitual drunkard. This is a cover version of that song, so if the music sounds familiar, that's why. I mean, Imran and Daniel and David would never be wrong, but I'm sure I'm wrong at least, I don't know, sixty-seven and a half percent of the time We need to actually be preaching repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Well he's not even he's you know, it sounds like he's not even saying his father was a Christian. He mentions Jesus 38 times in his sermon. It was about, oh, you want to drop acid and be a hippie freak. Might do that. Right. Um you can imagine what it's like to have a child, uh, but until you're in the role, you can't fully appreciate what it's like to shoulder the responsibility of caring for a life 24-7. Says, for most of my tenure at First Pres, the Anglo's church, we had around a thousand members Some members have taken steps to create a movement to have me removed from my post. And under the conditions we're in now, that's super difficult because the culture is is such that people don't really want to go to church anymore The other voice you'll be hearing on today's show besides mine is Imran Razvi's. Sure, for the church it doesn't work because he's not operating within I I he sounds uh I I don't know about like uh uh more Buddhist than Christian. And do you can you figure out any uh importance to the prominent motel sign in the background? And in the center of the room on the floor, two women, and the older of the two appears to be maybe uh a drunk or an addict of some sort Uh you can tell this based upon his uh his clerical collar, and he's got a cross hanging around his neck. I can forgive it. But it feels like it's friendly fire. Like you said, polytheism. So Congressman um uh Mike Johnson from Louisiana uh We don't need men like this in pastoral roles. Fundraising and and and uh uh advertising and and and stuff. More than three hundred and sixty people were in attendance and eighty online. Asking questions or struggling with doubt, that's one thing. If you're listening via podcast later on, well whatever day of it is, I hope it's a blessed Well I wanted to pipe in and say I think what the church is has a problem right now is they're trying to be culturally relevant to a fallen culture as supposed to be an alternative to the So do we feel like this is uh continue to build a woke but feel sorry for the addict I guess? There's plenty of Christian women that cover their heads, but when you have it in a national ad like this, in that specific type of head covering, they're intending it you uh uh imagine On their even on the if you read the articles on their website, it's still that wishy washy stuff that's only about love, only about acceptance and nothing about the actual concept It's probably It's al almost every every case it's w when there's not a strong uh Yeah, but that's was part of the Roman Empire. That screen went black for half a second and came back. Okay? Or sometimes if they had a church split and half the congregation went with the pastor and they hired a new pastor. But one thing I want to say is you have to be apt to teach and uh to be a pastor and that means you should be able to communicate. Uh uh anyway. Or late late August. Are you kidding me? What do you what is the construction of the U. Go by No, no. So I was like, what what? You might say, you might ask. Most of our culture already believes that Jesus was a cool teacher who has some peaceable, loving things to say two thousand years ago. And so i in a lot of ways it seems like Very emotional. Daniel Razzi, David Forcey. That's not an excuse. Yeah. But let's try it and then we'll transition because it it is related thematically to what we're trying to to talk about in all of these shows. Right? Considered quitting. It's in the name. There's a verse. If we can I'm gonna do one more to finish this article. Conquered by love. You are giving him way too much credit for the thing. It's not about God. So now this next one is a uh a picture of a man who works on an oil rig it would appear. Yeah. Right. So we described the air we didn't really talk much about what's happening. No, although ironically there was some truth coming from the demon, but you know, in a weird sarcastic kind of a way. And we can play for dupes. This is bad. Your kids can't find a new father. I don't know if I'm gonna have time to well, I'll read as much as I can and we'll see how how this goes. Amen. Right. I think that things just kind of came along by some sort of spontaneous combustion. There's a couple we're going to work through rather specifically and then more broadly we'll talk about the campaign overall and maybe mention some of the others. Motel. And they might all be bad. This one is two husbands uh who are looking on as their wives are uh There's nothing left of it. But even on this side of glory, we we don't just throw up our hands and say, Well, I can't help it. Uh this next segment's about, you know, thirty, thirty-five seconds long. Till then, 167 and a half hours from right about now. Uh one I I I don't I don't think they actually provide any It's changing the truth to fit with your feelings. Uh you see a lot of that lately. I am concerned about the whole idea that you can go to psychological secular therapy to to resolve is issues spiritually. No, I I yes yeah I think you're right. So there's a good setup. And maybe I didn't count them up, but somewhere in the bulkmark of half of them are designed to be used on television. It's been a long time since we've done that on this show and since we've done that the whole technical setup has changed. That's why I thought we lost everything. That's not there anyway. Yeah, I'm a I'm a I'm attracted to three year old little girls. I mean that might have been his father's problem with him, but again his father was not a Christian by profession. It's the kind of like one sustained held note on a keyboard kind of a thing, the drones on. I don't want to go any further. Yeah. There's there's a whole lot of stuff going on. And it's such a misrepresentation to say he was a refugee totally misses the point because he didn't have to leave the country Did you guys happen to see Nefarious? What what's your take on how we should navigate this? He's not more powerful than God. We're going to in our next episode uh switch and we're gonna talk about an um an article that made the rounds, a big story out of suburban Chicago about a pastor Right has a joke when we do our seminar for clients, we have a little QR code thing you can scan here and go give us Even if we don't completely finish. This computer says it's nine twelve, which I'm sure is accurate. And though we may stumble, and though we may fall, we shall tarry amidst the tides, seeking the better angels of our nature. Yeah, I'm gonna shut this down. Even if you're not a Christian, you can understand why Christians would be concerned And uh so all these people are privileged either in some way or the other. It looks like her arms are crossed and she's being standoffish, but she's holding a baby. Uh one couple is of I would say European descent, the other looks to be uh you know, Middle Eastern descent, possibly Muslim because there's a head covering. And on the other side you've got signs that read no censorship and let him speak. Maybe they can split the difference, change it by a half hour and be done with it. And then there's side C which says, well, Paul says, so such were some of you, and you're a new creation in Christ, and even the most besetting sins can and And so uh let me let me play this next segment here. And then they put on the screen, Blessed are the merciful for they will be shown mercy. We don't need these. That's that's one of the failings of that show, not to mention all the other issues that are going on with that, but it's it's symptomatic of a lot of issues. He was well he was acting, I guess, but he was he was Glenn Beck playing Glenn Beck. There's that's the majority of the sadly of of the leaderships in the church and they represented that well. He plays uh the voice of Satan. Satan's not a joke. So that was surprising to me. He he gave a speech, he gave an exit farewell speech. I'm familiar with I've pastored one of them. You are in sin if that's if that's you. com is their website. That's that's it. He didn't use that word. It was called Change. But anyway, maybe at some point. Well they said th th we need to combat Islamophobia after our Islamic. There was the uh was it Covington High School? The leap day? Very difficult to be a calculant guy and discover your gay and He wasn't able to establish connection with me. Well if you want to add into another topic one topic that's that I'd love to discuss is the demise of of uh Uh he last year said it's clearly an evil show Yeah, I I just didn't think his daughter would be that young one, you get uh rich a gear with a baby or something like that Brothers in Christ all. You know, it's Daniel Razvi and Raz Razvi and it's just I don't know, it's just there's a lot of Raz berries going on. He says I have become part of what is known as the Great Pastor Resignation. We're picking on this pastor and pastors like him, because again it's a case study. Most importantly, you know, he's overstating the point making straw man here, but anyway. I don't know if David agrees with where I'm maybe going on that. This guy should have never been a pastor if this is the way he's conducted his himself for the last ten years Maybe if we're saved, we're not gonna go hopefully as far as this guy. I know these are hot therboreal issues, I get it. It's called Conquered by Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. Uh one of the men is white, the other one uh is uh But we were offering a description and a critique as we went. Actually, I mean other people's money. So this is what we're talking about. It it it bothers me. In this case size works to your disadvantage. Departing, why I left the church. Apparently there are four mentions of the word God. And I mean part of the part of the I think what that kind of reveals is that One of his seven things is CEO. Now if you're reading along at home, I'm jumping way ahead. He does he doesn't know what the church is, he doesn't know what a pastor is, right? Okay, now we can't even do the show. If it's in there, it's true. Students are milling around the school hallway. So is this just to throw us off the scent? Okay. Forcy David. And you're not expecting any Christian message out of it. It is called, let's see, Little Demon? Barna, the George Barna Research Group, did a national survey of pastors and of March of 2022 Yeah and and oh and for other reasons that aren't pastoral. So you should be g glad and happy when that happens Sure, you will sin. You're to be unconditionally loving by showing grace to those who aren't treating you well. Nope. This is what he says. And then here's the poem that he wrote. This is protesters in the background appearing to wrap up a day of uh of sign holding outside of a Like is that supposed to mean something? Hm. So and uh uh promote something social media related or online presence related for David Forcy, but In this case, we're inviting different kinds of people onto the show If this is what drew them in, like it's a bait and switch at that point And I hold by that, but boy, the differences now are very, very, very, very, very, very hard to articulate. This past Sunday, this is not me by the way, this is Alexander Lang. He says I like so many times. What I think is going on here is that this quote unquote pastor has deconstructed his faith. He still has yet to say the word God in his article. Interesting. com eventually. Is it two thousand twenty four all year? Everything's fake. It's like that, right? So that that's that's my take on that. Number four, I am unhappy with the effect this role has had on my family. So there's supposed to be a plurality of elders and and accountability structure and what he's describing doesn't seem to have any of that. Ministries online on conquered by love. It's our pleasure to meet you today. Here, here. So and then the the very last image, this one got a lot of attention too. org. That'll actually fit with we were gonna be talking about some movies and TV shows anyway, and that would fit within that context. He is born to a teen mom. All right, let me trim this one up We really do truly truly appreciate it. In this way, the pastor is similar to politics. You must be blameless or mor morally pure. No, just the the we'll see what the message they're building Not yet. Yeah, I was just gonna say it's uh the message is actually washed away. And I think it's interesting. Like, so how do you want to do this? Otherwise, we'll probably pivot to a different topic for next week Well, 'cause all these women are beating up men who are twice their size and and and just as well trained We don't need a whole bunch of Joel Olsteens. I know where your heart is on that. So I'll make you halfway, Troy, and let's just stop going to college altogether. Well you st I think he's emblematic for things that I hate. The reasons for this are myriad. Elijah certainly did. Or do I let somebody else shepherd this flock and I take care of my family? But if you if your pastor is taking friendly fire from you, it needs to stop There there's a verse uh in i i in the New Testament where Paul's talking on some kind of unrelated topic. And I I don't think th I I I agree with him. So uh I'm not sure what this is supposed to mean exactly other than the the whites and the blacks can get along But the people in our culture, in American culture, they already believe that about Jesus. And if you don't swear, you're not the man. If you have any thoughts, if you want to, if you're like, yeah, I pretty much said my piece, I have nothing more to say, then I won't do that. In fact, he's not playing any song. And if you let the little things go, sometimes you're okay, but sometimes you let the little thing go and before you know it you got a whole bunch of pebbles the size of a boulder And some of those kinds of things can be helpful, but So I think we're gonna be okay. Especially I mean, if he said, look, I we're in a we were an independent Baptist church or you know, we were a That's not here. We're going to give them publicity. There's the biblical view, which I playfully call side C theology, because side A is um So uh we'll we'll see. You can't have uh forgiving your uh uh people without God forgiving com. org, Concord by Love Ministries. You if you listen to old shows, uh faith debate shows, you'll hear me make the distinction And the show was streamed on Hulu, by the way. It's like every couple years, oh, they almost had a church foot, they had to fire the pastor. And what should happen is it should be happening in the church. Yeah. All four of us are pastors actually. You know, the people with different colored skin and so and so it could have a backlash, but I'm not so sure I want to give them all that benefit of the doubt 'cause I'm not sure that's what's going on in this agenda. And I know unlike some of the other pictures, the person who's beingwashed does not actually appear all that happy or Yeah, and her pants are all dirty and stuff, so the idea is maybe that you know she's ha at least had a rough life. Jesus, you know, Jesus was watching his disciples be That's what he came to do was footwashing. You can connect with me and the show through Household of Faith in Christ So that's the that's the thing that's the hardest thing for him to say. They've got two different kinds of campaigns on their website. Probably by Satan. That's not a sermon. Maybe they feel embarrassed, the people. And then he transitions to say this. I'm very I I used to know it way better when I was in seminary. Right. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. ? And by my count, there are 31 He he right he did hate your sin. And so uh Sounds like his father wasn't giving that to anybody. What you like um the uh I'm the only one now I'm I'm not saying the only one who has So I mean there there's seven guys that own everything in the whole world. Your thoughts? So first I want to say um because I'm pivoting right now by the way. How did the incarnation happen? We're talking about a slew of complex that are all loosely related under one kind of And Daniel Rasby said, Ooh, we gotta talk about that Yeah. And and so far they it mostly seem to be all b the one if I want to give them the uh benefit of the doubt When's the football game on? They're gone. Well he's the cross dresser, but Hawkeye Pierce was like this you know, overly sensitive and, you know, make make make love not war kind of idea. And we did not d don't even in many ways Yeah, let me see if I can get through this or not. So DeVito, who's like eighty years old, has an eleven year old daughter? He doesn't really talk about what God's calling is on his life. That doesn't that that's not that's not a bad thing to have those feelings. So I can muddle through and I'm very but I'm very dependent on the tools. So it's right at the end. He's saying these are the things the pastor should be doing. I mean yes, if he if he's speaking in code for uh you know Late August. You'll get there hopefully pretty soon. Not just theologically left, but politically at best they're neutral in uh in uh in the intersectional Maybe I mean maybe it's just uh you know in the middle of the yeah, Okay. I don't like that. We've been doing the show, like I say, I I mentioned I I'm feeling my age, so I mentioned how long I've been doing the show a lot of late. But you're not actually living out that lifestyle. But I would personally and I think all of us probably and if we would have that discussion right now would would reject both side A and side B. And you can connect with me and us through Household of Faith in Christ dot com. These are guys that supposedly are on our side. I love you so much. What we're gonna do is wash their feet and says you're still good people 'cause Jesus still gets you. It's not an equal fight and God does win in the end. What is the cause of his confusion? I'm gonna be less less verbose on this next one. He was never a part of the church. But he has five hundred people show up every week. It's almost seven pages that they printed it out. All right. And he puts in parentheses, Coldplay. What kind of trite nonsense was that? First it's like casting doubt. We gotta read through a bunch of these statements Oh I didn't you know what I hadn't I hadn't picked up on that. Is it not is it's there I had everything set up and ready to go and it wasn't I was like, what the heck just happened? Yeah, this is one of those weird years where it's it's gonna switch into a different year for a part of the year, no? So I'm gonna Yeah, I mean uh I'll say a little bit. Absolutely. Yeah. And Johnson said, I couldn't get to the remote fast enough to shield my 11-year-old from the preview. And now they're they're they're not even pretending anymore. It desensitizes people to And we're going to be talking about that in next week's show. I mean you're irreplaceable in the family dynamic. And it's there, it's always there. So we've got uh about half of his list or whatever of things that are expected for pastors to be able to do. I mean it's like anyway. In general, that part's okay, but I mean he And I um I was about to say it's been a long time since we've interacted with something I'm Troy Skinner. Oh the leap day. And I think the response of many of the pastors that we all um Yeah no their website is not. That's most sermons across the land these days. He's the Christian in the movie. Yeah, there's some there's some extended segments here because I want to take him in context, so I do want to give him fair hearing You're ultimately responsible to a board of or governing body that oversees your ministry. I stand corrected. We're in charge. He's make uh uh uh put this article out there like most churches don't have this or won't have this and never have Okay, well maybe I'm wrong. Well because it's back to the Bible, back to basics. And Troy, uh in uh we were texting back and forth before the show about this the topic and There's a healthy respect and regard for money. It's not about um others forgiving him, it's about him being able to forgive those who You know, that's what passes for men these days. And the Mormons do agree with the mainstream church on a number of topics. That's what your words were. What I'm saying is if you're identifying this as reality, and the reality might be, to your point, I can't manage this well See the person and you look at them and you know that they know that you know what you're It's it's it's nine oh three actually Okay. And the reason we're weighing in isn't to pile on, although that could be fun. Those are ad lengths. Then the next one here is going to be out west. Yeah. This is the DeSantis bus or or an Abbott bus And this culture has really demonized maleness or masculine Yeah. I mean most people don't even believe Satan exists, so there's that. It was about a pastor. But anyway. Um he he doesn't seem like he has a heart for that, and uh it doesn't seem like that is uh The politics inside the church has got to stop. The elder, the pastor, right? No Christian would expect what this guy brings to the table as a quote-unquote pastor. Nothing in this is about God or Christ or not. Thank you so much for spending part of your Yeah. And then there's these kinds that are longer form and they're more interview-based and It's almost like a bait switch there. He's a practicing homosexual, right? See if you guys agree with me on this. And I I I make it uh a point usually it hasn't been an issue very often. Everything's fake, man. Uh so it's a it's a Disney show. I know their stories, their history, intimate details of their lives. This culture of oh just come to church and we'll teach you there. There's seven skills. Nope. So I'm going to jump ahead of paragraph. So yeah, I mean and and one of the things that one of the points that Jesus says makes there is You know, Christians you're so hateful, so mean, so whatever, and they're like, no, we're nice, we're warm, we're fuzzy. Well, if this is the Jesus they're getting, this is the Jesus that they find to be attractive, which is the Jesus they already kind of know and like anyway Yeah. And he's got tears in his eyes and he's really having a hard time. It's always good to see you guys, my brothers Oh, sorry. com. It's ground up, it's grassroots. And people talk about boycotting Disney and There's a problem right there, by the way. Over time the accumulation of all that knowledge starts The next section is kind of continuation of this part of things he's talking about, and then he's gonna move on to something else. With a what makes you different when you're saved is how you deal with So this guy was never actually a Christian. I often I often tell people, if you believe XYZ doctrine Uh hopefully this the stream was good. If anything, the controversies surrounding it will probably ramp up between now and the time we get around to addressing it. Yeah. So now let me play the uh the the basic to be to be fair to the the the campaign, this is not a prayer. We were just playing the You guys have that experience? I'm saying I don't believe there's more than maybe Actually, those are sometimes the best ones. Putting it all together you can see how crazy it is. Catch this. And mix map mixed to match clothing, like the clothes Is that where the baby was conceived? They're not explaining what masculinity really is. The emotional needs. Uh yeah, you can keep mine if you want, but we're not gonna be playing any more audio. You know what I mean? Well and I've gotten to have a a a wrong opinion of not only what the church should be doing, but also what the pastor should be doing. I'm not saying that pastors are above being held to account, but there's a way to do it, and politicking isn't the way to do it. He starts off with some complaints about um We know that that is the definitely his own. Now, because the he's worded this the way he has, he's been a little hyperbolic, it seems to me, and he's So now he says he does say most Christians expect the pastor not to push them to grow but to reassure them they're on the already on the right track And imagine there's no heaven. And it's little things like, well, I'm not so sure that Jesus actually fed all those thousands of people with the bread and fishes. That's kind of the umbrella topic. Whenever there was baptisms being done, which is a washing, that was And he was a great teacher. So it might there might be like it may be waking up some Christians saying, Hey and making them go back to the Bible today They've been gone and I don't know when anybody's gonna wait for it. But just the the first so if you want to say something and if he says everything that we want to say then that you know David spoke for us all, we can move on And they're trying to change I would agree. The Mormon church specifically and the Catholic Church to a greater extent and and more obviously, but the Mormon Church very subtly That's what pastors do. I don't know that he's saved. Makes sense. We're just doing done. I don't think that uh people should expect that the pastor would be a fundraiser, but So now I'm gonna hit this so we can get to the next image. Has a significant number of liquor bottles scattered around. I could be wrong, but um Now this is the sinister part of making Uh it's not a Christian campaign. There you'll find all sorts of resources that the church has there for you, sermons and blogs and I mean that's the the Jesus, uh the uh uh Jonathan Rooney, I think is his name or whatever, the guy who plays the Jesus character. And part of the challenges They really don't. This is a case study, that's why we're going through this. He's sitting at the brook uh uh uh with Kidra, right? Oh my gosh. Either you are preaching the gospel and it's so strong that the devil's trying to tear you down in any way he can And I'm going to skip the first part of that and pick up in the middle of that where he writes He wrote this in September, but his last sermon was in August. Um we're all our our churches are all house churches and they all happen to be in and around Frederick County So the f uh the And I think in today's parlance the Native Americans would be considering oppressed. So like is he expecting to have his feet washed then too or I'm not sure. Yeah. And I'm trying to figure out ways to bundle them thematically that kind of make sense. I don't typically watch a lot of this stuff, but it caught my attention so I clicked on it. Anyway, all right, let's uh before we get off on that tangent too much longer. There were a few others that Daniel was kind of interested in us addressing, but I think thematically they connected a lot of things we talked about the last week. Why are you going through the motions to be a Christian to to be in the church? In a church that size, if indeed you can even have a church that size which we've talked on this Well, the fact that they go to a PC USA church they wouldn't be qualified in my congregation. Joined this week by David Forcey. And then it says he ended it with a uh uh a poem that he wrote. Sometimes it's neutral and sometimes it's very wokeified depending on Because it it really calls in mind a whole bunch of different impressions and ideas like what are they meaning to communicate here? There's a a whole slew of protesters out there screaming at each other. It's hard to tell exactly uh what ethnicity society represents. Right. Oh the us was a different color, right? I don't know. Like I was trying to get them benefit out on some stuff. I mean particularly in the context of Christian nationalism we were talking about recently and stuff too. So so it's not just like these one off things, right? All of us again are pastors in the area, and if you're interested in connecting with one of the churches, you can That was very weird. You don't know how demanding being a parent's gonna be until you're a parent He doesn't have a heart for it, doesn't have doesn't have a calling apparently on his life for it And so far we've only got five terra views. Hiya, Ben But you need to know why you're specific. We'll continue that on next week's edition of Uh you're taking those pictures, which was the focus of last week's show. How do you want to do that? You know, so that's why I just I want to s end with a very strong statement that I oppose this wholeheartedly. There we go. Mormonism has more gods than Hinduism. They have a little bit less they have to fend off, hopefully. I'm Troy Skinner, host of this show and pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ. And and the thing is I think some of the things he says are actually right and true, but the those things are few and far between in my opinion. He's saying he preached a sermon. No. Here are the top five. Yeah, you better go to seminary for that because I'm not gonna be able to help you, you know. Wow. People are gonna be hanging on the edge of their seats. Uh in in Maybe. Make up reasons. Uh the the well I thought they were talking about the uh the change in the time, the clock. Yeah. You know But it's saying I forgive you for being gay. I'm sure one of these days I'll get surprised and I'll be in the middle of a prayer. Something like Stravinsky would love, you know what I mean? Um but I want to take a second here and and and uh turn the gun around. If it's less than five stars, that link doesn't work. Sounds good. He uh almost seven pages and he mentions God for for I'm gonna pause there for a second and say that you don't have to be and you shouldn't. You will be like gods. Yeah. They were publicly acknowledging that they are they're living righteous lives. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Alright, here we go. There was a there was an interview on the interview on CBN's Christian Broadcast Network uh where one of the marketing campaign leaders was You you you cannot He's in like randomly and so some guy, he like gets his guitar and he starts playing what So he's it's like going fr it's like from going from Maryland to Pennsylvania, you know. It doesn't jive w who God made us and they're trying to change everything. The Jesus Revolution was not something on the scale of the Great Awakening or the Second Great Awakening Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. So there's always gonna be that. And it it's it's Second required skill is that you're like a CEO of a company, anticipating not only what the current people of your church want, but also how to bring new people from Well uh okay, yeah. But the easiest way to connect with him is just In a normal company, yes, the CEO leads all those things and hires people to do them And uh yeah, but I I uh you know, again I think what's revealed here is it's not just I realize if I spend the rest of my life fighting a system that's not designed for someone like me There's a trophy case in the background. So it seems like Maybe he washed his the white man's feet? I don't like that. Like they are and and Jesus is okay with I can't help it And I'm gonna say this and put that we only got a couple minutes left because He is this and he's that he's he's like us No, I I've I've heard it. So kids are gonna see a cartoon, they're gonna want to watch it. He didn't give a sermon. Whenever I see them, I know that I know intimate details or they know that I know intimate details about their lives, details that they You know, you try to blend those two and you get into all sorts And one of the things I'm hoping we'll see that we're talking about a pastor specifically. Uh Imron Razvi, and you can find him online at conqueredbylove. I did a word search. A lot of Patent pastors are not getting that. Did he really say? We've got to finish what we start, you know, good, bad, or indifferent, we're gonna finish what we start around here, by golly I'm gonna do the same thing this time but the section the segments will be a little bit longer. In fact, if you want to connect with Uh but did you see it or you only heard about it? I think I'd just rather have my child go to a uh a But is that gonna happen in America? As long as they keep letting us come back, we'll keep showing up. The article was written by a pastor. We are going to read large chunks, but I printed this out and the darn thing is seven pages long. It's not something you have to choose to depart from when it doesn't work out for you. Right, and his and his desire to prove and honor God. And uh he doesn't even have a a consistent location that he meets. Uh well yeah, th I mean that that whole thing about you don't get breaks because it's twenty We we will all continue to sin, but to have something that is And you can find the Razbeys and the church they're involved with and the ministries that they do. It might be the positive way of looking at this. I m I pick up on the theme here at least the first couple of times. But it appears to me that the dog's fur No, we're ruled by the deep state. He's he's having a hard time answering the question. Anything can be quist twisted to be love. Well this is the one that you're But everything else about the sermon was horrible. Over and over one leads to the other. Yeah But but it's kind of a suspense thriller and it it leans in a bit of a horror direction because there's the demonic So you're right, you didn't say hate. org. So he goes on to say, I'm just jumping ahead by one j one line in this case. I never feel a sense of embarrassment. But there are others I haven't pastored. And if you're in a sermon series on the Hebrew text, you're not using your Greek. Yeah, I don't I'm not sure if he will. org. And I wasn't going to read it, but I think I should in this context. But these are flat black and white things that are talked about in scripture. I'm I'm wondering and that was in the middle of possible. Well this is talking about the followers of T Well If you disagree with us, it might be because you don't agree with the Bible And so anyway, those are the debates, and I would personally reject God can help it As the Lord leads. Anyway, we've been talking about the He Gets Us campaign. It's kinda like I I've said uh in the past about college. org. I'm not sure he's a believer. Personally, I love this part of the job, but many of the people I went to seminary with struggled with public speaking. I mean technically it is some seven forty somewhere in Yeah, yeah. Yeah, that took a little longer. Even the live concerts are fake. There we go. Because that's the culture. Yeah. The culture's been alarmingly dark and desensitized, and this is not a game He speeched, right? Well I'm I don't want to spoiler alert, spoiler alert, I don't want to spoil it too much, but I think you'll see that as a truth. When everyone likes what you're doing, it may not feel that way, but the moment a group of people becomes His computer says it's seven forty. Maybe it's calibrated to that. Because I believe through experiencing beauty we encounter God's presence in our lives. But to You lose everything if you lose the idea that miracles can happen. Uh Odyssey. Then they have some others that are longer, like two and a half, four and a half, six minutes, whatever, that are longer formed, highly produced. An oppressed person. Uh if if you look close you you you If you're disagreeing with me because I'm getting the Bible uh and I am getting the Bible right We went to the church. They have to be ex um uh wanted wanted needed secure uh ne approved needed They provide uh resources and training materials for uh family dynamics, raising children, having good marriages, those sorts. But not according to the movies, the women do that And there are ways to do it, but you have to have a multiplicity of elders And then that'll be a good place for us to to button up. And how many times did the word God show up? At some point along the line, he did what is called deconstructing your faith. Somehow this was his his central message. Yeah, and what Daniel is articulated for you, for those who are in the know, you're recognizing uh the categories here So I don't know how it is fair to forgive it up. He passed away. Let's try to be disciplined. And he's on stage doing a live concert and he's playing the guitar, but people who know music and know how to play guitar, they're like I I I I I I made some notes. As a pastor No It's like that's forty eyeballs on me. This this section we're getting to where he talks about all the things the pastor should be doing, many of those Uh instead you're to explore deep questions about life and push yourself to become better humans. And I would say probably everybody knows uh U2 as well. So anyway, beauty and uh and and sort of things uh is an important way to encounter God's unconditional love. Yeah, that's and that's something I wanted to talk about here a little bit You gotta get engaged, you gotta step up, you've gotta make yourself available emotionally and everything else to your And they and they talk about what they're what they normally do. But I I don't see it historically as having been a movement of mass conversions to tr I don't know if that's small. Anyway You're misunderstanding, Daniel, because he's not ultimately responsible to God. The problem is most pastors aren't equipped to teach men how to So I think we're making good time as far as getting this done in two episodes. You know, and he might not be able to respond exactly when you want him to 'cause he's he's Your spouse and children should all be perfect or close to it. Big bang. He wasn't picking on Giuliano In fact if you read the leftist media We don't even need a whole bunch of R. Like the chosen we mention. It doesn't rival. So this week we're going to be talking about um an article that came out last And you're And then one of the most important ways we encounter God's unconditional love is through our relationships with others I'm gonna In a church of his size, there will be a should be a number of other people in leadership Are you reading my mind? And he says, although I've always tried to end my messages with a sense of hope, my goal was to make you think So what's your reaction? David, you have anything you want to say about the question. And the truth doesn't really matter, even if it's standing right in the face, even in movies now And one of the things that's dangerous about that movie is it just reinforces uh on on the whole the movie was pretty good. So But yeah, uh Well, I mean it's blasphemy to say that Satan's good, so if anybody is doing that, whether it's in in in public or if it's It Oh man. So Like almost every facet of being a pastor, this is a double-edged sword I I I agree. It does I mean it doesn't seem like it Get discipled. There s there's seven things he says that pastors are expected to be able to do and we talked about a few of them last week and then we're picking up where we left off. The the overseer, the bishop? Please call me out if I'm doing something wrong. And we're gonna be starting off with a look at the He Gets Us campaign. So I think the idea is that she's a migrant maybe of some Or Nate. We focused on it last week or gonna focus again for this episode. Like and still is. I don't think that their problem with him wasn't that he was sensitive. And it the website says the series is about a woman and her thirteen-year-old daughter who are trying to live normal lives. The church's website that I'm with is Household of Faith in Christ dot com He doesn't know what the gospel is. Did Gilson write it? The next thing he just directly contradicts. Okay, so maybe that's Repent. Show number two One that's designed clearly to be an ad. It should be silent. That's what a sermon is. It's all the time on your mind Just Appreciate you spending part of your day with us here. Um and and when they do seem to You can still do that and be a Christian. Uh and It's a Disney show, right? I saw a flicker. All right. But is but now I want to transition to just the average professing Christian and warn you The bucket of uh Um the uh the the young man was on the steps because they're seated on steps here in this picture on the pad. Yes. There's no conversion stories, there's no you know stories of people coming to church God bless. But David didn't speak much. We know that. If God is called him to do something, no matter how hard it is, you do it. But Presbyterian churches generally are not set up that way. A church of a thousand, by the way, so only about a little over a third of the people showed up. Sometimes the stream is good, sometimes not so much. org. Uh this was featured in the Super Bowl this past year and it's called I noticed uh or I thought it was a paper bag, maybe it's not, I don't know. There's a Latino uh looks to be me anyway, a Latino woman who's standing next to a bus. Yep. That's side A. Yeah, his father he said his father. They're giving it Yeah, and maybe we'll uh Jesus is a soccer star. Okay, I'm fine with that. It it it's overtaken the culture. There's some truth to that. I knew it well enough to pass the test and get a good grade and all that sort of stuff. So send all the hate mail you want. Okay, there you go. So first of all, one thing he says about The average person doesn't know what a man is. They're like, Oh yeah, Satan's a great guy Is that what we'll talk about? He only knows a third of his congregation He's representative of a disease right now. Fair enough. If you want to get in touch with him, you've got to get in touch with me because he doesn't have any sort of Beyond all of these day-to-day tasks, you serve as a master of ceremonies at baptisms, weddings, funerals That's a rock band, by the way, who those who don't know. Pastors, if you've heard what we said this show and last week's show Right, right, right. Men are each seated in chairs. Hmm, I think that'll that would be fine. What's the difference between that and being gay? You've heard it. That's the mistake from Let me put it that way. I never heard of this until now, but And if you can't figure out how to manage that and it's Nobody in the world knows. And the other thing that struck me is, you know, you gotta worry about maintaining the building and fundraising on financial concerns. I'm skipping a whole section here because he goes on to tell the story of another pastor And when our lives are but memories. Repent that was he taught that was what he taught repent. You're constantly Okay, then I'm gonna take that as uh that's what we're doing. There's a bunch of other videos on the in the And those are such if he's like me, he cannot see And I think that The the real Satan. But my first reaction after that first paragraph is good riddance, don't let the door hit ya. Number one, the immense stress of the job. You have to be a professional speaker, CAO, counselor, fundraiser, human resource director, master of ceremonies I wonder who's who's trying to be shut up or not be shut up. So okay. They're going to ask him a question. Like there's so much damage, so much collateral damage. It's much, much greater than what's in Christmas. I'll I'll give you that something is And he wrote an article explaining why he was leaving I think people he's he may be correct that people expect the pastor to be perfect. It's about the better angels of our nature. com eventually. And the only way to get in touch with David is get in touch with me. They said Jesus didn't pre didn't teach hate. In English. So we've been commenting on the uh the He Gets Us campaign, and we worked through one of their um produced And that's what this campaign is saying. And um he said of course Disney bought Fox too though We don't know who those seven guys are, but they own everything. No, realistically not really He speechstified They have been a That's the he guess that's campaign we were talking about a couple of weeks ago. It's definitely uh consistently There's a cheerleader type who appears to be pouring water. Okay, just making sure. That which it takes to get 'em is that which it takes to keep 'em. Jesus. So they're they're totally missing the point on these things. Anyway. To be honest, this is the one part of the entire thing he had to say. I hope that they don't feel embarrassed I'm not making this personal right now. Yeah, it's a real problem you have too many churches that run like businesses and you have too many businesses that fancy themselves Wow, look at this. I mean God doesn't intend for us to really understand that miracles happen. It's the I i I I get friend from it, I think, but or just the idea of somebody trying to See, this is love is love So it's proper love for money and there's And and he's No. And that's that's not a good thing. This is a case study on how a f a a faith gets deconstructed even by a pastor. That's a legitimate thing. So what he's trying to say is you can't please everybody God bless. Is it good or bad? Yeah. Like all those things are true about Jesus. But there's some truth, you want money Weak men in the home. Like all pastors in Hollywood are positioned as a but no positioned as a a weak, a feminine But still we've got to protect not just our kids from this It sound it sounds like he's saying these are all the things that are typically expected by More importantly, you must be unconditionally loving. So I'm a This is talking about his struggle to forgive. It's like dandruff. Oh no, they can handle it. I know it's the more liberal armor of the Presbyterian church, but usually Presbyterians have And number five, I am not optimistic about the future of my church. And if you can't do that, you don't want to do that, you probably should have never been a pastor. Next section. So it's possible that they don't have the support structure there anymore. Yes, that's uh that's a good way to put it. So this being consistent maybe in the case And now he's going to be talking about You're not a man, that's not masculine, that's childish. Talked about it. So look forward to talking about that with you guys. A sermon is is de grappling with the scriptures and pointing to the gospel. The question is what do you do with them and what what what do you do moving forward. Whether whether we agree with the the the specific church on the doctrines and things and this sounds like it's one of the more liberal pres At first it was an underground movement to convince the governing board of the church that a majority of the parishioners were dis I'm about maybe thirty-five percent of the way, but the remaining parts there's bigger chunks that I just Took you ten years to figure that out. Nicholas Sandman and Nate something or other was the uh the the Native American guy You wanna say anything? He's got a point. Um By the way, all that should not be required to become a pastor. No, no. But if at some point he gained better appearance of actually being a Christian Several of them are empty. But I was his son. And it's a it's a it's a real problem for these so-called No, he's not. I want to be able to read through this. You heard about this? Sure. But what is marketed to kids, the desensitize is the Yeah. He's gonna go get a different paycheck All of our stuff ends up there eventually. Not all this garbage going on in the culture. And side B is I can't help it, I'm born this way. They don't give you the scripture reference, but it's Matthew five, uh, verse seven. Well th somebody's saying they're difficult and that Jalos were saying it's fake too, that's what they said. C. And he's like, Oh I'm the only one left after he just beat all the all all the prophets of Baal. Four times. And I wonder if he does yoga. David Forsy bringing in a little nuance. And that was in the midst of a lot of chaos and protesting people on both sides too. Cultural problems all over the place. By being forgiven. Let's see if maybe just the first And the chosen is supposedly more of a Catholic, but there's Mormon influence as well. But then they take a false professing Christian, if you will Then it's got to stop And so public speaking Um so they have to find Yeah. Well, clearly this is not Like just a mess. And that was about as far as it went. Maybe like Moses, the leader of the fifties, you know. Sometimes this happened because there was a crisis. Sometimes the spouse doesn't know, at least not at first. I think you listen to that song at 5 o'clock somewhere. I agree with the Apostle John when he writes in Like, you know, she's the uh ten years ago you would have called her a soccer mom Find us online at householdfaithinchrist. sprolls. Have you guys uh did anybody in this room seen the sound of Because I know too many parents His name is Ann uh Alexander Lang, I believe Maybe that's maybe that's the idea. Maybe. You're not comfortable. But I mean just just a little bit of it. Then to the Jew, then to the Gentile. I agree with Imran. I gotta know. Deity privilege instead of white privilege or Again, like you said, people are used to what they're used to that it won't change. Well that's good because we're around the the path to death. Get saved, then we disciple you, then you come into the church. Saint also on that the you know the people look to me to interpret the Bible for them So trying to You know, Chuck Smith and um oh my gosh. Yeah, but it's animated, so he's just the voice. I have thoughts on this, but I don't want to make this about me. So there's a whole bunch of things getting conflated here together all at once. If if that happens, I'm just gonna say in Jesus' name, Amen. We'll be back next week, every Sunday morning, live on the radio. Saying there's a little bit of good that's outweighed by the bad, I mean that's that's one way to put it. Nefarious is a uh well And that that's uh he's always portrayed as a good guy, a flashy, cool guy and and uh Yeah, he kinda it's a kind of a long article. He's responsible to a whole bunch of people, in fact, anybody who walks through his door Or the deacons? So they they claim to have a faith. Maybe we'll do some of that. Oh my goodness, did I just get locked out? Right. Um So Jesus, and then they give the website kind of a thing. Like they're and they're st and they're not coming to church, right? Uh unless possibly maybe the one praying is also playing something while he's praying. So we're where it all comes with God We'll still have showers at our nice for now. So yeah, they took a a a um I think most seminaries are no longer. Four times. You will not surely die And I was like, like when do you want me to start the music? They couldn't handle it. God bless I just wanna So that's maybe true. Duh. It's pointless. They they kinda do a rotisserie league. I mean this one may be less less woke than I've seen in so far. Okay. Or no men in the home, right? And Yeah, we're not in a position to force anybody to stop doing this sort of stuff. No, but there are a lot of priests who believers Now he's he's he admits there's other reasons that Another aspect of being a pastor is that you don't have just one boss So it has a role. They're holding signs on one side And then number two she asked him, Well can you show any fruit that's I'm working on that Hopefully I we've we've got enough time, I think That uh, you know, This guy's not teaching us from the Bible. Okay. Hopefully it is really So it it appears somebody's washing the feet of someone who You hear this a lot of times in some of the churches actually I mean he's going to Troy. That that's what we should do. I haven't heard anybody mention this but but me. If you're self-aware enough to realize you can't handle it I think it helps us to understand I disagree with Daniel I I don't think that's what It's a very small piece of who he is Yeah. And this man is an unrepentant And uh Yeah. Coplay probably button. We talked about that earlier, right? The only hasn't been an issue of thank goodness, or praise God. No, he overturned the tables, he w he made a whip and whipped them. No Maybe. We were looking at the images and they were left That's what they're doing. Right. Yeah, there's some yeah, effeminate, you know, woke And the the houses that did that were few and far between Well I'll Oh in like one little section at the end. You know what? It's a fifteen, thirty, or sixty-second ad, and it's very tightly So they're they're saying what what do we feel, what do we think I think that the um No. I don't think he's a believer. No no look at what his assumption is wrong by we did the two of this one too. This is before the sermon, that's how he ended this message This is uh They are interrelated. I think he's talking about d uh you know, b uh uh speaking or church. Sensitive to time. Yes. You start denying all that stuff too. That that's been a theme also, like in in Well I mean Oh. We were we were stopping starting only every five seconds last week. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think there was anything particularly controversial But that's not really what they're setting up here They're both sins. But uh but I also think that this um org. You Christ set that example So he's right. Stop sinning Okay. So you start going down one path, you end up going down both. I mean i yeah, it seems like the initiating elements are over on his side. They're not saying, hey, on our website you'll find a much more Oh my gosh, it'll come to me probably when the show's over. Number two, I feel lonely. Yeah. Mm-hmm. If you want to access everything, go to householdface in Christ dot com. So if you don't like me They tried too much too much uh I I mean think about this. Glenn Beck So I I agree with you on that We want to really know what God is saying I think they're trying And man Who wants to watch a woman beat up all these men? And and apparently he can play the guitar. Where do we come down on this? But you know, it gets rusty if you're not We'll get to the Uh you can find Daniel Razby there as well. They profess to be Christians It doesn't Well apparently according to some research and We don't need this anymore, though So it's up to you. What is the proper response when you have this kind of campaign in determining I don't wanna It works. So she's definitely kind of an outcast I don't know So normally when you say something about These people are committing sin left and right and instead of Until God calls you otherwise Being a pastor is like being a parent And and you should not have active Now there is an a idea that you are to progress in centrification, become Right? Forgiving the people that are hating him So um Yeah, it's um So he's taking on responsibilities that aren't his Yes. Pastors have PTSD from all this Oh yeah well then how did Jesus Sometimes I learned these things while performing the functions Ultimately responsible to Christ com or WFMD. You're not comfortable with that Yeah. But if you go there to learn how to uh I mean if I mean they're really That's the chosen version of Jesus. Yeah, we're gonna we're gonna get there You can't get an abortion in Texas now Texas now, you've got to go to California. They they meet a different So they Well I'm a Catholic and I'm a murderer It was just oh I I got saved, I checked the box, I prayed Well yeah, it's funded by Disney as part of their I don't think we're gonna get to read this all And he has deconstructed his faith and he's walking away from the church. We are not reading all seven pages What do you guys say about it? But anyway, that's a big discussion in the church these days. But But here's what he's finishing out his thoughts on this topic. That's interesting. And I think This is an I and it's there are things you know. Are you having fun? Like as soon as I think if uh Okay, but anyway, back to the main thing here. And sure enough, they ran another couple of ads. It's as it's We're all killing ourselves. Either one of those I mean the lack of There was a movie out last year, the Jesus Revolution. Elizabeth didn't stop there. Okay. Well the only thing left I think we're kind of meant to The message of Christ is repentance and I don't know how he survived his ten years. org When Jesus went into the We need to get this changed. I I think there's no doubt it's intended to be com. But anyway, what do you have to say? Like it's a lot of men on the left hand side of the screen. Okay Talking about a poem. Blown away. So It's the fifth Beatitude. Until next week, God bless. Well So it really curses. I'm I'm happy with the They've got a church in the Thermont area. And he's That's probably just a story. Um I would put it more like But anyway And it's Blown away. Um So I'll be right back. You can find