If you're watching the streams and you know that a uh relative rarity has happened, we were recording last week, and we're recording again this week But the thing was it's to cheer yoga. Right next to him, see that to his right would be another fundamentalist Christian, Imran Razvi, known as Razvi's friends. And here's what the Got Questions folks said by the way. When it comes to Reiki, I would say s hands off, don't judge with a ten-foot pole, stay away. It's it's a decoration, it's like having a pretty bouquet of flowers on the table as a centerpiece. You know, use use uh very ex extreme caution, especially with items or objects that are also used by purveyors of witchcraft for their witchcraft Do it because you feel like it led from God that this is actually a godly thing to be doing. You can find us online at householdoffaith in Christ. And of course you can visit the website for the radio station. So thanks so much for listening. Yeah, don't hold it against these guys that I'm on the show. It's a way of covering places, people, and items with sage smoke as an act of exorcism and space clearing. But that's not what this smudging is all about, right? Find us online at householdface in Christ dot com, uh, wfmd. What's the Bible say about poem reading? I don't want to say it that way. Maybe it's not the best idea. Once for all what's the harm in that 'cause I know and I'm not actually doing sorcery. And I think a careful reading there, it it leaves open the possibility, but it doesn't mean that it must therefore be, because you could read it in a certain way where it would appear that it was Samuel And I don't have a problem as a Christian, you know, watching that and being amazed by how fast their hands move and I can't even see them. Oh my I almost had his name and it popped out again. It's a complex system of understanding individuals that somehow has a path to liberation or self-actualization, even a way to know God. Uh are you a mind reader? But those don't have any sort of spiritual background or baggage in them. Yeah. God bless. Mm-hmm. And David Forcey haven't heard his voice just yet today, but you will. And somebody was making a case that wool and women specifically their electromagnetic fields interact in such a way as to decrease your muscle strength while you're wearing it. Um uh is is attempting to make an explanation for why in the old testament God said do not weave uh wool and linen together. But Satan knows some of these same tricks too, and I think he's taught some of these things to practice uh practicing people practicing different religions, and that's where some of this comes from. Just don't let the devil twist it into something like Reiki that's gonna cause you to to leave the glory of God to go after some person that's using their spiritual and life force or th or and she has is barefoot outside on the grass, she feels better. you know, I don't think that you should you should go in that direction at all. And he would say to all his patients, God heals you, I just send you the bill. Smudging now we're talking about different kinds of artworks, I guess. So anyway, uh we've got like maybe a minute. Um so he's a fairly well known constitutionalist um guy. And he'd be talking he'd be talking like this and doing this whiny nasally thing about the constitution and the guy'd be saying something to that and he'd get into a little argument, he'd say, Get off my phone and he'd hang up on the uh FBI. But she goes, I don't know if he would follow the Constitution. It's almost like this sort of a ritual that's built around the oils, that sort of is the thing. uh empty and and swept and it it's open. and you're culturally appropriating their co but no, it's more than just wafting the smoke though. Well, meaning lots of holes in it. Uh but I think it's a slippery slope g getting into where you're thinking the stars control. And it can bring you to a place of worship. If you know what I'm talking about in movies, they place these little things in the background that aren't central to the story. uh plant. uh in the sky or today tonight and you know what know what you're doing, you know what God God means by the different stars and you might see something that might tell you whether there's gonna be uh you know some war coming in the next three months or whatever Yeah, Secular World says there's literally stars un un innumerable stars. There's uh there's been a couple of times, only a couple of times in history where those constellations have been in that that uh um orientation. I think two shows ago and you're reminding me of it now. we'll have water painting over here and we'll have some you know uh uh we'll have a sandbox for the kids and we'll do you know uh they can do do face painting over there and we'll put a poem reader over there in the corners. you you memory memorize in church. and see what it says there. That's what they decided. worship Thor in Odin, like the literal Thor, not the Marvel Universe Thor, the literal Thor in Odin he's g he goes into a temple and and does this and he gets possessed by what he says is is is Um the demonic health in certain things. Mm-hmm. to the occult and that's that's not helpful. uh Pen Gillette that that magician who is is a great wake up call to Christians. It can make you feel warm and you can't get it. I was meeting with a guy and he's he's trying to pitch me on it what had nothing with his business. Maybe that's just what radio people do, I don't know. Right, and so contr thinking about how people are different from one another, which uh God has made us different from one another. it for the enneagram feels very, very high to me. Holy yoga is an oxymoron or an oxymoron if you talk to certain people I know. I think it's only happened a few times in the 20-year history of this show that we've recorded on Back to Back Weeks. So we're not setting a record, but we're we're dangerously close to setting new precedents here in the Faith Debate. Because it's yeah, well it's yeah, it's it's it's one church, but they decided to s share the load and and they they it's like a rotisserie league and they they uh uh go around to different locations week after week and that's kind of cool. like a big conference speaker, uh made a lot of money selling new agey things and books and things like that. And there are some truth claims made in this year book that I'm gonna have to grapple with. intended to pun there when he said she said holy cow. He said hill poly cow in the uh broadcast all the time. uh uh you know, to record the show and we spend one hour every month or so here or a couple hours every month to record. uh you know, pagan uh symbols all throughout the the the studio sitting here and not not put by us, but uh it's it's interesting. Just part of the background, part of the environment. Ouija board that they've turned into a Luigi board for Mario Brothers. uh meaning bound together with a Hindu creator god. uh my Hindu concept. Be bad. a yoga case where some group group of Christian parents were arguing that their kids should not be uh made to do yoga in the public school and they're saying this is a religion and and it's not our religion and it was a very interesting court case and and they presented a lot of evidence knowing that you know yoga is inherently religious, it cannot be separated from religious in nature, and the court ultimately found in that case a few years ago uh uh should yoga be considered a religious activity? some pictures of the different yoga poses you might realize that some of them look like fairly standard stretches that are taught to athlete. stretch because it kind of looks like a cat too. in in order that are supposed to be opening your your mind and and spirit up to uh satanic type things demonic. uh sun salutation series that yoga adherents do. gymnastics or in in track and field um and then some other yoga pose that looks like that. But the the religious practitioners of yoga will say that if you do the poses in a certain order, it opens up your spirit to uh be, you know, one with w whatever you some practitioners that would say there is some physical advantage and they'd certainly be incentivized to do so if they're trying to mass market to to the public who that up. machines stuff. You know, for b older men you d you know, you you're not gonna get the chair workout. But because it's called yoga, I did not think. No, like we have to use wisdom and discernment and know what um what m what message we're communicating to other people um if by the things that that we do. to the the the pagan gods and stuff while while you're doing it. uh do i is all wrapped up in religion and the proponents of it claim to have had like spiritual experiences um which I I just don't know that's worth it. things and be healthy but having to do it with yoga it just it's a skirting with the the the demonic. And you spell it out H E L L and the door opens. Right? Do you believe this are culture? to that and is it feeding your flesh this idea of oh I've I can be self-sufficient. how to worship God. Does Pilates have some connection to Hinduism or Buddhism or some other spiritual things? I think started more secular but y I I d I haven't looked at the biggest. Like w even if the you know, the people who are coming up with it don't think that, you know, they they don't have a God in mind Ooh, I think we stuck a chord. uh then you I don't think you could put yoga in there. when I eat good food. m maybe some of the some of the stretches and even in a you know maybe some a lot of Christians also probably need to take time to uh be still and Like are you going to have your your your Brahmin meditation studies on Friday nights? You're you're sending a really bad kind of a signal there that makes me nervous that you're, oh, yoga. The show online at WFMD. uh you know there are some interesting things with electromagnetic fields that do that do actually have to jump in and we'll meet you guys in the middle. Don't feel like you have to leave it on the front of the room floor. and how our energy is in sync with the energies of the cosmos. Who use cosmic symbols for healing and it claims to work by removing obstructions to the flow of life force energy throughout the body. That employing this method is how Jesus obtained his healing power. uh the spirit the the one spirit or my spirit or whatever that that definitely can open you as we talked about last week you can open your mind up uh and your soul up to uh demonic influence a um w waves of some kind that are being emitted or or or emitted. Um a commonplace uh version of this is people, you know, you oh your cell phone has radiation or your Wi Fi has radiation, that's that's hurting you, you know, that type of thing. no longer is now a committed Christian and is given all that sort of stuff up, but uh was a Reiki master. to say the least. But you start and they won't even say there's not a God of the Bible. You know, and and it's uh it becomes this weird amalgam and and uh it's not just an attraction of electrical forces, it's an attraction of spiritual Right, walking around barefoot on the ground and and and getting yourself kind of uh grounded ground yeah, grounded with the the the the the electrical current of the earth. different frequencies and I think frequencies do heal and I think that there's a lot of things we don't understand that God has has here that we don't have have taken full advantage. any spiritual beings to uh realign your nervous system. Anyway. Right. The thing itself was not the the evil, right? Uh right, and and what Daniel said earlier, uh uh you know, in the show about, you know, there's uh it takes it takes Now we're giving a softer, at least I I feel like I feel like I am for sure, and I think the room generally is giving a softer take when it comes to crystals as as opposed to Reiki Right. And these things are used very specifically in quote unquote witchcraft and sorcery kinds of things. Um yeah, like with all of these things, like we we should be able to um understand more and more how it actually works. that has an uh uh is an emblem or an amulet of some uh evil thing that may be allowing or inviting demons in think that you if you're a believer, God has given you authority over the demons, you can rededicate the house to Christ and cast out. I love it when Daniel says something right toward the end of the show it's like, ooh, there's some stuff we really should talk about and we have to wait. And seances and the uh Enneagram. And if you don't have anybody that you can trust for their counsel, not you would trust ours, but you can reach out to us, we'd like to give you our counsel for what it's worth. Church at Meath at Imran's house, they meet on Saturdays, and if you want to learn more about that, you can go to their website or come to my website, get in touch with me, I'll put you in touch with them David Forsey has a house church that meets in different locations and they meet on Sundays, so Sunday works better for you, or your conviction is that it needs to be on Sunday rather than Saturday. Saturday or whatever, then you know maybe David's church is we we gotta come up with a name. Sermons are housed for the most part at sermonaudio. Uh that's a nationally syndicated radio show. And his father, Imran Razvi, known as Raz, to his friends, you can find him online at conqueredbylove. You know, why are we using these oils? the strong attraction in our culture uh to all of that is is maybe twofold. Uh and oil. meaning his feet, you know with that. uh and other sort of spiritual practices are obviously not directing one's attitude and posture towards God, right? past that uh God created all this stuff. I would have to agree with her. And and the whole idea is that you're feeling spiritually there's something there. I just s I'm always suspicious that they use that as an excuse to act the fool and oh it wasn't me, it was the hypnotist. to smoke over themselves, they get rid of the spiritual entities that are clinging to them somehow or other you know we we you can use smoke to cure meat Uh so I I think You can use them to cure your house. scare you away from doing the smudging. the inner city black people speak. And then they wave it in the air with a feather and walk around the house starting at the front door moving clockwise. Yeah. mentioned the idea that, you know, a good lie has got a lot some truth in it. What are you doing? And then you know that's that's superstition. Days and years. for in like general uh s uh symbolic things in the heavens the uh for humanity I think I think that that's the type of s signs you see in stars. the North Star. uh the time of Jesus' birth. you know, signs in the in the heavens and and uh you know um uh various symbolism happening and and Troy will say it's it's all very symbolic but regardless it does talk about there are things there are things in the heavens that you are seeing and use. the the hinterlands of Wisconsin I grew up in Illinois. I don't know if God necessarily placed them in a way for us to connect the dots and make these constellations or not. you know, the the Line of Judah and uh and things like that maybe or b although I don't think that the Line of Judah specif specifically the constellation is is mentioned in the Bible, right? per per person in their everyday r d life. Specifically, like what do you have for breakfast and whether you're gonna meet somebody today, you know, that type of thing. Yeah, I think I'll throw a few over there. on planet Earth and you know the the rise uh and demise of different cultures and country if we if there's something in the Bible that would like or or you know or like when an event happens we can say, well the stars were in this position when that happened, right? in the New Testament were d direct descendants or uh of pe people taught specifically by Daniel that and Daniel was teaching all the prophecies of what was gonna happen and they were watching for something specify specific in the stars and then they saw it, whatever that was, and they're like, Okay, we need a journey across the entire world to go see this. To me. Joined this week by Daniel Razby and Imran Razby. Most specifically to Household the FaithInChrist dot com because that's where all my contact information is and all that sort of stuff. Boy is like giving me the evil eye over here. So what does the Bible say about poem reading and such like? And it's a form of divination, then you shouldn't do it. pastors argue that they gave God a choice between two, but they didn't let God actually pick the people in the in the uh right in the direction. And and and Well God gave your body, right? Now that's bad, right? Or who is a medium or spiritist who consults the dead. I would say incorrectly believes that the Old Testament should not be thought of much very highly these days. yourself. source of result in Harry Potter as well. Adultery's also listed there. uh how we try to split hairs on some of those kinds of questions. You know, cut cut the animal open and look see how its organs are, you know, situated, right? Uh yeah, I I that that's different, right? uh uh toy sections of all the gr of the stores that sell toys these days. And the Waltons there's this stereotypical conservative Bible Baptist, you know, kinda kind of family and there's a Ouija board that makes its way into the home and they entertain it and they and it's you know know, e even the Waltons, you know, was prone to new age. And it's supposed the idea is that it's the spirit force, the dead person, whatever it is, is somehow pushing your hands, influencing you some way to to point to different things on the board, to spell out different words and and and other things. And maybe that's all you're saying. uh stepped in there and and and helped out with that. is Odin or or Thor one of them. memories. What's gone on, right? I think it might be directly spiritual and they're demon possessed or demon influenced or what have you. quote unquote magicians that practice today that are very upfront about hey everything I'm doing is fake. And his thing was he was a magician and he was invited to all these shows all the time. You know, and he wasn't trying to make it there's another guy that's very popular over the last twenty years, his name's escaping me too, but he's very dark, he has lots of street magic and Chris Angel? pretending to be demonic stuff. From th they would totally discard anything spiritual. is trying to encourage Christians to share the good news. Right. uh consume any uh material or or be involved in anything that is not entirely run by Christians. at some point, but that's just an example. Uh there's a difference I think between that and you know uh uh participating in a a a seance for fun or w you know Yeah, and we'll help and comfort you. What? I I had to say you're not sure. which I actually have a lot more problem with 'cause you're putting a little Buddha basically up there watching you to see to see if you're nice or whatever. It's so funny because uh in in my house this is kind of running joke that I don't particularly like the smell of any perfumes or chlomes or whatever. For Christmas and she says she's Don't talk about me like I'm just a piece of meat. I if there's anything to which I'm doing one more recording, we're gonna do one more. What to me was a newfangled thing. And today I probably would have found a whole bunch of things that would have gone back a little way. Joined this week by uh David Forcey. I belong to one of those networking groups, B and I, Business Networking International, you know, you give each other leads and that sort of thing. Oh it doesn't matter. to start talking about this on the Faith Debate Show. Apparently, this guy in the 1960s taught a system that had 108 Enneagrams, not nine. Okay, what is it? Uh plus the seven deadly sins somehow and also has a lot of influence from the uh the mystic Judaism, the the Kabbalah uh traditions are somehow It's got too much history in the Ucona. They see themselves as spiritual beings who've lost contact with their true nature. uh uh personality tests in general that they they uh may also have new agey and occultist type of things. They experience a spiritual awakening full of freedom and joy, a conversion of sorts. there. be gibberish myself. Uh an episcopal priest, Ian Crowan uh Crohn, I think, says, um every number on the Enneagram teaches us something about the nature and character of the God who made us. nine ways. history or not is if you're gonna put yourself in a box, and then that's the whole critical race theory issue too. Now David, have you done Myers Briggs or The Gallup or any of the other ones or is this the only quote unquote personality test that you really have? The squiggle, the triangle, the square and circle. the the idea of of the Enneagram in essence is that, right, you you m you might sort of you might fit into one of those categories, but there are there are ways that you um kind of a show. And even that is like, okay, whatever. But if it's not based on scriptural truth you might as well ask a magic eight ball those questions. now I mean you might have trauma and you can get healed from trauma and now those same things don't bother you anymore. in uh high school even uh even as tenth grader if I didn't see my parents when I was going grocery shopping I'd start breaking out of the sweat and start crying. But from what I've seen and I've researched a Neagram a a decent amount. language. Yeah, it's it it's all the it's New Ageism, occultism, it esoteric psychology kinda blends a whole bunch of these things kinda together and I feel like the Enneagram reinforces somebody to go down that path. uh going back to several shows ago at this point, in some way similar to yoga, right, where there is uh that help you evaluate and stuff. You know, I bought into his program because he was a huge Christian and he was telling me all these different things that he can help me be a better salesman, better closer, better this, better that and improve my life. He said, No, don't do this. Uh Daniel Enron Rasby, thank you for being on the show. we different ownership for this company that we have now. And they put it like there was basically must hire, it's you know conditional, it's okay to hire, or you know, probably shouldn't hire, definitely don't hire, right? You know, you you do this for a while, you kind of know a salesman you see all right. But their scores were really high. My local sales manager was in the meeting with me. i in a tough spot with a client who was coming up with all these objections and she didn't know how to answer them, how would she handle it? of people realize how uh entrenched they actually are in New Age thinking. Every pose in the Yoga Sun salutation series is bowing to different pagan deities. That's a little bit better. Um he co-fastors a church with his son Daniel. I think the houses are all different sizes, but David Forcey he he he pastors uh no, we only host in houses that have the exact same square foot categories. That a lot of new age stuff is so pervasive in our culture that we don't even realize where it is. Incense? before. It used to be very flexible. Um with religious practice. Goodness. immediately followed by yep a another stretch, immediately by yet another stretch and have those three be in that particular order would be would be less physical advantage to doing them out of order. of the time. um in in those the temples and and and such. Am I screwing anything? yoga. Well you might be thinking that in your head, but everybody else that looks at your shirt is going to be thinking that you are proclaiming some other message, which is a very dark and evil message, the LGBT uh um dangers uh d uh you know movement in in our society. So with with uh yoga if you if you're gonna have some sort of explanation with it maybe, um, I don't know. And many of the people that are high up in the movement have be become saved and they would now say that they were being possessed or controlled or affected by demons during those times. And so I say that's that's something that I d I don't think it's worth a Christian trying to get involved in it. a conscience issue. Yeah, if you're willing to bow down to the devil, he will give you longer life, he will give you the good health, he will give you wealth on this world if you're only willing to bow down. Uh it's it's one or two or all three of different things are having impact on their life. Right? Even if it's not demonic, I I can hear somebody right now. But if you're doing my understanding, again I'm not an expert on yoga, but if my understanding is correct, if you're doing yoga in the spirit of yoga without the religious aspects of it, but just within the spirit of what yoga is supposed to help you do It's supposed to help you kind of center yourself, clear your mind so you can find yourself, right? That's my understanding of what's supposed to happen. by doing these exercises that are very calming and peaceful. I don't know. of hands and I mean the what what we what we do with our bodies when we worship God I I think is uh I think it I think it can make a difference, right, in our in helping us. uh have a a right a right humble mindset before God. Uh so if not yoga, what are Pilates? you know, what they are communicating by what they do. And know that God is, right? There's a strong weighty wisdom issue. ask the question maybe so at least be forewarned there. Ought to be fun. Well you gotta rakey it up. uh that are doing it. we may have different opinions on that. into you with with their hands while they're adjusting you and there's also ones that's like well I'm just gonna crack your back, you know. solid like ninety-eight percent of the time I would have to say so you can check that out dot questions dot com pretty good resource uh what's that is it dot org got questions dot dot questions dot com Yeah. m possibly an a a a minority perspective on this, which is that means you're oppressed, that's good. was. uh with objects or clothing or whatever that is more or less uh harmful to to your health based on you know and and and a and a Only we're caught then. One of the the and we'll talk more about Crystal. that kind of thing. uh aspect that gets funneled into the thinking of the Reiki, at least all the Reiki practitioners that I'm familiar with kind of fall prey to this kind of thinking. designed where a person or a Reiki master is using their life force and their spiritual force to change some of the the the the alignment of your nerves and other things or something like that And that's not really what this is about. s you know, and separate, you know, modern medicine from God being the one that's using those things to bring healing, you know. uh don't want that out there because they don't want people to actually be healed. and not giving glory to self is is perfectly fine to study because I think there there are freezing my my wife um you know when You know, in the in in the Old Testament, you know, God commanded, okay, you do this sacrifice and and and uh um sacrifice the goat on on this altar in this way on this day. Uh i that that's what we should be after. that. things like that. huh much more good and uh and fascinating than than we know. prohibited uh in the Bible. You know, miraculously miraculously, but a crystal some sort of gemstone is not going to heal you miraculously. to use medical science to to heal you, but God's actually the one doing the healing. You should pray to to God. smudging, some ill timed, ill place smudging. kind of thing. Where they foresee things that are coming. Eighty seconds. Good. to the show. You know, he's he's on trial for his life. So yeah, oil blends. if you're sensing a theme for the last few weeks, if the you're y you you're right, there may be very good health related things is one of the supreme idols of our culture. um so so much towards atheism and materialism, there there's this r you know, people recognize at a at a root level that actually they are they are the person with oil. I think there's nothing wrong with oils. you're you're opening your your house up to devil. So there's no room for the devil to come in. Um but the whole idea for hypnotism at work is you have to clear your mind of everything and let uh intentionally let somebody else control your mind. Alright, so well um I uh teased last week that we're gonna talk about smudging this week and that's uh not something that everybody is even we've talked about so far in these last few shows on New age stuff. Gathering bundles of dried sagebus uh bush, uh brush, rather, dried sage brush, hard word for me to say, and lighting it on fire, these bundles, for the purpose of smudging, quote unquote And I would agree with that. to chase away the spirits by the smoke and I guess extra special attention is usually paid to the corners because you know the spooks will hide there in the shadows of the corners. in food preservation. wafting this smoke. I know I don't I can't think of any reason to think that that would actually smoke Sage, is that? To have tore the heart out of somebody. because you're relying on a thing, not God, to protect you. It's just not there's no reason for you to think that's true. I I feel like throughout the Bible, like there's times when God tells people to do weird things. What's that? Uh you know, rather horoscopes are very specific and you know, on the one hand uh a lot of them are very you might think, oh what's what's the harm? I mean you look in the Frederick Sky and you're lucky to see a dozen of them sometimes, right? Some of the constellations are actually mentioned by name in the Old Testament, and so the Bible acknowledges that they're there, and naming them isn't a problem, right? The problem though is when you're fascinated with the stars and the expanse of the universe and how maybe there is some sort of design that was placed there as almost like little Easter eggs in those stars and the and the position of the stars and the planets. And you know, if if Christ tarries for thousands of years from now, there's no way we could ever come close to even visiting all those things. Yeah, yeah. You know, you could say you remember when things were you know, when the sky was in that position and that thing happened. I'm getting off the top of my head. I wonder if you know, if if he tarries, thousands of years will pass and people will find remains of like New York City and be like, wow, they were really advanced. Come quickly. So it depends on how old how old the earth is now and that'll stuff. You know, lucky uh you know, whether th certain things are lucky or unlucky or whether you are and whether the universe has something to tell you about fate. Well, that's up to God. today as well. by doing a certain thing. And I would venture to say not a single one of them is going to say, Oh look, God made this line here and God teaches in the Bible that when you have this line this is what happens. whatever, but if you give any weight at all to God's word. bad things that's maybe comparable to putting burning your children to death, okay? himself by following them. So that that's that's and then and there may be nuances to that, right? tempting you to get into something you shouldn't. And it's and they said, what should we call you? Interesting interesting topic. And and then sometimes those people, those mediums are actually spouting off real information that you that only you would know about your dead deceased relatives and stuff God. It's a it's ironic because he of all people should know how how you can fool people and use sleight of hand and so on. Uh and so you might now they they thinking that's a good segue. They're both they're both strong atheists. Because you must really hate me if you if you think I'm going to hell and you're not gonna try to stop me. Right. i you know, because he c he created it and this this guy you know, he wasn't godly but but but he wasn't intending with that with the music necessarily to to bring out some evil spirit and the music itself might be nice to listen to and wonder we'll talk about music. where where where they're put they're claiming, hey, we're gonna talk to spirits. human tendencies and history and all and all that sort of stuff. show. pretty sensitive notes, but I love the smell of garlic and onions. soaps with garlic scent and onions. Right. superstition it strikes me anyway. pronounce could just be the angle of the camera. Yeah, it it's like one of those personality profile things. uh locations. Uh this is um not my words. comprehend nine things at the time. part of all this as well. scripture than than the Bible, right? different and and I I think that if we're if we couch that conversation, right, and and I you know and I I never thought of it as anything more much more than just like a a person the the two basic ones i i it would be introverted and extroverted, you know, and you know if you know somebody's more introverted or extroverted ahead of time, you might be able to interact with them in a way another, right? tests or the Myers-Briggs tests or are you an achiever? It reminds me of critical race theory, of CRT. am. to be. The spiritual aspects of this are undercutting the sufficiency of scripture. Because that's that's a physical reality, but the way that you you interact with uh things and and the way you use your mind and and your s spirit, uh you know, God can change your heart and change change your uh mind in different ways. ways to to give you the new uh ways ways ways of service serving God and serving the church. Um but uh but the thing that I found helpful about it is that uh it it it it basically different bosses come in or different seminars and y y you you might take the uh the Myers Briggs three times in your life or whatever. If you guys, you might find this hard to believe you've only known me, you know, within relatively recent years. And Daniel brought up the love languages, the five love languages. uh suspicious or uh put off by it. right now, that doesn't mean you're that's the personality you're gonna die with. Like like like maybe you know, there is a certain sort of religion of sorts, you know, built around. uh in in in biblical terms of what is what's good and what's evil, right? She said, but this is all about your inner self and how you can repeat the certain words and to make it happen and and to it's like it's prosperity gospel which is not biblical. And I might have to take the uh the final word here. So anyway. I I when I saw it I told you it was a little bit more than a little bit. Those uh those personality profiles and those those tests you can do to see if somebody's gonna be a good salesman and all that sort of stuff. And she didn't have it. And we both had the same instincts. And I started asking her the most difficult questions, challenging every answer, making it really, really hard on her. Would she maintain her integrity or would she collapse like a like a deck of c you know like a house of cards? And she didn't, she wilted, she basically gave up. You know, you you don't have a grizzled heart yet. Okay, you're being mean to me. You you you learn how to handle it, maybe give it back to them sometimes as a way to do it, earn their respect. Those are met with closely held beliefs. Doreen Virtue, do you know that name? So there are some some stretches that are taught and and they're really independently from any religious nature, p people just found that this particular stretch of the really the the issue. That's kind of where I am with the whole question of, you know, would you eat food that's been dedicated to uh to idols? That sort of thing, right? right particularly need to give consideration to what they're doing, to to why they're doing it, right? to to think that there's there's you know that there are particular um physical things or you know that are in in the material world that are somehow uh in and of themselves. the the pitfalls, the risks, whatever, and if their motivations were good and they had other reasons that seemed I I'm not sure exactly what those but I I'm not going to say it's a sin to participate in a yoga class. about yoga and other things. But I could hear the question coming, well if you don't like yoga and you don't like tai chi, what about karate? So uh David w uh David Daniel last week when I mentioned we're gonna be doing Reiki discussion this week, you should have seen the look on his face. knows knows this stuff or knew this stuff and hopefully has forgotten most of it at this point, right? forces at play too. and draw the power from within to have my own electro electromagnetic field be this wondrous healer and I'm and it's because of me and it's not about God. Yeah, ranking makes me very, very, very nervous, probably because I know it better than the other things we're talking about here. what is the truth, what is the lie here, because um you know got God is created the the all creation is from God. something in general. is possible or maybe even has physical uh benefits or mental benefits here on earth is something that Christians should be involved in, you know are are good and helpful for us. What impact might it have on those around you? But I will say this, crystals, there are crystal wands and crystal pendulums, as I understand it. Right, and we see some of that in the Bible, right? combinations of colors and and jewels and gems and things. rocks, gems, minerals, right? Bad luck to ward off. you can s uh audibly cast out any demons there may be in a house. the number of comments that came out of the woodwork. uh make this claim too that um oh if they want to they can come on if you don't have to it's overly political that's one thing but if it if you can categorize it as a newsmaker interview Um can get feisty something. What an idiot. Like yeah, you blend. So they can use them in ways that are related to like false religions and that's where the the concern comes on. kind of spiritual beings. improve their health while they're at it. Uh years wages. Apparently they use them for potions and rituals to harness energy of nature to enhance psychic vibrations to attract quote-unquote good luck. the the the the the wiccan pagan kinds of things of of the world and making them godlike in some respect is a is a very uh hip and cool thing. So I sh and I I would say there's you know in principle I don't know that there's a whole lot different necessarily between uh uh you know, hip hypnotism, like being allowing yourself to be hypnotized, right? felt like I was one prone to being hypnotized. against it. And then like I said earlier, you pay special attention to the corners of the rooms and and then some people, as an extra talisman of good luck, when they're all done, they will leave the the remains of their smudge stick at the front door I guess like standing century as a as a warning. Ancient Native American practice. comes from God. You know, somehow if we do something in just the right way, it will get something to happen, right? and we know that it's the king is born because of something we see in the s in the sky. Like you personally. that we have. And that um there uh there's many commentators that believe that that is specifically referencing certain constellations. What happened to them? And you know, you might think it's a game or it's a silly little thing, you but but if if if you the purpose is to is to find out in And i if he's not for us, he's against us, right? There's no middle ground. And if God gives us a prescribed way of determining what His will would be, or a prescribed way of connecting with spiritual realities, prescribe for God's people to determine not just some generic spiritual truth, but to determine God's will. You might as well burn your children to death. Right. And then the stripper comes in later and I was going to say, yeah, and then and then and then we get the the uh the drag queens come in uh to finish it all out. uh you would you would consider yourself to be a member of the bride of chr. You don't get involved in things even for entertainment that are ungodly or that are in a form of ungodliness So I think that that's that's something that a very good d distinction. moving objects with your mind, you know, those kinds of things as well. rules? to use it to to to talk to spirits. going on. And seances are like that where you're trying to talk to the dead, necromancy, that kind of thing. It's certainly Saul thought it was Samuel. I'm not uh I'm not sure that this the passage is ironclad, that that's what was going on there. We did. the spirits of what I've heard from people that that claim to oh we're gonna channel your dead mother or grandmother or whatever. I I think they live a lot of human lives, right? I feel like a point that Daniel's kinda made a few times as we've been talking about this is that uh either you know either you are for God or or against him. To Daniel's point, you know, maybe there's demonic influence there. And so the devil doesn't know everything. Um anyway. Yeah. Right? It's uh the the geometric geometric symbol that Daniel referenced. But uh most of them, like a hundred of them practically did not catch on catch on in the West in the United States. uh e even ancient Greek philosophy. To capture this it by saying um uh so the so like with with all of these things, right? they unlock something like that was hidden before. learning uh that that can become a god to us. I mean they there's like simple little tests online stuff. Um how how did you find it helpful? i it takes it takes real truth to make a good lie. is considering uh it it causes you to think about the the differences in people. down they they follow places they shouldn't go. that number one does not cause as much offense and number two lets you accomplish whatever your mutual goals are with meeting that person. I've done like a half a dozen of them because I was in sales. The the thing that I've I found helpful about DNA gram is because like there are these there there are these sort of like nine right uh basic categories You know I couldn't do this show 30 years ago. Like a like a little coffee table book that has like some get to know you kind of questions like you know, like what kind of things do you like? that uh your behavior shows and that is a starting point of how to change your behavior. And I've committed probably every sin imaginable, at least in my heart. You know, do it, don't do it, I don't care. improve my performance. And then there were people that, yeah, they were okay, but I don't know, they don't have enough life experience. They're easy, they're they become great friends, right? get you know grizzle and the g you know in the gizzard to to fight. Probably 10-15% of the people you're doing, at least in the radio field, that you're trying to get to buy with they're absolute jerks. that uh there were wa yes, yoga is religious, but there were ways to sanitize it or maybe not call the poses the same things or whatever and and maybe it wouldn't be So I don't know if you know the answer. Any kind of exercise, you know, you're going to progress into you know, you're gonna start with warming up, right? moving to something that's harder and then lifting more weight and that sort of deal. Well there are people that I mean go to the gym religiously. You know, in general. But it's a really strong wisdom kind of a thing. You know. Right, that are physical and God has put there and maybe we can learn about it and use some of these things uh to our advantage for health purposes. the t or the technology or the or the practice necessarily is evil, but it you should not be doing it from that place. for the same kind of thing. uh uh energy from like from the universe or from yourself into the other person. Most who participate in energy healing, they give no recognition to the one true God, nor does he receive praise for healing. you know, for for a little while in the sun, it's a huge difference on our mental health, on our physical health, and those are all different frequencies that are that God has provided. So how is Israel allowed to do that and not only allowed to, but commanded to, and it was a godly thing, and you know, Satan was accepting people doing the same thing in worship of him That does have different healing aspects. It uh it just took over their whole spiritual room. you know, uh the way it was originally intended, it is it it centers around uh f worship of false gods. understand it, you know, in in ways that are true and good for us, and and we can give glory to God for all of these things that He has made that There's a verse in scripture that says, don't do it. do something beneficial for us if we use them in a certain way. From from like Bad Juju. And tarot cards, or tarot cards for the uninitiated, and the Luigi andor Luigi boards. Today. that right but they used oil blends and burning of incense in the tabernacle. So I I don't know about you but whenever I use oils it's always so I can attract more good luck. You know and and and well be careful because in this one this is it's not necessarily magic things. Christians can get a little bit ob obsessed with oil and think that you know, anointing things with oil somehow somehow has like a like a mysticism magical kind of effect. Yeah. If you're just open-ended, hey, you know spiritual energy, you come into my house, you're asking the devil. It's a healing thing. Right. And the bones of Elijah raised somebody up a hundred years later. There's nothing inherently wrong. It it the good things come from God. Like he's not he's not the genie, right, or or whatever you want to say. I am I'm okay with that. Some in some other part of the world. J just a comment on on what you said is so vast and amazing when you look up in the a nice sky and see to vast. Well I'm telling you, I've I've joked about this, but sometimes I wonder, you know, it seems like the ancient Egyptians were very, very, very advanced. Yeah, and the Bible doesn't say anything specific about poem reading per se, but it has a lot to say about divination, and this is a form of divination. And talking about the uh that casting lots would be I think an interesting show all by itself. stuff. But we might have specific things we want to say about those things. Uh I I'm not so sure that Samuel was hearkened from the from the grave uh to speak to them. But there are, like you said, Troy, there are plenty of people who try to bore the lines and pretend that they're spiritual things and maybe some of them actually do have uh uh I'm going to perform for you this great illusion. You've had a death in the family and you feel like you're getting signs or visits from that dearly departed one and like, oh, they're still with me, they're talking to me, they're communicating with me. No, but but but it but it starts somewhere. No idea what it was. uh mystic origins. I never heard it said that way. uh 1900s and became very popular in the middle part of the last century, like in the nineteen sixties. knowledge, right? of these different things. the results were not the same every time. A good sermon will tell me. Uh in my opinion, I I think it depends on the the the lens through which you're viewing it, right? Right. you know, th they will. Um, you know, just like the Bible doesn't have everything in it about uh you know, what we should do to be physically healthy. Right, and so and we should filter all of that through scripture, you know, is is this true, is this right? And there and you could chew and digest that meat and spit out the bones. you know, uh I I should I should try to recognize what those are that God has placed in me and use those strengths. Th that's a good way place to start and if that using something uh you gotta know where it's coming from and and give the glory back to God. Hey, your phone's still going. And she rose in the challenge for about 38 seconds. Probably. You know? thought of herself as kind of a Christian and then somehow somewhere along the line she got challenged to actually read the Bible and she read the Bible and she realized, holy cow, I I I'm not a Christian, not the way I'm living my life. You know, is it where do where do you draw the line between I I assume you would say exercise is okay, maybe even Uh and you know you know, medi while meditating on God is Oh. have spiritual experiences and I would say those are demonic spiritual experiences, not from God. Right, that that are wicked. Right. And we uh might have had some other things about yoga that we either want to s address right away or we'll just kind of come up in the context what we're talking about here. And God created this earth. that the earth's electromagnetic field and other objects which have electromagnetic fields they interact with each other and if you can understand waves properly you may be able to surround yourself at And it's a very anecdotal study. Science probably that's involved in this, and even David was agreeing, saying, Yeah, we're we're electrical beings, you know, we're mostly water and you know there's these electrical pulses traveling up and down through our bodies understanding that there's elect there's electrical fields in the universe and that we're electrical beings and not just about that. Um you know maybe from a place of of godliness and and always with the focus. If it's scientific and physical, like there's some physical reality that this crystal is going to help me with. Right, he's made all of this and it all uh is much more complex and much uh I mean so don't we're not we're not being soft on that. Yeah, some people i they're into the crystals um for clearly uh from my pr point of view anyway, dark places, right? under cover of darkness so they don't know we're here. you know, crystals or, you know, so if if they can somehow kind of combine those two, right, feel a little bit spiritual and in James, you know, post resurrection, early church, you know, James says like uh if somebody's ill, a a good practice is for for the elders to come and pray and and anoint them That's that's where the problem is. going to God for your healing and for your you know and and again if his practice is medicine, there's nothing wrong with that. The person who's doing the smudging is to focus their energy and control their breathing in a particular way, and then they light the smudge stick with a candle. Yeah, and if you're thinking, well I'm just you know, I just want to do anything I can, I'm gonna throw everything including the kitchen sink and my smudge stick at the devil to keep them at bay, you have no biblical warrant to think that the devil's gonna be scared off by some sort of smudge incense in thing going on. Right. uh we don't we don't worship the creation, right? You know, these stars that are trillions and trillions of light years away. Indicate that they're doing that from a I mean I feel I feel better. The spiritual is real. You're supposed to kill the witches. Make the uh uh you know the the lot fall on the one that you've chosen. Because it it it has to do with sorcery and the good guys are doing sorcery. Uh let me let me s let me try to ask and get get some sort of response, right? Uh you know, um yeah, mind. So I'm not a hundred percent sh ironclad sure that the Bible says it's possible. very, very popular magicians on TV a lot. And these guys, you know, they do a lot of stuff that seems very dark to me and almost seems like it's connected to the occult, or at least we're trying to give the impression that it's connected If we're not joined to him through faith in Christ, then then there's a void and that will get filled with something that is anti God. Yes. showing you that he sees your pain your pain. It's not your duly. So if people are gonna view any of these personality tests as like keys, right? Yeah. uh as well. Uh there's uh there's one called what strengths finder, those popular. Right, he hasn't he hasn't made us all the same. And right, if if they can pursue, if they can get some sort of sense of spiritual fulfillment apart from God. And there was one time that we'll leave this on the stream too. Leave it alone. order and the the idea as as the practitioners teach, the you know the more religious ones, not the so-called Christian ones And the next stretch is going to stretch your groin, and that stretch is going to stretch your deltoids. But I'm not gonna do that. As a Christian, I would not walk around in public with a rainbow shirt. And then he exposes who we really are and the path that we're to be on and that sort of thing. Right, to to worship, right, or religious practice in mind. You know, when you're doing yoga. Um I mean I uh that's that's where you get into like what we'll talk about with Reiki, but the whole idea is Reiki is you know, there's a spiritual energy that you can get but the Uh they say uh energy healing is another new age philosophy. to listen to us uh hopefully on a weekly basis. He doesn't have a website, so I can't point you anywhere there. real truth to make a good lie. Now I did a little bit of homework because I you know uh this isn't something I'm spending all my time studying. or or some sort of airtime because of a newsmaker reason. We should be eating healthy oils. Uh maintain control of ourselves. The the the clothing that and the handkerchiefs that touch Peter and heal people. No. These little things they plant in the movie that capture those who are on the inside know. Right. And and again, the examples, few as they are in the Bible, are all general signs for a time or for a society or for the earth, not a specific direction for a specific And crystal boils and turtle cards, that sort of thing. Will be like it's something like twenty-five thousand years before the earth is in the exact position that it is again now. Right, yeah. Oh, definitely. Meaning you're in in adultery against God and he will cut you off. Yeah, and and and uh yeah, I did write down Harry Potter, so I think that's gonna be an interesting conversation uh for us to have as a group and hopefully the listener will will benefit from My theory is that those people were possessed um by the same spirit that now possesses this medium and that person would then carry some of those memories and they'd be able to share them because they know what the person was thinking a hundred years ago. Uh either we are with God or we are apart from him. Naughty. Like it has it has much and so they may attribute that to spirits. There are there are a lot of nuances to that, right? Right? And i it it just it's much more nuanced and and I think that it right uh again I I think if you start with God God has created us. And that all changed because I made a decision to change. with something other than God, with something that focuses on us, right? Right. You know, what are the things that God w you know and and they're spiritual gifts, right? And unfortunately, for the salesperson, the absolute jerks, sometimes the ones with the most money. Or they're giving themselves over to the ways of the world, the ungodly world, influences from culture, those sorts of things. I mean there's no But why call it yoga? You still meditate on God's word? Money and health, I guess. that are taught and practiced by people doing them as a a as part of a demon worshiping religion and they're telling you this is how we communicate with, you know, the the earth or the EMS for short. Yes, but Reiki by its very nature is is is in the in the devil's uh uh uh play field. But I'm I'm okay with uh giving it some consideration in order to parse out No. No. things out there that we don't understand. Astronomy. So I think there is something to certain suns and stars. I was going to say it might almost seem far more real than than the physical, but they're both real, so I don't want to say that one's not real in comparison to the other. The God. Among which is sorcery. Uh which is you know what what happens with like a maculous response, right? Garlic uh wards off uh uh you know um Dracula. Sure. Yes, I don't mean to insult anyone's seasoning preferences. It's it's made it into episode five a few times, yeah. I was totally But if you're not changing, you're not growing. Your person is your essence, but then there's also your ego. And related to the Reiki and the energy fields and all that sort of thing would be the crystals. Right. But there's a line where uh Joe Pesci and uh Marissa Tomei are in it and and he says something about what he's wearing, he's doing because he wants to blend in and she says Or snake oil? It has roots in the Native American culture. bundle, right? I'm open to it as a possibility, but I would again I'm a pretend I'm from Missouri and you gotta show me. Or laying out the fleece is another example of God speaks in a particular situation. Tom reading is what God has putting on your body as as your future and it's not divining, it's just reading what God has uh foretold by you. you know, from saying, okay, I'm gonna look at and see look at these inanimate things or these physical things and you know they communicate something to me versus It's the same demon. That's how I would explain that. And I mean it consumed um Houdini, right? Well because we do want to have some time to talk about the Enneagram next week. Twice. And and and also the different ways that we uh the different ways that people uh bear God's image, right? But in my personal life, I just I'm a very different person. There's a lot of it. Uh and that's true, right? Those tests don't work. Probably not. Okay, well maybe we'll balance each other out then. Yeah. Well we do child sacrifice here in in America. No. which which doctorate type of stuff. That was just for his and the same thing. believes when he goes into this trance that he's remembering past lives of himself is what he says. So far, we'll w I mean we'll see. Okay. There is no way to change that. Uh or maybe New Age E at least. You think? Right. Like evil and wicked. Dracula and some other people for that matter. Nodding his head along that it's been fun is Imron Razby. Anyway, so this has been a t two couple of shows back to back to back on this New Age stuff. Not our studio by the way. Well like the Apostle Paul writes in First Corinthians, right? Is there like a are you playing it? I my theory is and and with Samuel as you know, I think God was involved because there was a prophecy given to Saul at the time. Yeah, and so that I this this one makes me concerned. Did you find the Enneagram more helpful than the other ones? Yeah, Circle Imran's house. So I don't know if I mentioned Doreen Virtue. Yeah. Right when it when it comes to you know what uh what what what so things you know in yoga are associated with uh So I knew Imran was here for a reason. I you know, see uh on on ads all the time 'cause I'm a little bit overweight and concerned, so I would you know check out different exercises or different uh uh Not that I'm gonna buy them on machines I've bought enough that never work but I don't work 'em. Alright. But that doesn't mean necessarily, as we also talked about last time, that some of these specific stretches or some of the specific uh things uh wouldn't have health benefits and you might be thinking, you know, what kind of wacko are you? Yeah, I mean it's you know, i it's just it's dangerous to fall into a um you know the material the atheistic materialistic mindset and Um, but it's why are you using it? So maybe somebody wants to talk about uh some of the good biblical uses of oil. God made the creation and it serves his purposes. Naughty nice sometimes naughty. Well you seem to know it something about it. Another guy, uh Roman Catholic and he's an author, Christopher Hertz, he says that the anagram is much more than a personality tool, says it provides nine ways we can find our way back to God. That was when we had our most brilliant points. Because I think that is antithetical to the to the Christ's message and the Bible. So once you have start having other messages that make it a little bit more easy to understand it. And you know it's it's Should we stop talking to you? I think there's something scientific that might just like we were talking last week about yoga, there's something good about stretching. Yeah, I the the thing is, uh frequencies do make a difference. Alright, uh so good. So I I I think what's what's kinda interesting is is um so we're talking about you know, have been, we'll be talking about new age kind of stuff. Uh the the lady who is the was washing his feet, uh which we talked about a few weeks ago. And on her website she's got the A to Z list of new age practices to avoid and why. Is that a form of smudging? But but not every not every single there's no way. Uh the the the the belief and and many commentators hold this that the magi, the wise men in So you know how we wobble right and we spin and we rotate around the sun. Well apparently it got its name, the inventors of this game or this uh spirit board thing, or it's also called a talking board apparently. So a number of years ago, I was working on the sales team here at WFMD and Sister Station WFRE and And Imran Razby is here. Right. I didn't find it helpful like even a little bit and a little weird actually. You have VSC. I I think that that uh through through experience and discussion and you know certainly and and and the thing that I do like about the Enneagram is I think it one, it recognizes that we are spiritual beings. And just David Forcy now, do you think that Daniel Razzley takes things too far? Well you should always be meditating on God and His goodness. So it's yourself, the world, or or the evil spirits are it's it's one or all of those threes or a combination of of those. So I I I and that's that's sort of the other pitfall that I I see as something that we can fall into, which is to But if you're s if you're going after a whole area of study that has been known to be really uh s self praising and and and And uh now I I think I think part of what we learn from that is uh one, if anything good is going to happen it it ultimately Like that's how you sign that that's how you navigate, right? Yeah, he's checking it twice. The the different categories tend to think about the other categories in certain ways. And it's not that they don't have some I I know some of these people that are involved in the Reiki world. So there are signs in the stars. But if you ever go out in a place where you can actually see the night sky without all the light pollution, I mean it it it captures the imagination. The I think uh Orion is mentioned, right? Because we're warned against that in scripture. Also, I think, you know, considering the differences in every every one of us has different strengths and weaknesses. He's made us to bear his image. We're talking about all things new age. Yeah, and and to be honest, I mean, how many times are I coming out of the studio and it's I mean I notice it but I don't notice it. That's what makes it yoga. I I don't see how that would matter as long as I'm stretching all the major muscle groups from getting a good stretcher in, aren't I? That's not given as one of them. And along those lines, you know, God made it and crystals can be beautiful. Just exercise caution. So I'm curious about the the those FCC rules you were talking about for candidates. Yeah, that's right. No. Well, I think there is something to to again just like all these things we've been talking about, there is something that God created. The tape of the the stars whatever way uh uh they'll be in every position they could possibly be in. Look at the stars, see what they say. And so that's definitely let's say oftentimes what's happening. It will it will get filled with something evil. Um anyway, uh you give me a book and some resources to look at. But I think, okay, in that context, well it might be interesting. And the the idea behind a personality test is if you can try to broadly categorize people into different personalities, you know And that's good. Yeah, I'm going to jump in for a second. Now maybe she does now, because she was probably twenty-five, twenty-six at the time. Or they're jerks because they're testing you too. So I would agree with you, uh, Imran. Do you think society has negative influences on you? So so yeah, like uh I think the the religion of yoga is bad. We appreciate you taking the time to send part of a day with us here on News Radio 930 WFMD. So does he now have to get Biden on there? Well I I don't know if he would follow Con No. But Trump didn't do that. People kind of know what that is. Right? Alright. Um that's looking for some sort of answer, some sort of spiritual insight that's outside of God. Then then that's how you're then that's how you're going to be able to do that. I'm trying to remember all the things I remember from twenty years ago. So is it what would you say about the idea of uh of doing those stretches in in that order So I think there's something to that. You're gonna tell me I can't do that nowadays, no. I mean it chases away fleas and chicks and things. There's no oh well it's not I think it's not religious at all. So the the this enagram or enneagram, um is it harmless? I mean the one that I was exposed to twenty years ago, it was holy cow, lots of questions. That's my concern is I feel like we're we're really weakening the sufficiency of Scripture. It's crazy. Because I I you know I I think that it progresses in you know it's sort sort of like if you're gonna do some kind of So my caution would be I wouldn't study Reiki and I wouldn't want Reiki to be around, but studying frequencies and and other things For example, talking to the dead. So there's a lot of oils used for purifying and I think it's not just just health but also spiritually in the Bible. I'll cut him off from his people. It's always disconcerting when you're talking and you can't hear yourself. I would say not. If you're doing it any of these things as a group, what do the other people think that you're doing? No. And I I don't know, maybe I'm in the same minority camp with Daniel, but um I think there is some Yeah. Sounds like a character. So you you're basically you're you're lighting the sagebrush on fire, creating like an incense of smoke, and you walk through the house That was good, right? In fact, there could be something inherently good about it, possibly. What are you doing? Uh you know, and and that was one of the prescribed uh ways. Oh, let's just have a laugh. The demon didn't die, he's still there. Art, you know, Rembrandt art, can you consume uh or Van Gogh, can you look at these things? And if you dig deep enough you'll see, oh, this is connected to Roman Catholicism. I mean a while you're always trying to find ways to be a better salesperson, right? So like we need to hire that person, don't hire that person. So let's just set that record straight. There's a lot of things that we may have to do. The reason that c that caught my attention is I saw somebody locally talking about it on social media and you should have So I think the stars have a place in there. But the fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace. But the point is there is something that is actually possible to do to talk to spirits or talk to whether you talk to literally dead people or you're just talking to spirits that are claiming to What's what we both Chris Angel? You have no reason, based on the the God who has revealed himself to us, to believe that that's a duly departed love for you. Right. You're asking me really hard questions I don't know answers to. But to be honest, I did her a favor because she was gonna fail. I want to ask a question that people who know about this might know the answer to, and we'll see if you do. Daniel's look at him. com, go to the Faith Debate page, or just go to Householdthefaith in Christ. Right, yeah, yeah. He's just not gonna find it. He's the one who did it, who made it happen. Throw a few over there. Well and I I I don't know that the you know I I think the the demons well uh you know So it's not even Christian, not even a biblical worldview, and they're and they're being honest in a front of that. Yeah, we want to get all of our faith commitments and these sorts of things from Scripture. Like that's our n our sinful tendency, right, is to to try and to try and fill that space Noreen Virtue says there's no such thing as Christian yoga. If you're a Christian, don't touch it. It's it's a very insidious subculture in in my experience anyway. Kind of like the evil the evil eye that people uh carry and and wear, you know, that would be a uh an example I think of Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. Where do they get this from? I mean that's good now. So this is serious stuff and people oh it's just it's you I've been have you been in situations where you're like at a party or some sort of a carnival thing or whatever and they oh wouldn't it be fun to have So like it's it's it's good to uh to to think about who we are, to think about who other people are, who God has made them If if this is a code to open the doors of hell and let a demon in, yeah, you can spell out let's say you spell out hell and that I was like, we've got a new age emerging new age culture happening right here in Frederick. Anything minority based is not good, so you know, even the aspects of of mutilating and killing uh people that question is If you're listening here, we don't own a studio. I mean, I don't know how oil helps you through psychic vibrations, but apparently it does. There's lots of good oils. So sure in that sense, but I I don't I don't think that you can use it to uh um cleanse your house of evil spirits. And that something that was special enough that all these very highly trained astronomers from uh h hundreds of thousands of miles away came and traveled to see and say, hey look this star we see Right? This is like 20 years ago, so I don't know if it's if it was new-ish at the time as far as popularity. Because about 20 years ago I started the Faith Debate Show, as it turns out. I mean that's Do you do you have like a definition you can read or something? They're somehow connected with the uh the the uh nine personality types are uh are are uh connected somehow with nine divine forms of Plato If there's a major one out there, I've probably done it. Yeah, that's the voice of Imran Razby. We if it was amber or some other um crystal that uh helps babies you know calm their stomachs and stuff, we use it and it works and How should you cleanse your house? Shirt and they won. God will overlook it. Yeah, there was a I can't I'm throwing a blank on his name. Then you get uh Penn and Teller, some of the most famous one of the another duo is very famous, and they have a whole show called Exposed For Us. But yeah, we're doing the enig enneagram next. He was my own. But the Enneagram is has such a spiritual rootedness that I I'm very nervous about suggesting it's okay. Oh yeah, and and yeah, all sorts of things. I uh you know clearly there are there are sinful actions, right, that uh that that are not good. But I'm concerned about the churches. Um acupuncture. It says energy healing, which Reiki is a form of, energy quote unquote healing. Well there's plenty of pagan countries that also have altars and they also kill goats and on the altar. Anybody have anything that they really wanted to say on this episode they feel like to get off their chest and not save it for next week's episode? What if she was if it was her, right? And they're chasing vapor because a lot of what they're chasing is I'm going to live forever, I'm going to be young forever, gonna be beautiful ever, be healthy forever. Yeah and apparently people are using essential oils. Now why why should they? Not oh the the country or the culture or or or the earth in general is gonna go into a period of tribulation soon or or famine because of something. That's the risk with doing shows like this. I don't remember which, but he he mentioned both of them in the in the conversation. In fact, one of them scored so high, she got the highest score that anybody had ever gotten on that profile test, ever. But now that I'm you're mentioning it, I was like, wow, yeah, there's there's a there's like a crystal thing over in the corner, and there's some candles over here, and there's like this So we're not talking about all of that right now. I ask that innocently, my guess is to be honest, is no. I introduced him. So right before Daniel jumped in, um David has something you want to say, but Imran's jumping in too. I think that's a very different thing than you looking at whatever stars above today has an impact on what you should eat for breakfast. That can't be true because we're evolving progressively forward. I think that the um the so that like any given night sky, like so where we are in our uh no, maybe it's just the the earth's position around And he was this really skinny guy and he wore these tight fitting shirts that made his him look even skinnier, like he looked almost unhealthy skinny. I'm Troy Skinner. So the other thing I was gonna mention 'cause you talked about garlic before and and Torres say here wear garlic and and you know and you're like, Well meet your wife won't well be near you now and I I thought that was Yes. And I stopped. We gotta weigh. What's the Bible say about energy healing? But unlike the the what typically passes for multi-campus where it's one pastor it just means we take terms hosting. I need uh I I w I would just say a lot of these things it takes truth to make a good lie. We got a lot of things we're trying to get to. So I would say Trump is likely to follow the Constitution while Biden is on. If ever I was gonna vote for, I would not vote for after that comment. You blend. Um this is but this is talking about, you know, people using oils essential oils. I mean there's this the passage Jesus was talking about. But people often get really offended and they're like, well, I mean I'm just watching it to have a good time and a and a laugh. That's what I say. Um and you wanted to talk about the poses, you wanted to talk about some of the things that people in yoga say and that they're bad. Um but outside of that, right, just uh Or you know, or is there you know, more instruction there? Like when people come to your home and they see a bunch of crystals as decor, are you sending a message that you're into all the new way spirituality kind of Uh I I think that's important. com. Yes. You know, and is so is that is that because there are, you know, were some m kind of medical benefits to the oil there or and that's that's I think is an interesting question too is because I think I think sometimes Astronomy is different than astrology. I I'm perfectly willing to believe that God may actually put those types of uh answers in the source. There's a new age phrase for you. We w nobody would want to sacrifice or fire. So when I wash my hands, my hands smell like this. And providing the means of salvation, which is self-discovery. Are you clairvoyant? And they had this corporate dictate across the country that you weren't allowed to hire anybody unless they scored a particular level of score. She said, holy cow, you're really hard on her. Uh just just going into a stretch for an exercise purpose independent of a whole bunch of specific order, I think that that's that's a different Even though we know as Christians that the rainbow is invented by God and it's specifically to tell to teach a message about this. Well it doesn't mean you can't you're prohibited from using the w the letters H E L L in a different way, right? But d do be careful that, you know, just because it exists and it's possible within nature that God created doesn't mean that there could ever be a godly reason for it. If you smudge, you are guilty of cultural appropriation. And if he tells us, here's what you should you should do, okay. The devil's not going to 100% accurately predict the future. I don't know if you've heard his voice just yet this week. I don't want to say this. I'll think that one. But it's got a lot of Freudianism in it too, if I remember correctly. You start talking to them about what the God of the Bible is as they understand it. The breastplate of the high priest uh for example, right? There's all sorts of stuff going on, lots of disruption, and this is this is news. There's nothing in the house. No, you know, we're gonna try to fool you. Well that's an interesting take. Undisclosed, yeah. I've been doing a lot of the I I I have notes, so I can refer to them. So it's this is kind of an amalgam of a lot of New Age stuff all coming out as a personality profile test. I will say, in in fairness to David, because I'm going to push him back on it. Sometimes you gotta be willing to take those body blows and come back for more and just the it's like a war of attrition sometimes. That's your problem, Enron. There you'll find links to the faith debate. Um there's there there's certain uh plants, um hyssop for example in the Bible is talked about as th this is a very healthy plant for for cleanliness and and for Satan is using it to corrupt everything. What does it say about crystal balls and tarot cards? And uh you know, along with murderers and rapists and ad adulterers and so on. I was for the anex. Imran and and uh Daniel, they co-pastor a church called that church that meets at Imran's house. It puts people in a box artificially. So uh to David's point is there's a lot of tools out there. I'm sure Skinner, find us online at Household of Faith in Christ. There was one time when there was a young lady she came in and you know, she had the potential. My mom will always listen. I've also heard though that it translates as union of the idea of the of being yoked in union with the infinite Brahman. Right. Yeah we independent of anybody listen to the podcast or the radio, we also do a video stream and uh Daniel's got eagle eyes for noticing when there's a problem with the video stream and so he was he was drawing my attention to it You know, doing a s uh a a stretch, you know, somebody might say, Oh, I'm doing the downward dog. Rake up the leaves. And they you know their data somehow disappears, they somehow disappear or commit suicide after that. You should dedicate the house to God, dedicate each room to God. com and odyssey. The guy laughing a second ago was David Forcey. And so you know, so they are interested in kind of spiritual things and you know, and they worship the idol of health and so why not, you know, things like yoga or That'll be Christmas in April or two things real quick. Oh anyway, and uh I'm the pastor of a church Household of Faith in Christ. I've copied and pasted somebody else's, but I think they do a nice job. What was helpful about it? That's David Forcey. This is not biblical. It looks like we are rolling some technical issues uh today within the uh Facebook world. Holy cow And it's it's a new age new Holy Cow. And and also there's so much baggage with that word. And if you can navigate that in your world and your context, it might be okay, but be careful. We're not opposed to that. Uh well first of all he would gladly probably put Nik Nikki Haley on the show too, so he wouldn't have a problem fulfilling the equal time. Yeah, and there's healthy oils in those foods, right? I mean I've always been rather skeptical of hypnotism myself, but I mean some people claim that they've been hypnotized. This this New Age well it's funny, it's it's it's lumped in with new age teachings, but it's really old age. I I think another another element in all this too is um the idea that uh How do they build those things? Welcome to Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. So I want to pivot into that and maybe we'll also then broaden it out to just clairvoyance in general, you know, ESP mind reading. He wasn't claiming to have magical powers. And here's the thing that really I I think is ear-catching. I'm always gonna be this way, so I might as well learn to live with it. Daniel Razby also on the panel again this week. Maybe we'll end up talking about that during this episode some more. Like there's so and and you know and I'm so I'm I'm skeptical of anything new that I don't know about. I don't know. And and when he I don't know if he does I don't listen to him anymore, but I know he used to get aggravated with callers on occasion. Shh, don't tell anyone. Smudging, what is that? A little beyond where I'm with willing to go. So sorcery is ungodly. Let's just pretend to have committed adultery. But the is the in in general, when you're talking to the So I think if there's any value in any of these things, I think that their only value is giving you a snapshot of where you are right then. Yes. Good morning. And it's a nice house, big house. Th there's there's a couple um like like I see a couple things to avoid in all this. People go practice hypnotism hypnotism and and a lot of people don't even see any spiritual connection at all. Uh it was a ceremony they did. Is is this is this something that they can point to a Bible verse that this is doing something or not? I mean it it's like uh and uh how the uh uh ebonics or whatever the the They're gonna win. And it pointed to the the uh the O U I J A. This is where it would begin the this episode is the one where that might be. Like he's made us different from one another for a reason. I said, Nah, I'm not gonna do it. Is that different? Rather than and so and I and I think taking time to pause Does it make sense or not? No, I've got plenty of stuff to say. But if you want to get in touch with David, you come to my website, household the faith in Christ dot com. It's it's who you're doing it to. Yeah, he is a character. Expensive oil. You know. That's now and and all the movies and stuff. Um if you call yourself a Christian, then the Bible should direct I mean even if you don't call yourself a Christian, the Bible should direct your life. And the complexity of what he created is mu a bug of the mind. We're warned against worshiping knowledge. David Forresty, uh, thank you for being on the show. She was a big-time new age guru type of person, very successful, made her mark in that world, was invited And uh you know, in large part that's that's where it was, you know, what what it was all birthed out of uh you know is is So I I don't know. He's also a pastor. You know, uh think and pray specifically about anything you do. Stop it. We know there was a sign in the stars when Jesus was was born. Detroit, what about Urim and Thumim and the casting lots? There is a demonic. How should we understand what was going on? And all it says, whoever does these things is detestable to Yahweh. What what started the yes it will uh not evil spirits, right? Um so so one, I think anytime any time we're looking at anything, learning anything new, finding out anything that is you know helpful I'm just I'm not where you are on on the I mean I you know, I think it's like a uh maybe the five love languages in in particular is more like um But Hello Facebook. She she she decided that she wasn't going to try to close the sale. You know, they're listening, they've they've been doing yoga for years, and I don't do it religious and whatever, and it's not demonic, blah, blah, blah. Well I I can I I can either give glory to God when I eat good food or I can give glory to myself. And in in future shows we're also going to be talking about horoscopes, you know, astrology and that sort of thing. Uh in fact we see oils and different things I think in the studio when we come in here oftentimes, right? He's anointing his dinner night. My mom's swear if I am oil. You can find them online at conquerbylove. Now this is he's talking to his people. Yeah apparently Ouija for for the uninitiated and I I hope you are and I hope we're not And onions. You know, or you know, those silver arrows in your throat you you just don't be superstitious, do you know? I mean it's like every three years. So I would I so you can agree with David? And I don't know that just because there's could be a resemblance between XYZ stretch in gym That was the reason. And I think there's, you know, it's a wisdom question. Reiki, the popular version of this energy healing technique, is said to have been developed by a Buddhist monk Honestly. Like meaning you don't blend at all. These days in the culture, everything's done by min minorities seems to be upheld in a in a higher value. Because there is teaching in the Bible that says specifically do not use divination. You know, shuff shuffle these cards. Like it like the way to play quote unquote play the Ouija boat would be to And the same demon can possess multiple people. Thanks so much for listening. Okay. It's fantastic. So it's become part of my Midwestern vernacular, right? Well it's interesting in in law school one of the cases that we had to argue for like mock trial, it was really an appeals uh process, um was that Oh yoga, that sells like half cakes. Right. That'll be the the last word on this week's show and I can see that the guys are looking at me so they might have more to say in response to that. Look at him. So last week we were talking about yoga and our entree into New Age spiritualism And if they're used the you know in a scientific kind of a way, I don't have a problem with crystals, which is related to the Reiki power or the energy fields, all that sort of thing. Well it's not doesn't say it's not possible. Do you put oil in your beard, David? And then that's the problem with opening your mind so that things can come in. Did I surprise you with my uh signs and the stars, Troy? Anyone who does these things is on shaky ground. And I think this is sort of where you're going from uh from then uh But but what we're not saying is that you should not have anything to do with people that are not of God and you should not ever uh Some people really know how to answer questions a bit. Right. Right, right, yeah, exactly. And I will say this. Reiki up the leaves. Yeah, I think there's actually some scientific evidence out there. Maybe your wife. Well no I I I I think I think you can use uh you could use sort of kind of curing though as as sort of like a sanitation disinfecting, right? And it's it's a form of divination and divination is clearly prohibited. So I actually I would go a little farther than you, Troy. There's there's fewer and fewer of them. I mean, i is it is it wrong to go to an illusionist show or a magician show. And I I i it pains me to have to bring this kind of truth to you, but I'm not saying that you're not seeing and noticing things that are actually happening. My concern is there's so many bones and the risk of choking on one of those bones, I They want to see what you're made of. And I'm the pastor of a church called Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ Right. Like it if it struggles if it if it really twinges my conscience, then I'm gonna maybe not be kind of and a and a testimony issue, right? Look, meditation's good, but what are you meditating on? Like that they're the material things that God has made and maybe maybe they you know And uh on Troy Skinner, my church is household. In fact maybe all oils are good. Except when Joe Biden speaks. We go up to Wisconsin, there's nothing out there but farmland. What else do we have to cover, Troy? The uh the witch or whatever. He said David Wayne. But you can't trust it. Well so I did this big fool phenangle thing years ago and I just found it I mean, we read some of these guys, uh Roman Catholic Friar Richard Rohr says the Enneagram is concerned with change and making a turnaround, what the religious traditions call conversion or repentance I didn't like my life, uh changed. So this might be one of the more popular streams and popular series of shows that we do because it's all the rage, right? Many people don't even think of it as religious. So I think it comes down to it's all open to us, but is it going to disrupt other people's um walk with God? She her health actually improves quite a bit. Uh but if you're wearing one around your neck as a talisman of some sort, right? Whatever you do, do it for the glory of God, right? Yeah. I'm not arguing against I'm just not sure I'm ready to embrace that idea. It's just a fun game. Do we do we just make that up? Interpret omens, engage in witchcraft, cast spells. So I think sometimes it's it's spiritual and sometimes it's not. Tell people the good news. That's our our plan for next week. So um uh the the thing that I have that I found helpful about it is uh I don't know. It doesn't have to be a bad thing, but it's how is this use prescribed in the Bible? I think maybe we'll even have time to talk about like magic eight balls and other aspects of esoteric psychology. You know, be self-controlled. Put the spudge sticks away. Look, in today's world, I'm gonna sound like a clown saying this, but I'm not gonna say a clown to people in the room I know, but a lot of people who would hear what I'm gonna say will think, well, that guy's a clown But the the the usual excuse that I get is, oh well I mean I mean it's just a game, it's just entertainment And let's remember the devil knows a lot of stuff because he's been around for a long, long, long, long time. But it just gave me an uneasy feeling. He was just looking at your at your open hand over there. Are you a connector? The defenders of CRT is with an analytical tool. So my s my personality profile will be very different thirty years ago than it would be today. I'm very scatter shot, but I'm sure yeah I'm sure there's a lot of uh and and it uh it all depends on who is um So I I decided on a dime in the middle of the interview I just turned. I think you're being unfair. Stay away. Think of it, you know, maybe this way. Is that also worshipping humans and I don't know anything? It's not in itself a religion, but is said to be a pathway to one's own spirituality. God created everything on this earth. You don't know who Mark of Ben is? So now you can go bring seven other demons with him, right? Yeah, high tech contemporary smudging. In the in the uh in the deep sea, we're finding creatures that are some of the most beautiful creatures ever. You're being you're being unfaithful and you should return. Anyway, it it goes way, way back uh in i in time, but then it became uh introduced to the West back in the uh like early part of the You found the Enneagram helpful? Welcome to the Faith Debate. So and and and the question might come up, you know, if you if you watch a video of somebody doing a whole bunch of yoga poses, you or see And that's not what Christians should be doing. And does it bring glory to God or to self? Very intimidating to the other team. Somebody tell me why. So if it's not God, then it is demonic. Because there there is something of a distinction between say, you know, I I would say right between saying, all right, let me let me look at my poem Deeper in their bunker in various spots in and around Frederick County. And so taking that into consideration, that that also helps us to say, okay, you know what what are my strengths and weaknesses? Um I'm Troy Skinner. I mean I was no I'm agreeing with that. We're talking about yoga. So I I think I think at some level probably it is. I just recently heard a little bit about that. That's that's the thing. And if you're trying to, if there's some sort of magic in the crystal, this crystal is going to heal me. You should cleanse your house. com, but you can link to those places through our website, household to faith in Christ. They bring you to a place of recognizing God's majesty, his power. Just because it it's i a a gain to you doesn't mean it's it it's a gain to the devil. And so even if they haven't possessed people, they've they've seen what Great great magician, one of the great m magicians of all time. I thought it would as you were talking, I was hoping his name company is now. They do. A number of times. And we're interview people and uh and the way we did it back then is we did team hiring, so two of us would do the interviewing and we would compare notes and make a decision Why? Okay. Imran's gonna take us back to the Bible. But that doesn't have to do with Reiki. It's certainly possible to do and I know we're going to get to that maybe in the couple weeks, but No, you can't. Okay. Oh you're talking about just like in other states where they're having primaries like right now. He's a smart guy. So this is uh apparently there's like kind of like with yoga and these other things, or these practices that get connected to it. com. There could be alien things in them. Here's what it says in Deuteronomy eighteen. But he was always very specific. Some pastor that was preaching against it was use pronouncing it that way. Sure, right. I would I I I I want to throw out like a caution flag a little bit. They made an interesting impression, but no, I don't think so. And then she wilted bad. And uh what is this thing here called? Look at that face. They have a multi-location, multi-campus, home house church. And like and like last last week when we were talking about yoga, like if if you pursue yoga in its true, pure form, original Wfmd. This has been smudge, stay away, evil spirits. Well we have more to say about that. It's not like you're making a movie about an evil sorcerer that the good guys kill, right? But I think anything we would say about poem reading we'd also say about crystal balls, we'd also say about tarot cards, we would also say about Ouija boards, all those sorts of I'm not sure I I'm not sure I agree, but maybe we'll pick it up on next week's show or we'll talk about it between this week and next week's show Find us online at WFMD. And I I broke to my wife that I would love if you work perfume of of of garlic and onions. Or a Gallup thing or whatever. Uh there are a lot of different aspects to God's image. I mean that's you're dead. So I I guess my my question is where um I mean, unless you're blind, you would have to agree with that. There's been some interesting um research in the area of electromagnetic fields recently by some very uh reputable uh organization Yeah, that's weird. Find him online at concordbylove. That's a new one for me. This is the Faith of Eight on News Radio 930 WFMD. We just record here. And I and I couldn't put my finger on it. Well and and just to just to tie into something else that we've said about all these things, which is uh right like How is it actually bring that up in this context actually reading my mind? There are a lot of ways that you uh like you you know They can take they can take in a lot of folks, so if you're interested, they got room for you, I'm sure. So it's it's kinda like i if that is your opinion on the yoga thing, if you're not really convinced that it's necessarily demonic, especially if you're not praying at you know to I don't need God. You say historically he's always followed the Constitution. So I have to wear that w unclean shirt with lots of holes in it every week. But you go out where you can really see. And so you wouldn't say, oh, the stars said this. They they believe there is nothing to spiritual and they think it's it's uh hoodwings people and they they'd rather people believe in atheism. Well I wonder if there is some physical property of garlic that is you know uh unappealing to demonic spirits. That would be my concern. You know, that's my true nature. Where we're worshiping us. I said, 'cause I was thinking about hiring her. Right. Um you're gonna hear in a second here either David or Daniel. So the even if you take away the demonic spiritual part, you're like, oh okay, I don't even believe there's a devil for crying out loud. And oh my church does yoga stuff all the time. Nobody else has time to talk. You'll find a pastor's blog. Uh and then and then two, you know, in a in a culture that has in a lot of ways moved so And I wonder if they did it for those reasons and then attached some sort of spiritual like they were getting rid of bed bugs and other kinds of things in their in their house. Now the the the now the challenge here with with this sort of thing, like with all of these issues, like we've we've said it's probably at least a third time now in several weeks, at shows worth anyway, that we've Till next next week, get the marcos out of my mouth, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now. Uh anybody wanna jump in with their thoughts? No, no. I have to be careful not to go out to to a a meeting after doing that, but it's I I I enjoy it. Uh right. What kind of metal do you have? And I I I do believe there is such a thing as a haunted house and I I I We just call it something else. I just don't get a kick out of that. Yeah, it's like he said tin man putting some oil in the joints or something. Yeah, so don't do that. And now we're gonna cast lots and that's how they they got their answer. Well, that's a but, right? And I want to say, you know, if if you've had an experience where you feel like, Wow, there's no way that person could have known that It was something totally unrelated to his business, but he was trying to pitch me on this It has nine points intersecting lines. Uh it go it goes deeper for Neagram. If I hired if we had hired her, she would not have survived. Okay. Um so next week let's I'm just trying to see my notes. And there's nothing inherently wrong with burning some incense. Uh but the the point is, you know, that No, it's it's either godly or it's antichrist. So if you are consulting mediums and spiritists, you are prostituting them I said David Blaine's what I was thinking of, but maybe Chris Angel's another one. He's saying, uh I don't respect people. Yeah, because we're good at this and so if we can catch you, yeah, you know we know how this stuff is done. And the other thing you can't trust, and this one's gonna hit right in the heart for some people I know And checking his list over there is Imran. I feel like there is some truth in what you're saying, but I would feel like I would apply that to the more generic Gallup personality. The strength finder is is is popular a number of years ago. I don't understand where this is going, what does it lead to? And she converted and she's now a Christian and she is one of the most prominent voices against all things new age that you're gonna find on the internet these days. If they are they're they they can worship themselves and their own health and Maybe there's even something scientific that what do I know? And ultimately the bill comes from him from from from the cardiologist, but you need to give God the glory for anything And if not if not sure, seek counsel. I guess we've the four C church. You know, if if I if if the spirit goes out of a man and then, you know, he the he returns later and finds the house uh So here's what Dorian Virtue, Dorian Virtue is the person I mentioned a few weeks ago. Well God command you to burn incense in your temple. Maybe God did put the constellations there in a particular way to capture the imagination and and to be able to point to The bear or something I think is mentioned. It doesn't mean we're simply laying out fleeces every day. Let's just, you know, sleep around you know it's not really doing it, we're just coming really close, you know, maybe pornography, or maybe that that'd be a good thing to do. Right. It's usually somewhere in the middle of episode five where it'll it'll start to g tell me my battery's gonna be dead. Even then. Are you like you know what are you? I couldn't well I could do a different version. I I I'm not an even fan of that one. Hello, Rumble. Yes. On their website they advertise, they have their holy yoga, a Christian yoga class on Thursdays kind of thing. Yeah that there's the arborist for ya. Probably we will. The frequencies are definitely what we're made up. Uh but there may be all kinds of different Let's come back to the body. Daniel looking at me like, we're talking about what? Uh but it's spelled O U I J A. Howdy. And to be honest, so are we. Now that's supposedly based on some sort of Christian idea and biblical model. Hm. And and she was uh cle uh you know, anointing his feet and and I I guess cleaning Did I did I make that up? People do that with their sports, right? I I understand doing sorcery would be bad, so I'm not doing it. But stores that sell toys you can buy a Wheezy Porsche. Well there's a rebuke. I love the smell of uh And I wonder if see I wonder where if if some of those things didn't actually start in a in a real place at some point. That's that's how people get led down paths away from God is by being given true real bait. No no no no no no no I I disagree with you. I said, but the guy is a Christian. Anyway, uh wanna thank you all for putting up with uh my nonsense every week on this show for twenty years if you can believe it. Well I I so I just I wonder where uh like where you would draw the line. Um and so but I I wouldn't recommend doing d doing the the stretches that are Maybe I would with a shirt that had explanations, say, see the w God invented the rainbow. Uh you know, and but I I think as as time you know as as as time unfolds we uh I don't know all the ins and outs, all these new age things. So um but some people use them almost almost looks like they're making a potion. But that's the only reason I use them. I don't know. And unless you're specifically inviting God in to your house Supposedly there's no there's no uh um verse given that is a prophecy saying you're gonna see this in the start. I think you can certainly be carried out. If we if we if we knew that we'd know how much longer there was. There is a spiritual reality. He was he would think uh I'm gonna I'm going to trick you now. I'm Troy Skinner. Um But I mean three, but you you actually like filled out all the the questionnaire and and did the other thing. And it's talking about who what your ego is. We were t chatting before the the recording here and we noticed that even in this studio, which is not our studio, we're borrowing it uh from You're going to have, you know, some sort of pagan game night on Tuesday nights? You know, everybody is religious all the time. Yeah. I wouldn't I wouldn't go for that. We're not inside of the win the political window. Yeah, yeah. We don't say that the creation has power. Yeah. I I wouldn't think it would matter, but maybe somebody who knows about how the body would be. I don't need God's word. There's been several cases of people uh finding and showing uh that frequencies And maybe that's okay, but this was a point that David Forcey brought up last week is Mr. Eternity is unlimited, right? You won't have to worry about that because Christ is coming back sooner than that. All right. And here's the con you know we have a mixed audience listening to this show, I know, so not everybody's a Bible believer or Christian. So if this is just a tool used to identify what your personality is You know, she's probably, you know, forty now. Well, I have like no volume on my headphones at all today. I think the record we might have record we've recorded at least three weeks in a row. It's bad. That's not what anybody should be doing. Why would you what's the point of even using that word? I'm not yeah, we well we can pick up on next week's show. Crystals are are okay in the sense that they are uh com. Yeah. So hopefully we all agree with that. Right. You're going to be hearing from Daniel in a second because he's like he's got a look on his face. Yeah, but I was totally like introverted and you know nose in a book all the time and very awkward. Two, it it recognized like it it talks about us in terms of uh But there's like 15-20%. Okay, so he doesn't like that. Okay, this is because it's called yoga. David it looks like uh Imran is pulling out a Bible Bible verse or something. According to Dot Questions, it's a pretty good website, by the way. Do it to to God and in the way manner and way prescribed by God, that's you know I I I I think he's Jewish by background, not necessarily practicing. I don't even care about Trump. Uh no. Some of them may be poisonous. So if you But Dan, what do you say to those people that said, hey, the things that Paul used or Peter used and people you know took those and the healed from that Right? But there is a lot of other methods of div divination that are not from God. Go go find go find ten or a hundred palm readers. But I was gonna I was gonna say, well, that's possible, but let's see if we can find it. This is the Faithmate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Freud Skinner joined this week by Imran Razvi. Right? I don't think that's an issue necessarily. He's ready to go. com. Eva even though you you're you're still based on frequencies Cleans, quick and span. Okay. It's like you can you you're not going to stop covering the news because you don't want to worry about the politics thing. What you know if you're not doing this sort of thing, how would you know? You can't even count them all. Maybe it was for us to cure cancer and we didn't have it yet. We we gain, we don't lose. So if you count yourself among his people, you are a child of God, you're a follower of Jesus. So but so yeah, but that is the transition. Once discovering their true self by means of the Enneagram, So I thought, hey, that sounds interesting. So if I had somebody in my congregation that was, you know, interested in taking a quote unquote yoga class, uh I'd have a conversation, share with them my concern. But the the special positions of the hands, uh and you're not actually touching the body, you're trying to funnel Clearly it's possible, but you're commanded not to do it, right? We should have done this topic a long time ago. Okay? Although I gotta say, you know, somebody who's more quote unquote liberal minded, more on the left, they're not going to agree with all the spiritual biblical stuff we're saying. Open up your Bible. But uh if you're a fan of the movie and but hey, they put that because that was in the other movie and they you know, these little these little plants I think other times it's not necessarily that. Now it might have a pretty good batting average on guessing what the future might be based on That's David. Yeah. Now I'm sure I'd find it even more weird. So I think if the an anneagram or whatever it is, and I don't know m enough about it, but if it's used to identify different things that that you Like that God gives to people in his church. com and WFMD. Like is there a benefit to doing one stretch Because because they were uh opening themselves up to that like hypnosis, yeah. If you're really concerned that there's a demonic issue or presence there. But he set the stage for us because next week we're going to be transitioning into oil blends and smudging and that kind of relates to some of the stuff that Daniel was just mentioning That's a that's a straight ticket to hell right there, buddy. FaithBate has a page there and you can see what shows are coming up in the near future and connect with past shows pretty easily that way. And we're grateful and glad for it. But as far as it being some sort of mass magical, mystical way of chasing away evil spirits Well the the Bible says in Genesis that God made the stars for signs and for seasons and for Galatians. It is not a fruit of the spirit. And so if if God is not uh in us First you know, uh are you uh are uh you know, w what are the personality profiles for is it gallop they have your um I've I've been doing that and sales. Just like I wouldn't say, yeah, I go and get the free food at this temple because it's free and and can sacrifice to the idols. If could you should you as a Christian walk around in public wearing a shirt that has no words on it but it just has a picture of the rainbow? Possibly. You can connect to the Faith Debate and everything else that we're involved with pretty much through there, HouseholdThefaith in Christ. Even though there might be something the electrical magnet magnetic uh magnetic field thing, like there might be some value to earthing I think I'm kind of on board with that. I guess we can never know anything for sure, right? My my father in law likes to joke about he puts a lot of oil olive oil in his food and stuff. Uh you know, there's you know, we the Bible God calls us to, you know So s there is something to signs in the sky about w and it and it talks in Revelation about, you know, people seeing s uh Uh I don't know. It's all it's all fake. And you know, that he is he has compassion on you and And so here we are, twenty years later, I finally have the courage Ohneagram. So what what did you find out about your true self? Is that the one that has the the uh the shapes Being a good sport by my uh my ribbing, uh bones, ribs. And if you can win their respect, they're they're like teddy bears the rest of your relationship with them. Their church is called the House that meets at Imran's, or Imran's house maybe. They say, oh it's just stretching. I uh it the more I've researched about yoga, the more it seems that yoga specifically does It's gonna be the Daniel show now. You can use it for evil and God can use it for good. Right? Particularly if you're a Christian, don't do that. Let's uh start our next one here. But anyway, the the people who invented this game, they decided to quote unquote play the board or put their hands on the little pointer that's part of the thing. I think that's what uh what is I met a Medicai once who is a act active practitioner of the Norse religion and worked in the So uh saying nice is David Forcy. A nice summary, Troy? That that is uh that that sort of is is like making the making that thing more important than And then about five, six years ago, something like that, she uh she always kind of Yoga, according to what uh Doreen Virtue tells me, the the word yoga she says means yoke. It's evil. Well what if I decide to stretch my deltoids first and then my groin and then my hamstrings? So in my in my mind I'm I am not comfortable telling people or letting people know that I didn't share You can find them online at ConcordbyLove. Reiki is more the z in my understanding of it is more She's grounded to the ground and she goes and lies down on the grass So having crystal decor. You'll find links to our decorating date night episodes. He's for sure. That that's that's called sleep. Uh but we can transition to our next topic. I I I When was this try? This is connected to Buddhism, Islam, Taoism. If you knew me 30 years ago, you wouldn't recognize me. And not just modern psychology, but also esoteric esoteric psychology if that's a term So there's such a thing as a polyeneogram. It did go down to the how long was that up, did you notice? That's uh Daniel Razby, the fundamentalist Christian over there. I don't know. Uh where is it? I mean those are those are all I think along the same lines, right? Right. I think it's a little bit different for personalities Every seminar you go to everything if you want to do. And some of them I've done because you work for different companies or different So if you're viewing it through the lens of modern psychology. Anyway, so leave comments if you like and we'll get to them later. And I would say that, you know, if somebody is sinning a uh That's a big part of why people uh put some confidence in the crystals. There's different levels of becoming a Reiki master. And so h his point was that God is the one doing heal he's gonna help and do all the things that you know in his power to Till next week, 167. We call it abortion. Well they noted uh Jesus with oil. com and Household of Faith in Christ dot com. I was in fact that was my point is we're changing. I need to have a new nature by being born again. And it was talking about like you know, there's a difference between your like you I don't need his truth. And and people with their guard down and they don't recognize the seriousness of the wisdom question that's at issue here. Should we pause? Also commenting a little bit, you can hear my just barely on the mic, I think, was Daniel Rasby. Okay, you were probably in control and just wanted to act out and have the excuse of I don't I I just I don't I've never But I wonder if that's part of the like a lot of the things we've talked about in these last few weeks, maybe there is some practical reality, real-world benefit to Twelve Revelation twelve about that. org and David Forcy. And he he r uh really um uh uh And if you're attributing sickness to evil spirits, then there you go. You can find me online at WFMD. What's known as the uh enneagram of personality or the traditional enagram or however Daniel said I'm supposed to say it. Some of that. But Christians should know better. But but uh again, uh some of those things they may really be specifically healthy things, but you can do them with the intention I think they've done some studies and stuff that demonstrate the crystals actually can have an effect on electromagnetism. org. Yeah. Like when I was growing up we used to go up into um I would say it's very plausible that if you if you look up Maybe we'll uh I'll make a note uh about that because that that's going to take us away from focusing on the new age. The Ouija board, right? As a kid even, I recognized that he was doing this. I'm telling you that is that that has probably become the core central message of my ministry And yeah, just to quote, I guess, Pen Gillette. All right. But I don't need the Enneagram to tell me that. We're trying to find our true nature through the Enneagram. Is there a physiological reason to do the stretches in that particular order, or is it merely the spiritual teachings of the Yeah, I mean Daniel Daniel you mentioned Tai Chi, right, which I I think is another easy thing. org. It's kinda like a f a theme we've had now. How about you guys? The only thing she'll put in her car. She lost her freaking mind. I'm not sure I'm not sure about that. Yep, yep. Would she fight for the business Yoga, she writes, is pagan idolatry. So you know, are you gonna are you allowed to eat uh food that was sacrificed to idols? Wear a different weave. That's the what that's what was what the answer should have been I'm I'm I'm actually if you've seen my country uh my cousin Vinny, that movie from like the nineteen eighties or nineties, whenever that was, a long time ago, I know that movie came. I mentioned that because we're talking about oil blends. But they can be but they can use in ways. And getting drunk. And and then and it does something, and then something miraculous happens. What does the Bible say about it? How about Ouija boards, seances, that sort of thing? And I would say that the demon that's inhabiting him has those memories of other lives that they he's possessed other people and that's how you get those Um and so uh again I I I think it's uh He's a he he's he's this and that. I think it was less than two minutes. I wanted to see, and if she had handled that well, I would have hired her on the spot. And they're like, wow. Well there's a lot of benefits here, but a lot of that's what people say, Well there's benefits. And if you're not familiar, uh I don't know the ins and outs, but you know, I know a little bit about it because actually you know somebody in my family was very involved with it for a while. And some people might just look at crystals as like it it's I have no idea. Smoke it like a cigarette? So why why wouldn't there be a sign for whether you should put I'm Troy Skinner. And you can keep up with us one on the faith debate on the radio station's website or on our church's website. I mean that was commanded to be done in the Bible by godly men. And uh I think you did hear for a half a second uh Daniel Rasby's voice This is episode five though. So it's about focus inward, finding out my true self. And then the enneagram makes me even more You know, if you're interviewing somebody, you're gonna say the things to get hired. Part of my culture. It's a Zen garden. Where it comes from is is very important, I think But Reiki, um, it's not just about That means the uh the Native American burning herbs is I think Democrats thrive on stability. I just you don't know. You can find me and my church online at householdfaith in Christ dot com, household of faith in Christ dot com dot. So it all comes down to what is your purpose? See what it has to say. Their favorite team. Yes. Um anything that that you're doing in this area if it's not of God, then it is of the devil. I I wasn't um as mature in my faith and advanced in my theological understanding and my knowledge of the Bible back then Anyway. Right? Yoga doesn't glorify God and it breaks the first and second commandments. Do you think that, you know Are you meditating on the word of God? Encourages people to put their full trust in self in their own bodies, which is a form of worship, obviously, right? So there's there uh so having crystals or or having high regard for certain Okay. Get off my phone. But even those those words, right? But anyway. Astrology is you're trying to find some secret hidden meaning I think to get to be in the exact same position uh that we are now There are angels. But if he doesn't tell you that's what you should do, Something s is I think God is uh give them a taste of the medicine they thought they were seeking and it freaked 'em all out. I can picture in my head back in the seventies com until next week, 167 and a half hours from about now. But they're good clothes hangers though. Getting involved in energy healing is spiritually dangerous. It's not the God of the Bible. I mean that's how we communicate, that's how our brain understands. No, but spiritually, if if you try to cleanse your house spiritually, you should walk through every room of your house And we're bringing the basically the figurehead of the Republican Party. Your house needs to be full of God's glory. See talismans for good luck or for good spirits and things, I think they would be inherently ungodly. As in the s it's the opposite of these other things which are fruits of the devil, is a whole long list of things right before that verse. What if your intention's a little bit different? Because they're they're admitting freely there's skill involved. So so for Christmas this last year she and and my daughter made handmade some So we we're stuck with the nine there are apparently limited mines over here. Those aren't those don't have any as far as I know, maybe somebody can educate me. And the thing I found to be interesting is What's sinful and what's righteous. Why are you even asking me these things? There's a whole bunch of new age stuff just here in the studio, the various different artifacts and and uh Right? I'm in my office, I'm doing something like mid twin, I'm gonna do a chair workout. And it at some point it becomes a uh And and and so all of these things can be applied Um Daniel Razby, uh co-pastors with Imron at the We don't have a number that big. Yeah. That's happened. You know, what what are my sinful tendencies? I was like, that was my concern. Doing something that's easier and then Lead your back. So this is definitely a list of bad things. I'm using slot of hand. You know, people often ask me, well, you know, Mozart wasn't saved, should you listen to his music? And I think I mentioned the website, Household of Faith in Christ. Um and it's very complex and not everybody's going to agree on what it is or how to define it because Believers in the Enneagram seek to unravel the mystery of their true identity. Yeah, be use caution. Yeah. Um anyway, basically if it's an ungodly kind of a purpose, if it's witchcraft or something The four C church The only bad oil in my opinion is uh Which translation is a woman? And you can point to some times where the constellation of the woman uh is in in a certain and there and there's They cast a lot and they said, God, please Let no one be found among you who sacrifices his son or daughter in the fire. You know, in the in the As an atheist, I don't respect you if you're a Christian and you don't preach the gospel to me. Aneogram? You're putting yourself in a box and then saying, well this is how I And I want to see if she got in Is yoga maybe making you fall prone? I mean that's that's the ultimate. 'Cause you go to into a karate dojo, there's a lot of new age teachings in many of those. We are starting this. So do you have your hold on to your thought we're coming to you next, David? I know people that were involved with it, and I just saw what it did to them I don't think he's right all the time. And here's what she says in her long list. Something else, uh, you know, should Christians consult horoscopes You say God is showing us this through the stars if you want to if you want to make that kind of a claim. Practicing divination or sorcery. Galatians 5 talks about the fruits of the Spirit. And one of the guys in there, you know, had what they call them a one-on-one and Thus the Enneagram is seen as a mystical tool for solving mankind's problem. So you gonna end the the stream then but yeah. Anyway, the people the there were three people we wanted to hire. It's it's like a an exercise, you know, I'm gonna do push ups and I I could do yoga, you know, it's gonna strengthen my core or whatever. Christians know that we're going to be looking Godward. I think Some sort of good luck charm. New. No, but there are elections being go uh going on. So you had better stop right now because the Native Americans in invented it. Eternity. So if if we can build an argument from scripture that says, look, we can determine big historical movements Well there's there's the whole I idea, um Ooh, its name is Ouija. I'm not saying it's not possible. Your battery's lasting? Uh so right. I could I could be do an insulated version of a You're inviting demonic activity into your life, kind of say, right? Daniel Razby. Instead of turning to plants, we should go directly to Jesus, who's the only authority for casting away demons and unclean spirits, Dorian says And and God doesn't work that way And description. Right? And even the New Testament, right, they they cast lots for Matthias to add somebody else to the to the twelfth. You know, watch a movie made by an unbeliever or about a secular topic. Um and uh and I just don't think in this market it's gonna work. And I want to see what she would do. And that's one of the things we'll be talking about. It may have nothing to do with yoga. I don't know. It's either some sort of spiritual attack, demon they're giving themselves over to the demonic It's easy for you to say that you're nice and healthy and thin. Because you can find and I think there's and we may we may get into chiropractic as well, that might be an an interesting thing. Well he didn't obtain his healing power because he was the healing power Reiki or or what anything else you do, don't do it because your friend says it's a good thing or whatever Not raspy but nas nasally voice. Exactly Exactly. So you could you know, if we were uh if we were under the stars all the time It's a very interesting theory. In fact, if you find somebody doing that, kill them. It's a game it's it's like playing Monopoly. And and you might say, well Daniel, you may you say that gender is unchangeable. You know what it reminds me of as you were talking, what it reminds me of? You gotta know what you're looking at but though if you're just identifying what's wrong with you No, 20%'s probably a little high. And if you can't close them, you can't make a living. But I was concerned she was a little green. And so then it ended. Like everything that we do is a practice of all religions. But the problem is the spiritual And I thought this this was an interesting reminder. I just like to smell nice. But if you're focusing on that as opposed to And man, it was unbelievable. So you say a full cycle. Uh And we know it's possible. Uh gets its name from the Greek word for nine, uh enia, I guess, or na. There's no way. A Zen garden? I can find my own internal, inward truth You'll feel much more stronger and fit like David over. I would I was ambivalent about yoga a little bit, like well, you know, it's a wisdom question, maybe if you can be discerning about it, there's something there. God is the one that created the earth, God is the one that provides health and healing, and it is it's it's through Christ that we do all things. I'm Troy Skinner and uh But there's some truth to that. Spike nard, right? There's no biblical warrant. Oh I was wearing that unwashed, you know, holy So God made them just for his satisfaction and glory. You're trying to figure out what somebody's future is or And here's the difference. I'm just you know, having a little back. So here we go So these this this enneagram, I'm gonna have to say it the only way I really am comfortable remembering to say it No, I think I I think there's a couple others that Yeah, we've got a just like a minute half left and Imran's been leaning in. How do I become a better salesperson? Is there any biblical precedent for doing certain exercises or poses while worshipping God? We got like a minute, minute and a half, so I'm gonna just kinda put a put a button on this one and we can continue. There's something good about being physically fit and there's something good about meditation. Yeah. You should know better. You can find me online at household of faith in Christ. Where you're expecting some other power force Yeah, I think the whole difference is Yes that's the idea. There was a time, this is like fifteen years ago probably now, I was sales manager at the time and She probably has it. So anyway, that was bonus coverage. It's a very self-focused kind of an exercise, right? I don't know anything of is Well the other but also what are the people the instructor and the other people just think that you're stretching? I am Troy Skinner, the host of this show, The Faith Debate, and we appreciate you taking time. But you should t take a look. However, Biden has not. I think I think one is that uh the God of health and wellness is He also made the stars There's there's there's no middle middle ground So maybe that was not necessarily the greatest. She thought it was real. I think there are plenty of And that's not that's not really even by mistake. But you don't seem to find it all that weird. Anyway, sorry. That's a different kind of smudging, I suppose. This is your chance. There are good things like oils. It's not about glorifying God, it's about glorifying self or glorifying You're not calling God by name. Yeah. Or is this some you know uh However, And no matter how great we get at at exploring the stars in the universe How do we know? Feels a little extra So Daniel's gonna jump in? Might as well burn your children to death. Yahweh is the creator, the God. I think We usually do four. Aneagram? It's in the Thurmont area. Does somebody want to take uh take a ball around with or you want me to just say what it is? It's just it's just an analytical tool, but it's analyzing things that the Bible can help us analyze. It's more of, you know, this is the way that you you are and and and and uh That's very Freudian. Okay. That happens every once in a while. It's skirting with it and people get pulled in with it. And or you're giving yourself over to your own sinful desires or lustful flesh. David Forresty always thinking agriculture. Well it was on the tip of my tongue, which may not necessarily fit into next week's episode. And those are worshiping demons we would say. 5 hours from now. I guess we couldn't know that Nikki would follow the Constitution. Oh. We might eventually We have examples of it happening. One about Christmas, which is uh you know, there's this whole Santa Claus thing, but then there's the elf on the shelf com, the Faith Debate page, or my church's website, household of faith in Christ. Uh what makes people different I I could take one now and take it in a year it'll be different. But if I stretch my hamstrings uh let's say yoga says you first the first stretch is going to stretch your hamstring. Right. If it's this is going to help me to connect with the universe Um that that there's Wait a minute. There is life after death. You know But anyway, that's that's an aside, that's a little bit Bible lesson, and we'll talk about that. Either way though, it's not good, it's not healthy, it's not safe, it's not right. There's um there there's a number of magicians Yeah The par uh the the issue with yoga is not only are there poses, but there i is specific poses in a specific In dramatics they might call it the cat I think I think a lot of it comes down to what what do the other people that you're Yeah? But that's what it is, is child sacrifice. Yeah, no, yeah. Wow. Oh by the way, you know, just wait to think you're I made some stars too. They're just charlatans who are really good tricksters and they've got plans in the audience who But it was the Enneagram What would you do in this situation? It's just No more billiards. Like what are they using the oils for? And so I think we could very easily say, you know, like we can look back and we can say I'm not I'm not really believing that uh that that's that's anything Although when it's because they're atheism, they're just not Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right about now. At least we don't post the address online. But okay, I'm gonna take it because I'm gonna get the sale Now you guys seem to know a little more about this than I do. They won't say there's not a God. So I know that there's you know large medical companies that I don't know. This is important, apparently. And I don't think it's as much of an issue anymore with all the light pollution. If you do just a generic divination like poem reading, for example, or looking into the crystal wall, like we're talking about I think maybe God kind of Like they Scripture can tell me that. I don't need the Enneagram to tell me those things. You can agree with David if you want to be wrong, that's okay. If anything. And I I wonder there may not be very many people even at the station that understand And so we've been focusing mostly on the spiritual, the demonic aspect of it, but I'm concerned, this is the pastoral concern. And they're just uh they're just preaching the worship of I find them to be uh pretty And Y yeah, and using them maybe in in combination with some incense on occasion or whatever. It's our third week on New Age kinds of things and Aura, good aura, like uh good vibes, vibrations and stuff and And the constellations God says, I will set my face against the person who turns to mediums and spiritists to prostitute So your your the idea is that you're communicating with somebody who's communicating back There's no spiritual stuff going on. I've a very As tenth grader. That's really where it is. Yes. They certified as different levels or whatever and she was pretty high ranking Reiki master. Yeah, having crystal decor is one thing. You'll find links to all of our sermons Right. Anything's gonna come in. That's why I was catching myself there. That's the standard. So I was extremely introverted in He pretends Christ and everything he does Some of the clams are great To um He lit up. The zodiac. com. Oil of spike nerd Oh or not, because David Force has got more to say. We're gonna move into a poem reading and psychics next Because the stars show this. What I'm saying and and that would be the proof text if there is one. This is an identifier and people do change, people do grow and move. I think that's because people have a a hunger for spiritual things Right. And the the the um So 'Cause it's just playful stuff and and they're they're written so ambiguously that they can all all be true or false at any time. I think the uh one distinction sort of in all of this is uh right like I thought we were talking about something in the Bible. Now I've heard some But an Agram especially, if there's any personality tests you want to avoid of e the anagram Like I've got some things I want to say or ask. I'll let you know which one when we get there, see which one's leaning forward. It's still the same forms. And here's the thing that catches my attention. But today we're transitioning into Reiki. The the the good guys are the sorcerers, uh uh among there's also bad guys. What was it? Uh he was consumed by it. He's a he would talk about he's an illusionist I've always said a enneagram, but maybe it's aneogram. No, God tells me my true nature is. Well that's what David was asking. If all you're doing is bring glory to God Trying to think if I've ever done anything on this show New Agey and generically but never specific stuff like this. And different incenses. People smoke everything these days, don't I? I would challenge anybody. But I understand that I don't think it's gonna be relevant to you specifically You can't find him online unless you come through me. I tell I tell Christians, I tell people in my church, uh don't read or watch uh Harry Potter. By the way there's an old classic Waltons episode from the early nineteen seventies The uh other voice we heard most recently before that other than mine was Daniel Rasby. And and you're pointing to your kids, Hey look, the God is watching It worked? I want to see if she can rise to the challenge or is she going to wilt. And and other things too, I'm sure, that I don't even hit the Zen You know, that's not the so is your is your motive physical or is your motive metaphysical No, no more billiards for you. He doesn't like stupidity though. And he's gonna twist that and and tear you apart from God. This is like twentieth years ago. So like we need to be hospitable and part of being hospitable is getting to know how other people are different from us. And she probably failed. I didn't thought about that. What do I know about these things? What's that? Yeah, standing somewhere and they distribute it by video ever to a whole bunch of other places. Good healthy oils are important. And God did make the stars for signs, and I think Um We know it is because the Bible says it's possible. How much do you have to hate these people not to tell them the good news? But God is all-knowing. And if we can then okay, I was skeptical, but I can't deny God's word. Uh well not not in the sense so I mean I think first it's important uh I'm not exaggerating. I don't know why that is Can't remember if we've done four. Hopefully it doesn't bedevil us with this It encourages personal journeys to focus on self. Um if you're doing things So not everything that Well see I yeah, I could never in good time just vote for enough. How about you guys? I mean it's You know, God God has power. Well, we can hope. I'm gonna put it in the same bucket I put uh some of Daniel's the And he had like a he was a white guy, but he had like an afro. David Forcey pastors a church that kind of meets in various And I bought it and brought it home. You gotta be willing to take the shots A lot of a lot of people in the church. Thanks so much for spending part of your day with us. Like, why would you bring that kind of language and and and put the stamp of approval of the church on it So we might talk more yoga next week. Well that's that's one level, but there's there's uh some studies that will show that ev every object has What's Like like wearing garlic around you that keeps away the vampire, right? Like I right if I just feel feel good forever. We already s began to hint at that and you can use them like just like there's Yeah, like by scanning your fingerprint. And so they decided, well that must mean something. So it can it can help you be more hospitable, right? So the the thing that um That's not really biblical. And then um Intersectional. The other thing though is there are and we could probably to be honest And yeah, and I mean even you know in She used to be a New Age guru type person who's now a Christian who's speaking That was Daniel Razby, I'm Troy Skinner. So let's see what else is on this list of And that's true. But it could be God I've heard some some pastors caution against And uh and And But you need to be very careful because some Like he's like he's got And they've been there for thousands of years just giving God glory. This would be amazing. The naughty threading it. As it turns out. You found it helpful. But we we've got business to do over here. So are you willing to bow down? org. That's our nervous system. My church is called Household of Faith in Christ. God bless. He's weaponized DOJ. So it marks places and but there was something unique that happened in uh Just enter ma entertainment. What the heck? Exactly. So we've got to So a lot of these things do and may maybe really do have specific health benefits. That doesn't mean the thing itself is inherently evil Had to stretch just a little bit because you're caught with late I mean there there's there are there's a lot of uh health benefits for certain oils oils and um But if you call yourself a Christian Like the full cycle, the full tape of twenty five thousand years. I was just just very uh phobious And this Christian um you know help guy But you know what, let's find out if she's got that So we something is consistent. Yes. One is I I think that people need to Christians Is that yard work? Well you know it's interesting. Right. And So I said, Okay, I'll sign up and it's a few bucks, I'll pay it. And I don't know that's on your list to talk about, so I'll mention it briefly here. You give me a biblical warrant for chasing away the devil with a a burning sage brush. It's awe inspiring. That's the kind of stuff we're talking about on the Faith Debate this week This is that has nothing to do with spiritual things. So but the fact it's not already warning it is a good sign for sure. Um You don't have enough life experience. Thanks for watching or listening. I grew up in a Chicago Cubs fan and Harry Carey was their announcer for a long time and he was This is not a gay th thing, this is a a God thing. Man did he light up. We talk about so hopefully poem reading and psychics and crystal balls. You guys all all three of you guys have beard. Well, I would say throw that back up. But we know that it's like antibacterial. I think I've taken at least six You know, how would you feel if this happened? You can find him online at conqueredbylove. But uh yeah there's this uh new workout that's uh the chair workout. I'm gonna be healthier, I'm gonna be you know, d uh live longer on well They co-pastor a church called the Church It Meets at Imran's House. Right, that were intending it to be in a cult type of thing. Do you have anything in your house? Oh by the way. So there's something in the stars that made them want so but it happened but they were told But the kinds of stuff that you've mentioned that's in the Old Testament, that's No. And then their shows they don't even claim to be they don't even pretend that it's spiritual type of thing Which is interesting because uh at least Penn, I don't know about telechamer talks, but Penn is an atheist I mean it has definite occult But as a Christian, like what should you should you take that for for what what it is to do You're not even gonna think to And so yeah, frequencies and stuff, study that, use it I mean the different crystals have different frequencies. And so it it it can be it can be wonder struck Because the Bible wouldn't be naming them. Like it's that dangerous of a thing. I mean that's you know that's that's the kind of thing that we open ourselves up to. You know, you You know. And she lasted six months. What if I have a big boat right underneath the rainbow You know, blackout drunk, right? All right. I I always have some thoughts. And they had these scores. So you could do exercises and So is it is it okay to do that while meditating on God's Word There might be something good to that. So there are s there's a lot of truths that But I like playing cool. Oh yeah. He's definitely a smart guy. Answer a question, is Trump gonna follow the Constitution But the point is their intention was to look on what God's will was Where'd they come up with that? Yeah. There's no way to scrub yoga clean and make it Christian Uh we find examples of some crystals, if you will. Go to God's word and but you know, some people need a little help trying to navigate if they're if they haven't read it much in their life. Items and decorations in the studio were not designed by us, is that's my point. I think it means signs as in like road signs. God bless. There is a spiritual reality that might even be well, I don't I mean these are spiritual things. Uh Imron Radby also on the show this week. I would caution what Daniel said. We'll see if we get any people pushing back on the comments. And he says, well you gotta do that, you gotta lubricate the joints, you know So I I think that's the full length of history is twenty-five thousand years. com So there's something to the spiritual dimension of things. They're saying well the universe this and and fate this and whatever else And some sickness though is uh uh from uh e evil spirits. Or you can agree with me. Having crystal wand that you're gonna I mean, the only reason to have the wand would be to cast some sort of a spell. Uh that's what happened when I on my on my penmanship papers in school, I always ruined them with some s So he could say, hey Yeah. But the the point in all of me saying that is that's Because of by their by their strengths that that God is built And we're we're we're dealing in the throes of it these last five, six years now And last time we were on, David said, well, might not all Um And and there was this interesting study I saw once that uh I was gonna actually bring up uh something related to this. Take these bones and throw them in the sand and see how they fall. Which makes you wonder, was his magic So it's fun. Unless you're being tongue in cheek. One last thing, and this I'll conclude this for the stream Yeah. I get the confused. What the Indians did, you know, what the Aztecs did what they Right? So I don't know but I ha that always kind of ph whatever, p shaw I started looking at it. We couldn't hire any of them because they didn't score high enough You guys are crazy. That's true. This is we're talking about this? There was definitely something, but was it actually Samuel now raised from the dead? This is very in in variety of ways in the political discourse. And what are even even Christians that do yoga, as Christians We'll be talking I think maybe some Reiki next week. Many claim It needs to be full full with with with with with God's presence Yeah. Yeah. And Christmas My heart is desper desperately wicked. God bless. I don't I don't know. I know a little bit more about this than I do yoga, but It's it's it is in itself a false religion. So if you're gonna properly do it, apparently Well before views. Is there is there are there actually like We can only And if you know the tests about that, you're gonna answer questions to get Some people are just really hard asses, pardon my language, right off the bat, and then you Because you've said things like that. And there is no it's not just a stretching component. I was like, you're a church So uh and some people they they will quote unquote smudge themselves, like they will waft And you can find me also, I guess, at wfmd. You don't have enough Like it it depends on, you know Facebook bonus. All those twinkling bright lights I mean it's And and he was telling me that, you know, it's um But I want to jump in um And we don't all Um And a lot of things God did create all these things, right? So you have anything to say about Reiki, Daniel? So the point I'm making is there's a lot of It's some sort of superstitious to ward off He's weaponized And there are biblical uh uses for oil I I don't know. Apparently some people use them as a as a way of cleansing or resetting their house. So You also heard Imron Razby and David Forcy today And then the other example is the woman clothed in the sun with the moon at her feet. They decided that it means good luck I mean it's still awkward but in different ways. And I didn't even notice that because I was looking for ways to improve Humans are never gonna see those. You know, a little one too many vowels. Interesting. I don't know. I think there's a difference and and David apparently has had a different experience with this but Till next time. We're going to be talking about yoga So the that whole thing is com. Trying it all. We can keep everything updated in both of those places. So it's not none of it is glorifying to God. If somebody took the Myers Briggs, I don't think I would say, well, okay, whatever. I don't know. No it actually I think it'll probably actually invite them in. No no I I mean I think it speaks to this in general. It's one of the few capital punishments in the Bible My wife looked at it and she That's good. Look at this list of of of evil things. Perfect. Whatever. So to your point uh that you said about sales and about all these different things I th I think that you you may find Right Well do you believe there's a world He was actually an advisor to Reagan even. You know, th these these are forms uh of of witchcraft. It was big in the seventies, you know, white guy to let their curly hair grow out, whatever. Till next week, 167. So that you don't you don't I'm just saying. I don't know. If you understand how other people are different from you. I think the the uh the attraction Come Lord Jesus. Well But I'm gonna share You know, I think there's something to this this energy field thing, but Um as a side note, uh there is a great clip online from uh I've heard I've heard the anagram. Well f one thing when you you look at the the It it seems to me that there could possibly be some good meat. And I don't know if it was on the air or off the ear, but I've heard you say those things. We're gonna be talking more about new wage stuff next week anyway, so we'll have opportunity to talk about Yeah God bless But so do you say you pastor like eight house churches though? If I just do these magic things Yeah. You know, Dracula can't get you through. I I don't know what are the properties of Sage and why Sage There might be some other ones. And And I don't mind eating that. I'm Troy Skinner. No no David, they just move the locations all the time. And they would there there's been some claims they that No, I I'm being serious. Like if you had the message on there, that'd be one thing If there's they're they're loosely related to each other in my mind and Yes we are. Who can understand it? org There's hypnotism is Like that's that's essentially how we use it in What what if somebody says the palm reading is not really different? You know, it's just for fun, it's just entertainment. God bless com Not anything for us specifically. It's just part of the fun fas festivities. Uh this you're waving your hands over somebody who's gonna have some Like It's I don't know how you say nine. Right. Yeah. And but whatever your situation is Something like that. But what what reason would we have for thinking that? Maybe it's a sign from the heavens, I don't know. And you know, I don't know if there's anything necessarily wrong with I mean the Bible is very clear on a whole bunch of examples of how That's in general But if I can't find it then it's like okay, it's just this mere s So maybe I could say something else that would I I I'm concerned that And then and then they have And you're saying I mean crystals are like jewels. Enneagram. There is like like David said, there's a meditation That's the first one that comes to mind, right? I'm a sinner and need a save saving. I mean so Too late to back out now Tomato, tomato Where you turn your thoughts inward. Thank you so much for listening. Not not that this particular thing but org I have a I have a little bit Think speaking of crystals, right? There is only one way to God, not Um but I was not We have to give Nikki Haley. I mean we set up you know, bug bombs in our house. So like throughout com. And if you're one of those Christians who Uh and I'm just making 5 hours from now. So I don't know if you guys have heard of this. It'll keep away some people. But I would point you Sorcery is listed in there. At at least that. Anyway You can find God created your b You get a point of personal privilege. So this is fun. Pilates I So It's like the five love links And then uh No.