Well welcome streaming audience. Whenever you catch this, if you're catching it live or later, if you want to leave comments on whatever platform you're watching this, I'll be sure to get to them later. But I'm going to be turning my back for now because we are recording the Faith Debate Radio Show. Now we're gonna dive right in. I know, right? Don't know my own strength. Everyone's a little bit of a Alright. Is that supposed to be on the edge of the table? Oh, I'll get it between shows. Okay. Good morning. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning with us on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Joined this week. We were going to be talking about something that uh David Forcey was very interested in actually, and he couldn't make it, so that we're going to change some things up anyway. uh probably s uh it'll it'll be good that uh we change some things up last minute. That's always my favorite kind of show. Imran Razvy and Daniel Razvi are on the panel again this week. There was a church that meets up in Thermont. The church is called uh Church that meets at Imran's house, they have a not-for-profit ministry organization. It's called Conquered by Love Ministries. You can find that online at conqueredbylove. org. And you can find me online at my church's website, household of faith in Christ. com. That's household of faithinchrist. com. And of course you can follow the faith debate at wfmb. com as well. So we changed things up last minute because as uh as you're walking into the studio, Imran was telling me how he had recently spent some time in DC, and I said, Oh Me too. I spent some time in DC. And I was just there, well, a as this airs, it'll it'll be like you know a month or two ago, but I was just recently there as we're recording this and Those who listen to this radio station uh and have for a long time would probably be familiar with David Barton. David Barton was been on he's been a guest on the Glenn Beck Show for many, many, many, many years and uh he he I don't know, probably five, ten years ago came out with a founder's Bible that uh sold a lot of copies, I think, and he's got a whole DVD series and online video series now, probably a D V D series sounds dated, doesn't it? online video instructional series about the the the background and the history of America and our how our founders were good Christian men steeped in the Bible and all that sort of stuff. And that's that's all good stuff Anyway, one of the members of my church said, hey, you know, David Barton, he has an organization called Well Builders, and Well Builders has uh like path, they call them pastors' briefings. And a couple times a year, uh pastors are allowed, if if they can get to DC, and for us it's kind of easy, you drive, well, comparatively easy. No joke, two hours in, two hours out, two days in a row, eight hours of driving round trip to go to this thing was that was rough stuff. And if you're not familiar with DC, it's easy to get turned around in that town I mean it's it's a it's it's a tough road to hoe. Pun intended? I'm not sure. Anyway, oh can I turn your mics on. There we go. So um I was mentioning to the Rasbies uh my experience there and Imran said, you know, we should talk about this on the radio. But we have these other things we're gonna talk about. He said, uh we can get to that after we talk about this other stuff, because I think it's all kind of interrelated, so we'll find out if it is. So first of all, are you guys Daniel Mrod are you guys familiar with Well Builders, David Barton? Not really. Not really, but I I have heard of the Founders Bible and again it's patriotic, it gets your blood boiling, gets you all excited and interested. in in our country and our patriotism and all that stuff, and that's all good. But where does it lead and and what your experience there is is really what we're kind of disappointed with. Where does it leave? So I show up at this thing not really knowing what to expect. And it's kind of cool. I mean when I I I've been inside the Cap not on January 6th, but I have been inside the Capitol building. uh before. And so it's it's yeah, if you've never been, it's a cool thing, right? Because it's historical and you've seen it on TV and it's kind of a fun thing. So If I had never been inside the Capitol before, I think that I would have been dobsmacked and wow, like what a cool memory. So I'm not Talking that down. But I gotta say having been there before is like, oh yeah, I've been here before. It looks kind of familiar. They haven't changed it a whole lot since since I was here last Um, but so the really the cool thing other than the tourist aspect is they bring a bunch of legislators in to brief the pastors. And so during the um Two days, uh if there's an evening and then there's a a day-long portion the next day. So over the two days they ended I think they had like twelve or fourteen that were supposed to come and talk if I understand correctly, but I think nine of them actually showed up. Yeah, I get it, they're busy, they got things to do. Dealing with a bunch of, you know, mindless pastors. So nine of them showed up and they you know, they spoke anywhere from ten or fifteen minutes up to half hour, 45 minutes maybe in one case. Um and so that was all nice. And they're talking about basically Their intention, I think, is to give people like you, Daniel, and you, Imran, and me, Troy, and you, listener, hope America's not all gone. You know, we're a Christian nation founded on Christian biblical principles, and there's a lot of good still happening here here, and there's a lot of you know, good Christian men and women in the fight. And we're going to bring these people to speak to you, pastors, and show you, and you can be praying for these people and that sort of thing. And it's supposed to be encouraging and you should feel like, wow, yes, and you can go back and tell your congregation, man, there's hope still. And I'm driving home after the first night. I'm thinking, well, I hope the second day is better. And I'm driving home two hours, uh, second day home, and I don't want to oversell this, but I and I don't want to sound like I'm just a you know mushy emotional basket case, although maybe I am, I don't know. But I had to really be on guard and try to convince myself not to be depressed. Because I was so discouraged. But what I heard and how I saw them handle. Now most of them didn't take questions, but some of the people who spoke, some of the congressmen who spoke, there was time for some questions. I had an opportunity to ask a question. I wasn't real satisfied with the answer I got. And I wasn't satisfied with the answers that I got from any of them. And they, I gotta tell you And a lot of this what I've said so far, Daniel and Imran kind of heard me share earlier. So this is new information for you guys. If I had gone to this even five years ago, certainly ten years ago, I would have been encouraged, I think. Right. I feel like my eyes have been opened to new things, you know, over the last five years that they weren't open to before. And so that that same song and dance that we've heard from the the GOP and the RNC all these years, you know, uh uh that you know, apple pie, baseball, you know, Americana, good republicanism. Yeah. And I'm telling you, it's all the sloganeering, all the j all that Christianese and jingoistic kind of nonsense that really resonated once upon a time, at least in my life it did, and maybe it probably still does in a lot of people's lives It just rang hollow because I was like, I've I've I've heard this before. My whole life I've heard this And I'm not a young man anymore. You know? Yeah, but you're also on the other side you're experiencing what's happening in the political world and how uh the it's really been weaponized and and going after people and you know what happened on January sixth and the craziness of it. So, you know, your eyes have been opened to what the government's actually doing. And then you're thinking, how am I supposed to be encouraged if I n see what what actually is happening? and with the empty platitudes these people are saying, they're not showing me any results. They're not really even showing me their Christhood, their their ability to be in Christ Christ. Now I will say that they again, you know, uh they they talk a good game, right? And and maybe it's not just talking a good game. I I mean I don't know them personally and I only had a chance to interact one-on-one with with any of them very, very, very briefly. So that's not enough for Gage to get a read. But they knew all the buzzwords. They do all the things like if you're meeting somebody for the first time and you wonder if they're a Christian and after you talk to them for five minutes like, oh yeah, they're probably a Christian. Or at least they're probably a churchgoer, right? Because they they know all the lingo And they they know how to quote key verses and things. I mean seriously, it was um one or two of them, I think it's possible they knew the Bible better than some pastors I know But so what? The devil knows the Bible really well too. Like you know what I mean? That that that's not the that can't be the gauge anymore. You'll know the tree by its fruit. And I was like, where's the fruit? And that's what I was hoping to see. I was hoping that they would say, Look I know you guys gotta be frustrated. I know as pastors you've got to be concerned. You're probably hearing the the the aches and the pains of your congregation, wondering what's going on in the world, and is there any hope for this nation? And I can tell you It's going to be hard, but we can do it because here's what's been happening. Here's how we've identified it and we're working to correct it. And moving forward, this is our plan. It's going to be a five-year ten year, fifty year, hundred and fifty year slog, but whatever their plan would be, but this is how we're gonna get there. None of that. It was just the same there I don't think there was almost anything said during this wall builders event. That couldn't have been said in 1995. Well, it was all the same stuff. It's the stuff that W ran on. It's the stuff that Romney kind of rammed on to, to be honest with you. You know, but mostly uh it was it was that compassionate conservative evangelical George W. Bush thing. That's twenty years ago. Come on. Yeah, the lack of plan really seems to hit home. I mean there it's mostly reactionary. Uh it seems like the Republicans were last forty years have been reacting to Now New Gingrich had a plan and he did uh implement that and that went pretty well for a for a short period of time, but it seems like there hasn't been any leadership to have any kind of cognizant plan for five, ten, or fifty or hundred and fifty years to really move this country in the right direction. There's nobody moving in the right direction. And what what a lot of people really don't realize is that the laws and the government actions are not done by Congress or the President President has very little power. Congress has even less power to do anything. It's the staffers that work there. It's the bureaucrats that are career uh in government making they make all the rules. I mean just just recently the uh um DOL is the Department of Labor in my industry for the r retirement planning, they just enacted this new six hundred page monstrosity of a rule that will uh completely upend the financial industry. And so there's c I'm sure there'd be a lot of lawsuits about it. But they worked on this for months and years, they've been trying to do this and there's no law that was passed. The Department of Labor just decided that, hey, we're gonna s um m make a ra regulate the way that financial advisors get paid even for things the Department of Labor doesn't doesn't have any jurisdiction over. And that's how that that the but it's it's uh unelected bureaucrats that are making these decisions The administration, you know, can be it favorable or make it a little more difficult for bureaucrats, but there's not a lot that they can do. You can't just fire everybody. There's job security in the federal government. Yeah, uh and I hear by the way that's the voice of Daniel Razby. Before that you heard the voice of Imran Raz Razvi. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. And I hear you, that it is I mean, yeah, it's it's a behemoth and these people, they're unelected and they have jobs security almost impossible to fire. Uh however, Congress, particularly the House Uh they have the power of the purse. So if you want to turn if you want to have that um that that albatross stop controlling everything Stop paying them. So they go, oh, we can't shut down the government. Shut down the government. Let these guys all be out of work and go find another job in the private sector. And then we can start over maybe. Whatever. Have some will to do something. It's so frustrating. This is what I was I was hoping I'd hear somebody actually somebody did uh bring up the issue and it was, in my opinion, an unsatisfactory way of bringing it up One of the challenges we have I me you you're right, Daniel. I mean it's not as simple as elections because there's thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of unelected people that are running the show. Even the staffers though They're the ones that write the bills. Congress votes on them. But rappers tell them what to write on the bill. And they don't even read 'em. And then they're told how to vote. Exactly. And then they're given all this pressure like, Oh, I don't think I should vote this and then you know seventy-five of their best friends show up and say, You've got to vote this, you gotta support this Uh okay. Like that's that's really what's going on. They're not mean the to be honest, like you you can't blame 'em. The bills, they're incredibly long. Who wants who has time? Right? You could be a speed reader, you couldn't read all this stuff. It's impossible. But um one of the challenges we have if elections mean anything anymore, and that's debatable and um There are some irregularities that have occurred in the last at least a couple election cycles, meaning the two-year election cycle. I think the last one was a little bit weird and the one before that was clearly weird. I'm trying to keep us from getting canceled on social media here. Anyway, one person, one of the congressmen, uh actually addressed, one of the nine actually addressed that issue. Which is a huge issue. We talked about this on the show not too long ago, however, when Dan Cox was on and Daniel asked the question, like, what are you going to do, Dan? People are depressed about voting. Like turnout's going to be depressed because people don't think their votes matter anymore because they're just rigging everything anyway And so this congressman stands up and says, now people have concerns about the elections and stuff. Now do I think the 2020 election was stolen? I'm thinking, oh, this could be good. Let's see what he says. I don't think it was stolen. I do think it was rigged, but I think it was stolen. Wow. What does that mean? It means he doesn't want to be canceled. But what does the what is the difference between stealing and rigging an election? What does that mean? Well stealing is is is bad. Rigging is okay because they haven't canceled cancel people that said it's been rigged, but they have canceled people that said it's been a good thing. That was and it was a political and this was yeah, and you know what? They have a rule at these meetings. You can take photographs No audio recordings, no video. So this is a off-the-record meeting, right? In that context, where he's talking to a friendly audience He can't say look, you know, I don't know backbone. I couldn't be saying this uh because I'd get canceled, blah, blah, blah. But in this room I can let you guys know what you already know. I think we're still in. Yeah, I think we're still Now I would have more um what's the word I'm looking for? I I would I would feel better about a person saying, look, I just don't think it was rigged or stolen. You know, I've looked at the data, I've analyzed it to now there were irregularities, but I don't think it amounted to enough to make a a change in the thing, and this is why I think so. I can think they're wrong on the facts But at least they're they have a brain. They're standing up and saying what they think is true and they have a backbone. That well, I don't think it was stolen, but I think it was rigged. Oh my gosh! To be to be fair to the guy, I don't know who the who the guy is, but I've heard uh somebody uh uh uh uh uh Ben Shapiro, for example, on his show re recently has said something very similar, honestly. Um and I disagree with him too on this 'cause I you know but he said look uh he doesn't believe that there was actual uh cheating of votes being changed, but he does believe that it was rigged in in that uh the Um all those laws were changed to allow all these mail-in uh ballots and things like that when which very vastly favored Democrats and all this ballot harvesting that was going on on which is technically illegal but very different than anything in the past and they really pushed that through and then the the media was all in favor of uh uh of Biden and so on and so therefore all those factors were still staffed against Trump and that that's why it was rigged, but that doesn't mean they actually changed any votes. And he said maybe some votes were changed, but that is not enough to make it make a difference. Probably what the guy meant to explain it very well. He's a very bright guy and all this, but I I can only imagine he hasn't seen what I've seen because uh i clearly numbers were flipped. But whatever. Uh or the same problem is he has such a big platform and he's afraid to be canceled. canceled and and labeled and ostracized because so many people have. I mean even if you got a text from somebody on January sixth, they arrested you and and tried you. Come on. Somebody that wasn't even there got a text and they said, Oh, you're not the and the DOJ was asking for banks to turn in over information of people that bought Bibles after the January 6th. So how do you trust the government like that? Yeah. So anyway, I don't want to make this an overtly J6 political thing, but that was one of the things that was brought up. It's one of the things that people who who are quote unquote conservative, whatever that means anymore uh quote unquote republic or whatever that means anymore, the kind of things that they are concerned about. Another thing that people who think like we do and believe like we do are concerned concerned about is abortion, right? The the slaughter of children. We're worried about that. Definitely. And so during one of the QA's, uh Uh th I was actually probably the last I think it was co uh almost positive it was a coincidence. But I think I was the last question. Yeah, but I think it's a coincidence. I think 'cause I was la my my reason I didn't bring that up was I was kinda laying back I don't want it to be about me. Um I'm not really feeling this the vibe of the room. Uh I didn't get to talk to all the pastors. I got to talk to a handful of them because the they weren't interacting with each other, which is shocking to me Like you're in a room with a bunch of pastors, nobody wants to talk to other pastors. I don't I don't understand. Compare notes, what's going on in your part of the world? People were from all over the place. You know, Colorado, California, Oklahoma. Um Ohio, I mean all over the place. In fact I was the only person from Maryland, I'm pretty sure. Um but I'm so talking to 'em and my general sense is Boy, I'm gonna get canceled by our listeners. I don't whatever what I got to lose at this point. What do I care? There's a certain flavor of Christianity that I've come to recognize as the TBN style. Yeah, that kind of Christianity. It's a different flavor than than um than others. Uh and I just got a sense that there was a lot of that in the room. But anyway, that aside, I had a chance to talk to some of the uh talk to some of the pastors and I I got to read on the room. I thought, you know, I'm not gonna ask a lot of I'm not gonna ask questions, I'm not gonna make it about me. But I wasn't liking the questions that were being asked all that much. I wasn't liking the answers or getting to the questions. So I thought, well, I'll take a shot. So one of the congressmen was uh I don't I I'm horrible with the names uh of out-of-state congressmen, but one of the congressmen from Oklahoma, and I I don't know which one of them, because there's several obviously from that state, but Uh he was a state legislator for a while, uh for quite a while before he became a a congressman at at uh in uh in DC. And so I thought, okay, I'm gonna ask him the uh you know kind of uh I don't know. A litmus test question, yes, but also maybe it could be informative, like, I really want to know, like, why is it the way it is? Maybe you could help me understand. So my question was, you're from Oklahoma, you're in the state legislature for all those years. Oklahoma, I mean, it's got a reputation for being like truly conservative, buckle the Bible belt, right? It's Red, red, red, red state, um overwhelming, like veto proof, overwhelming uh uh you know uh Republican representatives at the in the legislature. I mean, they can do whatever they want. So why is it in a situation like that that a state like Oklahoma has been unable to make child sacrifice, that's how I phrased it, to uh Uh to make it uh to outlaw, as I said. How is it that Oklahoma has been unable to outlaw child sacrifice? That was the question And he gave me, I think it was like a seven minute answer and he kind of sort of tapped danced and you know, said a lot of fancy sound and political words, like, wow, what a great answer. But he didn't answer my question And that was the problem with all the answers to the to the questions. Very impressive words, but they didn't say anything. So your you know your question was why haven't they not made it a crime to kill your baby such that the woman would be prosecuted also, right? Because in Oklahoma law does prohibit all abortion currently except for the life of the mother to save the life, which is basically wouldn't be an abortion at that point. You just choosing one of the life's Yeah, I'm I'm I'm uh an equal protectionist, right? I think that all humans should be protected equally, including those humans that are in the womb. Right. So what we're talking about is abolition of abortion. Yes. Which is different than just b banning it and saying it's a It's a misdemeanor or it's a fine or maybe the doctor gets punished, but we're actually we want it to be treated like murder. Now I know not everybody who listens oh I'm gonna have to uh Oh no, I got a minute. Okay. I have I'm t taking your technical stuff too. I understand that you know everybody who listens to this show doesn't think like I do, like you do, right? And there are people who are listening to this radio station, at least in the past, I don't have access to the data anymore. But uh back in the day, you know, about a third of the uh listening audience uh votes Democrat. I don't know if that's still the case, but if once upon a time was the case. There's probably still some Democrat voters that listen, you're like hating me right now. Okay, I get it. I'm not asking why California hasn't outlawed child sacrifice. I'm not asking why Maryland hasn't, right? I I understand. But help me understand Oklahoma! Come on! Oklahoma! I'll tell you, it's the pro-life lobby. The pro-life movement does not want any punishment for the people who to commit abortions. And there have been a number of bills introduced in in twenty twenty-three across the nation in many states, not just Oklahoma. Alabama was another one in Mississippi, I believe. And there's uh several states the abolis abolitionists introduced and they all got shut down, not by the Democrats, but by the pro life lobby. Well you heard what happened in Louisiana. Yeah, yeah. With Mike Johnson currently as Speaker of the House. Yeah, well, okay that's well, yeah. A as we're recording he's still the speaker. Yeah. Um Mike McCarthy, we might as well call him. I mean they're the same guy. One of them claims they have a biblical worldview, but they're the same guy. I don't understand. That's the point of my question. All about compromise. And the thing is there is no plan. That's what we talked about a little bit earlier. It seems like the Democrats have had a plan and they've moved the country continually to the left for the last hundreds of years. And the Republicans have no plan. They don't even have a five year plan, let alone a one year plan. or a fifty-year plan, they have no plan to take this country back to where the roots are. They have no plan to protect the innocent. They have no plan but just to survive. And that's the problem Yeah. By the way I c in in fairness, uh anybody who hears what I just said a second is like, What happened to Louisiana? So Louisiana had a chance to abolish abortion. They had a bill, they apparently had the they were rallying the votes, it looked like it was gonna pass. Yeah, and the only way it wasn't gonna happen is if somehow the governor would get squeamish, right? But as far as the legislature was concerned, it looked like it was gonna pass. And right at that moment when it was gonna come out of committee and go for the vote, Mike Johnson called all of his because he used to serve in the Louisiana legislature, so he knows all those guys He started calling all the power players, all the power brokers, and told me he got a vote no. And he flipped a whole bunch of votes and because of Mike Johnson, the bill didn't pass. Mike Johnson! Biblical worldview, Mike Johnson! What is going on? Well, it makes his life more difficult in Congress. Well and uh Supreme Court. Well apparently apparently his his point was, look, it's not that I disagree with the bill, it's just not the right time. It's never the right time. Exactly. When is the right time to murder somebody? Yes, when is it the when is it ever the wrong time to do the right thing? Right? Anyway, so that's So we're going to pivot from this in next week's show and we're going to talk about what are the marks of a good church and uh and church and Christianity in general. We know that it's not what marks a good Republican these days, right? They're totally different. So we're gonna be pivoting into that next week. I think unless you have more you want to talk about on this subject, but I've I've vented, I've aired my grievances. I'll just say this is what caused uh in in Roe v. Way we lost the case Uh in part because the court said, You guys don't even think it's murder, you don't want to prosecute the woman. And so I think the pro life lobby needs to get his act together and be And even after the abol uh the the ending of Roe v. Wade, the fourth leading cause of death in this country is planned parenthood abortions. Fourth leading cause of death in this country, even after Yeah. And a and people aren't even going to plant porn anymore. It's all pills now at home, right? Do it yourself, abortions. But anyway. Uh Imran, Daniel, I'm Troy. You are you. Thanks for listening. Find us online at Household of FaithinChrist dot com and WFMD. com. Till next week 167 and a half hours from now. God bless. That was it was i I don't know if it I I w I wouldn't say it it was the major factor, but it was definitely a contributing factor in the court's argument. But you guys can't even agree that this is abor uh this this is murder. So it's not murder, then the baby's not alive, so what's wrong with killing it? If you just want to make it like a you know, a small crime like speeding or something, well then it's not murder. Yeah, and I think talking uh And if we treat it like murder there could be exceptions where it goes to trial and they say, you know what, in this situation, yes the baby died, but given the circumstances it was unavoidable And so it's not murder, not guilty. That's fine. Or go to trial and the woman I'm not saying they all need to be found guilty. Or or go to the trial and the woman says, Look, I really truly believe that it was not a lie because all my teachers told me that, the doctor told me that, and I believe them. And then you can say, okay, well, you know, any reasonable person reasonable person would believe except XYZ, but it was still reckless and exce et cetera, et cetera. So maybe you don't get you know, a murder charge where you get manslaughter or you get a I'm I'm I'd be okay with things like that. Yeah, we can have those arguments judicially. Right. That's what the courts should decide. I was just talking I was just talking to the head of officers abortion in Nebraska. Um And uh and he was he was saying I think last year I think it was nineteen nineteen bills for abortion. We can do a whole episode on abortion if we want to, but I don't know if he he wants to And and every single one of those nineteen different bills got squashed by the pro life lobby. Democrats did not squash these bills. Well I hit say that. The Democrats want the the abolished abortion to pass because then they have an even a better talking They say, see, they're gonna prosecute the woman. And they think and the pro life lobby is afraid. They're afraid because this will push it back to the Supreme Court and they're still afraid that what the what the Supreme Court will actually do. So they don't want to fight. Yeah, that's just why when Ro Roe V. Wade got overturned. I was one of those It was one of the few peop I was one of the few people uh that I was interacting with that wasn't excited. Yeah. Same with us. I was like it doesn't change anything. Well 'cause the red states are still not gonna do many and the blue states are where all the abortions are happening anyway It was a hollow vic it was a total hollow victory and it actually energized the left the the insane satanic leftist. TV it's a commercial. These uh two uh women are are driving and they're saying, Oh, we're gonna make it, we can make it, you're close to the border, close to the border. And the cop pulls them over and says, Ma'am, I need to take your pregnancy test And then he handcuffs her 'cause she passed the pregnancy test. She was crossing the border. She was crossing the border that tries to kill her baby and still What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna introduce the you know what sets apart a good biblical church, what uh uh and the thing and of course the sanctity of life would be one of those things. So that'll give us a chance wants to continue to talk about the issue uh you know as much as we want to. We can make the whole thing about abortion as far as I'm concerned. I mean you know that's like a big topic. Yeah, a and it's an evergreen like it's never going away. And we could do every show on abortion. Right seriously, we could talk about abortion every single week and that becomes the challenge uh to try to talk about other things besides that one thing because it's such a passion point and it's the most important so obvious. All right, let me uh please because they're all dead. Good morning to ya on News Radio 930 WFMB. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate joined this week by Imran Razvi, known as Raz to his friends, and Daniel Razvi, I'm not sure what he's known to as his friends, just Daniel. So his enemies and his friends call him Daniel. Uh and you can also known as Daniel's father. Oh. Okay. And then you're sometimes known as Imran's son. No. No. Anyway, you can find them online at conqueredbylove. org. They've got a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries. And uh they have a church. It's called The Church of East in Imran's house. And I'm the pastor of a church, Household of Faith in Christ. And you can find me and my church online at householdoffaith in Christ. com. Of course, you can connect with the show there, or you can connect with the show at WFMD. com. So last week was like a therapy session. I had a chance to vent all my grievances about what's wrong with the Republican Party. I had an opportunity to go to DC not too long ago with the Wall Builders David Barton uh organization And um we weren't going to be talking about that originally. When we walked into the studio, we're going to be talking about what defines Christianity and what is, here's a word of week for you, adiaphora. Adiaphora is just a fancy word of saying, what are What are things we can agree to disagree on? What are secondary, tertiary matters that aren't definitive, right? They're important maybe, but they're not definitive. And um I feel like we had some leftover things possibly to say about last week because we got on a roll talking about the sanctity of life and you know, abortion and how the Republicans just won't do anything about it and because of the the quote unquote pro-life lobby that undercuts all the abolition movements Uh that would be one of the marks of Christianity, right? High regard for image bearers, right? The sanctity of life. That would be a a mark. Yeah. It should be one of the most obvious fruits. In fact, uh I think E even uh twenty plus years ago when we weren't even when we weren't as as doctrinally aware and we were looking for churches to attend, that was one of the two questions you always asked. My parents have two questions. When you go to interview a pastor for a new church that you're going to, do you read from the Bible during church service? And what is your opinion about abortion? And did you ever get a no on the first question? Yeah. Yes. They got some no's they like a Bible verse, but it's not always. And Um it's not necessary. Wow. I mean it's one thing to not do it. It's another thing to say, yeah no, we don't do that. Like to to admit it. Oh yeah, we wouldn't want that. But most of them. It was like that megaturch that was on the news for uh for somebody leaked that they were preparing their sermon notes for for Easter services And they said they cannot use the word resurrection in the whole uh Easter service to not offend people. How do you have an Easter elevation church? Uh it was no it was an unnamed church in North Carolina, so they didn't the news. Yeah, I think it was Stephen Fur I think it was Stephen Furtick's church. He's in North Carolina, I'm pretty sure. So but that's that's the example, right? So most of the churches will they'll they'll say, Oh yeah, we'd read from the Bible, even if they don't do it that much. But almost uh none of his mainline churches are willing to say, oh, exactly yes, abortion is murder, it's wrong, it's evil. The most common answer we got that's a complicated question and we can sit down and talk about it and discuss it. But not one church would ever say, yeah, we're against abortion. It's always a complicated answer. Yeah, so that will be the mark of a good church. That would be, I think, something that's non-negotiable and definitive for Christianity. So I think that that would say that those pastors are like wolves in sheep's clothing. Yeah, right. But I would go one step further. life. But I would bet that not a one of them that you can find, it would be rarity that they would say, yes, it is actually murder and the woman and anybody else involved in counseling the woman to murder the baby is conspiracy to murder. None of them will do that because that's the biggest problem. Unless we declare that it is murder, then what we don't have anything to stand on. And it sounds shocking to contemporary ears and but you know particularly if you don't go to a church that talks like this, you're like, what are you talking about? But let's just change and not just the woman Before you say, Oh, you're just chauvinist people. No. The boyfriend or the husband is in many cases really forcing and encouraging this woman to be considering this. She's not making this decision by herself In fact there are most abortions are counseled by the parents or by the boyfriend. Those people should be held responsible. What you know, just change the timestamp slightly and it doesn't sound as crazy to those who don't already think like that. us, right? Take a 17-day-old child and uh because of pressure from her boyfriend the woman you know crushes the skull of her infant. We will all be horrified. We should all be hopefully be all horrified. Most of us, some people wouldn't be terrified. What makes a difference if it was one month earlier? What if it yeah, what if it was eighteen days earlier? Right, 'cause I that's a seventeen-day old infant. What if it was eighteen days earlier? What's the difference? Well Troy, most people aren't doing late-term abortions these days, you know. That's just a a straw man argument. Well, first of all there are some that do it, but okay, but even so all right, but then you start going backwards. All right, so if it's not okay, let's say the due date is, you know, uh July first Well is is it so it's n it's not okay to kill Viddy on July 1st. Right? Okay. Is it okay to kill Vidy on June 30th? No, that's too close June twenty-ninth? June twenty-eighth? June twenty-seventh? Like how many days back in June or May? Or April do you have to go before okay now it's okay. Based on what? Other than the calendar? Another The the the most intellectually strong argument, if it were true, would be my body, my choice. Right? It's my body, I can do with it what I want. That's a strong argument. Problem is There's two bodies. That's the problem with that argument. But even then, I would argue that's not uh uh that's only an acceptable argument culturally. It is not an acceptable biblical argument. And why is this Because even if it was your body, it's still not your body. The Bible teaches that a woman's body is not hers, it's her husband's. And that's not a that's that's not to say that anything's better for the husband. Husband's body is not his, it's his wife's Right? Your body belongs to your spouse and to God it does not belong to you. So there is no part of your body that is yours to do with whatever you want. But as far as government intrusion, I I think that usually I'll y you would hear that argument as far as the government getting involved. Yeah, but it's not a typical The government shouldn't be forcing you to do something with your I mean it was the core of the argument with the uh the mandates on the shots Right. So if a chur if a church is going to say, well, the woman can and decide whether well no. The woman can. Oh absolutely. Right. She's m if she's buried, and if she's not married then she has other family If it was merely a tumor, do what you want. But it's not merely a tumor. It's another human being. It's an image bearer. This is something that husband and wife discuss together. This is not just her. It's not only her decision Same thing with same thing with husband. I mean you get cancer. You don't you don't decide on whether you get you get your radiation or something. You're sniffing a married woman, but it's interesting because based on the s the stats I've seen. The overwhelming most staunchly leftist voters as a bloc are single women. They are militantly voting Democrat. Why? Because they want to kill their babies. And because m pro abortion, they're miserable. They're absolutely miserable because they don't uh they're not following their place that God has placed them in in the in the structure of life. They don't have somebody protecting them. They don't have somebody So you've brought up the idea of a husband and a wife, so let's uh pivot off of that a little bit and continue this conversation what we should be looking for. What is definitive for Christianity in general and more specifically what is what is going to be definitive for a good biblical Christian church? A husband and a wife, what is that? If you can't define a woman, I'm not sure you can define husband or wife. Yeah. Well um there are only two genders. There are only two sexes. Gender and sex are the same thing. They're not different things. So it's there's a man and a woman and it's very easy to tell whether you're a man or a woman if if you can't and you can tell externally, you don't have to ask the person if they're a man or a woman It should be obvious. If it's not obvious, then you have no business pastoring your church. God says in the Bible he created male and female. So if you say that there's anything other than male and female, aside from some random deformity that happened Or you're saying that God makes mistakes in So it is blasphemy to bow to the transgender movement and to use preferred pronouns or preferred names and things like that. It is not just wrong, it's not just inconvenient It's not just hard or annoying or silly, it's actual blasphemy. Now not to nuance this to death, but uh my understanding is that you know sex uh is uh related to the biology and now we've we've mixed and matched our terms but gender initially was a literary term And literarily there would be masculine, feminine, and neuter. Words that could have a masculine, uh, feminine, or neuter application and meaning. But now we've taken uh a literary term and we've applied it to biology, so that's where we get into this mess. But anyway, so uh by the way you were just hearing the voice of Daniel Rasby. Before that was Imron Razley, I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. So should we have uh as a litmus test question something like so where were you pastor and what was your church's stance on the Defense of Marriage Act? Would would that be because it was called Defense of Marriage, but it was actually an obliteration of Marriage Act uh go fr uh the the profaning of marriage act would be maybe a better name for it. But if could a church get that one wrong? and still be Christian? They mean and by cr meaning might not be a church for you, Imran, because you're pretty hardcore. You know, and Daniel, you're you're I mean, you're very, very conservative and Troy would never be uh going to a church like that. But it's still Christian. Is it still Christian or I would say no, it's not Christian. It's not centered on Christ. That's taking the Lord's name in vain, calling yourself a Christian and not doing what Christ asked you to do. It's basically a social club that's taking the Lord's name in vain. You come in there to socialize to have fun and and party and games and everything else, but you're not taking taking God's command seriously at all. And if you're not doing that, then you how dare you take God's name in vain because you're not a Christian. Call it whatever you want, call it Satan's Club, call it whatever, but it's not a Christian church. And the fact that you're calling it a Christian church What about the other related issues to the whole identity movement, uh homosexual question? Uh there are a lot of churches that try to pass themselves off as Christian, but they call themselves side A Christians, and if for uh in a minute for listeners, uh we'll explain to you what that means unless Daniel or Imran wants to explain what that means. And then there are other churches say, no, no, we're not side A, but we're side B. Uh my opinion is nobody else uses this vernacular. I've I've coined it as far as I know, but I think we should all be side C. Uh but um do you guys want to explain, want me to explain what those mean? So side A is basically Anything goes, you can be gay, you can practice your homosexuality, you can have a quote unquote uh gay partner that you you know you're monogamous with and and treat it as a marriage and those sorts of things, and you can still be A Christian, it's not sinful to do that. In fact, you could even be one of the leaders of the church, uh, living that kind of a life. That's side A. It's like homosexuality and all questions revolving around that are not sin. Side B is, well, acting on your Inclinations and your temptations, that would be sin, but identifying as gay and saying, Well, I've got these struggles, these things. It's just who I am. It's how God made me. I was born that way. I can't do anything about it. I didn't choose to be a homosexual. Homosexuality chose me because that's how God made me. That's side B I would say side C, C being for Christian, is homosexuality is an abomination before the Lord and even the inclinations and the tempt and those sorts of uh giving in to the lusts of those temptations. that in itself is sin. In the same way that adultery is sin. Yeah, and we need to root that out. And the lust the lusting after a woman is sin. Yeah, if I'm lusting after the next door neighbor's wife But I don't have to do anything about it other than lust after her and still sin and if you rooted out. Christ said you committed adultery in your heart. Uh everybody has their own sin struggles. Mine happens to be X, and this is the one I struggle with the most, but I'm recognizing that even those thoughts are sinful Which is what Paul said, these thoughts are sinful that I have. I don't want to have them, but I do what even the actions I do are sinful. I don't want to do this because I'm saved, but I do fall into temptation But recognizing that it is sinful, right? So you might be uh uh a prone to laziness or you might be prone to you know angry thoughts or you might be prone to adulterous thoughts or you might be prone to homosexual thoughts. That doesn't make you any less of a Christian. But But say but trying to call them, well this is just how it it is, well no, you can heal from that and you might struggle more with one particular type of thought sin than that somebody else does But that doesn't make it any less of a sin. Yeah, there's no prefix attached to Christian, so 'cause you'll hear this the they're a gay Christian. Well, you're not going to walk around if you're somebody who's prone to anger saying, I'm an angry Christian. Or what if you're um what do they call it? Minor attractive persons, maps now, right? I'm a maps Christian, I'm a pedophile Christian. No. I'm a pleptomania Christian. No, like it's you're a new creation in Christ, and it's not instantaneous where you're all your sins are In the rear view mirror, we are to work out our salvation with fear and trembling. Work out, work outward. Like we there should be some fruit demonstrated as we as we grow in our Christ-likeness y that should be evident in the way our lives are. So we're working it out so the world can see the growth in our faith. That's what we're all called to. And so the that's one of the problems with the side B is saying no no you can just identify as the sin Yeah, that's why I mean this isn't talked about very often, but I think it's similar with the uh uh drug and alcohol. You know, can't help it. I'm a recovered alcoholic. Yeah, I'm a a an alcoholic becomes their identity It's like yeah, that's a really dangerous place to be. You can have victory over that. Uh and I'm saying not saying it's easy But over time, you get to the place where you won't identify as an alcoholic. You can identify somebody who was once an alcoholic, you were once given over an alcoholic such such a psychobattle kind of a label anyway, right? Drunkenness, right? I was a drunkard. Yeah, and now I am no longer a drunkard because I follow Christ and He's made me a new person. Now that was something I was prone to It was an area of legitimate struggle and so you might still make decisions differently than other Christians just, you know, you you you know that's a temptation of yours. You might just choose to not walk down a street that has a bar on it just to save yourself that temptation. Just like a Christian, uh uh a a uh uh uh m most men may choose not to walk down past the Victoria's Secret store in the mall because they don't want to uh be prone to those lustful thoughts. You can make those types of choices. That doesn't but again you need to identify what sin is. And I think that is a mark of a good church is is if they can properly identify what sin is and how to define the relationship between the Christian and sin nature. Because we people say, Well I'm a sinner, I'm still a sinner, I'm saved now, but I'm still a sinner. Well yes. That doesn't mean you're going to keep doing those things necessarily. It means you still have a sin nature until you have a glorified body. And this is related to what's dominated a lot of uh thought within uh uh the church and just culture in general over the last four, five, six years as well, the woke movement, and somebody being white, they were sinful because they're white Like no. So you're right. It the church has to understand what sin is, what sin things isn't so they didn't steal that idea from the doctrine of original sin though. You know, we're we're we're all born sinners, we can't do anything about that. Yeah, but the point was white people are sinful, black people are not. Right. That was they got sin wrong. And because they got sin wrong, all of their solutions were socioeconomic, political, uh liberation theology, you know, which is heretical. Can you hear all these things? So they got anything in the gospel wrong. And so then they were preaching something that the Apostle Paul would call another gospel, as if there is another gospel. Um so they got because they got sin wrong, they got everything wrong. And so you're right to bring that up. Does the so I guess you could ask the you know if you're interviewing a pastor So what's your church's doctrine on sin? Or wha wha how do you understand what sin is? I'd be curious to see here. I'm not sure how I would give a short answer to that, but I'd have a hopefully a good answer, but I'm not sure I'd have a pithy answer to that Well sin is what separates us from God. And when when we disobey God or we when we when we are separated from God we uh are doing what we what we want rather than what God wants. And I also find what you said when you went to the uh capital, you the uh other pastors didn't really talk to you They they didn't talk to each other, they didn't really socialize. It's almost like they're all very protective of their flocks and they don't want anybody else stealing any of their people. And so they're more interested in just, you know, being by themselves and that's not what Christ called us to be We're supposed to be one body in Christ and we're supposed to have fellowship and we're supposed to encourage each other. And we're not doing that. There's no plan. There's no leadership in the in the Christian world The only leadership you have are are are people that are just in the prosperity gospel and they're writing books and making millions of dollars and people following them on TikTok. But that's not leadership. somebody that's trying to change the worldview to a Christ-like worldview. They're not doing that. One of the challenges I think that a lot of people would have, at least this is just experiential, it's anecdotal in interviewing a church or a pastor is really you gotta know if they get the gospel right. But in my experience, most professing Christians don't get the gospel right. So they could ask the pastor, so could you help me understand what the gospel is? They're not gonna know if the pastor got it right or wrong, because we so you gotta get yourself Educated a little bit, right? You gotta learn what the gospel really is, you know, and and of all those touchstones that are tied to the the gospel. Like we've earlier, was it this week or last week? But we were talking about the the image bearers. That's why abortion is such a big deal. Well, the image of who? The image of the creator. Like there is a creator that made humankind in his image, that's kind of how the gospel starts because that's the idea the ideal and it gets fractured almost immediately by by the fall, by sin, Adam and Eve. And so Some too there are some people that call themselves Christians and even pastors that would deny the fact of that They would deny the historicity for sure, some of them, and even just the fact of it. Like that's just a mythological fable that talks about our distance from God, but really we're basically good. But that's just talking about how, you know, it it can be i if you're if if you don't understand who you truly are. Yeah, three hundred years ago we would have been burned at the stake. Simple. Yeah, your pastor doesn't understand the gospel very well, at least, right? Yeah. But no but I will say this. If a Christian says that, I think they could be saved and horribly misinformed. If a pastor says that you're probably right, because the pastor they're held to a higher account, a higher standard, they should know better. You can't get that wrong. You you gotta get you gotta get that there's a creator right, you gotta get that there's a fall right, you gotta get that there's a savior at the cross and that he's ascended in heaven, you gotta get that right. You gotta get that we now out of gr humble gratitude want to honor uh our our Lord and King um by working out our faith like I mentioned before. Gotta get that right. And then there's eternal hope and glory with Christ eternity God. Those you gotta get right. And so many churches don't get them all right. And and there's a lot of things and we'll probably get to this maybe next week, I don't know if it w uh time this week, but we'll probably start talking about what what makes uh if you go uh visit a church, even if you're not interviewing the pastor, what are some red flags that might pop up that are not necessarily each thing by itself? Uh in a red flag might not be a knockout. It's like it doesn't mean that the church is necessarily necessarily a unbiblical church, but it's just something you should stop and think and if you start racking up a bunch of these red flags, maybe there's something else going on that's that's not a good place to grow your And if you're wondering how this happened, uh go check out the movie, the documentary Enemies Within the Church. Uh we talked about that while I went to the screening a little bit and it really sets out exactly how this has happened to this uh to the Western world, how the enemies within church they have trained our pastors to be these wishing. Yeah, and it's it's it's bigger than even that. It's affected uh academia, but it's it's affected all of publishing, it's affected media, it's affected it's pervasive of cultural Marxism. uh the liberation theology is is is taking root everywhere and it is an excellent uh documentary very well done it took them too long to make it Uh they started that documentary and uh but four or five years later finally finished it. And meanwhile the clocks are ticking and I I knew they were working on it. I'm like Man, we need it now. We need it now. We need it now. By the time they released it, like the horse is out of the barn already. Well it's been going out a long for a long time and the Mellon that they have probably enough footage for three other movies. That's true. It's just th they've uh a preponderance of evidence and footage that they've taken and it's just a matter of putting together and the money and how to get it out there, but there's just so much proof out there and people don't see it. So we'll uh we're gonna continue uh along these lines. I'm gonna I have some notes that I prepared of kind of the what the Arctic shows is gonna look like. And I had it pushed off to talk about in the in make probably not next week's show, but the show after that. But I think I'm going to pull it forward. And we're going to talk a little bit more about expanding on the ideas that are related to the Defense of Marriage Act. Because we touched on it but we didn't really talk about it. So I would like us next week to talk about defining, you know, not like Webster's dictionary necessarily, but defining what is marriage. Not only what is a woman, but what is a man. That's a question that I think we need to start talking about too with the the the the big trans movement Um and all the different things that are related to marriage, polygamy maybe, uh kind of the the kinist movement that's uh beginning to to rear up its head a little bit and and uh quote unquote inter ethnic, they call them interracial, I call them intereth interethnic marriages, uh all of the things related to marriage. I think we maybe we'll do that next week since it kind of came up a little bit this week Sounds good to you guys? Alright. Alright, so that's uh Daniel Rasby and Imran Razby agreeing with me. I like that. I like when they agree with me. Although it's more fun when we disagree. I gotta say. Anyway, I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me online at Household of FaithInChrist dot com. You can find the Raz Rasby's online at conqueredbylove. org. And of course you can find this show and this radio station, WFMD, at WFMD. com. And there is a faith debate page there. You can uh connect with previous shows. You can do that through Household of Faith in Christ dot com. as well. And the show is always eventually makes pretty quickly, I'm getting faster at it, making its way onto sermon audio and odyssey. com. I recommend those platforms. They are censorship free, so check those out Anyway, till next time, 167. 5 hours from right about now. God bless. Yeah, you're the first person I ever heard of that said the defense of on the right that said the defense of marriage act was So I'd be interested to hear you you expand on that. And that's there. Yeah, we pull it up. Okay, okay. Now you talking about the one from the nineties or the one from twenty thirteen? The nineties, the Defensive Energy Act. Okay. 'Cause the Doma, the Defensive Marriage Act, was what signed under Clinton and that was the one that that clarified that under federal law marriage is between one man and one woman. And it didn't prohibit states from recognizing same sex marriage, but it did allow states specifically to refuse to recognize same sex marriages by other states. the law that you had as recently as two thousand eight, two thousand nine, both Biden and and Obama I think were were saying this is a good law, it should it should remain. Yeah, I guess um in using shorthand I wasn't really careful. I was talking about the Supreme Court decision from about ten years ago about the defense of marriage where they ruled it. They ruled it unconstitutional. That's what I was talking about. So I should clarify. I should clarify I almost called you on it and I was like, okay, that's interesting. But then we went on to talk about something else. Yeah, no, no, the uh yeah, the Supreme Court decision on it. So yeah, I was good catch, thank you. I thought we were gonna have something to disagree over. This is a vape debate after all. Guess not. Two three. By the way, what was that comment? Um, and if you don't want to answer it on the stream, because we are still streaming right now, in the text exchange about uh uh our mutual friend and um you said something about well it is the faith debate after all and I didn't understand the reference. You know what I'm talking about? I I know what you I think I think there was cross uh chatter in the text messages and I was responding to something that was not that they looked like I don't I don't get the reference. Am I supposed to know what you're talking about? So I took it to me maybe he's not, you know, comfortable with debate or maybe he's too comfortable with debate. I wasn't exactly sure what the point there was. I was like, oh, I'm not gonna worry about it. No, uh Braz is like, Oh, uh I feel bad uh for him and and I thought he was mean meaning well we'll talk later but it it was not not what yeah. I think Raz said something well then there this one have a slightly different opinion than the other ones on the panel on whatever topic we were about to talk about. And he's like, Well I feel bad for him and I was like, Well it is a debate after all. You're supposed to have different opinions. That's what I meant. Oh, okay. All right. That's what I All right. Are you ready to jump back in? Oh, I gotta pull this up. That's not good. I think this show is at its best when we don't all agree on stuff. Otherwise you gotta rename it. There is a retraction or at least a correction forthcoming. This is the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I am Troy Skinner, Pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of FaithInChrist. com. Joined this week again by Daniel Razby and Imran Razby, also known as Daniel's father or Daniel's dad, I forget what he said, which one of those he is he. You said one of those two. Daniel's father. Daniel's father. So so we we are not infallible. We actually do make mistakes every now and then. That's what you're getting to Uh yeah. Speak for yourself, no actually I'm speaking by God who is infallible. Yeah. We do make mistakes. So anyway, you can find the Rasbies online at conqueredbylove. org and uh they co-pastor a church It's called the Church It Meets at Imran's house, or the church that meets at Daniel's father's house. Maybe that'd be a that's what we should rename. That would be a that would be a fun name for a church. I would uh beg all sorts of questions. Anyway, so was last week or the week before, I forget which show now, because we record these shows kind of in bunches And so they all blend together. But I was railing against was it last week's show? I was railing against the Defense of Marriage Act and I was using like mental shorthand and I wasn't being as careful and precise as I should be So in 1996, the memory serves the Defense of Marriage Act, the DOMA, as it was uh as then called, was passed during the Clinton years. Uh and then uh during the Obama years there was a big Supreme Court decision. Obergefell. Yeah, the Obergefell decision and it was like two thousand thirteen, two thousand fourteen, thirteen. And so they ruled a key portion of that act unconstitutional, and so you couldn't quote unquote discriminate against people who weren't really married who said they were. That's basically so they they gutted the key thing in the act. Right. So what you were trying to say the Defense of Marriage Act was actually by and large a good law. Initially. But the but but the court decision that overruled that was a bad court decision. The Defense of Marriage Act itself is actually But now but they didn't rule the whole thing I'm not a legal expert. This is more your bailiwick, right? 'Cause you went to law school and uh all that sort of stuff. But Um my understanding is that they didn't strike the Supreme Court did not strike down the entire act. They just took one provision and said that's unconstitutional. So now we're left with a Defense of Marriage Act that is actually law that in a sense now forces people to recognize two men or two women who say they're married to one another as so since two since that decision in twenty thirteen, the Defense of Marriage Act has uh i i we'd be better off for not having it. That that's kind of how I understand the legalities of that and that's what I was railing against. Uh a post a post-Obergefell reality is what I was railing against. Not what was passed back during the Newt Gingrich Congress and the uh Bill Clinton presidency. How the world has changed, right? Bill Clinton signed that Yeah, well I mean even even Obama the first time ran on a national marriage platform. Yeah. Right? So we were talking about like uh what are some of the marks of uh uh a a good church and one of the mo most important things you should find out is not only does your church have a gay pastor, because that's pretty easy to find out, you don't even have to ask that you can probably look on their website and figure that out. But would they be opposed to having a gay pastor or lesbian pastor or or i would they be uh happy to call somebody a Christian who is in a homosexual relationship that is open um and and and not repentant of that. So if a if a person is thinking about joining a church and they've done some due diligence but they still have some questions And one of them is this. Like the website doesn't seem to say a lot about marriage. They visited a handful of times and marriage hasn't come up yet. And so they just they want to make sure they want to check that box. So they say, Mr. Pastor. Sure. Um glad to meet you. W how would you define marriage? What kind of answer w should they be hoping to hear? Marriage is a covenant before God for a lifetime commitment between one man and one woman to raise a family together. That's uh I mean that it's it's should be pretty simple. So one man, one woman, so it can't be two men and two women. Right No? It can't be uh two women and one man? But it's not a marriage. God called marriage between male and female. female, one man, one woman. And and so then you get into the question about polygamy and and so on and and there is certainly biblical. Well bestiality is a little bit separate from polygamy because bestiality is specifically condemned in all cases in the Bible. Bible. There are some things like divorce and polygamy that are you you could argue are not explicitly condemned by the Bible. Bible in certain circumstances. It's just shown that it's every circumstance that has ever given an example of the Bible turns out bad. Jesus himself said God's original plan was one man and one woman, not multiple women Yeah, I think the ideal is clear. The ideal is put forward clearly, but then when people deviate from that ideal, what is that? And yeah, I think implicitly, like you said You can trace it out. If you if that what Daniel just said, take the time, find out who had multiple wives, and then look at how those multiple relationships affected their progeny, their lives, their wealth, their their success in life. It's always bad. Every time. Every single time. Yep. And including divorce too. The the divorce as well. And and that's why Jesus was trying to clarify, look, you know, th there there may be certain circumstances where divorce happens, but that's not God's plan. Um so a pastor could give an a somewhat nuanced explanation of divorce or maybe even you know that that that that polygamy thing which we just talked about, but it should end up with well God's plan is for one man and one woman. That's that's the thing. There is no nuanced explanation of homosexuality or bestiality What about a woman who wants to marry a building? That's happened, by the way. Well that that would be I'm making that up. More than oh yeah. More than that definition. Mental illness, yeah. No, she identifies as somewhere on that spectrum of fifty-seven genders. Identifies is problem, right? So who doesn't get to identify as it identifies? God gets to what God created you. And again, your pastor should be able to have a quick, easy answer for this, that marriage is a man and a woman. There is no other marriage. And there's and and they're not if you're living together and you're not married, you know, some people say, well, that's kind of the same thing. But what's a woman, right? But what if somebody who's, you know, um uh got the plumbing, I'm trying to figure out to kind of keep this uh G rated. Got the plumbing of what we would identify as a man, says he's a woman. Doesn't he qu qualify as a woman? No. No. He's got a mental illness that should be So so what's a woman? There was a documentary about that that you might want to watch too. It's based on biology and it's it's it's pretty obvious there's only two uh types of people. There's men and there's women. And even beyond that, if there are practical living out life things that are the the the the the the the purpose of a woman or the the call on women's life. There's something about femininity that is unique to femininity, right? And there's something about masculinity that's unique to masculinity. Like the or if not unique, at least um uh more heavily emphasized. Like men should are men are to be providers or to go be conquerors, right? Protectors and that's what you know, and women are nurturers and and helpmates that help to help their husbands if they're married to take over the world. Right, so they they have roles, so it's not just that they're plumbing, but that there are things that God expects gender is not a social construct? There are things that it's a biblical construct. Not a social construct, it's a biblical construct. Right? So the gender roles are commanded by God. And yes, so the the your your pastor and your church should be teaching what are the proper roles that God has commanded for men and women. But Th there those I mean various men or women may feel more or less masculine or feminine, but it's still very clear that it is a woman and it's a man, right? There's 'cause there's some of those roles can certainly overlap in certain areas and you know, maybe maybe you have a a a uh a widow and now she's kinda have to provide for her family also, not just Even though the husband's job is is to provide. So sometimes some of those roles can overlap slightly, um, but you don't want to usurp the role and take over the role that somebody else is supposed to be providing. So that's something that should be taught in the in the church. But just at a basic level, if your pastor can't determine very easily what's a woman or a man, then you know that's the thing. Did you see that clip it wasn't too long ago? Riley Gaines is a very accomplished collegiate swimmer. I think she was like maybe the best female swimmer in the country. Uh and then she she was so good in fact that she tied she tied the male swimmer. Right. That's how good she is. Well this was a very slow male swimmer, but just to just be clear. He would have been in way last place in in the men's competition. Oh yeah, it compared to men. But he was good enough that he was winning all the competitions against the women because he's a man. He has blown him out of the water and yet he didn't blow her out of the water. That's how good she is. So she's this rare woman that's good enough to tie the like some five hundred and fiftieth ranked male swimmer in the country, right? Right. So that's how but anyway, because of politics and virtue signaling all that sort of stuff, he got the win. Like he was awarded the accolades. He he he was up on the stage as the winner, even though she tied she wasn't treated like the winner. So anyway, but did you see the clip with her? She was speaking before some government talking head, pinhead guy somewhere, I don't know where. And he actually asked her in like a hearing, a public hearing Uh well Ms Ms. Gaines, uh do you have any studies or documented evidence that uh you know Individuals that are born male have any sort of uh advantage over women in an athletic contest? Are you kidding me? You need studies for this? Right. There's studies that have been throughout. Well there are studies, but do you even need them? No. The the bone structure is bigger, the bone density is stronger, the muscle mass is more, the wingspan and for a swimmer, the wingspan is hugely important. The m the men have longer arms They have a longer leg kick. There are so many things that are that are built. Even if they put on the testosterone blockers and that sort of stuff, they still have the infrastructure You know, they're using uh you know E eighty seven uh octane gas as opposed to E ninety three octane gas, because they've they're limiting their testosterone, but it's still a muscle car. You know what I mean? Anyway, you were about to say something, Daniel? Well, but it it doesn't even matter. Even if you're able to show that somehow they're equal in power and strength and Who cares? God said there's different roles for men and women and they should be treated differently. And men marry women, they don't marry other men Right, because it's not it wouldn't be marriage. Yeah. And our culture it's an issue of I mean generically speaking is an issue of fairness though, right? I mean these poor Like I can't help but call these young women girls, right? These college college women in my mind they're so young guys. These poor girls They spent their whole life getting to a level where they can compete at a championship caliber level um against other females. And now they're being robbed of that opportunity. It's just not fair. And then, yeah, you throw the biblical worldview thing in, and it's like, okay, but even with without Just general secular society ideas of fairness. It doesn't even pass that test. It's fascinating that this has become the phenomenon that it has Yes, right. But this is a faith debate, so we should really uh we really want to focus on why why it is this way. I mean, because everything comes back to God and when you leave when you eliminate God out of the culture then there is no standard of morality. Well w why w why is that fair? This other person, this other man feels left out, so that's not fair to him. So you can you can make up all sorts of reasons why something should be fair. Life is not fair. It all has to come back to God. Well without God everything's a social construct. So this right? So this idea that oh I identify as a woman. There's no right or wrong. Says who? Yeah. What's the basis of right or wrong? Why do you identify as a woman? Why don't you identify as a barry dublan? That's not even a word, but it's what I identify as. Like who's I mean you're all random molecules bouncing around with no meaning or purpose. Exactly. Right? So speaking of that, what is the purpose of marriage? The purpose of marriage is to um really imitate or uh what God had planned for us. Okay. He has male and female, and as he is going to marry his his bride, the church, he has uh made an example of us um uh So it's a picture of God's relationship with us and to have children and to populate the world. A man and a man cannot have children. A woman and a woman cannot have children And what is the very first commandment to humans in the Bible? Not the greatest commandment, those which uh we all know is love God and then love your neighbor. is the second greatest commandment, but the first commandment, chronologically, the very first commandment ever given is to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. You cannot be fruitful if you're married to the same sex. So there's no way to have uh biologically anyway, to have children and multiply unless you use marriage as this to say, well yeah, yeah, oh they're just living together, they're not married. Well, God commanded it to be in a construct of of marriage But he does say be fruitful and multiply. That's the very first commandment. And it's it's one of the most important things that our we're supposed to do on earth. I don't care if you think the earth is being overpopulated. First of all you're wrong, the studies don't show that. we're about to have a population j giant decline. But God said to be fruitful and multiply. Therefore do so. And spiritually speaking, it gives us a uh particularly in a Christian context anyway, it gives us a picture of uh spiritual realities, Christ and his church. you know, the bride of Christ. Uh and he is a faithful husband, if you will. And husbands are to be f in uh human husbands are to be faithful to their wives and to love and care for and provide for And then the church is to be of sir uh of service to help Christ advance his kingdom. He doesn't need us to, but he uh He chooses to work through means and so we have a role in that. And so there's a there's a relationship between Christ Christ and his church that we see pictured between uh a man and a wife, particularly in a Christian marriage. Um and it's the kind of thing when I'm doing uh you know, marital counseling that I remind them. I tell the wife that look, you um are to behave the way the church behaves to Christ and you husband are to behave the way that Christ behaves t towards King's church and the church loves her Lord. And Christ loves his church. So y you need to love each other and serve one another. And and the other thing that's important there is the church isn't God. So God's got his place. And either's your pastor. And the church has its place. And you don't flip those places, right? Christ has his role, and the bride of Christ has her role. Right? And the the bride should never try to be the bridegroom and the bridegroom isn't going to try to be the bride. Like we have roles and distinctives within those roles. We need to understand that It doesn't mean that men are are just because they're bigger and stronger and faster generally speaking than women. I mean there are some women that, you know, are way bigger, faster, and stronger than me, for instance. But on the whole, men are gonna be doesn't mean that men are better You know different. There are some things that we women can give birth to babies. That's pretty cool. Does that make them better than men? Well they're better at giving birth to babies, but they're not better on the whole, they're just different. And that's hard work and that's a lot of pain. that said that was the saying, hey, if if men could give if men were the ones that could give birth only, there'd be like six of us. 'Cause that'd be only six men to be brave enough to actually have a baby and all that pain that endures So back to the the the churches and and the pastors and how to discern and things like that. So what is a pastor's reaction? When somebody comes in and asks these questions, how can a pastor react Because w the what are the the the there's like three or four different or five different whatever uh ways that a pastor can take somebody in. One is well I have a new c possible convent, a new source of money Or that's one. Or I have a new comment and a new source of some news to disciple and I don't want to scare them off without actually having a chance to build a relationship. That's no Number two. Number three is, you know, I don't want to get in trouble, I don't want uh a whole bunch of people s uh you know uh boycotting this church and making trouble for my flock. That's the third third one. So how does a pastor actually react. So one of the things is a pastor has to have faith in God and not in himself and not in anything else. If he has the faith in God and that's foremost and the most important thing, then he should react and say, well I'm glad you asked that question. Can I ask you why you're asking that question? Do you want to know what God says? Or do you want to do you want to be appeased and have a place that you can have your view? Because if you want your view, this is not the church for you. If you're going to learn about God, let me tell you what God says. And that's really I think the way a a pastor should address that uh question. He should not fear the person or free reprisals, he or a lack of uh another source of income for the church. He should really truly just love the person but say, hey, why are you asking that question? Do you really want to know what God says or do you want to know are we going to accept your views and change for you? That's uh Imran Razvi. The other voice you're hearing on the show today is Daniel Rezvy and I'm Troy Skeener. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 9 We've got you know five or six minutes left in in today's show and one of the most uh poignant and important things that was said, um um in over the last however long we've been, 20 minutes now, was what Imran Raz just shared about it's about God. They the the focus, the prominence is on God, who he is and what he says, what he thinks. There are too many pastors. I actually was listening to a podcast the other day. I can't remember which past what the pastor's name, but he he was making a similar kind of a point. And he he talked about how he learned a lesson when he was a younger pastor. You know, he was uh he was affected in ways that he shouldn't have by what he heard from the congregation. So after a sermon, you know, somebody would come and chastise them and say, How could you be so stark and and and uh And yeah, a a and challenge of people like that and beat them up and you know like that's not very loving, you know, you shouldn't be a pastor. And it would bother him Or, you know, sometimes the same sermon. Somebody walk up to them and say, man, we came here needing to hear the word. We are so discouraged. And well, you really challenge us the way we need to hear. And The Spirit moved through your words today, and I just want to let you know I was blessed greatly by it. And that would affect him. But he came to a place where he finally realized I can't be worried about what these people think or what they say. I just have to be obedient to God, to his word, what he says. And what would God have me do? What would God have these people hear? And so if you're a pastor, we have pastors that I'm sure that listen to this show at least on occasion. If you happen to hear this portion of the show, tell them the truth Right? Give them the Bible. And God's word never returns void. So if they turn around and walk away, okay. I mean God's sovereign, he's in control, and at this stage in that person's life, that's what's gonna happen. But you have to be and if that means your church is gonna be tiny, you're gonna have a church of less than a hundred for the rest of your life, okay. And if you're gonna have a t-shirt plus by the way, we'll get Yeah, or if you're going to have a church that ends up growing exponentially and you can start planting a whole bunch of other churches as a result or something, okay. But That fruit is coming from God blessing what you're doing, but you didn't do that. That's the point. Like you're not going to make That that's the big problem. We mentioned Stephen Furtick, I think it was last week's show, the guy in North Carolina. Big mega church, right? Hugely impactful in a worldly sense. He's ha he has a huge amount of influence on unfortunately on people um and pastors and churches. Um but he's not growing the kingdom. In fact we'd be better off without him. Without those pretenders And the people that want to have their ears tickled and they want to come to a church and have the pastor say to them what it is they want to hear, the church and not just your local church, but the church, the you know, global church is better off with those without those people pretending to be Christian. That's part of the problem we're in right now is too many people call themselves Christians that aren't, and it's because pastors aren't telling them the truth in the Bible kind of thing. Anyway, that's a bit of a soliloquy. Um and I think that that is really the true meaning of taking the Lord's name in vain. Not cursing and saying gee I'm not following Christ, but I'm saying I'm a Christian. That is taking the Lord's name in vain. I think that is really what God is uh was frowning on and and counseling against And uh we have enough time to to bring up this. I don't think there's a whole lot we're going to say because I'm sure we don't disagree about it at all. But I think it needs to be said in the context of marriage and what churches should be advocating for. It's really, really important one because God says so, but also, just practically speaking, I've seen it happen. Being unequally yoked is a problem. Yes. You know, so if you're a believer and your idea is well, he or she isn't a believer yet, but I know if I marry 'em and work on 'em, they're gonna be Don't do it. It's it's it's it's a mistake, one, but it's a sin, too, right? God tells you not to be on equally yoke and you go do it anyway. You know, you're you're sinning against God's word. Um if you're already married and then you uh experience conversion, well you don't run off and get divorced. No, if God commands you to stay with that person. You work through that. But if you're if you're not already married and you're not a now I can say there are times when you might think the other person's a believer and so you get married and you come to find out a few years later your wife is gets converted and you're like, I thought you were already a Christian. I mean we don't know these things for sure, but if you have every reason to believe, and that's why you want to have a council of of people to to to um to to weigh in and help you determine some of these things. And I think that's ultimately those classic wedding vows, you know, if anybody has any reason why they shouldn't get married, you know, speak now for everyone to hold your peace. I think that's one of the main reasons why that's in there. Some they can say, yeah, they shouldn't get married because that bum's not a Christian. And she is. They're unequally yoked. And I in good conscience can't just stand here and abide this. No, they shouldn't and then the a good pastor, like, oh wait a minute, what? You're not a Christian? I th I thought you were. You know, I I think that's part of it. So I uh we can talk more about some stray uh tales on things that we didn't get to this week. I we I brought up the idea of kinism. I w I do want to talk about that. And we touched on divorce, but we didn't really talk about divorce. We probably just spent a little bit of time talking about that because that's something that a lot of people unfortunately are are dealing with and wrestling with either in the moment or in the after effects of uh after effects of it. So Anyway, Daniel and Emrod Razby, thank you so much. I'm Troy Skinner, and thank you for listening to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find us online at wfmd. com or householdfaith in Christ. com We'll continue again, as long as they keep having us back, next week, 167 and a half hours from right about now. Till then, God bless. Yeah, by the way, a lot of the things that were on the original schedule of things to talk about Uh would have been areas probably for some disagreement, at least some nuance to disagreement, but we're we're holding off on those for the next recording session, so that's why there's not as much disagreement as there would have been. I think we would have more of a interplay of we agree on that, we don't agree on this, we agree on that. Now it's just a lot of agree, agree, agree. Which is you're waiting for David Which is f oh well. Um well David Forcey and um um Josiah Josiah. Josiah. Because the I'm I'm imagining he might say some things that strike uh the uninitiated as surprising and there might be opportunity for some disagreement. Uh he's he's uh really focused on the head covering issue, but I'm he also has a lot to say on other other areas. Don't we all. He comes He comes from a more of a Mennonite backwort background, um even though he's not a pacifist. Which is divorce might be another one to talk about. So he would probably have a lot of a lot of things to say about divorce as well. Uh even though he's not married yet, so that would be an interesting perspective. Um meaning like he like Mennonites, you can't For any reason. You can't even join the church if you've been divorced for any reason. Even if you were uh not saved and got divorced and then got saved. No, you're divorced, you can't join the manager. Well no no that that it's more of a remarriage this thing. If you if you think you can remarry, they they were okay if you got divorced while you were not safe they say okay you're a new creature but even now you still can't get remarried. If you do then you'll you'll be excommunicated. Um even if even if the divorce was for adultery. So rather have a Mennonite defend that Yeah, no. Yeah. I mean you could allude to it and then when we have mom and say, hey it came up in conversation not too long ago. Uh I really want to do if we have time today, I want to go through a list of things that are borderline, that are like red flags, that are not explicitly terrible things about a church, but in combination, like if you see like five or six of these red flags you should be really thinking twice about attending this church. Um things that you would think about. I mean music could be one thing or but uh the size of the congregation could be one thing, the um amount of fellowship uh interactions there are with other believers uh in there could be one thing how much uh you know interaction there is uh between the pastor and the congregation during the service. Those types of things. Like if you attend the church and you see these things, these are what should be turnoffs. Um, even though the Bible may not have a verse specifically about that. Okay. Yeah, I think we've done three so far, correct? So yeah, I think I I definitely wanna I don't know if you've been paying attention to the old kinest thing or not. Yeah. I haven't heard that. Yeah, well I I'll explain it to the self-explanatory. So once I explain it to the listener, you'll be like, okay, I know what he's talking about. Okay. Good morning if you're listening to News Radio 930 WFMD and good whatever time of day it is if you're listening to the podcast via stream. on some other day or time of the week. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me online at WFMD. com and also at household the faith in Christ dot com. That second one is probably the the the best one as far as overarching because you can connect with everything that me and my church are involved with, including the Faith Debate, through that one hub, that central location of Household the Faith in Christ dot com. But if you're only interested in keeping up on the Faith Debate show, well certainly Wfmv. com is a good place to go for that. And all the other things on this radio station. I wouldn't want to discourage you from checking that out either. Daniel Razby and Imran Razby are back on the panel. I keep trying to chase them away, but they they they put up with me So I I I haven't found a way to chase them away. I I'm I'm I'm being as rude and obnoxious as I know how and they love me anyway. That's the kind of guys they are. You can find them online at conquered by love. org. See they've been conquered by love. That's why they they put up with the guy like me. And they co-fastor a church in the Thermont area and uh it's called the Church that meets at Imran's, although I'm gonna playfully maybe start calling it the Church That Meets at Daniel's father's house. So w last week if you were listening to this show we were talking about marriage uh because we pivoted into talking about marriage after bringing up the uh Defensive Marriage Act on the previous week's show And we didn't finish all the thoughts that I uh I was hoping to touch on. There's at least two or three more. And I I mean in the context of if your church church teaches this or your pastor teaches this. It's either a an up or down like you should should attend or not to attend. Right, there's all within the con the the larger umbrella the last several weeks we've been talking about you know what defines Christianity or more specifically what defines a biblically faithful Christian Christian church and the kinds of questions you should be asking of the of a church if you're thinking about joining. Or if you're already attending a church, you're like, well, I don't know where my church stands on some of this stuff. Start finding out and um maybe you'll be surprised. Hopefully you won't be. Um so at the end I kind of threw out as we ran out of time the idea of uh about being unequally yoked. Do you guys have anything more you wanted to say about that or should we move on to something else? No, I mean just don't get discouraged if you find yourself already married. And then you're realizing this whole unequal yoke thing. There are some passages that really describe you know what you should do and how you should act with that and I I think uh um Uh Corinthians talks a lot about that and here's here's the steps to take and and to strive if at all possible to stay together. So we're not tr trying to break up a marriage because of that. But going into a marriage you should be very confident that you're And I unequally oak, maybe we should define what we're talking about. That's kind of uh Christian ease, right? Christian Bible readers and Christian people would know. Or farmers. And far farmers in today's days I'm not even sure they know. Right? But once upon a time farmers they would know, 'cause they'd have the the team of oxen. uh plowing the fields and stuff and if you had one big strong healthy ox and one that that uh wasn't doing the job uh they they w they weren't good partners Uh they go in circles, they would not go in circles. So spiritually, the most important thing is to make sure that, you know, if one spouse is a Christian, well, the other one better be. uh or they're gonna be unequally yoked and it's gonna their their life path will be circular, it won't be linear, it won't go forward, it won't but it's not just that. I mean uh I don't want to turn this into a pastoral counseling kind of a show necessarily, but there are other things. Like you guys are financial planners, that's your advisors, right? That's what you do for a living. That's an important thing to have similar ideas about what financial situations should look like. Like if one's, you know, uh wants to buy all the fanciest stuff and the other person they have the means for it, but they prefer to buy all the generic stuff That's going to be a source of problem. You want to make sure you can work that out before you're two years into your marriage and you're just at each other's throats all the time. A big one is, you know, how many kids do you want to have? You know, if if one wants to have seventeen kids and the other one doesn't want to have any, well that's going to be a source of constant tension and trouble in your marriage. You need to figure those things out maybe before you get hitched. I would say if you're young and the childbearing years and you don't have some significant health issue, not wanting to have kids is probably not a biblical desire. Probably not a God ironing desire. And I think that would be a tell for you, let's say, let's say it's the woman doesn't want I'm just saying because we're men, right? Let's say the woman doesn't want to have any children. That's a tell at hmm What else is going on there, right? What's going on in that in that heart? Because you're right, that's particularly women I think should want to have children, but even men, they want to have have descendants and have the their name live on, their last name carry on and so to to have in your head a a a a desire of, oh I think this number might be nice. I think ultimately God should be deciding the size of your family But I don't think it's reasonable to go into a marriage uh with the plan that we are never gonna have kids. It's just not gonna be an option, it's not on the table. Well God should be the one choosing that, and in fact the whole purpose, one of the main purposes of marriage is to propagate the species, to be fruitful and multiplies. That is kind of important. And go ahead, you related to the other. Yeah, that's going to be a very big problem, especially in these days. Uh I don't think public school even most private schools are to have a biblical worldview and what you're doing is throwing your kids to the wolves where your responsibility is to make sure that you're protecting and training them Yeah, so if you're you know thinking about getting engaged or you're engaged and you have had some conversations about these things, I would encourage you to they're bigger d you know, classically it's which way does a does the um two you know, uh toilet paper roll go over or under. Where do you squeeze the toothpaste to in the middle or the bottom? Those are annoyance pet peeve kinds of things. You can work through those, you know, i uh unless you are looking for excuses to not work through things. But these worldview kinds of questions, these major life decision questions, they can be a problem. And somebody they may change their mind, like you brought up the s the the schooling. Somebody might be totally opposed to homeschooling, but over time they change their mind. But in the meantime, you've been married eight, ten, twelve, fifteen years during the childbearing portion of your marriage And your kids are now going to school, by the f by the time that person changes their mind, there's all this baggage that you have to to work through. What are some other ones? I mean, we don't have to get into it, but I I guess since I'm uh on this train of thought How do you guys, I'll ask it this way, how do you guys, when you when you're approached as pastor, sometimes you think about getting married, and they're like, how will I know if I'm sexually compatible? Because hopefully they're good Christians and they haven't had any sex. What kind of uh response do you give to that question? Are you a man and she's a woman? You're compatible. I mean that i it's it's it's true. I mean you you can look at all these secular guides and determine oh I think this will be better than that. No no. God designed one man woman w woman, if this is who God has for you, then this is the perfect person for you. And there's there's a lot of uh you know You know, there's a lot of learning uh ex and experiential things that can happen, but you experience it together. You're not trying out lots of different other wives because before you choose your wife. It's just not the biblical way. And so I don't really care if the world says that you need to be trying out a lot of different uh things before you you get married. It doesn't matter. Even if you could scientifically prove that that makes you happier or more pleasure or whatever, too bad. Because God commands it this way. So that's what I would say to that. is you start with what God desires and he will make it uh it's such that there there is a um there is a compatibility there. The compatibility really comes From you both desiring to love each other and starting with a desire to love, not being in love necessarily, but to choose to love each other, and that's where it uh i it comes from and and growing in that direction. And politics can be important too, particularly if the if if each partner is hardcore. If one doesn't really care that much about politics, it's not as big an issue, I would imagine. But You don't want to have a hardcore leftist and a hardcore conservative getting married. They're going to be at each other's throats all the time. So that would be something And family relationships also size a family. Yeah, that's true. To me a big great value would be look at the relationship the person has with their family, their parents, especially if they're younger, um, their siblings, their cousins. If they don't get along with any of their family members, then Then that's should be a major red flag. Right? And for Daniel personally, if uh the spouse doesn't like guns, then that's a big no Yeah, well areas of interest can be important too. They're they're more secondary, but yeah, one person likes to golf, the other person hates the outdoors. One person likes to go on nature hikes and go fishing and hunting, the other person would rather be needle pointing and reading a book. being able to spend time together naturally can be important. But you can work through those those things relatively easily. But I mean you bringing up the guns thing that the that does play into the your your ideas and expectations Of the role of the husband as a provider and protector, which we talked about last week, protector, and many Christians would be of the opinion that the husband should defend his wife from any sort of attack physically as well as spiritually. And if somebody's coming in to rape her or to kill her, then you should kill the person that's doing that. And then the there's a whole branch of Christianity, several the large denominations that are very much of We should not fight back for any reason, even if they kill us, use it to kill our wives and kids in front of us. And there uh well I don't hold to that uh doctrine. I I know there's some very well thought out reasons behind those the doctrine and you should definitely discuss your opinions on that and probably have similar can use on the on that doctrine before you get married because you don't want to come in uh w you don't want a wife expecting her husband's gonna be defending her physically and that he's not but because he has some valid biblical reason that he thinks that's that's there. That should be discussed beforehand. Right? Um and and not not not to make that doctrine invalid because I think that that may be one of the more secondary issues if you've really uh uh thought about it and argued through it um which Maybe we'll have somebody on the show discuss that at some point. Yeah, you're talking about somebody you know that might join the show uh in the not too distant future that's gonna talk about some of those things. Maybe if he's if he's willing. Well let's say you don't have these conversations, you don't figure this out, you don't do a good job vetting the other person, and now here you are years later and you want to get divorced. Too bad. Not allowed. Hmm. The Bible th the there's different doctrines that different churches teach other on divorce. Um and there's a few different ones that I think are have some biblical valid valid uh um foundation. One that would not be is that you can do get divorced for any reason you want or just get divorced and remarried for for any reason. Um there are churches that teach You c should not get divorced at all for and no no matter what the reason is, you're not allowed to ever get divorced. And if by chance you got divorced before you got saved, you definitely can't get remarried again And then there's other churches that will say, well, it's acceptable to divorce and maybe even to remarry in certain circumstances, specifically if there was adultery. Um and And and and th those would be w either one of those two schools of thought I'm very sympathetic to, I think you can have a good biblical basis for those arguments But what about, hey, I was divorced and I got remarried and God forgives all, He forgives sins and I I'm repenting and uh now I'm gonna try it again and if I sin and divorce again, you know God will forgive my sin anyways I mean the Bible says don't don't uh uh d uh uh don't be divorced except in specific circumstances. Yeah, and the the the two exceptions that uh are talked about in the New Testament would be adultery as one and abandon abandonment of the marriage. would be a uh another reason why be and particularly in that context if the woman was abandoned she had no provider and so she needed a husband so she could eat, you know, th so that was probably part of it. But what about abuse Yeah, so yeah, so so I think abuse is ground for separation for sure. I don't think that God commands a wife to stay with an abusive husband. But that doesn't mean she gets to go divorce and remarry somebody. And I think this is where pastoral care becomes a a a big thing that you know I don't I I think generically or or academically or you know in a conversation like a faith debate it's easy to say, you know, this is what it is. But then there's the the the difficult real life situations. You have to help somebody navigate and it's it's really messy and it's complicated and you're like, okay, we want to be biblical, but we also don't want to be we don't want to be unbiblical to the licentious side, right? The the everything goes side. And you don't want to be unbiblical in the really hard, legalistic, you know, immovable side either. You got it and so the abuse um I had to weigh in once on a situation like that. It really forced me to wrestle with it a little bit. And the way I kind of came down on it was If in this case it happened to be the husband, women can abuse their husbands too, but in this case it was the husband abusing the wife. And the husband, um I think if the abuse is unrepentant, ongoing, no light at the end of the tunnel, life maybe is in jeopardy kind of kind of thing. I came to the place where I felt like that could be a way of of defining abandonment Because he's abandoned the marriage of his role as husband. He's supposed to be the protector, but he's the abuser He's supposed to provide safety and security and and a good life for his wife and he's doing the exact opposite. They're still living in the same house together, but they're no longer married. He's abandoned his role his role in the relationship and so One, practically, yes, save your life and save your kids' lives, get out. And two, I don't think because he's completely insane in sin that you should be forced to raise your kids alone for the rest of your lives, I I think that you have biblical grounds for divorce and we can navigate what that looks like for you moving forward. But I think And so that's how I wa that's how I came down on that one. That's why when you said it's not allowed electronics then you and I would disagree with the advice they gave somebody on that one. I think every every pastor should definitely um uh uh agree with you should not be forced to stay with somebody who is putting your life in danger, right? But whether that means he and of course that probably will lead to divorce. He's gonna divorce you probably if you even but the question is then can you remarry and there's different opinions on that and that's that's something I think that's that's reasonable But then the question will come up, well what qualifies as abuse? Is physical abuse the only kind of abuse? What if it what about mental abuse and emotional abuse and manipulation and and this and that? And that's a And again that's where the FAFCO care comes in, I think. like to say, well, it was the life of the mother no, it was the health of the mother. It was their emotional well being of the mother that killed the baby. Right? So i for my emotional and mental s uh sanity I had to divorce him. Well that I'm not I'm not trying to discount real uh awful traumatic um i you know experiences, but you want to be very careful, I would say, as a pastor before before Yeah. Everybody could make an argument they're abused. By the way things get defined these days, right? Somebody calls you a bad name. He abused me. He called me a ma name and hurt my feelings and made me feel unsafe. He violated my safe space. Like we can So I'm not talking about that. That's why again the pastoral care is so important. Really getting involved, knowing the situation. And you know, but I don't know if this is the best rule of thumb, but kind of a rubric for me is if I was giving the advice to my son or my daughter What advice would I give? And if I had reason to think my daughter's life was in jeopardy or my grandkids' life was in jeopardy, my advice is you know what? Get out Get Out And you know, and if you need to rebuild your life and part of that means moving forward in a as a divorcee. We can talk about that, but first get out and then we'll figure it out. And if she ends up and I would give probably in that situation, like the person's completely unrepentant, why should a you know, let's say a twenty five year old woman have to spend the rest of her life trying to raise her kids on her own because she's got a s a psychotic husband? Because so many people who are divorced would say that their spouse is the cuttic now. these days. When it clearly was just things like they didn't discuss these worldview uh ideas before they got married. But the problem is though of course in this, and this is where it gets a and and I I don't want to give the impression I'm talking out of both sides of the mouth. I'm trying to give a broad picture here. Ultimately I think what I would say to that young woman though is you made a covenant You went uh eyes wide open, you should have anyway, and it ended up being a horrible mistake, but you still made a covenant. So you can move on, you can be separated, and you can behave as though you're not married anymore, but in God's eyes You're still technically married. And so if you go and marry somebody else, even though you're divorced, he's still alive until the day that he dies. You shouldn't remarry because then you're kind of committing adultery against the original covenant you made before God, even though he's a jerk. And I know that's a hard stance to take, but I think if you get for me anyway, if you get there by saying I uh I think Bill Clinton, I've mentioned him three times in the last couple of weeks. I feel your pain. Uh but if you can get them, I say I'm I truly I'm feeling your pain. I'm just not being hard to be hard. I get it. But still you want to be obedient. And so this is God's plan for your life. This is the path He's got you on. It's a hard road. It's like well I don't love him anymore or Or you a husband can say, Well I just don't love my wife. And I I would argue that that's usually what's happened these days is that I just don't have the feelings for them anymore. And that's why people get divorced. But the main thing is, is your purpose on earth to be happy? And that that can be God want you to be happy? Yeah. And a lot of pastors say, God wants you to be happy. He wants you to have all the things that you should have and you should be happy and you should be happy. And even kids will say, Mom and Dad, don't you want me to be happy? And it's the main reason that uh what Daniel was talking about earlier, the people that are of childbearing years, their age, and they're married, they should be being fruitful and multiplying, but they don't want to have kids, that's why, right? It'll interfere with their perceived happiness. I want to be able to go on vacation when I want, I want to be able to spend all my money on myself, I don't want to have to take care of kids. And the proper argument to fight back against that is not Not to say to point out all the reasons that kids would actually make them happy and they're wrong about this and they really will be happy. The argument is who cares if you're happy? You need to follow God and you should be fulfilled and joyful And you will learn to be joyful in all things that God has for you, but it needs to come from a place of desiring what God wants for you. Um, you know Yeah, but it occurs to me, uh yeah, we're Protestants and we have a tendency to think of things only from a Protestant point of view, but uh there might be a stray Roman Catholic who's listening. Roman Catholics they may uh have a position on marriage and divorce. and separation and stuff and and uh they they have a practice that's called annulment. Okay. And they will basically go back in time and say, Well, you know that covenant you thought you made, you didn't actually make it You were never actually married, so you don't have to get divorced because you were never really married. Do you guys have any passive thoughts on that? Absolutely unbiblical. The only time you can go back and change a vowel is if a husband hears his wife's vow for the first time that day, he can change and cancel that vow. That's the only time in the Bible that says that. Or or if she's not married, if her father So you could make the argument that these two people eloped and they didn't have the father's permission. And the first time he hears about it, immediately he could annul the marriage. I I think that would that might be a biblical case he could make. But only the father of the bride could do that. Um and not the husband, he can't annul it, or the father's husband uh the husband of the father, that that that can't can't um uh be annuled. And there's traditionally annulment would only be if the marriage was not consummated. So they could say, well they didn't complete the act of being married. Um and so it didn't really happen whether whether they made vows or not. Uh honestly the the the practice of making like outward vows in a certain order like I promise to do this and this and this Biblically what you do is the parents agree, the families agree, and then you take her into your tent and you're married. Like that's the but the whole uh it came with that consummation part. And the taking into the uh yeah, the consummation part, taking into the tent is really important because you know the covenants um In in in the Bible it it it would be referred to as you you cut a covenant. Well what does that mean? Cut it's it's it's a blood covenant And so, not to get too descriptive and graphic here, but if if the the woman has preserved herself for her wedding night, you know, the consummation, it makes it a blood covenant. And so that's an important aspect to the you know, to the vows then being finalized. That's an important thing. Now in today's world where I don't know how many people getting married are um still virgins anymore. But uh They're not. They're all living together though. Talk about that real quick. What you w what advice do you give to somebody? They come to you, they want you to to officiate their their their wedding ceremony. They say they're believers, maybe even started visiting your and attending your church, but they're living together. What do you say? So they can't attend my church if they're living together and not married Yeah, so you have to separate. You made a mistake. Get right with the friend that knows you and they uh They may they might not even claim to be staunch uh Christians, but but they want to get married and they would like you to officiate a woman. So I would say first of all that it's not the job of a pastor to officiate a wedding. It's the job of the families to say that this wedding should happen. And I think the church should not be the one that's sanctifying the marriage. God is the one that sanctifies it. The Catholic Church got involved many years later for the purposes of controlling marriage and getting money. It was never n it was not that. in goodstanding and uh certainly I I'm happy to bless you, but I'm only gonna bless people that I'm I'm seeing are outward outwardly at least showing fruit and one of those would not be living together. Um so separation is the first thing and we can talk about marriage someday if you want, but I need to see that you're actually living not in sin um and and you made a commitment to hold yourself for marriage. Whether it's this person or somebody else, but it's it's gonna be held for marriage. But just r some random friend or whatever to officiate the wedding, no, I I don't think that's the job of a pastor. And nor do I think that it it's It it should be. Uh but it can be. I mean the past right the pastors are prohibited from officiating the wedding. But officiating isn't I think officiating is a problem. Oh really? Oh okay, gotcha. I think I wasn't tracking the church should not be officiating weddings. That was started by the Catholic Church and is not biblical. The the priest or the or the pastor can certainly bless and get his blessing and saying, Look, I'm I'm so excited that God has created this new union, but the families are the ones that negotiate and get involved in that wedding. And the two the two fathers agree that we're gonna get married and they make sure they get the kids permission, yeah you think it's a good idea, okay I think so too. Now you're married All right, that's going to be the last word. This is the faith debate. That was Daniel Razby. The other question here was Imron Razby on Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930WFMD. Find Me online at household of faith in Christ dot com. That's Household of FaithInChrist dot com. Never actually got to the kennel's question. We'll start next week's show with that. And then Daniel wants to talk about some uh Some uh what do you call them? Red flags, right? Borderline red flags. You might want to talk to your churches about it before you commit to attending on a regular basis. So that's next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless That would be one we could probably spend a lot more time on. Yeah, that would be a good show. I mean a note, so we we can do a an episode on that. I thought I had mentioned that before and you had written it down on the go we should do one because that's a unique perspective. I remember you talking about Um like pastors shouldn't have to like officiate, but I don't remember you saying that there shouldn't be anything to officiate. Like So the two people say that could be and if there's no parents because they're older or whatever uh uh or maybe the parents aren't saved and they're not involved in this at all, I I get it. The two people move in together and say to the world, We are married, that's all that's required for marriage. That should be all that's required. They are now if you're living together and you're not you're not is publicly proclaiming that you are married to the person, that's different. And if you're having sex with somebody and you're not proclaiming that you're married, then that's adultery. Uh if the other if one of the people is married then it's adultery. Right. Um but yeah, I mean the the Catholic Church was trying to control the way marriages were happening in the Middle Ages and they started this practice of oh the marriage is only valid if the local priest uh officiates it because they could tax that them and they could force only people to marry certain people that they wanted uh to to have more control over the community. And that comes into your uh cultural marriages, uh the uh that you were talking about now racial So I have no problem with a pastor uh uh you know being involved to certainly give his blessing on the union and stuff. And if you want to have a ceremony and invite people in Now if you want it to be legal under federal law or state law, then you need to have somebody that's certified by the court or you or a pastor to to do that. And I would I'd rather have a pastor be the one that's certified that than than a than than the government. So for that reason I would be happy to officiate it. as far as that goes. But it but aside from that, uh you know, that's all it is, is basically I'm witnessing that they made this pro proclamation. That's all the pastor's doing is say, Hey yeah, I saw them say that they're married to each other. And they're married. If two people you know, like friends, or maybe like business people even, right? You know them well enough and they know that you're a pastor And they're like, hey, we don't go to church, we're not really religious people or anything, but we want to get married Mary Sell and so would you officiate? No. Would you officiate in uh two unbelievers? No. I'd be happy to to counsel you and talk to you about it, but I'm not This marriage should be before God. If God's not gonna be at the center of it, then I don't want to be involved. I don't want to bless something that's not. What about I mean the vast majority of people in in the world are not Christians, so the first step they can get married, but they don't need a pastor for that. They just say they're married now I see what you're saying. The pastor is only involved in blessing them and saying that they're following God. And I can't say that somebody's following God if they're not saved. Alright, it's almost nine o'clock. We can do more show or we can do it. No. Do the k the kennis thing first, because we've spent too much about time about red flags. Yeah You guys have a car if you want to go. I'm not sure if I crush you with Detroit button. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. We're so pleased that you're spending part of your day with us here. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household. of FaithInChrist. com. Joined this week by Imran Razvy and Daniel Razvy. They pastor a church in Thermont called the Church that meets at Imran's House. And they also have a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries online at ConqueredBylove. org. You can connect with them through that website. So we've been talking about well we started out uh several weeks ago talking about things that are definitively Christian and we should be looking for in a definitively biblical Christian church, and then we Um the Defense of Marriage Act came up and the Obergavel decision and all that. And so we started talking more specifically about marriage and uh and that sort of thing. And that's kind of what we've been talking about the last couple of weeks, and we're gonna clean up some thoughts uh on that this week and then swing back around to the questions you should ask your pastor and your and look and what you should be looking for in a good church. So it's been brought up at least last week's show, maybe the week before that I might have brought it up too. There's a bit of a movement. You see it mostly on social media, but it feels like it's getting some traction outside of just social media argumentations. It feels like there's some young men particularly that are drawn to this idea of what is called kinism or the kinist movement. And so the simplest way to think about this is You know, country folk, they talk about their cousins and their aunts and their uncles as you're my kin Right? You're you're your family, your kin, you're you're you're you're from the same place. Like you might meet somebody, you know, you're in vaca you're vacationing in Maryland but you're from Alabama and you run into somebody else from Alabama. You're from Alabama! Well you're like Ken. Right? So you're you're ethnically somehow connected, culturally connected. There's something about you that there's a sameness and you and and it it's kind of bloodlines though too in the kinist movement So some people would would would talk about you need to s stay married within your race. I don't like that language because I believe that there's Physically speaking, one race. There is a spiritual race, right? Uh uh Peter talks about it in the New Testament that we are made a a royal nation, a holy people, and uh and the Greek The the Greek there could be translated uh as race, and so there's a spiritual race, but the we're talking about physical realities here. So there's there's one race. We all descend from Adam and Eve. More specifically all from NOAA. And all from NOAA for that matter, correct, sure. Um so I grew up with some of this in the Chicagoland area where there were some people, people in my family actually, that you know, they were of the opinion that whites should marry whites and blacks should marry blacks and Hispanics should marry Hispanics and you know and for that matter in the neighborhoods Irish should marry Irish and German should marry German and you know French should marry French, whatever. Um Now it's connected to uh part of we've talked about this at length on a number of shows over the last uh number of months anyway, the Christian nationalist movement. And it seems like a lot of people that are not everybody, so don't misunderstand me. If you're a big Christian nationalist person, I'm not saying that you're a kinist. But it seems like an off uh a certain percentage of the Christian nationalist people, the people who like that label are embracing that label, they're really drawn to in a big way this kinist idea uh because they're trying to preserve the cultural norms. They're trying to preserve their nation as they understand it. And so Lake needs to stay with Lake. We need to we need to do this. So in the context of marriage, I don't think that we given the cultural climate and things being talked about particularly online, uh and you know, the listener to this podcast, if you're listening on podcast or listen to this radio show, if you're listening on the air you you maybe run across it and we're gonna spend two, three shows talking about marriage and we never bring up kinism, you'd be like, okay, were they ducking it? Are they not wanting to talk? I feel like we have to talk about it. It's it's an emerging elephant in the room It's not a large element, it's a newborn baby elephant right now, but it has the potential to grow into being a really, really large elephant. So what are your thoughts on that? Well I think that left would immediately say, you racist racist person that would think that you can only marry somebody that looks the same as you. But Eli the the left is is also pushing the same sort of thing. And they would say it's cultural appropriation if you marry somebody from a different culture. Right. You can't win't win because the whole thing is is it biblical or is it not? And I think you know, eighty years, hundred years ago in this country there was a lot more kinism. 'Cause you had to say within your culture Irish did marry Irish and Germans didn't marry Germans and blacks didn't marry blacks and whites married bla whites and that's how it w it was. But we went w came a long way, baby, right? And then Then what happened? Then we elected the first black president and thing all went to hell. Uh and we got so many more racists after Obama got elected. And ironically, he's not Not even black, he's halfway. Right, so so he he violates the whole kidist ideal right off the bat. So but anyway, I'm sorry. And I think God does make it very clear that we are all descended from Adam, we're all descended From Noah. Now God did create different nations and he called Israel to himself as a people and he did actually command Israel not to marry other uh you know uh other Tribes. But specifically in the context of religion, right? Of faith. Because if another tribe, a stranger, comes and converts to Judaism, oh now you can marry them. Right? It was all about what is the purpose of this person coming in. You what you can't do is form alliances with other cultures. You c or other other religions. You can't say, Well, we'll we'll you can keep all your culture and your religion and your gods and stuff and we'll just marry. That's what was for forbidden, and that's still forbidden for Christians. You cannot marry somebody who is not a Christian and not just call himself a Christian but actually is a biblic has a biblical worldview You should not marry somebody. But it doesn't matter what they look like, more matters what they're committing to do. And so if if somebody wants to convert to Christianity and then marry a Christian, that's That's perfectly fine. But what you cannot do is go and mix that uh it with with a different kin. And and really, I mean, one of my friends talks a lot about uh, you know, the the heavenly polity. We are of a political uh um um uh alliance which is a spiritual race and so that's kind of gets what you what you said, you know, there is there are more than one race actually, spiritually. And that's really where your focus needs to be. So yes, you can only marry your kind, Troy, but your kind is Christian. It's not different colors or different nose shapes or ear shapes Or i you know, uh different holidays, uh you know, when you celebrate Thanksgiving and what you eat for turkey dinner, do you deep fry it or do you br broil it? You know. Those types of things are not what you marry based on. And I think that there's some practical political cultural things that are behind that are driving that. I think it's a reactionary movement. By the way, while Daniel was talking, I was racking my brain because I I mentioned it's you know the apostle Peter wrote it in the New Testament but it wasn't that was rather vague. If you want to look it up, I think I've now accessed that part of my brain. Uh I'm pretty sure it's first Peter chapter two verses nine and ten is where you'd want to look for the holy nation royal people. And if you look at the Greek you can see see that that language there could also be translated as race. So it's uh it's a people, it's a nation, it's a race, it's an ethos, it's uh so anyway, so that's what's going on there. Anyway, um if you watch TV And I don't watch anywhere near as much as I once did, but I still w watch some on occasion. My I have a son who's uh adult disabled. He loves some couple of game shows that are part of his routine. And so I sit and watch those with him and so you see some commercials And I'm telling you, there's an agenda, uh, a incredibly disproportionate percentage of married couples that are featured in these commercials are same sex. Yeah, they're probably lesbians. But but also black husband, white wife different shades of or Chinese wife, Hispanic husband, like lots of uh inter-ethnic uh households represented on TV and those exist and I don't think there's nothing wrong with that but as a percentage The overwhelming majority of people marry someone that has the same skin tone and a similar cultural background that they do. There are exceptions but as a percentage and it's like half the marriages you see on commercials. There's an agenda. And a lot of that really doesn't have Do I mean if y if you're if you try to figure out why do they marry people that generally look like them, it's it's not so much the looks, although it i you know, that they may have something to do with it, you may just find certain people to be more attractive because they look like you and You you're attracted to that kind of person. That's what you're used to seeing. Yeah. Right. All the people you met are look like that and so that's what looks good to you and something else looks different and people don't like different Um but that doesn't but most mo most often culture does play a lot of a big role and the um the left and the media would like to what would like us to believe that culture matters not at all in the context of marriage because you marry for for sex and for love and whatever. But no, I mean you're trying to raise the family together. And so the way you treat that family and how you view the family and what you think marriage is supposed to be in the first place, all of that is informed by your r world view And that yes, that should be religion first, should be Christianity first, but besides that, just different cultural expectations of what the husband should do, what the wife should do, what the kids should be doing, how they should be trained and and taught. That's gonna matter a lot and you should be discussing those things before you get married. Now you might meet somebody from China who has some of those similar worldviews and I would venture to say you are gonna have a if you're listening to this and you're a a man from Frederick, Maryland you probably have a lot more in common with a Chinese Christian woman than somebody who lives on uh you know East Patrick Street, who is uh, you know, uh a a bleedy heart liberal that doesn't ever go to church You have a lot more common this some other random but even though her culture is very different, but d the what the the most important parts of the culture you actually do have something in common. But the rest of the culture does matter too, so you would want to discuss all those things. What does she think about kids, how many kids make sense? That that's where I where I'll come down. But the it really the the primary thing needs to be are you marrying within your race spiritually? Spiritually. Because there is only one race physically, but with Yeah. Now some of the people uh I see I don't know if you guys spend any time on social media really, but uh I'm telling you, the the whole idea about skinheads and the white supremacy mov It really is there, you know. So I'm not gonna say, Oh, you're making that up. Those people exist and and they're pr they're a really small but very vocal uh group on cer on cer certain social media platforms, particularly Gab, by the way. is just unbelievable. And a lot of those kinds of people, it seems to me that they're advocating these kinist ideas because they hate people that don't look like them. Right. They are white supremacists and black people are subhuman and Jewish people are the worst thing in the world and you know all that sort of stuff. But then there's these other these Christian nationalists types that are more reasonable-minded Uh they're they they s lean in a kind of a kinish light direction. So it's more like, well we're not saying that you can't or that it's a sin or there's anything wrong. But really you shouldn't because you want to rebuild America and make America culturally what it was in nineteen fifty-three and the way to do that is have, you know, Ward Cleaver marrying whatever his wife's name was and and giving birth to beaver cleaver, you know, and and leave it to beaver becomes the uh the American ideal. So there's this like it's like this pressure, like well you don't have to and some of them say things like Heck, I've got uh inter ethnic people in in my family, you know. My my uh my sister married somebody that's different, so so I'm not opposed to it, but it's not the ideal I think even that's going too far. I think people will naturally be drawn to, like you said, they're drawn to what is familiar, like attracts like in these sorts of contexts. I don't think you have to artificially try to promote it or push it. There's something that feels icky about promoting it to be honest, uh to me. So anyway, that's my thoughts on kinism. Well this country was supposed to be the melting pot, right? And uh it e even though it acts like that sometimes it certainly didn't act like it's you know, we uh as Americans abused Chinese, we abused Abused uh Irishmen, we ab abused American Indians. I'm saying we even though I Italians and Italian even though I'm a recent immigrant Well yeah, and anybody is from the Middle East, right? Yeah. Particularly the last twenty five years. Yeah, but yeah, that didn't happen until last twenty five years or so, thirty years. But um you know it's Uh all around the world people had restrictions on who to marry. Kings could only marry other kings and their daughters or just the sons. And in India, if you're part of a certain case, you can't marry outside your case. You have to marry within that case. In uh Islam there's usually certain families you can marry into and other s other families you cannot marry into. In Chinese, there's certain families that are approved to be married in a certain So it it's it's been a worldwide phenomenon. It's nothing new. Um it's it's the way that uh people try to discriminate against p uh undesirables. Whatever they f they decide is undesirable. And uh my wife is uh ethnically from um German descent and I'm from the Middle East and we were a mixed ethnic couple and uh you know early on our marriage we got a lot of looks. This was you know thirty some years ago and we got a lot of looks, but then that changed and became much more acceptable. Yeah, you guys actually it it's not just you, other people in your family, right? It's it's been it's You know, a lot of inner ethnic mixed things. And these kinists that are the kinist light, they always say, Well it's fine that you did that, but it probably would have been better if you didn't. And I'm like, Why? No. Why would it be better? No. They stop. Don't do that. I don't understand what they're thinking. They think that, um the m the original American principles cannot be upheld by other people. And if that's totally wrong. I mean look at uh this guy that was running for president, uh Rabbi Swami Vivek. Vivek. He had a lot of the Christian nationalist type of beliefs or any issue that the thing won't take. was very much traditional Judeo Christian principles. And he's Hindu, right? He's not he's not even Christian. Right. Um and he's certainly not white. So the the point is d just because you look a certain way that Doesn't th that doesn't inform your culture and your worldview necessarily. Um but it's a very important thing. So I think we have it it turns out that the the panel that we have for the faith debate is a really good panel to talk about the kidnapped question because of your family experience and And uh yeah, you're exactly right. You guys stand for what America's supposed to be about and stuff and okay, you don't look like a German or a Brit, so what? It's it's so ridiculous. It's it's uh it's annoying because some people that are really, really smart and good and right about other issues, they they they tend to uh undercut their credibility in my eyes by going down these this kind of road. We're a little past the halfway point. By the way, I'm Freud Skinner. You've been hearing Imron and Daniel Rasby speak as well. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. So in the You know, t ten ish minutes that we have left. You know, you can go in rapid fire. You can go as rapid fire as you want, but um over the last number over the last month of shows we've been talking about things we should be looking for in a church and some of them were obvious. Right. But we're talking we talked about the big things like uh what this church stance on on abortion or marriage or women pastors and Things like that. And those should be very easy knockouts that you should be able to determine right away. You don't need a lot of weeks to figure that out. Yeah, but Daniel said there's some borderline red flag issues we should probably bring up. So uh so things that are not necessarily explicit in the scripture. You can't point to a a verse and pin it down. But these are some things I I want you to to hear as a listener. If your church has like multiple of these It may be something that you want to be more uh cautious about. And it may still be a very biblically based church, but y you know, it there could be something uh starting in the ranks that's that So for example, if you're attending a church or considering attending a church, you should find out is there enough Is there a small enough congregation that you could personally have every family over to dinner in your house in, let's say, less than a year Read it realistically? Um is it small enough that you could actually personally know everybody's name on all their kids' names in that congregation If it's not, then it's it's probably a big enough church that you're not going to get the proper discipleship and and you're not going to have the fellowship of the of the saints And that's really kind of cultural in the today's church culture, right? Bigger is better. Yeah, bigger you want to be in in the in the vibrant, the growing church. So you're so you're basically saying like fifty or smaller Kind of. Or a hundred and fifty. Well the problem with that though is most churches that only have like a hundred to two hundred people in them, they can't afford fog machines Well, that will be another red flag. If this church uses fog machines regularly in the church service, I think that will probably be red flag. And so that g that gets into you know well we'll get to that in a s in a minute. One mark of a good church I know in in Nebraska there was a church recently that was very biblically based and they were getting to that big point. They had like two hundred 250 people and the pastors and elders made a conscious decision to have a church split, uh an amicable church split. Say we need to split into three different churches, and they did. So that they could have to be a good thing. Exactly. They had the one and they planted two more. And and so because they said we cannot disciple everybody adequately with the amount and people can't know each other and Why didn't they just like go meet in different places but have one pastor video conference in his message into the other locations? Why not do that? Well again your your pastor needs to know you. Because then your pastor becomes God. You're following this one pastor, ten thousand, thirty thousand, fifty thousand people are following this one pastor. Aren't there other pastors, other leaders that can be there? And then And those multi-campus things where they video pipe it in. It it's your church has more than one campus, it's probably another red flag. It's very celebrity. So so let's talk about the the the worship service. You go to church on Sunday morning or Saturday if you're a Seventh-day Adventist or Messianic, right? You go to church and what do they do before the sermon? Most of them have some kind of music. We either sing or they play some music. Maybe some people sing, other people listen. Um if it feels more like a concert, that's probably a red flag. Regardless of what you stand on the music question, I would say if there's a drum set and a guitar, that's probably a red flag also, um, for a number of reasons and and we probably will have a whole show on music in the church but I I have personally witnessed multiple churches start playing more contemporary music as one of the first stumbling blocks before they start to uh uh uh falter on some more weighty issues such as the the marriage and the and the uh you know i i i yeah uh music is one of the first things to go time and time again. I've personally seen it. And I think there's some good reasons why. When you're the more traditional the music is, the older and more boring you might think the music is if you have a a modern uh uh pop culture type of uh music case. If you think the music's pretty boring, that's actually probably a green flag. Um but because it it really needs to be and and Luther and and Zwingling and a lot of the reformers had some interesting things to say about music. They said the purpose of the music is to honor God. If you're focused on the music, you're not focused on God. The music should be uh helping you to be focused on God and if you're thinking about the person performing or singing or playing instruments then you're not un focused on God anymore So that that would be a red flag if the if the church has a large focus on music as a centerpiece of the worship service and especially if you're doing a lot of listening and not a lot of participating in in the music. And people have said the music moves me. I feel spiritual with the music. That's not what she's doing. And there's something said for the older music and here and here's one of the reasons why. I had to do something on the stream for half a second there. You know, uh got people have to hit have to be able to hit the notes. Uh so th things like that. It's not like every song that Isaac Watts or Charles Wesley ever wrote was just a Grand Slam home run But the best of their songs have survived to this day. So there are probably songs I don't know if Daniel agrees with this. There are probably songs that have been written within the last ten years that God people assuming Christ doesn't return in the meantime, will still be singing five hundred years from now. I agree with that. But the percentage of the songs that are coming out now that will still be sung in five hundred years from now is going to be very small. Is it 1%, 5%, 10%? The point is, the majority of the songs aren't good enough to stand the test of time. The songs that are in those old hymnals that are still being sung. Those are the ones that have stood the test of time. And so those old same with old with books too, by the way. You read some of the the classics, you know, uh um uh uh John Owen or um uh John Edwards or Martin Luther or John Calvin. I mean these are works that have stood the test of time. I mean you might not agree with everything they say, but th this isn't well vetted So what are some other what are some other red flags? Do we have time for any more? So you got like uh maybe a minute and a half. All right. So uh s some some other things you should be thinking about. If you're going to the church and you're never You go in and as soon as the church service is over, everybody scatters and they all go home and nobody ever stops to talk to anybody and asks them more than hi, how are you doing? Uh you know, then that's probably a red flag. You want a church that has that is a fellowship The commandment in Hebrews is for forsake not the fellowship. It doesn't say forsake not the church service, forsake not the worship service. It says forsake not the fellowship. That's the purpose of a church service, is to fellowship with other believers. And if you're going to a lecture and you're listening to a sermon or a lecture and you're listening to a concert, then that's not fellowship. That's a concert and a and a lecture Which you could get on YouTube. You know, you don't you don't need to go to a church service for that. So what you need to be getting from your church service is fellowship with other believers. That's not just from the pastor. It's also all the other congregations. So I think those are some things really to think about. That's a pretty good one to end on, I think. And you know, the the fellowship thing, remember, We we don't use this language as much as we maybe could or should, but you know, we're brothers and sisters in Christ. So we come together as it's a family meeting. It's a family reunion. You know, and so every week the family is coming back together so that they can be in fellowship if you want to use that word, so that we can love each other, we can be in relationship, we can talk to each other each other. That's why it's a huge red flag. If nobody's talking to each other, what kind of family is this? What kind of family never talks to one another? Right? So it should feel like, oh, they're family Like they love each other. They're involved in each other's lives. It's not just, hey, how's the weather? It's hey um how'd that job interview go last week? You should be able to overhear things where you can tell they know something about one another's lives. Like they're They're they're they're they're living life together. And that was one of the red flags that happened to you when you went to the uh the Capitol building. There was no fellow. Yeah, going back like a month ago, yeah. The pastors were not talking to each other like they were brothers. It was it was a little it was a little s Which is stunning and discouraging to be honest with you, but hey, I'm over it now. Look at me, all smiles. Anyway, so that the last voice you heard there was Imran Raz Razvi. Before that you heard Daniel Razvi, I'm for a skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. We'll be back uh next week probably a uh different kind of a panel assembled because uh we're shutting down this arc of shows and we'll have a different topic next time. I'm not sure what it is yet, but we'll figure it out between now and then. So until then, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless. Sometimes this mouse is now cooperating ammo. Before my phone completely dies, I'm gonna how long was that little warning screen up? Did you notice? It literally came up in these points. Okay, well good. Alright, well the battery survived, that's good news. Uh thanks for watching stream, Doubler.