Alright. It's going to be broken up into four or five uh half hour-ish long radio shows. I've either devolved over the last twenty years and I was right then and I'm and I'm a moron now, or I like to think I've grown and matured quite a bit in my understanding of the faith and become quite a bit more biblical, like wow And then of course I have to turn around and introduce the show like I'm doing right now, the actual radio show. It's kind of right in the middle of Maryland where there are very few Mennonites. For man did not come from woman but woman from man, neither was man created for woman but woman for man. And I'm Troy Skinner. So there's a lot of respect associated with taking your hat off. So I don't know, you go ahead and finish your slide there. And so that's that's what this the head covering is supposed to symbolize. So they should just have their heads covered. So let's start over. And I'm going to pick back up in the same place. I'll be right back. The other voice you heard momentarily was David Force. You're not resting upon the full sufficiency of Christ. The spiritual reality is that as the man, as the husband, I am the head of the family, the head of the relationship. He's clearly the man in this relationship, and she's clearly the woman in this relationship because he's behaving in a masculine way and she's behaving in a feminine way. And we are joined one final time for this arc of shows anyway by the author of The Head Covering, Josiah Bonjoanne. So be careful about being too quick to proof text. You know, I I've been trying to make my case from scripture, and I'm making, I think, a pretty persuasive one. And the other voice you heard on today's show, the head covering author, Josiah Bone Joanne. So I want to apologize for all that bad theology you got twenty years ago. I hate to call them pet doctrines, but like specific doctrines that set Mennonites apart from others. in in agreement with um First Corinthians eleven two through sixteen. I just want to kinda lay the the pieces out on the board. You know, choose to think what I believe the Bible actually says. No. Uh it could have been taken cheeky, but I actually said, if you could send me an example of a radio show you've hosted so I can see how you get in and out of the show, I'd appreciate the opportunity to learn how you do it. He he was around for a long time if he's he's he's ancient now if he's still around. Is that his real last name? Six. in this passage equally apply to virgins as well as married women. uh don't I get uh let you finish your your your your thought, but when I say head covering I don't really care how it's covered. You know, maybe just by you you know, like a like a little piece of cloth like that. covering with cheese cloth stretched across it. He's just using it. She wouldn't be necessarily guilty of the other. It's the same thing. I've not had anybody yet, but I wouldn't necessarily stop it. the faith debate the radio show to faith yeah Daniel Rasby and David Forcey trying to help me out of this hole I think there's just there's just no digging out of this one Josiah Bon Juwani. It just says prayer prophesy. uh presumably a a strong Christian will also have this kind of running conversation with God in your head all day. So I don't know if that helps or not. Then you're gonna say, well why is it not that in other parts? But what kind of head is she talking about? A physical head with hair. And so there is a blending of ideas here, right? are supposed to wear head coverings and um she's like what do I do first of all and if if you told her let's just say you told her well you just need to wear some symbol that sets you apart as a woman and she's like please give me an example something that would fit this passage I'm not sure that I would say this. sexual immorality scene. be in a homosexual relation. As long as the the the spirit is followed, not the not the letter. And he said that and I was in a bit of shock. It's for for your own good. And you're leading others to disrupt and you don't have some specific biblical reason why. This week kind of picking up a little bit of that next week. So if it is a spiritual reality, whatever that's supposed to mean, what does that look like? He must be trying to do that. i i if you're saying, well it has to be shaving completely off because short hair is the is the uncovering in the first place. Alright, so that was where are we? uh they ought to cover their head with a cloth or fabric covering and when um men were were doing the same activities they ought not to But anytime any time you're dealing with like the the early church patristic kind of stuff, uh we want to be careful about saying you know all of the early church fathers held to this view or that view because we don't know what all of them Not that they afterwards go about with their heads uncovered in defiance of the apostles' command, for they wear a close fitting cap and veil. As that'll be his follow-up book, the non head covering. explain it it's called hearsay, right? in in in the or that it was a hot topic of conversation. So I'm not alone. Tertullian said this, Jerome said. Well we're gonna pause here because we've got a little over a minute left in the show. Hopefully it's got you thinking about things and ultimately what I would hope for you is if you would press into the Bible itself, read God's Word Happy Father's Day to you. and do so well, one a day. And I referred to it as gotquestions. But it redirects to gotquestions. And the other thing is I got some feedback from a listener uh just within the as we're recording, just within the last week or so. So it was like two minutes out of a two and a half minute podcast. Well, night as a recording day good morning, Sunday morning audience. Unlike television, which is the idea is people gather around the family room TV and watch it as a group, radio was much less that was like that back in the 30s and 40s, but now it's much more intimate. Now imagine the theme music plays, and the first thing you then hear is hot take number one is this person's a jerk It's very often a one-on-one medium. It should fe should be made to feel like they kind of know us and what we're doing, what we're about, and that sort of thing. You know, it went before you even introduce yourself, you're saying abortion is murder and then you just go under the right. Just to change things up because I get bored rather easily. I introduced David Forcy as David Radsby at one point on one of the shows. Is there one anywhere in the world that we know of? One location at a time. Bone Jawani, and he's written a book called The Head Covering. Anyway, before we get into the topic about the head coverings and stuff, um real quick intro. Uh and they're and they've come to to know Daniel and David as well, which is comes to explain why they like them more and more every week. Forcy, he pastors a house church. Hm. Twenty bucks we'll call it even. have previously. Macedonian stuff. Eastern Europe and the other one was another five to six month trip. I'm going to disprove the need to wear head coverings and I'm like, well I'm going to prove it. or whatever. And so I leave it up to the consciousness of the enough. because Muslims generally require it and different Muslim societies will have m more or less strict rules regarding that, but there are many cultures around the world that women are supposed to wear headscarves Oh, we need to be able to do sub-such activity while wearing a head covering and that's a really big deal. as we as we proceed in in talking about this topic. Yes, to my generic question at the beginning. Um that those uh those roles come with um uh the various positions individual according to but one of those distinctives wouldn't necessarily be having some sort of like cloth fabric on the head for the female. Starting with verse 2 of chapter 11 of 1 Corinthians. Is it a disgrace to him, but that if a woman has long hair, it is her glory? Josiah Bunj uh Bonjuani. try to jump to the end and we ended up as it turns out, I ended up not even bringing up the music. Can you show me how you operate the chainsaw when you're chopping down big trees? And it might even be a good take. Homeschool, immediately. You know, by the time we record like a half episode, we're just going to be recording. Yeah, the back of his book it does say H T T P S colon slash slash. c cultural contextualization that that covering means something different and today's w well it might have been the same thing back then. uh say is. and stuff. So she should have her hair removed to show her the shame that she should be experiencing if she doesn't wear a head covering when she's praying or prophesying. to prove that she's doing as little as possible. the head covering. leaders would do. prophesying or something. head covering as like what what okay what does that symbolize? Corinthians eleven, um, the the first sixteen verses. conclusion it wasn't necessary it was that the women's live movements forced their hand when they were marching for suffrage and then they also didn't wear hats to church, but they kept going to church and So that's where I feel like i it it uh the the modern uh cult culture of head coverings came out of that. No. in the church history about whether you need to wear all the time or only when in the church or only when praying or whatever. If you're supposed to be praying without ceasing, then maybe you should wear it all the time. on their cultural tradition, that may be something that the Anabaptist movement has always had held to. up for debate at all for two thousand years until the Women's Liv movement. to find all of that. Encourage you to pay attention to what we're doing here on the faith debate, see what's coming up in future shows or access past shows in the podcast through the website of WFMD. Faith Debate page there. uh thing you can even see uh the this beautiful man behind me at the to my right, uh David Forcey, his picture. format or whatever. other symbol of being a woman because at the time Paul was running there were differences in dress and appearance and and jewelry and things like that at the time too. But he was talking about some other thing that specifically is about relating to praying and prophesying. Um, I'm Troy Skinner, Faith of the Saint Faith of the Faith Abate. And we are plea and you you can connect with David through my website, uh Household of Faithinchr. to get the website. Uh yeah, his book is the head covering. Okay. says let the women be silent in the churches. the the women should wear the head covering if they are praying or prophesying in the first Corinthians eleven passage. the men present but they're teaching. So I would take a little different of an opinion than Daniel, and this is actually one of the reasons I take the different opinion. on in the sermon. You'd likely take your hat off. talking to him throughout the day. mentality, oh dear Lord this and oh God do you this this for me, whatever. the the opinion that there is this passage is specifically dealing with corporate worship. So otherwise you can never wear a hat. Can also have to do with the the uh the first in in priority, the the the head first in class, the top the most the one with the most authority Uh head can also be a a physical, you know, body part. till now. Verse three. Now am I to understand that the very next phrase, the next two uses of head are completely different from those first three uses? unless I'm misunderstanding the context here, which I might be because like I said, I'm grappling with this specific question. So I can know how to do it right now. here in scripture? Like what are we gonna get to right in the right? in scripture? which is a lot of the time, where there's not uh extreme, you know, uh precision, right, in how it's laid out that it should be followed. look like all of that right so so I see that there and then I see in the in the New Testament when uh when we have now right moment Troy. In in political sense, but in Christian terms, if especially Protestants, that's their word that replaces racists. Uh Bonjawani, the author of the head covering. salvation model. It's fine for people to and I think it's you know, if that is if if your conviction is to do it in that way, then you should do it in that way. the head covering on Amazon. He is the only way to heaven. uh praying or prophesying and I guess mostly like in the context of a worship service is mostly what I think he has in view there. He's very squirrely on that. And then Josiah w uh was was right to uh clarify what we mean by that term because it's a it's a word that gets thrown around all the time and if people don't understand what it means. uh pardon the uh the the common vernacular on that. Because I know based on what we said in the show. So I'd I'd be curious to see if it's even a different sentence for Paul. To be let off the hook from his leadership responsibilities. might mean carrying herself in a way that is distinctly feminine that any onlookers who might you know be peeping toms looking into our house would recognize immediately, oh And so practically that's how I've kind of understood what this is supposed to mean as it plays out, and not to make it specific to putting a piece of cloth on the head speaking about heads and head covering. But not be hair and be on top of your head. 14. you go for at the moment, which are you know it could be a spiritual covering or it could be a covering of long hair. dishonors her head, for that is one and the same as if her head were shaved. It means what everybody in this room would say it means. Like that's kind of the pecking order. So I'm going to uh say our bid our adieu to the uh wonderful listener right now. Uh the congregation wear head coverings and so he's trying to find some excuse not to do it. What needs to be, needs to be. But you brought the Bible out to your to the meeting and you read from scripture multiple times in this recording session, which I know you've been doing for a long time, maybe you've done this in the past, but since I've been on the radio show with you, I don't think I've ever seen you crack the Bible open during the Because you're always very sure of your references and you can just pick 'em out 'cause you you know your arguments. Uh I I try to steer away from reading long passages. But yeah, and you and you and you will admit now to what I just said, because Daniel wasn't a fan of those shows. Thank you so much for spending part of your valuable day with us today. And you can go find those podcasts and listen to them in sequence. uh up there and it and and uh I think he said it's like uh twelve bucks or something like that. Uh Josiah would argue that the church hasn't wrestled with this question until recent decades, uh, that it historically hasn't been an issue. the deep theology of this. question of head coverings for women in the church. And in the first chapter it deals more with um modern history and how it fell out of Vogue. Uh and so we do want to have an inter but it's ultimately primarily intended to be kind of uh educational ministry them held to because the the evidence is scant. If you could go to those resources like the Antonic Father's. search engine, you know, um on including head governance. But the practice is universal a and it is almost universally known. from the tiny creatures which are sometimes generated about the roots of the hair. So that might um Yeah, we haven't touched on that. What is meant by that? Talmudic thing I think, but a lot of d e even messianic believers I've seen will wear yamakas. Yeah, he still wears a little beanie. A particular verse ripped out of thin air that proves my entire point. go argue in court, there's rules of evidence. I in passing, well by the way, of course we do that. historical notes and the quotes and that sort of thing is anytime you're going to make a a a take a strong theological position, you're going to write a book particularly Uh but even if you're in a context of a radio show and you're going to make a strong opinion that others find very disagreeable, they're like, wow You're a loony tune. Most of the people in this room would have some affinity for the teachings of John Calvin. Yeah, okay. in this passage had coverings in 1 Corinthians eleven that he had talked to them previously about it. And they that practice in in scripture there's a there's a reference to it where it says that is the tradition of the church. of a preserved record. you take a sampling of society and you ask them some questions and you get a poll. That they were this is what they practiced at the time. uh what what the Jewish people what their culture is like today and it and it's very similar to you know what their culture has been like for thousands of years and that's it's a good lens to read the Bible you do not become a Jewish Greek Christian or a Greek Jewish Christian. have not and will never change. Uh it sharpened our arguments on questions we have heard before, but would have you think and that's if you're listening to what any of us had to say I don't know that any minds have been changed, uh, but I do think we've all had our minds at least slightly illuminated. And then go on to the next question and wrestle with God's word to figure it out. quite a long time. We are uh recording these shows in advance. of programs, but uh I was referring to uh females who were quote unquote ordained within their faith tradition in the quote unquote Christian church It's not long, right? a chance to start to get some live streamers populating the stream a little bit. And that will be uploaded as a podcast later as well. It was less than 60 seconds before the show started, and then it was maybe a hair over 60 seconds for me to introduce the panel and the topics and that sort of thing before we got into the you know the grist for the mill. Two and a half hours and he was complaining that I was just rambling on, wasting time. And so it's about relationship and rapport and dialogue, not just those of us in the room, which I'll introduce in just a second, audience, hang in there. for the guy who doesn't like these long intros to satisfy as scratch that is for him. Daniel Rasby? preach the gospel and I felt that calling very clear and strong throughout the years. Um it's it's basically a story about a child who had a very terrifying dream where he ends up owing millions of dollars to a library because of some books he borrowed years before and goes bankrupt and he quickly learns his lesson. It's recent, yeah, it's very recent. So what uh obviously a little tongue-in-cheek there. Well, the very simple answer is it's in the Bible, which I think everything in the Bible is of supreme importance. Be sure to tip your waitress, order the rubber chicken. leads me to be of the opinion that women should definitely be wearing head coverings in corporate worship settings. a lot of uh people of of the Muslim faith. uh within my field of vision where I've spent more time drilling down and trying to to wrestle it down to the ground. that that's the tac the take that a lot of Christians have in in the US. national or international names or just local names or whatever. I don't think anyone talking about it scripturally would get away from saying that it's it's a symbol of authority And I think that's fine. That is to be obeyed literally. throw out the biblical command and replace it with a man-made, cult more culturally acceptable alternative. Uh by the way, I don't have any uh any real problems with the NIV. Now I want you to realize that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is man, and the head of Christ is God. head uncovered dishonors her head. Judge for yourselves, is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered? I was reading and not getting the music going. Daniel Razby, David Forcey, thank you for being on the panel as per usual. Twenty plus minutes of actual mm meat. have a really long intro but right in the middle we stop and say something really profound. Everything's transactional. Oh my gosh, what do you what do you want? And just make the whole show that? to encourage them right before they went on the air. And uh Daniel Razzi with uh Conquer by Love Ministries, ConquerLoveBylove. Flexible. Like close? You spell it because it's his website. Now is this like the the real the real last name of uh John Bon Jovi? Uh then it's again I'm gonna spell it one last time. specifically though here on the show today is the head covering. with a cloth of some sort and men should have their head uncovered so if you're wearing a baseball cap like David Forcy is right now you should take that cap off. And so for now for me I've just made it a uh an issue of personal conscience for the men and women uh to figure out on their own and I'll give them whatever insight I can, but I don't know that I'm all that well equipped on this particular the corporate worship s setting that's when it should be. So I do not um I do see the reason why um Daniel would would have that opinion. Yeah, so in the Greek if it is it consistent same word throughout Corinthians chapter eleven, by the way. um at all but Tertolin. don't find those as as interesting. Either way, you know the the type of head covering is not, but I think the point is that you're clearly covering your head and it's not just hair. Well what does I would say the heart is what matters most and if the heart of the person is I don't want to wear head covering, I just happen to be stuck in a church where I do. And now we're getting into more specifics what we mean by the size of cloth, cell of cloth, whatever. has to do with hair. I don't know if it's 100% persuasive, but it sounds reasonable, so why would it be like unreasonable to say that okay they're they're they could be right? acceptable. it's to highlight that if she loses her hair she's gonna be so ashamed and therefore you should also feel ashamed if you're praying without your head being covered. Obviously you know that it's a shame to have long hair if you're a man, it's a shame to have short hair if you're a woman. uh 1 Corinthians chapter 11 and the rest of the Bible and I I've become completely persuaded in my conscience that uh that argument doesn't amount to a hill of beans um the doctrines of of the Bible that's recognized by the church. But you could definitely not retain membership in the church and refuse to to wear a head covering. Um we didn't have like female pastors and stuff back then. United States. a book came out, uh the Book of Mormon, and you know, there's a new cult that comes in and kind of the same thing up till about the same time in history, most, you know, almost all women wore head coverings and and men removed them when praying and prophesying use some other symbol. That's like in a couple more hours. Uh so anyway, that's kind of where I am on on the head covering issue. Verses two through sixteen are the is a relevant passage that we're focusing on. Corinthians chapter 14, he mentions no speaking at all. So whatever's present in these particular moments should be present in all of life. Well yeah, we're we are told in Scripture to pray without ceasing. it you know that's the prophesying part I'm not entirely sure. That's the amplitude. ask a a question at least about that because it says here it says that uh now this is verse three of chapter eleven of first Corinthians. from as I'm thinking about it now, kind of on the fly, for the first time ever in my life. if you want. If he was talking about spiritual head, because suddenly he's talking about Yeah, you can't shave a spiritual head, so he's obviously talking about women must cover her head all the time. studied things. symbol. Until she can think of something else that can replace the biblical symbol, shouldn't she obey the scriptures at least in the meantime? there. specific examples and and and I can coach you on exactly how to follow it. in different ways, but you should still seek to do you have any display those. I I think you've actually run right into the definition of legalism. in past yeah sessions. or a conscience, something something that's okay and and definitely necessary if your conscience demands it, but not necessary for all Christians. Josiah and you might get a good uh search re engine result hit on that we've been informed by by Daniel. uh twenty-five minutes or so on the faith debate. Issues tangentially related, pretty tightly tangentially uh related. the the generic or generic the more generalized uh uh sense of things he's in agreement but when it comes down to application and and what exactly precisely it means uh in particular cultural contexts in terms of like relationship with God, right? uh in Christ Jesus, in Jesus Christ. Uh a hundred, couple hundred times maybe. Christ has the fullness of God's blessing and he shares all that is his with others. uh agitated by the requirements that some churches placed on their members a few years ago when they said, well you can come back to to church, but you gotta wear a face covering Yeah, right, yeah. If it were clear to me in the scriptures, well then, you know what, it's just one of these clear things. apparently. Christians, but there are people who say that, oh, it is not very clear that uh the verses condemning homosexuality refer to all homosexuality. uh we were looking at 1 Corinthians chapter 11 and I was trying to look at the surrounding context and the argument that Paul's making there it begins very clearly with a spiritual reality And it's at that point that those that would advocate your position strongly that there should be a head covering are saying, now we're talking about something not spiritual. Probably David does in his home. different roles and they do different things, they appear different. Well if you read through the passage, there's multiple reasons why it it should be a cloth covering, not just like some spiritual thing that's difficult to understand Um and one of those is um we said it's not hair. It's it's one of many op many stylistic options. So that means she was uncovered before she was shaved, so you should also shave her because it's just as bad. Shave it completely off. shorn, okay, and then and what Josh is saying is shorn can mean either bald or short hair. side. passage to always be uh covered. So isn't it possible and I'm not saying that it must mean that. And you have your head not uh you have your head covered, mm and he was he would say maybe this means spiritually. but you're putting stuff under a woman's authority. So uh maybe all of us agree. that the God man Christ, his head is God, that uh man is his head is Christ and that uh in the order of things the way God has made them, that the the wife is uh her head is her husband. The son is inferior to the father in heaven, there's just positional differences. Bone Joanny. You can get a small name that's more specific to your book than later. You said it this is a topic I'm not actually entirely convinced on. You've got to do it and you have to expect a lot of your listener and say, all right, it's going to be a slog. Or was a fan of the statement. podcasts. Head coverings and here we are show number five still talking about head coverings. It's a company head. However, if we go back through like the earliest history, I focused more on like the um the church period from maybe like one to five hundred AD in my book. And I I could read a few quotes if you guys are interested. out. come to your own right biblical understanding of things. Seeing fathers is like nine giant volumes of you know like small text, double columns. Uh and this stuff was written on stuff that uh you know didn't last forever. like the three hundreds. Prophecy or service. the great important hero in the faith in so many ways, and yet I wasn't uh making it up when I say the real scallywag. Uh one part of his career he looks like an absolute faithful hero and another part of his he looks like a total like loser. And then at the very end of his life it seems like maybe he kinda came back around to the right way of thinking. passage that way. I'm just saying be careful. me kind of pontificating a little bit because uh what passes for strong argument on the internet these days is, you know, well George Washington said And it just so happens that the early um that the Bible wasn't written at the time that the first churches were planted by the apostles. the first churches. The cultural context would be pretty spot on to what it was before. to that and I think the Jewish culture, the Middle Eastern culture is extremely important and vital for Christians to be uh aware of. of how to act and how to behave, I think that's incumbent on all believers regardless of what societies they're in and what time periods they're living in. to become Jewish in order to be Christian, right? you know, the early Christian church very very clearly in the New Testament laying out like like no. my full answer to that would would take a whole set of shows I think. Something that uh we'll get to in a I I think this this whole discussion has been really good and I I think is very important because you know, Troy you sort of brought up several like at the beginning when we first talked about this, like hey, this is uh in life. I think the voice you heard before mine was that of David Forcey. Well here with Susan Fry. I've been uploading a whole bunch of old shows. I might say that they their church recognizes them as a pastor, or they've been installed as a pastor in their faith, but I wouldn't myself call them a pastor, and so I apologize for having done so in the past. And I just want to say, I get it, right? Okay, that's kind of a hard start, right? 90 seconds kind of thing, 60, 90 seconds. Because he knew they were going to have a very special guest, uh, Josiah, and I'm gonna get this right, Bon Joani. It it's ridiculous what happens to me. If I could only run into somebody who could tell me something about head coverings, I would be eternally grateful. what we should do. n uh not required at all or somewhere in the middle? when at some point I have to try to wrestle this and pin it to the ground and have it the position. Is that your position or just in the context of worship? So let me uh now that you've given your generalizer know which where the pieces fit on the board, uh let's start to go into some of the Um I would say I have a very different approach to this um position and um it's just it could be the way we researched it, but So my view is stick straight with the Bible and obey it. Word for word, so it's not necessarily the best Bible to use for a deep dive study, but I think for these purposes we're talking at least for now, uh we're trying to talk about the broader issue and what's presented here. or sh uh shaved off, she should cover her head. Be contentious about this. 67 and a half hours from right now to continue this conversation. And do it in such a way that you don't suck. and knowing how to get in and out of things, how to be relational, all those other if it's nothing but takes, and that's all you give the audience, you suck home each and every weekend. required but only in church. uh probably three, four, five times now over the years. confident about the married for sure. the passage, I read the passage in context as dealing with a lot of larger other church issues. Um Bristol at the thought of men wearing hats while they're leading others in prayer, but they don't want to make the women wear head coverings. to discuss. or d or divorced or whatever. um all women in general is because actually for three different reasons. um you know of every age. And when they talk about head covering, um Totolin wrote an entire little booklet on it, and he lived around the year 200 A. Like all the all females, you know, above puberty um practice head coverings. Okay, what was um or what is, I guess, David Forcy, your um reason for having a more nuanced, culturally contextualized Which is also possibly part of excommunication, depending on what persuasion. Uh my conscience informs I love this church and I don't want to have to leave this church, but my conscience tells me that I shouldn't be required to wear anything on my head. excommunication or not like well removal from membership I mean I I assume the Mennonite tradition would mean removal from the ability to take communion. that the pastors just decided they were more in pr kinda like you said Troy, more pressing topics that need to be discussed in church services and they didn't bother to continue that teaching. Yeah. because they were so against the topic they're like they recognized it as a symbol of what they called female subjection to males. uh kind of wobbly, uh which is a rare thing for me 'cause I'm pretty strident and s opinionated on on most issues. uh uh um respecting your husband and respecting the leadership of the church, you should be doing that in all of your life. Right. If that's the case, then why wouldn't it be that same reason for women? I'm taking my hat off, right? praying together as a group, we're all now praying. Well it g you can I'm not sure in this in this verse or in this passage. Because obviously it was talking about spiritual heads be before, and that's the what the whole symbolism of this is. all the time. Well praying. Only very recently as far as history is concerned. If somebody because right now on uh David's pushing back a little bit, asking for some clarification, he's generally in agreement. And I think that there would be a concern from some who would say that those who are advocating Josiah and Daniel's positions what sort what what do we eat, what do we drink, right? Right, there are going to be different sorts of buildings that people worship in. and walking in obedience to him, right, is is going to manifest itself in it's it's going to look different in different places It's one of the big things people say, like I don't want to practice it because that would make me a legalist or if you know and I don't want to advocate it because that would make other people legalists. So I've heard it. But I think it's because he doesn't know what it means. a person in order to be right with God and right with the church and make it into heaven would have to wear the head covering or they'd be kicked out of the church. Yeah, so if you can remember it again and we will we will try to go there. Um you can find me online. um as it relates about the the role of women and what it means to have your head covered and that sort of a thing. Part of what we're getting to towards the end of last week's show, we were talking about the charge of legalism, those that would require head covering, uh, being accused of being legalists. Technically speaking, to be a legalist is to say that you need to legally meet certain requirements yourself by your deeds, your works, in order to make it into heaven. Which say that I need to do certain things in a certain way. an assurance that comes with that, that I'm in union with Christ. You open the Bible and you look at the context. And then immediately, and I I would want to check the Greek and the sentence structure there, I'm not positive it's a different sentence Three times in a row he uses the word head, head, head, head, and it's spiritual every time. Are we sure? It it doesn't mean that it can't be a physical thing, but what's prominent of preeminence is the spiritual truth. You know, God is the head of Christ, Christ is the head of man, man is the head of a woman. I I need you to be the covering. So in the same way women generally have long hair and men have short hair. is required by this passage. short or bold, how is he saying that um a good punishment for her is to have her hair cut off? You can't take off long hair or put it on. I guess we need to delve into the Greek because that a way to understand what's being said there? then those who would disagree with the requirement for women to have to wear a head covering every time they pray or prophesy or attend a worship service or what have you would be able to say, no, that's not what's being said here. And they could be wrong, but they could be right, it seems to me. uh the created order. the symbol is also important because it shows us what spiritual real reality is. structure in there's a structure in place that gives them a different responsibility, uh that kind of thing. Typically could be could be a metal helmet, I suppose, but typically like a fabric uh uh covering, uh a habit perhaps, or something like that on the head. And uh and David and I uh at least are not persuaded at the moment that uh it's quite uh as specific as that. There you can find it on Amazon. Oh yeah. My headphones are loving what I have to say because they're working just fine. Uh I think most of us, maybe Josiah was the only one, but the rest of us might have thought, you know, we might do one or two shows on this topic, then we'll have to pivot into something else that's interesting to us, because there's no way we're gonna do a whole bunch of shows on And that's when head coverings started to fall into decline. Um if you focus on like the days the apostles and then after the apostles, their their immediate successors in the church, you'll find that they all held the position that when women were praying or prophecy and they all Right, a chance to help you to learn how to grapple with what the questions even are. So I will just throw that out. uh at least interesting and generally helpful, but not ultimately persuasive. Who was actually the translator, the first person who translated the Bible into Latin, for those who don't know. And there's earli previous to him there's only one author we have whose writings are still extant who discusses the subject head coverings, it's only in one sentence. I disagree with that. Right, we've talked about that earlier. is to show what the state of mind and and and other things that they want, not not to show the truth of what they're specifically saying. but what other people generally thought that they were speaking to and the context. to show that the early church by and large did interpret it that way. He, I wasn't going to say famously, but rather infamously, believed that Jesus was 55 years old when he died on the cross. very opposed to what John Calvin and Calvinism stands for and all of that. And that's one of the earliest sources, might be the earliest source we have outside of the Bible that talks about the crucifixion and the age of Christ. Um he would know. Well yeah, well who cares? You know, if we have a passage like this that people debate, what does the mean, it's like, how do we arrive at truth? Uh yeah, I mean the Old Testament was written, but the New Testament wasn't. How did they receive this knowledge, right? If the cultural context and we and but we have to remember, now culture changes by the second. um the the the temptation for people to think and the temptation for the for the Jewish Christians to teach that you need to But when you apply it to a different context, that same spiritual truth is still true, but it needs to be applied in a different way. and see what it is that that God is you know that God has to instruct us there for our here and now. This is something that pretty much nobody's talking about in the grand scheme, right? It's there in Scripture and you know there's no part of Scripture where we should say, Well, uh, you know, I I'm not I'm not really sure about that. that is it is still relevant to you in some way. and uh and ask other people that you trust as good godly people for their insights and their thoughts and this question and all questions uh as pastors, and I would just unambiguously refer to them as pastor of such and such church, I would never do that today Um well, you admit it. that he was complaining about. So you have any more complaints? people. And okay, you know, up in Pennsylvania and stuff there's a lot more that do. a little bit of a facetious statement that oh this is a huge topic. not necessary to have a a particular to have a a particular type of cloth or a particular amount of cloth or particular And it we can't just change it to fit our culture. placement of that cloth, right? Let me read that. That's going to end up being the final word. author of the head covering. Yeah. The way you uh get your chainsaw ready before you chop down that tree, I mean you could do that a lot more efficiently. There's advantages. And he was famous for telling his on-air talent that hosted talk shows long-form spoken word radio. Six, six. may be different in appearance. question. What is a woman? uh to be understood differently in today's American context than in back then's ancient Near Eastern context. uh by having some sort of head covering. I actually agree on this point is uh i i it y you do hear a lot if you if you go into a mainstream church and you say that women should be wearing their uh head coverings So that's that's what I say. So I feel like it wasn't that the that there were some doctrinal or or theological debates in the church over the issue and most of them came to the conclusion. pastors of different denominations came up with the doctrine is no longer necessary. on this. Um, you know, women praying and prophesying and that sort of a thing. And in between shows, David Forcy was kind of picking at that question a little bit like so. Whenever a woman prays or prophesies that she's to wear a head covering. this but uh I don't forgive me if I'm speaking for you but I'm just trying to clarify and synthesize in my own mind some of the issues now that are that are arising. Alright, so like the amplified says, every man who prays or prophesies with something on his head dishonors his head and the one who is his head. We're getting some insight into how Troy The C E B, every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered, shames his head. purpose to this, right? I just it's not an issue. Cover dishonors his head. all the time, because right, the the head of Christ is God all the time. So actually I would say we're in the minority in the West, but over in the West it's debated. Right. I guess they're increasing. I'm surprised nobody mentioned the the fact that I mean many people view it as just a cultural command. Well, this time it's a the the conviction that I'm talking about is not whether scripture should be obeyed or not, right? display in incorporated. you know, dangling by a spider's thread on these questions. And I think what you're saying is the term can be variously interpreted. Now I think that one of my hesitancies on taking a strong stance on this has been related to this question because kind of a core tenant uh for my theological framework is you know union with Christ. And I was like, how dare you place a requirement on somebody to come and corporately gather as they've been commanded by God to not neglect the gathering? I'm saying that our muddled minds have had a hard time making it uh understood in a way that is clear. So I need to conduct myself in such a manner in all areas of life, whatever that might look like in our house, in today's culture, you know, those sorts of things. So that's kind of where I've been, but again I'm not real much. I don't see it. This this word shorn here actually means either bold or having short hair. This is talking about because I and my point from two shows ago, we're to pray without ceasing. That's what we right? doesn't have headship that o that allows himself to be underneath the the w the husband, for example, to be positionally underneath the woman. And and I mean we're centering only on this passage. One of many. reading anything, even if it's God's word, is is not always the most engaging thing for the listener. And there was I couldn't think of a of a better way that would be fair to the statements. The first one's gonna air on July twenty first. But he said it's unusual in the monasteries of Egypt and Syria for virgins and widows who have vowed themselves to God and have renounced the world and have trodden underfoot its pleasures to ask the mothers of their communities to cut their hair in in view here. Um because I do think there's value in talking about what somebody like Jer I mean w were for Jerome, we wouldn't have the Vulgate Bible. Okay then. uh multinational global context. We've seen more change in the last five years than the human race saw probably over the course of 3,000 years combined. And and and the Jewish people as a whole still exist, their culture has been maintained predominantly throughout this time period, which is a very good lens to read the Bible through. All right. Good morning, sweetheart. 18, 19, 20 years. So I'm writing um a children's book at the moment, but I also have published another children's book entitled The Library Lesson. Having some sort of physical head covering on the head isn't a requirement in today's context, is where most people land, but there are other people who would disagree. Uh minutiae and o opportunities for maybe some debate or some give and take at least. Primarily relating to like authority. uh and clearly visible and to in public and should be clearly um understood by by each individual Now you mentioned earlier, Josiah, uh a particular scripture passage, 1 Corinthians chapter 11, uh verses uh you said 2 through 16. Knowing that the odds were really low. G-I-O A-N-N-I dot com. And then uh then David said that yes, he's all about the women have their head covered, but not with necessarily with a cloth, that he thinks that there's some But I got to cover it. So as far as I understand, it's just the word gune throughout throughout most of the passage in one form or another. And No, but you say you're saying women of all ages, then you're not saying females of all ages, so it would be post-puberty or as little girls as well? view. is not uh i it it that isn't laid out for us. So some would argue, and I think in their if they were in the room, I can't make their arguments very well for them, but they that sounds Right? And she persists in that opinion, would that be an excommunicable offense? push this and it and it it that's that's the one thing that says to me, you know, I I think we really should be very serious about the head covering issue because it wasn't that the church leaders and and very or in church at least. You should have your head spiritually covered, meaning you should be under the the uh leadership, the authority of your husband, the the male elders of the church, the pastor, that sort of thing. I think that David's question is what's different about these particular moments from all the time in the Christian life Yes. Uh so I I'm I'm curious I I just picked a verse from the chapter so I could look at a whole bunch of translations at once. Spiritual, positional, right? And that spiritual reality of some sort is a picture of, or is picture, like the physical reality is a picture of the spiritual reality. I I would advocate for a I I I th I think it clearly has to do with uh like a there there should be like a a visible distinction. um atomistic almost uh applications that's where the disagreement is. So so I I would say that le legalism would be following a a rule or commandment because it that that like the the Lord's Supper, uh that there are principles that uh that you you want symbolized and that are commanded to be symbolized. We have that in in the Old Testament, right? It's sometimes they'll have to sit there and think for a while. So you're saying that they were a b they were a believer to the point where they got baptized. But it I think in the broadest sense I write a definition is just the abuse of the law. in the Greek. um encourage not only abide by it but needs to encourage that in whatever way that should look like. Woman? Any and all women who are those who pray and prophesy, which would be Christian women, which is David's point from like two shows ago So this is an now an action that he's performing, and in that state he's to keep his head uncovered. as some of us might hope it to be. Um having his head covered, how is that how is that a dishonor? Right? symbol of that that Paul is talking about here. Um so there have been times when when I do do that. and the gospel. Good morning. People who um had lice in their hair, little creatures generated around the roots of the hair, um would cut their hair off, but they still would wear a head covering. Uh it's just it's a caution. Books against the wearing of head coverings or why it's not that necessary or or or or things like that. lived out the way the you know the apostles taught them, word of mouth originally. I mean it's crazy how much change has been. So if it was merely a a, because some would argue that what Paul is writing there is talking to their context and they understood it within their context. So we're in we're talking to, interviewing, debating. Another point of clarification. I had that dream, only it wasn't a dream. Gotcha, California. Be so serious in your study and dedicate the amount of time it takes to write a book to the topic of head covering. Daniel. And since there's a gr disagreement among good biblical people, it's like, well, I don't know who's right, and I haven't had time to really figure that out just yet, so I'm gonna leave it up to the conscience of the individual. Uh so uh I I'd say my my position is probably summed up um just by by saying that I I think that the Uh and so uh the I think what's of of primary importance is the um is that the Yeah, no, absolutely. In the Lord, however, woman is not independent of man, nor is man independent of woman. And we've all heard those shows at some point in our life. I A H B O N G I O A N I It doesn't say just it c Paul could have said married woman to try to make that clear, but instead he purposefully uses the word every woman and what is the purpose of doing so? and place um right or roll if you will uh seems to be the the the thrust of the passage as far as what's being communicated Uh I would say yes, if she is aware of the passage and has and you know realizes that she's supposed to practice it but deliberately chooses not to. Why should we? And if you're a man, of course you don't wear a hat. Correct. So that's that's the times that God requires it. Correct. in the New Testament. Right, well I would agree with that. difficult to find agreement among Christian brothers in all of Scripture. such as man should not lie with man. But women cannot be pastors as long as they're convicted they shouldn't be pastors. by necessity. It would be it would be nonsensical to say, if she's bald, make her be bald. uh understanding of that verse. expound on what you said just a minute ago and and and I th I I believe and Troy can correct me if I'm misunderstanding his point but I think the point he just made is if you are a man that prays and prophesies means you are a Christian uh a a woman who is seeking to uh go go around the authority of her husband So we you know we we can we we can do another show, but for this show, uh you know we uh we we're running out of time. Well I guess it makes sense to feel like we if we didn't left there that for us would have felt like we didn't finish. All night's fine. Although it is practiced around most of the world still in Christian congregations. We have to merely speculate as to how widespread that belief was because we have such a scattershot record of it. What tradition I'm am I making sense? I would say no, that the the Bible was written to people uh in in a um ancient Near Eastern culture, but uh specifically the Jewish people, and that we were grafted in All right, take two. By the way, so you want to show the book to the uh camera? And here we go. But particularly radio, I don't know that's particularly true podcast too. You know, you don't see all that many Mennonites around here, and because of the head coverings, that might explain why we don't see that many womanites around here either. One of the concerns about this is it's part of the problem with the world today. For a radio program I was like maybe I'll get I'll throw a few punches in there just to see what happens. To cover thy head or uncover thy head? Phone Joanne, I'm gonna be saying that in my sleep. Um but I haven't noticed that most of the others are. Okay, so is that culturally dependent? The pastors are uh uh will often retort that, well I mean yeah, they shouldn't have long hair. until this whole women's suffrage thing and now we get the right to vote, now we're equal to men, now we're as same and better than men. I don't know if you have any thoughts on that. And we're going to put a wrap on this episode with those comments from Josiah Bone Joanne. So Christ is the physical head with eyes, nose, and mouth? No. specific outward physical uh right some specific sort of rule to follow, right? Right. To be God's part of God's people, you're not called to come and do this very specific thing, but rather we're going out and this this this thing, this following Jesus. Oh that thought. should be uh effectually displayed. Oh okay. gain favor or to be right a uh so the people will like me. There are people that call themselves Christians that say that, and they give a whole bunch of biblical arguments of as to why they think that. Like hair. in her prayer or her teaching to subvert her husband in prayer or teaching, right, would be And not only did he captured what I said, he said it better than I did. I should I guess I should have specified all of the extent uh uh presently existent writings of the best we could do is of the information that we do still have which is quite substantial, I would say. Yeah, I don't know. taking on customs, practices, right? Actually it's an AI generated picture because I've been getting into that a bit. My approach is when you read through the scriptures, if we're given a command as Christians, then we're expected to obey that command. And that was his thing. Yeah, and I don't know if we have time to get into all of this, but the the another thing you'll hear people talk about is what's being talked about here as the the covering of the head is spiritual. The head covering is not the authority. I I I would say I would say don't don't worry about like a a very specific But wouldn't that be disobeying the scriptures in the meantime? Everything that's required is finished at the cross of Christ and will be fully consummated at his at his return. And I think David's agreeing that it's not as clear as those who are strong advocates for the head covering issue uh think that it might be. Does not even nature itself teach you that a man uh if a man has long hair does it dishonor him, and if a woman has long hair, does it glory to her? I'll just throw on one thing. Yeah. Um so far building the website was not my advertisement. This is a radio show and it's supposed to be, you know, uh entertainment. that are particularly, you know, difficult or don't make sense to you because there's there's It's Conquer by Love Ministries. Alright, and uh David Forcy, you you think that it should be a requirement, that it shouldn't be a requirement, or there's some maybe moderator view somewhere in the middle. My church's position is a little bit different. Chuck and jive. Dot C O M. So just logically the w the way this passage is laid out, because he's using long hair or short hair from women and men, he's saying, look So that's why I would say hair doesn't count as the covering, but sure, yes, women should have long hair. Like what would stop you from implementing it? But I think this is actually fire for the show because this is part of the passage that we've read. Um some of the shows do get bludgeoning, but all in good fun. I think uh there is definitely passages in scripture talking about teaching of other women, uh and that would be an example of speaking, but not necessarily in in uh with all the are guilty of a sin of legalism that you're putting upon the woman a requirement that's actually not biblical because you're misunderstanding 1 Corinthians chapter 11. But the way that those principles, those truths, are symbolized, uh it it's okay if that's done Um going back to legalism a little bit. So uh if you're comparing it to the to the hair, it can't be the hair. And I can can include the link in the description. So we tend to do our shows in arcs. I'm I'm I'm uh you live in Frederick by the way? because of the culture that I'm in, so I'm just gonna brush over that. Wrestle through them until you can try to figure them out. Okay. So I was distracted by that. I I think that it is uh a requirement, but probably not in the way that Josiah would be. See, I went to public school. So I have a question for you now in follow up to last week's show and what I just said a second ago. So so first wave so first wave feminism was burning of the head coverings and second wave feminism was burning of other things. Well is is New King James okay with others in this room? And so I I think that that that is the framework that I'm I'm looking at this through as well. Um you could s excommunicating him according to your belief system there would mean um that you're you're you have a works-based um No, there's a difference though. Right. I would not necessarily add that. Yeah, it's kind well I would say that that sounds an awful lot like Paul saying, You want to be circumcised? We need to sell one book in order to pay for it or two books in order to pay for it. And you can find his book uh online, go to uh Amazon and uh just put in the head covering, Josiah, and bang! Um on the side I love to study, especially theology. Uh God gives very different roles um to men and women. type of head covering. Um you know, otherwise uh i yeah, it it just doesn't logically fit at all. Well I'll just point out I do mention this in my book, but in the military there's you know different ranks and stuff and they have different insignia that military members wear, but they don't have to wear it all the time necessarily. Take two. And w give me by the way, I know you guys aren't a fan of the NIV. Now you it sounds like you're making money on it. is dishonoring his head and his head is Christ in this context, because we just heard in the verse right before that that the head of every man is Christ. I have not personally focused on that as much just because it's um less of a um debatable subject. You just undercut your own argument because I don't agree with a lot of John Calvin. men and women, their their roles down to their their appearance is very should be very distinct. And he begins this verse two with the ordinances, and which I would say implies the uh um it's it is a church service. I should I just would like to throw in in nineteen sixty-eight the National Organization for Women, also known as Now, um actually hosted like a public burning of head cover You could also go to Amazon and you just type in the head covering Josiah and because there's a few head covering books, but you can put Josiah because that's easier to remember and spell. Then a woman whose head is uncovered at any time is not ready to prophesy. So whatever this symbol is talking about covering, shaving, uncovering heads would be a symbol that would refer to those all-the-time realities So you're getting kind of and I would love to do this in the Greek right now, but I I'm not able to do that on the fly. Um I mean I think it's well, uh I think looking in in context of you know, even talking about like the the whole the whole speaking issue, um, right and other things that we see. So I guess we can do forces but have going to express doubt a couple of hours ago that we could have. There is a spiritual significance to the head the head covering. So we're going to try to cinch things up a little bit, tie them up in a nice neat bow. They taught them word of mouth. And you are uh you say you have a call to preach the gospel, so are you a pastor somewhere or you're an evangelist? It's not the biblical requirement anymore. Well obviously you believe this. So anyway, we'll continue this conversation next week on the Faith Debate 167. And I wanna know where you get that 'cause I don't see other symbols in this passage as being acceptable. But the only visible distinction that is coming to mind would be some kind of covering on the head, right? You you can think of some specific examples. And so then there's very exact, particular, specific ways to do things, clothing to wear, how to wear it, what it should. Legalism is important and work your way and then excommunication, that's actually a topic we we really should discuss more on the show. Okay, so God requires prayer. So I got a loophole there. Men and women as if see this is obvious to you guys, but in and I'm making this comparison because of that you need to be having uh having your hair covered or not uh or not covered if you're praying for a prophet. Every man praying or prophesying having his head covered dishonors his head. That's a real hot button issue of late, and I don't need to be adding to the confusion by posting those old shows in today's climate. Every weekend. Yeah. Find us online at wfmd. So I have a personal aversion to using something wrong. Hm. Uh yes. And personally I would go back to that time and the head covering is actually the symbol of what people recognize at that point. So it's it came out of that and then the church kind of say, Oh well I guess I'm are we really gonna excommunicate you for that? Right. But which is the harsh thing to say nowadays. Would you take the hat off to pray? Is there some other passage of scripture where where it says you need to do this, but if you choose to do it in a different way, that's okay also. We hate culture. Well, to interact with that, most people haven't read any of those statements. Welcome to the Faith Debate. Yes. I'm not uh I'm not a wild-haired lunatic. So you had two foreign mission trips trips. There we go. She would be excommunicated from the other thing. No, I don't think I have like a a specific physical outward We're kicking you out of the church. What are you thinking? Now David asked the the question of Josiah in response to what Daniel just said. Not necessarily taking your hat off every time you do that. Does it mean wife? We'll be dishonoring her head. But uh not to get bogged down in what do we think that means, but I will say at the very least I to me it it it it just heightens the idea of that the spiritual reality is really what's in the Well we have enough to to give a reasonable guess at what they believed. But it's it's it's it's less than a minute for sure. This is all related, I guess, to the bigger questions. Okay, let me get the next recording ones out. So do you know in this passage is is the word that's I mean in in the English standard version which which I have it it's translated woman in some parts of that passage and wife in other parts. If she is not aware of the passage or has been, you know, taught in her church that it's not applicable, I do not think it could be count it could be technically sin because it's a transgression of the law, but I don't think it would be imputed to her as sin. I didn't even know that happened. Well it's just like baptism doesn't save you. Not a fan of Windows. Or you can link to all things related to this show. And then when this uh So I I have a suggestion, just a thought for the next the next uh episode possibly. Like what are what it doesn't even have to be debate, but just you know the um the reasons why you don't see that as necessary at the moment and the how we can maybe try to convince you that it should be necessary at least in your case. First of all, what other symbols would be accessible to you? They're praying out loud, especially and they're leading other women. I'm Troy Skinner, host of the Faith Debate. But I think you have to answer both the men and the women, not just can't just be about women. That would be acceptable and you fe you will feel like you're fulfilling this passage and obeying the command. Uh it's but it but it's not very specific. Those are the terms and conditions if you get out of free uh get out of free card. Right, yeah, that's that's that's that's legalism pure. It says nothing. Why should she have any hair at all? Oh, your encapsulation was totally biased. Okay. Like you're way off on the deep end on this one. I'm uh I I'm I'm not under side because it's being important. So okay, so when they're married, that's when the requirement we don't require it in order to attend our church. I'm not entirely convinced that it's unmarried. Is it a uh an offense that would be in in your church they'd require head coverings? I would say it should be an excommunicable offense if you know the person came into the church with that knowledge and um purposely goes against um David Forcy, Daniel Rasby, Area Pastors, thanks for being on the panel again. Um so it's not that uh I'm looking to try to persuade somebody that I'm right. So I would take that as in church, out of church, anywhere. That last part's bracketed, by the way. I spent a lot I just have not spent a lot of time on it. Fine, that's getting to the point that David was making last week's show, that he he's saying there's a spiritual thing. Well yes, but don't do that. I'll have to tell you. Yeah. Not to say necessarily that Tertullian himself is right or that all his words are specific gospel truth, but only that the prevailing wisdom in the church seems to have been wear head coverings. And it appears that we are rolling. I don't want to over I want to give people a chance if they want to actually listen. I published it this year. Why why not unmarried women? That could lead us down trail. I'd cautious in that regard anyway, but there are cultural differences. Okay. But to David's point, he mentioned this uh I think it was last week's show and it might have been in between shows as well. This is to show the the spiritual. It says, For that is one and the same as if her head were shaped. So if I were just to extrapolate that to every other sin. Are you saying like in a public setting or are they just saying I never pray in my whole life? I refuse. And I'm personally not sure. So there it's it's an analogy that's given. I'm not saying that that that representative sample is necessarily wrong. So that's what we ended up doing. So I I like the I like to think of the way that I uh that I express something, not as not as feeding around the bush. You got it? I see that as a problem because of the heart state, but not because of the piece of cloth necessarily. And I m part my my question is why why shouldn't that be why shouldn't that that symbol of of structure be all the time? So in a similar manner in in 1 Corinthians 11, it says the head covering is to be worn when praying or prophesying. The Darvi translation says, every man praying or prophesying having anything on his head puts his head to shame. I I had a um a fellow teammate when I was on missions and the the teacher was like, I want to talk about legalism today. He's he's asking questions saying, Well, if we're going to be consistent then wouldn't it mean that? So covering means something that hangs down. It does say in verse five, you know, you you could make the argument in verse five, but it's this this concept also deals with men. So I was saying that I have lots of quotes in my book from the first five hundred years. Does he does he take it off when he's praying or prophesying? Sure, sure. So you can't really bring that in except and there's a long list of exceptions to hearsay. David Razby? Why is uh the Bible in general, and even more specifically, I guess, 1 Corinthians chapter 11 And Daniel made it a point to say, and hair doesn't count. Likely. Like uh okay, uh food laws, for example. And there's a spiritual reality that doesn't mean that that like you made the point, was it a week ago or two weeks ago, Josiah, that doesn't mean that like And there may be some of those that I would think have not changed that maybe you you don't feel the need to follow, but I we so we differ on that, but that's And we can't say, well, we're going to replace it with a ring. Well if you think about it, there's four of us. But the way he's presenting it is not good. I I would recommend whatever symbol is representing the spiritual truth should be all the time. I don't know what's going on. So verse 3. You can go to his website as well, which is Josiah Bonjawani. I would say only worship service is when it's required. So anyway, so I'm sensitive to that. Did I get it right? And that that's why I'm saying it that way, 'cause I know I know that's not where it' where where you are. And I does this count I'm wearing a head covering. So I I'm not in a position to uh to agree or disagree with anything you're about to say, but if you want to take, you know, a a couple of minutes here and and talk about the historical context as the church is related to this So like Adams County then? Sure. Everything's arm's length at a distance. I think a lot of the NASB guys moved to ESV. It's a rotisserie league. Okay? And and so I I would say you can't read that passage honestly and come to the opinion that Paul was advocating that long hair could itself be the head covering that is a Well I I've been asking questions trying to get convinced. Well I asked will you do what you can to set this man David Corsey straight? I the day might come that I would, by the way, but I'm not there now. I think I think I think it falls very much into the same sort of thing of like, okay, like how do we take communion? You're you're s you're forbidding that which is an offense before God with the one. Yeah. I think he's on the on the route to conversion, right? It's an important thing. The closest thing I see is hair. It might indeed be an analogy, but the text doesn't require an analogous reading. Isn't this just a a flowery way of saying all female followers of Christ? People have their headphones on, they're alone in their cars, community at work, and it's just them and the podcast or them and the radio station. I have no idea. It should be the way that men and women uh present themselves, carry themselves, interact with other people. I was very upset. Well what I would say in in those situations, what I've said on this show, and I've said you know out on the street when I've had opportunity to evangelize these questions come up, that's that's a popular question to get pushed back on, right, in t in today's culture. You know, sometimes what what is twelve sentences and three paragraphs in an English Bible is one long run-on sentence for Paul. Uh he had some issues and he had some theological blind spots. Those are all fine, but you have to keep in mind, Irenaeus, one of the early church fathers, a hero in the faith, I would argue. Well let's let me just throw in one more donation to consider too. And just to elongate this a little further, and there's going to be a reason, I'll explain why in just a second. Okay. We have no other practice, nor do the churches of God. Like they they would brainstorm what the show was going to be about this. Like have a hot take have a have an opinion. If the women if if a woman started showing up for worship and said, you know what, I've been reading And um things changed about that point. He's been on the show the last two weeks. That's that's a you're you're kinda in a different mentality. It's fine. Or being uncovered. They received it word of mouth in the apostles. Yeah, I I mean one of the one of the things that we do see uh in the in the New Testament, one of the first issues, the big issues the church really faces though is the Uh but I I would say that expressing it in that particular way is is Which version do you have here? So it's only when the women are with the women and they're praying or prophesying out loud that they should then wear the head covering. Um I I guess that's maybe the same question repeated, just maybe now you're under pressure from your congregants. So that is uh w the way Troy said it might be able to be read. Don't don't a lot of their church officials, men, wear some sort of headdress? Thank you. Send them my way and I will I will dispense with them in similar fashion. And of course there's a house church that they call the church that meets at Imran's house. We ended with God's word as the final word for today's show because we are plum out of time. You can find it an app on Amazon, the head covering by Josiah Bonjuwani, and his website is Anyway, I'm Troy Skinner. So you gotta know how to spell it to get to his website. And and my opinion is I don't have a strong opinion on this and so I haven't taken up sides just yet. As often as I possibly can. It's kinda like what Jesus said, Hey you see the sun the sky is red, so you know it's gonna you know, um uh it's gonna be a good day tomorrow or whatever because Do not it is a shame for the woman to speak in a church basically. If the praying without ceasing things, oh Troy to your point. You're I think David's agreeing with me on that. And only in the Western um cultures because like I mentioned um in a previous episode, I was over in Moldova and Romania for some time. Exactly. Is that a sin what I just did right there? I'd add a little bit to that. Yes. You can't take off spiritual head cover uh spiritual coverings and put them on during prayer and prophecy. The prominent thing here is the spiritual reality, right? I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ and the longtime host of The Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB. Uh what what could you educate us about? I'm sure you do. What what about the Eastern Orthodox Church since we're talking about the the wide practice of women's head coverings in the East. How are you today? Yeah, well, you know, I'm wrong like once a week and that was my one time wrong for that week. What was the other place you said you went? No no but I could have had it rolling music s tells a story. You just want me to do a a show that's nothing but Twitter posts? Yeah, and you're just so anyway, so David he keeps you guessing. This is the only time I'm doing this. Because W W W might translate to 666. I I've I prefer my wife to wear a hat, uh or a or a um um Pakistani type uh uh you know shawl um but either You can you can pretty much do as you want. I just don't I I don't know that how that's specifically relevant to this passage. And if I were to give a definition of I've looked it looked high and low and tried to connect what people say about it, I think the definition is working your way to heaven, like seeing commandments as a way to get to heaven. You'll come to your senses so you can actually be in heaven. I can repeat this on the next show, but just before I lose the thought completely. Thank you. He will be joined here in a second by the author of the head covering, Josiah Bonjawani. What evidence can you bring in to bolster your argument? Apparently that's what some people want today and that's part of the problem. Except it's uh you said bone Joani, right? But only in church, which raises a question I want to ask you in just a second. Likely. So we've had the word head used five times in two verses. So if a man comes into your congregation that says he's a woman, first of all, don't accept that what he says. So like I can uh you know, a form of legalism would be, okay, I there's nothing I can do to be saved, but there are things that I can do to have more favor with God. And so it's really important to Paul. They have their place. I mean there's something about pace and having a quick clip and getting to the point and all that sort of stuff. Not in the I foresee that there could be. So that's where it's a hot topic right now. Never know what he's what he's up to. Um so that's one of the big arguments. No, I I mean I think I think that's the gist of it. It's just showing that you are under authority or or communion. We we could prove that in context. So you are putting yourself under women, therefore you are dishonoring your head, which is Christ. Just go to a search unit and look up the head covering Josiah and you'll find a hit for his book. So I mu I uh as long as I'm wearing these headphones, I'd better be careful whether I pray or prophesy. Um yeah, so these early sources can get uh I'm not saying that they are necessarily wrong. They they delivered um in words all their teachings, all the teachings that are now in the Bible. You know, we don't get up right and early on Sunday mornings to do these. I was an idiot. So um we'll be back uh on the radio at this time. And there are many women that would also wear hats in public j like in public occasions, but maybe not when exercising or when doing tours around the house or things like that, depending on Good morning to you. Now I want you to know, or but I want you to know, that the head of every man is Christ. Okay. I need you to be the man. Hey, did you notice they cut their hair for life but they still wear head coverings, you know, that type of thing where it's not really being offered as evidence for here's why you should interpret it this way, but only com. Uh you know, I change that sort of stuff up. It's it's a uh church that meets in a bunch of locations. I'll be back tomorrow at eight o'clock. So that's my thought. It is just as though her head were shaved. And I and I would I would I would say, you know, a lot of a lot of people think this is so backwards and why would you require women to do this? But it was not common necessarily for women of all denominations to just always wear hats all the time. The faith of the faith debate. No, I I do think there needs to be one. Yeah, and and you think women should wear head coverings during uh prayer and prophecy. So legal of it, right? And that would be some sort of thing. He doesn't really go into the post-Nicene polies which came later. Loaded the wrong wrong audio. Daniel caught me, but then he didn't double down on me, which I totally get why. Uh because I you know in between shows that one point we were uh we'd said something about Why is the mouse not moving? And you have anticipated who I was into who I was going to be introducing next. They don't know what it means. Uh Daniel Rasby and uh David Forcey also on the show. Wouldn't you we say well at a certain point you're not you're not doing the church the way we do church and you're disrupting Yes. It's fine. And the other thing is the uh kind of the y um citing particular historical uh references. Faith debate's been on the air for just shy of 20 years now, and uh I've been finding the old audio and putting it on sermon audio and odyssey. I've been working on it for a number of years, however I dedicated some specific time to to fix it all up and add sections I didn't have Uh Josiah. Um but I also I'd I'm not opposed to them practicing it in that manner. Right. Then if somebody came to you to ask ask you to expound on that, can you give me some specific examples? So I got my get out. You're resting resting upon what you do, and you have to be strong legal adherence to things, or you're screwed He uses the idea of in Christ and phrases very much like that over and over and over again org, which is the official website. I actually put a stopwatch on it because I was cute. But I will point out I did put HTTPS there instead of WWW because W in Greek and Hebrew translates to six. But I do want to throw in the third third argument for why it would apply to women of all ages, and that is um and this is something the early Christian church points out. Yeah, and I think that that's actually the that that's what probably the point, uh theologically and grappling with the scriptures that David's coming at this Well and and and right it follows in this section of Corinthians, right? I was thinking you definitely hit the nail on the head, like that is one of the big arguments that I've heard since I come from the Mennonite church where women practice head covering. Right. At least in the NIV, which is what I'm looking at at the moment, which again not intended for veracity, I get that. And so if you catch a a show that has a topic that's interesting to you, usually we did two, three, four, five, six shows on that topic Um we can get ourselves in trouble, I think, as Christians sometimes when we try to proof text and say, oh, here's Hey, thanks for uh watching any comments or questions or or uh accusations, put them in the comment section. By the way, you're still you're still in a Mennonite church. Without getting, you know, into the arguments at this point, um are you on the side of head coverings should be required of women? It's it should be worn all the time, at least in public. David Forcey, stepping onto the third rail, cultural discourse these days. You you the two of us will be the most simple. That's true, it is less or less, but it it's funny that the women head coverings went away faster than the the ball caps off to pray rule. Is the uh woman who's not wearing a head covering sinning Well I use it, but it happens to me all the time. The head of Christ is God. I didn't even know what to say at the moment. Like why wouldn't the same kind of logic apply there? Does it mean bride? Are there other key texts you would have us turn to? It's a somewhat it's a somewhat rare uh occurrence. Sure. There's nine volumes on head coverings? But maybe that should be a follow-up book. So I think we've we've reached what feels like as close to a conclusion as we're gonna get after the this lengthy dialogue. Well thank you for inviting. And Daniel said, you sure it's not dot org? I do have a brother named David. Okay. Um it was across the southern part of the US. So Daniel is talking about like in a Muslim context, um, or in other cultural contexts where the women should be wearing a head covering all the time. And I'm going to be reading from the Not Intended for Veracity edition of the Bible, otherwise known as the NIV. It might be the worst part of my uh of my nature, but you know, when when somebody who's never done what you do, like it'd be like me going to you, David, and saying, you know Right. We have very limited information of I mean it's 2,000 years ago almost. Now the to talk about history, and this might have been where David was kind of going with some of his questions uh either this week or previous weeks. Yes. And if you've ever seen that live stream, you know that I open it the first like 30 seconds, 45 seconds, just saying, hey, streamers, blah, blah, blah, like I did on today's stream. At the Rotissery League. I I think when you have commands where there is not w which So let's say you have a person who doesn't pray. But but the So what is conviction? Um but and and he is right. Without even looking at my phonetic spelling that I gave myself a little cheat sheet. We'll still be doing these shows at midnight with you. But there's also a wonderful resource by David Brusso called an early um it's called the Dictionary of Early Christian Beliefs. Sure. He's a pastor in the area. Welcome Facebook streaming audience. Thank you for joining us this morning on News Radio 930 WFMD. What's important for us to know about you in the context of what we're talking about here? You went to Europe and California, two foreign countries. com. And sure enough, he had never done it. Correct. Um biologically dependent maybe? It wasn't, you know, women in high positions of leadership. It's a it's a profession, it's a it's a public showing that you have been saved. Take that approach instead. So why is that? But there are women that they're praying and I don't really have a problem necessarily with w women praying, especially to lead others in prayer, uh w other women. So obviously in verse three he's talking about uh the uh um the head in a spiritual sense. If you're gonna kick somebody out of the church over it, it's a law that must be followed. I think there's some things that are just are are it's like okay, so you're Or or I never partake of the Lord's Supper, you offer it and I never take it. But you but people would say this would be a pretty clear one, or maybe women uh cannot be pastors. My wife will come to me and say, I need you to step up here. Yeah, that's a really good example. Okay. That's a good question. Yeah. Wait, is this I don't know if the eye is dirty or something, but this mouse is not wanting to cooperate at all today. And you can get that book and I'll explain to you all about how to do that, but we've got to get into the topic here at some point. Men, women, you know, biblically faithful people seem to have, you know, differing views on this. However, probably not in the way that Josiah would mean. com and household of faith in Christ. Well, the don't suck includes formatics and persona and personality. So that's just a hint or another clue that the word it sh could be it should be applied to women of all ages What why is that so important? I I guess the I guess probably the argument would be made that the the physical symbol is a symbol of that spiritual You don't have to lead. Yeah. Well that I I think that would probably be the understanding of uh some of the elders at Josiah's church who would say that women women are taught by the And and this isn't as a rebuke, but it's just uh you know, I've mentioned to Daniel in the past in different contexts. And so in the it with that spirit behind it, um uh and and this again is not a rebuke, it's just a uh yeah I think Joshua's gonna probably agree with me Uh just wondering, you know, if there's have we done equal studies on on the history of men's head coverings in the in the early church Maybe parts of it were written at that point. There should be some sort of an entree into what's going on. And if you missed last week's show, I'm going to reset the table real quickly. That's an obvious one, which we talked about on the show, and I I know your opinion on that one. It's in the Bible we do it. Right? So you can make a note of that if you want, and you can tell your congregation about it. But then around 1950, and my my grandmother can uh attest to this too. I mean it's it's it's mind-dumbingly fast. As a pastor. And I mean if it wasn't a command then I wouldn't say that, if it was just like a cultural precept from the past. The Troy used to punish everyone for one guy's question. But there was a a uh consultant for radio stations and he cut his teeth as a lot of consultants do as a as a high powered, very successful program director Uh New King James. So it can have both meanings and about half the time it's it's it's right to translate it one way and about the other half of the time in the Bible. She'd be dis dishonoring her husband and also by ascension Christ. We do not take it for granted. I would encourage you uh to do that. Yeah. And one of the things uh we're gonna talk about it actually as a topic uh in the shows we're recording in this arc And that's still in our culture, even though the women's head covering is mostly gone from our culture. Thank you for listening to the show. It's obvious which one's a man, which one's a woman. I could possibly see myself aligning with the idea that women should have long hair and men should have short hair. And some of the other things like the man language of man, for example, if we were to pull up those passages right now, we could go through the same exercise, and I could prove unambiguously that in context Yeah. It's only confusing to Troy because he's intentionally obtuse about it. So you have other uh helpful quotes or anecdotes that we should uh I'm also curious about the the history of men It's important to cite them, particularly in a book. Uh no. Uh the other place it was based in California, but we went through the whole southern part of the US basically. But actually is not necessarily within Christianity, but in general Western culture right now, the idea of women covering their heads We can't say our culture takes precedence over Scripture. A man ought not to cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God, but the woman is the glory of man Good luck spelling that. Yes. I'm pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. No, I don't think you are. Hostum. Like there's broader senses and there's the more narrow senses that I showed or talked about last time. Covering is the uh is the uh is the apparatus function. Mm-hmm. That's the voice of David Forcey. So I just found that a kind of a fun quote. We've read the passage and we we we skipped right past the uh because of the angels thing because that's a whole nother slate of shows right there. And and so uh well uh the head covering, you know, in however you look at it, I I don't think you can get away from I praise you for remembering me in everything and for holding to the teachings just as I passed them on to you. If you're watching or listening to the long form stream, well it's going to continue here in mere moments. Well I met you see you had a very gentle, nice approach. That is the question. I uh do your women pray and prophesy in your church service? He's on again this week and he's gonna keep coming back and cause uh I I haven't hit him that hard yet. When there's a a tabernacle that is made with specific measurements, specific materials, right? And my thinking about legalism, I think I think that's the that's the hardest version of legalism, and then I think there's softer versions of legalism. And too often what does a woman want more than anything? However, hair is the analogy that's given to it. The custom has in fact become a second nature. But, okay, well let's be a little broader than that. Aga again, uh I I know I'm being a stickler now. Um actually it's Waynesboro, so it's like Oh over um by north of Hagerstown. This appears to be the correct audio. It's you know it's not really a delay tactic, but whatever delay there is, it helps to accomplish that. It can be contentious though. And so we've gotten, you know, some fun discussions and that's that's why I wrote this book eventually because I had a bunch of notes sitting around. Did did uh did David nail it, Josiah? You just understand what the uh what the different translators are trying to accomplish with their translations and this would be what's called a dynamic equivalency. Um but it mentions that God the Father is in a position of authority over Christ. Yeah, I'm s I'm saving the audio file. Maybe. So there's at least three different ways that head could be understood. Is that culturally dependent upon what's around us, what's available, what seem to represent these things, right? So we'll see if I can uh get firmer and get get a backbone on one side or the other. And you know, your actions speak louder than your words, 'cause not only did you say that, which is a little unusual for you Like you're crazy. So it's the same way with the church fathers in this case. We've we've talked about that before in some way. I'm glad you didn't have the music going on while you're reading scripture, because as we It's like the it's like the uh traveling uh s team. So that's that's what I was what I would say. But we read, I think it was um towards the end of the show two weeks ago. There are specific times you say, I'm gonna pray now. Sure. Yeah, we we we've been covering the last three now four shows. And and Daniel is mostly agreeing, although I don't know that he's quite a strident. And I I don't have time to figure that out right now. Um but yeah I mean you what you're saying i i i is yeah And that's why I was saying before, this isn't as clear, crystal clear. That gay sex is an abomination. So that doesn't mean that the the woman is inferior to the man. Well that's the thing. So particularly back then if you're talking about somebody who wrote something that was a hundred years after Christ, two hundred years after Christ, three hundred years after Christ You can't wrestle every question at once. Josiah Bonjuani. Two and a half. Um so two minutes out of But that's where you hear it a lot. Well, my personal pos uh position is that it should be worn whenever uh women pray or prophesy. We'll we'll keep it going. Oh, I've never done it before in my life. Whenever a man prays or prophesies, he's to be uncovered. But if a woman's not allowed to prophesy in church, then obviously when he says that she's to cover her head when praying or prophesying, that can't be something So I don't know where the prophecy fits in because I don't have a format in our church service for women to be prophesying, nor do I really have men prophesying that much in church either. So something that would say, You female, in order to be acceptable here and to come worship God with the rest of us, must put a head covering on And you've specifically said it wasn't talking about hair, but that's the only thing that's specifically mentioned in the passage. It was subject to uh weather and humidity and bugs and uh and uh and fire and all that sort of thing. Well I might be, but you can't prove it uh necessarily unless you're gonna say that all these other guys were wild-haired lunatics too. Like the Apostle Paul would have, you know, let's say planted a church, chose the church leaders, delivered to them in in words of mouth. And so we should all, you know, go back and and wrestle with those things that seem strange or odd to us. So I I don't know how that's not really in his book necessarily, having read it, I I know you don't really bring that up much, but it just So you want to go to www. Uh he he wrote a book called The Library Lesson, which you can check out as well, and the book we're talking about was Okay. The host of the faith debate. Yeah, well well the head can mean as relating to like uh uh It's kind of like the word racist nowadays where you just throw it around anybody who has a different opinion, you'd call them a racist and and Every single word only has meaning in context. And I think there are others who would join me and say, well, I'm not sure either. Because it says it's a dishonor there. So maybe in the West it's a little different, but over in a lot of the rest of the world it isn't Right. I I don't I don't have a strong opinion on the married unmarried I'm pretty I'm I'm pretty No, I mean it it definitely was very common until quite recently and it's a lot of the women's lib movement that really So if we're going to pray without ceasing, then women should have their head covered twenty-four-seven. Um but the you know, I again David's gonna say well it doesn't have to be a hat, it can be some other So it's compared to hair, so it's like hair in some ways, but it's not hair itself. Uh we're joined this week by uh Daniel Rasby once again. And I think Daniel's touching on uh what was a I think a very important use and a reason to bring up the And it's just kind of letting the streaming audience know what's going on and those who are going to tune in live giving If you back out like um the the intro, the outro, me introducing things, resetting things in the middle, asking a question here or there, we might have let's say Anyway, and we're joined this week by the author of the head covering, uh Josiah Bongiani. I I don't mind if people go beyond that and wear it more if they if they so desire if they want to make a statement all the time. Uh we haven't we haven't gone there yet, uh because uh as I mentioned on the very first show on this topic a couple weeks ago, I don't have a well-formed opinion It doesn't say whoever's leading in prayer, it says praying. I've I've spent uh over the last several weeks of shows now, I've spent more time talking about this than all the rest of my life, probably combined. Yeah. But this other command you have to figure it out for yourself and and I'm not gonna give you any guidance on it. Can you say that? Okay. It can mean different things in different contexts. As I look at uh David Forstey is wearing a head covering. I actually live in southern Pennsylvania at the moment. So you're I'm not going to be busy doing that, not be paying a whole lot of attention here, but uh if you leave comments, I will get to them later. And I was like, wait a minute, what? Yeah. And for those who don't really know much about Mennonites, one of the um there's a lot of like uh Said this is what I expect in my church. That's five minutes apiece. J O S I A H B O N Right. And you can even link to Concord by Love Ministries, the RASV. He just had a running conversation with God the whole right the whole time, right? Right. So I'm doing this on the fly. Right? Let me uh make sure I I edited this properly again. Well the general public s doesn't understand satire these days sometimes. Yeah. Uh that's uh positional, it's uh it's a it's a spiritual covering, a spiritual headship. How do we know it's not a metal helmet? Like the headcovering book. Sometimes he wears a big tall hat too. They can listen to one a day, it seems to me. So I guess that would be especially pertinent for tonight. So anyway, so you so but the this book that you now have out is called the how and is this new the head covering? I just ended cold. So have you left it as a in a context? That should be a time to have her head covered. And so it's become very important to me. Like that might sound weird to the uninitiated, but those are actual words that happen in our house. I don't see the word like. Not everybody's gonna look at the description, but at least those who do would see it. Like that's not what they were saying. I think the history thing can be and this is not really related to head coverings per se, but again, following up what I said like five minutes ago. Or you can might do that now while I'm recovering from my faux pas. So wasn't millions of dollars, but there was a time when I had a book that I had forgotten I had and had it for years and years and years and years and Alright, so I promised at the end of last week's uh episode, if you were listening last week, then uh you heard me give this promise I'm not gonna uh be derelict on my duty Um you know, I mean d just idea of thoughts on However, I I think my church would remove her from membership. I'm not sure i Josiah you can speak to that. They don't speak in church. So the simple solution to this is a woman is not allowed to prophesy in church, according to Paul in first Corinthians. And that's why I asked you the question before if it was a sin and it was an excommunicable offense. But what makes what makes a an action or or a a command What I'm saying is, is it possible that it means that? Do my headphones count as a head covering? Now did you say you had something that was like within the first one hundred and fifty years of this of uh the A B period? Right. Yeah. It's supposed to be a symbol for headship and submission to authority and Let's see if I can find one that's a little bit different from that. Now that that uh comparison there would make no sense. Do you have any scripture to back up why y you c it's okay to symbolize things in different ways than what it than the examples that are given? We talked a little bit about women speaking in church and preaching in church or prophesying in church, that sort of thing. We were going through uh a whole bunch of Christian statements from the last uh fifty years, uh uh including last year's uh statement on Christian National Yeah, let's do one more and see if we can do the same further. Uh there's nine volumes of their writings which include sections and pieces here and there that you can find with the Well uh or like monks wear the little thing on the back of your head, like a like a four rabbis. And by the way, there's a lot of guys whose names you know in church history who would agree with me So not everything, every individual church father said is important, but what did they believe as a whole it shows what the apostles taught them. But what you're saying is you have not found anybody that disagreed on this topic, anybody that said that there's no d there's no requirement Two and a half hours. Yeah. I'll spell it for you next week. New King James. One is that it says every woman here. It was more of this this was th women always were wearing head coverings, at least to church services, and and they always wore hats to church. Maybe. Is it only cultural or does it not have nothing to do with scripture that p the Bible commands do not pray while having your head covered? But head can mean source of, like the headwaters, the source of There's going to be different sorts of songs that are sung in praise to him Sorry to say this mouse is driving me crazy. I appreciate it very much. So I mean even in today's tough economic times you can afford twelve bucks. I promise you, you've got questions, take the time to think what they are. Before that, I think you heard the voice of Daniel Razi, another pastor in the area. It's the Wackamo Church as I like to call it. But hence I have met a lot of people who have had questions. Where that's more recent. Same thing with like baptism or any other subject. So he has a take and he sucks. So these are like the very earliest church fathers that come right after um like Paul and the biblical writers. Um not even asking questions for the sake of understanding what's going on. And he's saying, I think, hope I'm understanding it correctly, that whatever that reality is would be in place So there needs to be one, but you can't think of one that wouldn't be a head covering. Legalism is the abuse of the law. So it's one or the other. Right. Maybe I should add a few sections on that. So when you hit see there's a whole book written about well obviously you should have head coverings. It hadn't changed that much, even though 300 years had passed. But I wanted to explain it and I wanted to give a full-throated explanation so that it would take you know six or seven minutes So I have I kind of live in an area where basically nobody does it except the people in my church. So the guy has to listen to the whole thing just to hear it. So here we are doing something that's hinting at relational and the guy that just give me your hot takes Have a take. And I know that there is a uh adult woman there who does wear a head covering. You've already heard David Forcey and Daniel Rasby's voices. Other it's a little different, like you know, federal on the roof type of Okay, let me pull up the New King James, 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Or let's say you have a glutton in church and you're like, should I excommunicate him or not? And uh d David's kind of been a the uh the his role has been the fly in the ointment the last few episodes. And so there's there's a uh there's a loveliness about that. If it's spiritual, if it's long hair, how is he dishonoring? So he he delivers this stuff word of mouth and then they practice what he says. I was like, yeah, okay, you're just a guy who wants to pick apart the smallest, most ridiculous things. And as they were leaving the office, he'd say, hey David. Welcome to the Fake Debate. Is his name like John Bon Bonjoyani or whatever? com. And we talked about these last couple of shows about how women, particularly in the in the context of worship, uh where praying and prophesying might take place, that they should have their heads covered But um I was like how dare he use her as an example of legalism? I I think that is the definition. They're like, I don't see the need for it, I don't do it. Yeah. No, right. I think we struggle to make that same ironclad kind of an argument on this head covering question in this passage. Without a spiritual significance, the head covering is meaningless. But there have to but there are times when, you know, you've got to Sure. But there are a lot of people in the American church particularly. So as we're recording this, we're heading down the home stretch towards Father's Day. Um but there have been other things that for whatever reason have uh risen in prominence. For long hair is given to her as a covering. And Josiah Bonjoani. Like, man, this guy's full of himself. Um I'm still curious to unpack more why you think we can replace the the visible head covering with some And in reading that passage, uh it talks about So where that's different from a I am praying now. I was waiting for that the whole time, but we did discuss culture. It's a it's it's a unless unless you're David, then he definitely does some other symbol that looks like it. So I see what you're saying. And Daniel and Josiah have been holding the position that it's a some sort of a We'll have to see uh you'll have to track fee for sales. We still haven't looked at it from a historical perspective too though. In order to follow Christ. Oh my goodness. So Daniel is right. Not that I know of. And there's many conservative Christians that are saying, you should never do that because forcing women to wear a head covering that's oppressive and this this and that. That woman is in submission to man. Okay. Yeah. But I'm feeling particularly sinful. Um I'm just curious, so let's say uh somebody in your congregation, a woman comes to you and says, I just read First Corinthians eleven and it says that women But a a full-throated disagreement, there's nobody on the panel right now to do that. Which is why I would not self prescribe to somebody a a woman who asked me about it something specific. So in this case we have to make a decision. So it's And that gets back to what I was asking a few minutes ago, and we're running out of time by the way, just to give us a heads up, we have like a minute or so left. How are we on time by the way? So I so, you know, we are actually dragging it out. And s some of them are like non-resistance or opposition to warfare. Yes, okay. Um maybe somewhere in the middle, but my my reading of uh of the first Corinthians passage would s uh I think it'll be fine and if we need to go to a different like an NASV or a King James or in something like that, we can can do that. For a woman came from man, so also man is born of woman. Bone Gi Bone Giani. He doesn't have a website. Not necessarily. I w I would still say that I I have the the No, uh it's sure, there is like like David said before, there is a spiritual Well let me just let me just ask you a quick question. Over audio is a little harder. It's not that you don't use the Bible in your show. His headphones aren't cooperating. Nobody's ever thought that. So it only goes so far. All the more motivation you might possibly need. So virgins or married women. What type of head covering should it be? The idea of it being that it's a it's an outward expression. I promise you, I haven't even started drinking yet I can I can still be a Christian if I don't do them, but I need to do those certain things in that certain way in order to In my book uh the head covering I have two chapters dedicated to the history of head coverings. It's hard to say where he meets, but basically in and around Washington and Frederick County is one location of it. Um so you said people are f are trying to prove to you that it's not Did you already know how to spell that without having to ask Um you know uh uh again, you know, displaying uh difference and Okay. But why not? So in the same way, it should also be a shame to not cover your head when you're praying or to cover your head when you're praying, depending on the I'll just point out there is a striking similarity to um the whole uh Mormon movement because Joseph Smith's um you know I would not give her guidance that is some But I'm trying to anticipate what people who disagree Good morning. com. Does it mean short hair or bald? That's all that's being said here, but that that's all that's being said here. It's a radio show gram, right? So that would actually be what I would recommend doing And one of the things is you c y if you you if you want to bring in something that somebody said back a long time and they're not in court to also And if you're watching this later, Rumble or Odyssey or Sermon Audio. However, I I do help out at my church. You'll see a lot of um uh activists, Muslim activists that are you know say And for now, you know, the people that I have a lot of respect for, whether they're I got the King James. Yeah. Also if you look through the passage, there's a bunch of analogies used. Uh and one of the common things that is brought up in these kinds of discussions on this topic Give me a translation that you like. And then he hasn't even taken a new breath yet. Uh uh not necessarily always tell you what to think, although I'm gonna tell you what I think you should think, but to try to form your mind about how to go about thinking about these things so you can That is not a good thing. Well, I didn't have to look at the timer, but I I looked at the actual number of seconds that he laughs that he was complaining about. You don't want it to clash or something. Online at Household of Faith in Christ. He doesn't want you to he's nimble. Like a token head covering, that doesn't count, so Josiah Bon Giovanni. I like your opinion already, by the way. Then you can't ever wear a hat if the Praying Without Ceasing I don't know I've ever seen Troy wear a hat. Well what you say to those who say that those who and I'm not Yeah, and I've known people that are like, I don't see it use for praying, so Right. And so all that has to be done has been done It was very interesting that this is the first time There's so many passages in the Bible that are unclear. Circumcision sort of being the keystone, right, of of all of that. It was it was a lot of fun. Two minutes? Right, but but then I will say for like the first fifteen, thirty seconds or maybe even a minute, but then I will swing back to doing the introductory things, right? Like it's a at the top everybody thinks at the top of mind issues. Uh David Forcey, you mentioned that uh you you say If a woman does not cover her head, she should have her h hair cut off, and if it and it is a disgrace for a woman to have her hair cut off org, and also the church that meets at Imran's house, he's on the panel this week. So Josiah, do you make that same distinction between married and unmarried? There was no possibility of a woman being like president of I I just don't feel like this is one of those that You can see all that sort of stuff. I'm Troy Skinner. And then at some point in their life, after being baptized in a community member of a church, they then decided after the fact that Or what if they refused to get baptized too? Good luck spelling that. Well thanks for their once-a-week complimentation. Is that a fair assessment, Troy? And then uh we can try to put you know cinch it up so by the end of this show it'll feel like the entire arc of shows will be. Uh but not in the modern American church anyway. Like you drive the the course of the conversation. I mean a lot of things changed, not just that. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning to us here on WFMD News Radio 930. The first three are clearly spiritual, positional kinds of things. But I just found it interesting. Nobody cares about any of that nonsense. Good for you. So there's this there's a there's a physical reality of some sort. It's like you're a legalist if you believe differently So I totally get what Daniel was about was saying, and I was just about to say the same thing myself. But there's everyone who prophesies any woman who prays and prophesies would by definition be a Christian You know, the the the church in recent decades has wrestled with this question It is designed to save those who take no baths, and whose heads and faces are strangers to all unjunce from the accumulated dirt and Uh you know, maybe may maybe, you know, you don't get it the first time around, that's okay, but you should circle back to those things. He is the author of the book that was just held up. I said probably. How about that? I mean that's a covering. But everybody agreed that when you go to church you wear a hat 5 hours from now. Maybe you should drink some water. I I think it's just very interesting that in the the churches that typically still practice head covering, they will not But he it's also Paul saying that. Only only only very recently And repent, of course. And I began to try to push back on a little bit. Either one still works for my argument because either one it's still different than being uncovered. Uh David David Forcey, thank you. So we were reading each of the articles and then reacting to It's like these shows are like paint drying, man, watching the grass grow, these are boring. If you'd like to follow us along online, maybe listen to the podcast if you didn't catch the whole show or listen to previous Um of course it's you know it's it's translated into very old fashioned style, but basically Let's make sure we're reading it in context within the fullness of all of Scripture, the totality of God's Word Uh and Tertullian, uh, you know, he was all over the map, uh, theologically, uh depending on which era of his ministry career you look at. We all missed that. Right, there could be one, but none that we know. Right? Very, very similar. In regard to women, of course. Yes. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at household of faith in Christ. He's a Luddite. Still, right? Um and so but why would you say that and not And I think I've haven't made up my mind strongly theologically, but practically how I've lived this out as a pastor in my home is Take off all the junk. Anyway, uh I would I I I I know where you're going with it and I would I would agree in part, but I think maybe to answer my my I would just follow up with something to the effect of well once you're saved, you're gonna want to follow God's commands, and those commands have So anyway, my apologies for way back then, but it's David At the moment I've dedicated my time to writing some books. You you go itinerate uh itinerating all around the world or what? Wha why why can it why is it what else could it be besides a hat or covering of head? Adultery. I think if it if it's obvious that every listing grows that you're ingest, then I think it's In a broader sense, it could include a lot more. We've got to make a decision on the context. That that God is ahead of all com or something. I'm glad that Josiah put that in there. I just I can't take that to the bank and cash it. You can go to the writings and see did they all was there like ten or twelve early church fathers that all agreed on this topic? It's pretty fun. It's a very personal medium So what is the way in which you mean? And that's good. But anyway. In in Greek the word for woman can actually be translated wife or it can be translated just woman in general, like we use the word where it can refer to virgin or marriage. When their cycle begins, is that what you would argue? That's that's something that Paul thought thought was so obvious he didn't even need to tell you Yeah. But what would be the argument for saying that okay Welcome to the Faith Debate. That's all throughout scripture, but this passage is specifically So I felt like I had to But I do have um Tertolin wrote an entire book on the subject of head coverings around the year two hundred AD. That might be reasonable. I said, no, dot com. Yeah, thank you. For this reason, and because of the angels, the woman ought to have a sign of authority on her head Yeah, not yeah, not even not even speaking, yeah. You prayed pr presumably twenty-four-seven-ish as i i if if you have a good walk with God you're gonna be constantly Um Josiah has written a book where he's advocating in the book that women should wear a head covering um when To take up the slack for the man who doesn't want to do what he's supposed to do. So shaving the head, cutting the hair, is different than uncovered, being uncovered. So kind of in the the first wave of feminism hit America in like eight around eighteen fifty I mean if you look at his biography and his history You can one of the re one of the exceptions to hearsay So I could quote uh Calvin or Daniel could quote Calvin or whatever and we would say, see, even John Calvin says and somebody like Josiah went say So if this isn't your big bugaboo question, but you've got another big bugaboo question, okay. If we just jump in right off the bat and say, all right, hot take number one So what led you to focus on this issue? He goes right after this, right into the Lord's Supper. So I I I just don't think it's inu intellectually consistent Okay. And why should we just say, Well, we don't want to do it this way, we want to do it But my my position is Is that a sense of emotional So I just want to say, you know, uh make sure you understand the terms and It's not as clear to me as it is to you, Josiah, or even to you, Daniel. So so what do you say though there are people and you would not consider them to be But that doesn't make a whole lot of sense for the passage because it talks about he's saying, doesn't even nature itself teach you that you should have long hair uh short hair and Yeah, no, and and this will be interesting. A lot of times I was anyway. Uh people who have listened to the show for a long time have come to know who I am, which is why most of them don't like me that much anymore. Little pithy 140 character little comments? Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning to us. Okay. Why doesn't hair count? But in verse five it says, Every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head. But in its most specific sense, which is the most common way it's used, it's um w you know working your way to heaven by So this whatever this head covering is is compared to hair. So for instance, it says in verse um But since it does re it does say specifically that this is only to be worn uh specifically the requirement is when praying or prophesying In what way, according to your interpretation? So um Let's try this again. So anyway, the one laughing is uh David Forcey. But the longer answer I guess is I've gone to a Mennonite church ever since I've been young, so I've Does not the very nature of things teach you that if a man has long hair com. Right. Spelling it over and over is not going to help you pronounce it correctly. Um and uh the the reason I get the in church part is because Some sort of weird glitch that like Windows has introduced. Because because of how you you're defining prophecy. You know, it's the most probably the most common phrase that the Apostle Paul uses in his New Testament writings. And if we are in Christ, then we have the fullness of God's blessing because That doesn't really make sense. Not that he believes it necessarily, but he s wants to know, are you open for that interpretation that somebody could read the passage and it seems kind of logical to say One, uh and this isn't the best reason to do it, but in a radio show Maybe we've been challenged by questions we haven't thought of before or And Imran is not here this week because he gave up his seat. 167 in Howard Yeah, yeah. What you gotta do is you gotta do this and you're like, oh really But everybody agreed until very recently that of course when you go to church you wear a hat. I would argue yes along with Daniel. And it might mean wearing dresses or it might mean having long hair or it might It's the same point though. I really have not focused on advertising like I ought to. Um And then there's Josiah, his opinion is, yes, any time a woman is uh praying or prophesying, she should have her head covered. I've been to the Church of Meets and Imran's house a number of times. Uh I'm not even sure that I understand exactly what it would take to persuade me to go in a particular direction. The head of woman is man is true all the time. In fairness is something that covers the head, right? That's why I asked that question. Find us online at WFMD. But the point is For hair is given to her as a covering. Is your um headphones not working so well? Yeah, okay. And yes, certain things may look slightly different, but to the extent that the Bible gives commands And become Jewish even just by You can find that book online at Amazon. Is this a stock photo or somebody A couple of things I want to clarify right off the bat so I don't forget. And this feels like one of those issues where, okay You know, and it might be a huge gaping blind spot, you know, maybe that'll be exposed. I got to uh get the theme music here going. Till next week. The Bible says hair is given her as a covering, so that's good enough. And so they were like, let's burn these things to show our protest against them. But if you're also gonna take your head off to pray, then you gotta find out why are you doing it only at certain times. So just put in just put in um the head covering I don't have to pay for it every year. I could have just encapsulated them, but then anybody who authored the statement No one knows of this in any single case except the shearers and the shorn That'll be cool. But some of them believed. So um so what led you to Okay. Uh his like mantra to them was I mentioned Daniel Razby is on the panel. I hat a hat is fine, uh some other shawl, some more Mennai style head covering. All right. Until then, God bless. I will play the music yet. Yes, I will try, thank you. So prayer and prophecy it never says anything about in church And if it's only when there's praying, and it's like Daniel said a couple of times now, you can pray silently. So le let's let's flip that back around. Well I I I think she should figure out how she is going to Right? It's just they have different roles. Yeah, might as well. It gets passed down as tradition. But I promoted Got Questions, their website, uh a few recording sessions ago I was wrong. See that was my one mistake for this week, getting it out of the way early. Rather, if Scripture says that a woman is to cover her head with a cloth veiling during prayer and prophecy We're not relational Between us we got all of them. He wants to keep the on the keep moving, right? The reason I would take the view that it it applies to More of a you know a slightly, you know, maybe more of a debate form. I mean I'm barring like it's cold outside and you're gonna get frostbite or whatever. Uh Daniel is mostly But also but also other times just I would say other times when they're praying even privately they should also be Does the Greek mean short hair? His book is called The Head Covering. You know, normally you could just show a QR code or something if you like. Right. It's mostly just But I also want to say when we're doing a radio show, and I would say this even if it was just a podcast Previously it's been like a lot of in America you see Mennonites doing it or whatever, but now you're seeing So that's the last argument. Then from your perspective, um how would you uh interpret verse four? So that means you are covered spiritually by the woman, right? And a real scallywag, by the way, for those who don't know. Yeah, for sure. Including everybody in the room and me, and only upon listening to it back, I was like Um, but uh they don't know you at all. Well, I have a calling from God to Now what what are some of the other books you've written? So it's basically meant to teach kids responsibility through Storyform. Well, to be honest, it was like such an obscene amount they said, you know what, give us like Whoops, knocked down my water bottle there. We'll make you work for it this week and spell it for you next week. Yeah, yeah. At least in the church service. So I would be very cautious to say that because our culture dictates this Is it windows, let me guess? Um if you use that logic you have to also have to apply it to things like homosexuality, unless you have a homosexual in your community This is the fourth show I believe on the head covering question and and Well repent. And I appreciate where he's coming from on those kinds of questions. It's important. Oh man. Uh and then the the other voice you've heard so far this yeah this show is Daniel Razvey, not to be confused with Daniel Forcey. Yeah I am uh I am rather undecided. This guy like all he's doing is yelling at me through the radio like all day. Bone j Bone Giovanni. D. Uh at the one stop shop, Household of FaithinChrist. When he says one hundred sixty seven and a half hours. Yeah. So I'm not sure how much of it made it into the radio edition of the So that's that's what I would I mean a metal helmet could do the do the part of a head covering, yeah? But uh again, I don't I don't think that that we have to say it can't mean that Um and so for uh effectiveness of the of the show having an audience uh So how did they teach But for the stickler who might be listening. Go ahead. And so one a day I'm loaded. And he was frustrated that uh when we do the live stream, like we're right now we are doing a live stream of this recording session But I feel like I have a free mind so I can We can't say we're going to Is that extra long Now you're getting me going. com. That's the point I would make is hair doesn't count. So it's difficult for me to say exactly what my church And oh also we're not gonna wear head coverings because men don't wear But that will be more of a cultural and theological debate I think. Um I will say we spent a long, long time last time spelling his name over and over again And I was exaggerating a little bit. Or is there some other way that you could fulfill this passage It's just that generally men and women should be distinct. Like what I mean You and I think those arguments are garbage. And if it is possible Ho homosexuality is uh is is is uh is against But that doesn't mean we shouldn't on occasion point to, hey, Luther said this, Calvin said this, Augustine said this Uh we'll get into the the details of that. So What should it look like? And so it's actually a very countercultural um like statement. Would you excommunicate somebody who refuses to pray? I'm Troy Skinner, your longtime host. You can find his book Well uh except for me. But it comes down to okay, I I think that I think David agrees with me That is not most of human history. Did I get it closer that time? Terrible music anyway. See, there's bonus coverage on the screen. Is that considered a forward slash or a backslash? When they're married generally is is what I would I would believe uh So it seems like a seem seems very hypocritical in that way. So But otherwise I don't think there's any problem with wearing any type of head covering. So not necessarily a Okay. So you don't lie with a man, you for example, you you forbid that sort of activity. Yeah Daniel Daniel uh thinks it's referring more to uh a public But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered In verse 4, the NIV it says, every man who prays or prophesies, i. Saying basically any Christian male who Yeah. Even during church services. So that's that's my caution. So I want to explain that. So close. God bless. Punish. The fact that I'm the pastor, they don't hold it against the church, please. But if somebody asks me my opinion on the topic, I'll tell them And that is something that equally applies just like all the other analogies Well I would just point out that um if you go back a few hundred years um things were quite different back in that time and Or you're because the church representing on earth what the what God would say is that you're in danger of hellfire. So we've got to wrap up because we've got now like thirty seconds. I'm greatly offended his headphones don't like what I have to say It's uh top of it. I've had the same uh wonder, doesn't it? You say, well actually I mean it's crazy how fast things change in a interconnected internet And if you're not a sweetheart, but you're a hunk of hunk of man, well good morning to you too, my friend Well, as it turns out, if you go to gotquestions. So the particular podcast, which was like a two and a half hour podcast, Okay. Yes, two through sixteen. And in his book he points out that um the church in Corinth that had received verbal instruction from Paul practiced um Well I think and I think it just He is the author of The Head Covering. Okay. So how do you how do you reconcile those two? Well I would say you you have to take it as the the little head, like with the two eyes and nose and We we haven't discussed church discipline as much. I'm sorry. Um, two extremes, uh in most people's opinion about one is much worse than the other. So back up for a minute. Like when you when you ever play basketball or or soccer or something? But W W W does not. No, I mean you're just doing your silly little fad thing and then it kind of caught on and now that nobody wears them anymore com. Bon Bon Giwani. So I would say that you really have to be willing to say that a man may never wear a hat ever if you're gonna say that Right? And those are like foundational truths for me. Do it all the way. So it must be In this context, it would clearly mean short hair because it's being compared to bald Yeah and just to to piggyback on that, um you mentioned you you have two possible delugies. It's only a symbol. That's true. You just never open it because It'll pop right back up. That is difficult. Good word it everybody. There's a legal principle in in in the law, in modern law today, and I'm I'm a lawyer if I would But we but we can't know what the early church leaders thought as a whole because we don't have enough of a All they care about is your opinion. Southeastern Europe. Okay. Um I like the New King James Version. Yeah, so I just got my Get Out of Hell for free card from uh from Daniel Razby there. So it doesn't say that when every woman prays or when a woman prophesies, she had her head covers. I haven't studied the the history of this much less I do I do want to say that I uh I find historical arguments and references to be I'll get to them later. Um th th the If anyone wants to I was trying to make my statement a little punchy by the way because I was hoping it would stimulate healthy debate. And David turns around and says, Yep, have a take and don't suck. Uh they pray with everybody. So we don't leave it on the cutting room floor. It's also Paul saying that and and so have they're not they're not inconsistent with each other. You'd probably be able to come up with something well don't marry another man according you'll get a marriage license on another man. So uh what uh uh how do you determine, you know, well this command we sh we can be very strong on how the ex Uh so well I I'm saying you're you're consistent, right? But the the word fabric, cloth, hat But there are actually several Greek words in here and if you do a little research on it you'll find out that um these words mean something that hangs down. So if her hair is already cut sh So this is something that must be physical that can be taken Well I I I would I I I would uh actually So that that And I just want to read you just one example. Does the Pope take his uh Right? It shows that he uh took a scholarly approach to this and he did his homework and good for him. I said a lot of things that today I would argue with myself about. There's a I mean what are your guys' objections? And the uh yeah, I'm a little bit uh raspy, I'm trying to get it. So actually it does fit because I do understand how legalism is is a term that gets misinterpreted That's that's the believe in repent, right, that's true. It's like, how do we arrive at what the author originally intended You you know, you become a Christian as a Greek and you are a Greek Christian. Anyway, that's enough of my ending soliloquy Anyway, and you can find him and uh their ministry online at Conquered by Love Bone Joani. So in for example in verse five it says, But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonestly No, the the word would not refer to little girls. And so if you look at the broader context, which is why uh was it last week or two weeks ago, I can't remember now. So if you look at the context in verse four, it says every man praying or prophesying having his head covered No, I don't I don't think I've ever been real shy about you know what what needs to be I'll just say that Three of us, maybe not. You did not use AI to write the book. Yes. That doesn't make Christ inferior, but he is in a position of authority over him. It would be fun to just try to convince you to to put you know to implement hectov Very next phrase. How do you determine which whether a command is that? And so that's why those who want to make an argument and say that it's well it's about a spiritual reality That word covering there is actually a little different than previous Uh I think you might have heard him say something about snap a crackle pop there in the background, possibly. Irenaeus. And those church church leaders they claim that they passed the fullness of the canon wasn't written. Well before anybody else uh picks up the baton and starts running with it uh So It's a one-on-one kind of a medium Are you saying it's cultural? Don't make it caller driven. Send your kid to public school never. Yeah. And So this is first Corinthians chapter eleven, verse four. He's like, first of all I want to give you an example of what it is. Yeah. You can find him online at conqueredbylove. So before this show is over, I'll give you the information about how you can connect with the book and all that. I feel like you're beating around the bush right now a little bit, but you know, I'm waiting for those So I appreciate it though. Wow, no NASB in the room. The application of it is different today than back then. I'm gonna form one though and look out when I do So that I think is very interesting. What is a woman? So if you're using it to make a point about a head covering, then it is not the head covering. And that's the one. Like Now um last week's episode you mentioned just uh specifically cloth. They're pastors in the area. Now I would say and this is where Josiah and I differ, he he's he's he gets around the whole they can't speak in church and he He's just on the in some of the specific com and hustle the faith in Christ. We ran out of time and so here we are He's still speaking from the same lung capacity, it seems to me, and he says head two more times That's a lot that's being said here. Yeah. He doesn't want to wear uh uh have his have his uh So Like, oh my gosh, is he even Christian? Correct. And then we'll give Josiah a chance to say that, yep, he nailed it. So anyway. Spiritual, right? You're the spiritual leader of the home. Just like we have to make a decision sometimes, does the Greek word uh gyne mean All right, so we ready to go? Um that's when head coverings completely just like disappeared from the face of Western culture. Is that like Ukraine? How should it fit? Do you mind if I go back to your your question from a And to me the word legalist, first of all, is not generally understood when you ask a person for a definition So what what could be like hair It says if she is uncovered, she might as well be So what's important about looking at the early church fathers is you see the Bible actually It's just a poll. Anyway, I've listened to some older shows now that are like I've had friends who are like With us rather. j-o-s. That's that's another clear one. I encourage you to find it and get the fullness of his arguments Thanks, Delphine. Uh yes. Um It's like um there's the order of authority. As though there's only two sides or multiple sides. Uh there's different um Hang in there. We we can make an we c we don't even have to guess. com. But anybody who's listening, Something like that, or you know, around twelve or thirteen probably. Okay. I'm sure I've spent more than an an hour and a half of my life on this question. And whatever it means, If um what would we say about what would any of us say about that in response Yes, perfect. I don't know if that counts necessarily as complete Um Uh you would you would advocate for head coverings then? So if the woman wants to have her hair short Um if you had this I guess you'd have to ask the Pharisees. So you guys are all of the Calvinist persuasion? I'll take it off when I start prophesying And the ground for that position would be what? But also he shouldn't be wearing head covers. So I'm trying to think what would that person be asking Yeah or or so or or I can fit into the groups that I mean well no I'm thinking about in The most important question nobody asked. You can find me online at householdoffaith in Christ. For instance, um if a woman is doesn't is not willing to wear a head cover and says she should have you shaved I I feel I feel I feel like at home in public uh you know, they can't. I'm gonna start bludgeoning him to see if he wants to come back with But that's but that's the the thing is Paul does this other passage Any opinion that differs from Daniel's, I'm a fan. But what the point I'm making, I think Josiah is trying to make, is Daniel Razby, thank you. Have a good time. So Right. And that's one of the big ones. But as a command to Christians, I would say we've got we have to obey it. But everything comes from God. Well, so one episode down there as well. Bone Joani. But to perhaps say woman of every rank, condition We're gonna end the live stream. Oh darn it! They don't lead prayer necessarily. I read from 1 Corinthians chapter eleven. I think we we all would agree on that that's the point you're making. Why is one aside from okay now this is a And so You are dishonoring Christ. Until next week, 167. Maybe. They do. Clearly there were people at the time that believed this and interpreted this But um, huh? You know what you need to do now? David Forcy, the Wack-Amole Church, the house church that meets at a different members Well most uh maybe not most, but there are still many of congregations, many of pastors who would And so we go, oh well see, Irenaeus, and he sat under Polycarp or whatever he sat under. Not really far as we don't do that here. Most of them would fall in the camp of it's not um Make it host driven. Daniel Razby is of the opinion that yeah it probably kind of is Right. You can find that on Amazon or you can go to his website, uh Josiah Bonejewani. Yes. I could read you a verse from that Phrase. It's like, you know, you You have started some shows in the past with that So guys one of the questions I said, you know what? Because of how I'm defining prophecy Well you may we you may have a women's group that's leading women's group, right? I'm gonna jump in and start flooring. What do you tell her? This chapter is one of the most um And over in in the eastern cultures, Christians obey this scripture And that is Irenaeus who says, A woman ought to have a veil upon her head because of the angels. We are here to serve So like Um actually Moldova and Romania and we went down to like And men should also remove their hats or other head headwear in those situations Bang! To us? I would write all of those things. And so she deliberately wears a really small head covering just to So why why do we jump to it needs to be cloth? If I were to be persuaded that some sort of physical head covering I'm going to have to read something for the next 60 seconds. And you know what we started in this arc of shows, this is show number five I just found that interesting You can see I don't know. Different cultures have had various opinions on that and there have been theological debates That's fine. You can find Daniel and uh his church and their ministry online at concordbylove. It may just refer to non-consensual, non-monogamous homosexuality I use that language in my home all the time. And so uh good Christian wives are on guard against that and good Christian husbands are on guard against that I'm judging that cover. So this will be an interesting uh topic for me All right. What yeah. Or is that leak that is that at least a possible And then we get into what's the physical, practical It's like why is this passage so confusing to us? Oh, maybe to you me to tweak anything over there And uh and Oh, that's another thing by the way. Uh Correct. com is the place Bon Juwani. The head of every man is Christ. Right. I did not use AI. I gotta put an E on the end of that. Alright, so are we ready to go again? Right. Every man praying or prophesying, having his head And you can find in there just for the first three hundred years um what the early Christians believed on numerous topics. Bang! That's interesting. What does that even mean? So part of it is because of the the type of head covering And the whole point of that passage where the hair is given as a covering Is he playing the music? Right. I'm gonna go meditate on such things and you guys will carry on for the next And I'm I'm kind of a free agent on this one. Uh a bonnet at least But whether you should wear them at all in church, that seems to never have been You can pray silently can you prophesy silently And she she calls me, holds me to account that okay, because what does a man want more than anything? Um I actually am not exactly sure what their practice is during birth. Who are right. We're recording our Faith Debate radio programs now, so you're going to get one big long video tonight. Previously I've done like a lot of customer service jobs. But not necessarily twenty four seven or or It would just refer So the first thing that pops up on Amazon is that by Josiah But in this case I'm like Jell O that's been in the fridge far too long and now you it's like a rock. That's that's the that's the logic that I see though. And so and if and if prophecy is something that could happen at any time. com. Um I keep on meaning to do that at some point, learn how to get into it, but com, it works. I don't know who got me going. Backslash. So they w it was already obvious who was a woman and who was not. And I mean And my wife needs to uh It all runs together after a while, doesn't it? org. It's a hot topic. You have a take. You as we're recording this, you're wearing a hat I'm not gonna argue strenuously, but I am gonna Because hair is specifically mentioned. And again, this is not uh it's gonna feel like I'm rebuking, and it's not Okay. Okay, you got 140 characters, David, go. Got it. But it's not required according to scripture. What do you have an example of what else it could be? Till next week, 167. It's certainly not clear for me whether or not and I'm going to say that God's word is unclear. Neither at the moment. Now there's Visaya mentioned when I when I told the Uh yes. All of those things. Why uh uh so You are taking God's name in vain. People are like, you need to turn it into a book. Oh yeah. There was an old um it might still be alive, I don't know Okay. So anything, this is one of the reasons why I was so He maybe talked about head coverings. Because that seems The ground is verse five There's a freedom in that. Like a yamaka kind of a thing. Now it's possible that everybody, for example I think he nailed it, yeah That's not even English. He's like, it's that girl over there in the audience who's wearing a head covering Here you go. So yeah, anything that involves a lot of reading is is Oh my gosh. Yeah, exactly. But I want you to realize that the head of every man is Christ. Right, right. There is Um But how is it that this symbol Asking for clarification and trying to figure out now he's Uh It's just it's just kind of a fun example from Jerome. And another one is actually you uh wearing head coverings Yeah. And it oh, well, this is gonna be for the stream. It's like some com Josiah Sure. And so we don't have a lot to go on. Who are com as quickly as I can I caught myself on a more recent show So this is not gonna be That's this is unlistable. So you're good. Do they prophesy in your church service? So it repeats the same thing in verse four, except for the woman I started the show when I was three, okay? Um How is it a dishonor for a man Right. I usually have ESV. If you read I don't know if you guys read like the Antonicene Fathers But if you have the opportunity, if I said, Hey David, would you lead us in prayer right now? The head of woman is man Like shouldn't she at least Wrestle with God's word to figure it out And it's pronounced Bongiwani. Right. You're gonna put a requirement on them? 5 hours from right about now. So We can know with certainty what some of them believed. I I think that is a way that you can express that. That's the gist of I think what you were Yeah the outward application. And I would say I don't know for Everybody's arguing over it all the time And I had to But but walking around and looking at the whole bush before arriving at Okay. Okay. It's God the Father. And that's What but the only way you can read it is if Okay? All right You know, that's still there. So their successors in other words Right. And I and I think I'm consistent too in that, in that I would say e. But but it's com. So what what's holding for the one extent or So I've But thanks for introducing me anyways. I have gone on two missions trips. So I guess to f help to properly frame this, let me uh And I actually said it with some sincerity It's like a random rotation. Not by Somebody did. The ESB and and the NIV are the most com Christ is in a position of authority over man and man over woman. Christ is not dying again and and spilling his literal blood But there were things there would be things that you would prescribe. My wife does too Until next week. We have a lot of ground to cover. But I'm not saying that necessarily should be shunned. So you would you would recommend And so if Yes, thank you. You're covered either way. I'm just I'm I'm kind of like Jell-O Like that that should all be distinctive. I appreciate that I'm not sure if we might pick that up Because Jerome, that's like Constantine era. I don't agree with that So so in the same way like I think you should I understand it this way. Spot on the rest of the night But we're gonna get it we're gonna get into all of that stuff in just a second. , every Christian male You're taking his name in vain. Yeah, yeah, I agree. Are there none that disagreed? So you I don't really have an understanding for that. And That that that's what's being talked about Um The Bible says Even though there is the is a kind of a specific rule And there's only one other picture in the book that's AI Those in the room saw me do that I'm blaming you, David Uh This is different. What is the first one being banded so I haven't made a I mean if you sing the national anthem, you take your hat off, you know. Oh yes, I'm I sa I'm saved. There's a um But there actually is some commandment in the Bible about it, so it's very interesting. God doesn't say you have to wear a wireframe head covering. I don't see it used analogously Yeah. All right, and here we go. Let's go. Well except except that he says 5 hours from now. I'm up in the air and uh He says he mentioned this fast uh I can't take it. He's always the one that we're done. Or David, go. But my point is I've never done a a real Um because of the proximity. God bless. This is actually in the head covering passage in first. But here's what the NIV has to say. Yeah, I mean she could take it off when she's not praying. Has it always been confusing to everyone? I just enjoy being around Uh It goes back. So it This isn't forbidding, this is requiring. Say I'm a Christian This is just So in Christ God bless. And you were like Um I have But So Yeah, so there's been times for effect or One was for six months over in Southeast God bless. Like um if you've ever seen Antena, Um if you're a woman it Here we go. They the long hair cannot be Then there's a likelihood Actually I I don't It's like is that uh I'm not that old. You got 140 characters, Josiah, go! Don't com No, I don't have unconfessed the I don't think there is a Daniel Forcey. It goes back. Bone Joani. There are commands and scripture It's just saying that I just want to org.