Welcome to the uh streaming uh audience. This is a recording session for the Faith Debate radio show. So I'll be busy doing that. here but if you leave a comment or anything uh on this stream I will get to it later. Um anyway I'm gonna turn my back on you not meaning to be rude but we're gonna get going here. All right thanks for joining the stream Yeah, make sure I got these on the right correct side so that everyone doesn't know it. Okay. Good morning. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, your longtime host of The Faith Debate. You can find me online at wfmd. com and at household of faith in Christ dot com because Household of Faith in Christ is the Church Center pastor. Join this week as has become a pattern by the Razvis, Imran, known to his friend as Raz Razvi and his son Daniel Razvi. They co-pastor a church in the Thermon area. It's called the Church of Eta Imran. They also have a ministry that is called Conquered by Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. org. And we are joined this week by the publisher of a book that is called The Last Days Pride Parade. Author is said to be a Tom Maccabeas. I'm not sure if I know Tom Maccabees personally or not, but we have the publisher here to talk about this book. So um it's interesting because this show we're recording it in advance and it's gonna air long past the month of June, but we're actually recording it during um uh what I like to call goeth before a fall month So we're in the we're in the middle of Goeth Behoraf all month, and uh we've got this book about the last days pride parade and the return of the Lord. And I'm going to just throw an open-ended question to our publisher here. And it's interesting. I want to talk about that in a minute, maybe, but uh Greg Windsor is the is the publisher, and the opening question is, why would you want to publish such a book? Well, I think it's really critical because if if there is if there is something related to scripture, prophecy, that many Christians are not aware of Uh it's very important to get that word out. You know, now what what people do with it, you know, that's a secondary question, but you know There's there's things in here that I believe uh are not are are rarely talked about. Actually there's some things that I don't believe uh have really been focused on for like centuries And um I think it's important to get the message out be because it relates to eschatology and also relates to what's going on in in our time, which I believe is unprecedented. There's something going on now that is pretty much unprecedented. And and all these people in this room we all agree that the LGBT agenda is evil and anti Christ and and all that. That's not really exactly a groundbreaking Christian Right. I think what's different about this this book may be more of how it ties into some historical events as well we've seen before, right? Right. See see Yes, most Christians are pr if they haven't realized by now, you know, there must be in a woke stupor if they haven't realized what's going on now But so it's it's one thing to say, okay, the Bible speaks generally, as in the days of Lot, so be the coming of the Son of Man, and this is definitely anti-biblical, anti-Christ. But there are unique things which I do believe relate to s more specific eschatology beyond just the general uh environment of Antichrist or persecution, which has been throughout you know throughout history But there's something very unique in this um with this whole movement, this whole rainbow movement. Now the uh it's a new ish book, but it's not a brand new book. If you look at the copyright, it it it came out in uh Go It Before a Fall Month. Last year. Last year. Yes. Um so was that timing just a coincidence or aiming to have it come out so that, you know, to to get the attention that I think people need to be aware of, you know, this message that hey let's there are things in scripture that we need to look at and there's things in history that we need to know about in order to um you know in in order to know you know the times that we're living in. So like, you know, the sons of Issachar. to be able to discern the times that we're living in. Now a centerpiece um in the uh in the book is about the re reference repeated references and and allusions drawn from the uh the book the the period surrounding the book of Maccabees. Right. Um and so you're making a historical connection. You're talking about the book of Daniel, the time of the Maccabean revolt uh the time of Christ and now the time that we're in. And so that's kind of I guess what you are to Daniel's point before, that's what you're laying claim to is this is your contribution to the to the conversation. This is the that's the thing you think that maybe Christians, people in the church are missing. They're not making those historical connections. Is that accurate? Okay. Just about everybody who studies prophecy, Matthew 24, uh Daniel Regardless of whatever persuasion you have, if you study any commentary, Daniel chapter 8, Daniel chapter 11, there's one person in the Old Testament who typifies this antichrist figure, and that was the Emperor Antiochus IV, Antiochus Epiphanes. He proclaims himself God. Now most people are are are aware of study prophecy. You know, he goes into the temple, he desecrates the temple, he kills the Jews, he persecutes the Jews, he says, I am God. But what many Christians do not realize, there's lots of historical evidence that he also had a sexualized agenda. He was forcing it upon God's people. Uh, you know, th th there was there was nudity. He he built they built a uh a state qu uh a quote statum, sort of the YMCA, if you know what I'm talking about. There's nudity. There's homosexuality right on the temple grounds. It was in your face. And and and um the biggest thing about is that The the um the the Jews were grieved because the young people, they were they were they were influencing the young people in in uh in the in the book of Maccabees, he talks about, you know, the young people were drawn into this. There was um and all this happened at the time of the abomination of desolation. So you have two two events, this major cataclysmic event that we all agree upon. You know, most most Bible commentators agree this was this was cataclysmic, regardless of whatever persuasion you have Then then you have at the same time a uh a forced sexual agenda upon the Jews. Parades and everything, right? Yeah, oh yeah. Now now that's not the worst but the worst part was The Jews were forced to march in parades. Imagine that. A parade where men are dressing like women. A parade where there's a lewd acts going on. Think about that. A parade Where um they had to celebrate. That's the word. You must celebrate this this God of sexual lawlessness. He's the God of transgression, lawlessness. So there's this shocking historical information that prior to our time really wouldn't have mattered, you know, if you're studying If you're a Puritan studying in you know the sixteen eleven Bible and you read about this, it's like, yeah, you know, but but it's going on on a scale throughout the whole entire world. So it's shocking, you know, this the information. Yeah, that that's the voice of uh Brad Windsor, publisher of the book The Last Days Pride Parade on the Return of the Lord, which came out uh last year. Uh I hadn't heard about it until this year and and I have uh read it and it and if you're not a reader and you're interested, you know, um It it's not uh an imposing thing to have to read. It's more of a booklet than a book. I mean you can sit down and read it in one sitting, which is what I did. So it's it's it's very doable to do that. Very informative. I just want to make a comment for those of you listeners who may not be familiar. Um uh we have several people have mentioned the book of Maccabees on the show today. That is not part of the Bible. It is actually published and bound into some Bibles as like an extra book in there. It's part of the Apocrypha and it's not historically being considered canon by by Christians. Right. But that does not mean that it has no historical use and And many uh historians would agree that it that it it's very accurate in in the historical depictions of what happens, and there certainly are many biblical truths that you can guard And this and this oh we have more to say? No, I just we have we have reason to believe that it's that it's an accurate historical uh record, but it's just not scripturi at all. And it was highly valued by the Jews. It was actually part of the Septuagint. You know, from Alexandria, you know When they they so the Jews actually held it similar to it being part of the Roman Catholic Bible today though, right? It was considered scripture, but it was important and important religious. Right, so just because it was in the Septuagint doesn't mean it was canon Right. It wasn't one of the books stored up in the temple, for example, right? So it wasn't you know when we talk about the the Bible of the of the early church, you know, but Jesus' Bible was the Greek Septuagint. But they understood which books were considered God's word and which books were other important relationships. Right. So just to clarify to clarify. Uh anybody who hears us talk about this who happens to be Roman Catholic is is a little bit peeved at us. But uh we don't kind of get into the all of the inner workings of all that, but historically Uh I I would say it's uh pretty persuasively the truth is on what we're saying here right now on this show. We could have a separate faith debate talking about that if we And it was in the original 1611 KJV. So just for the record, that might sway some people. Although Yeah, it it's in some well it depends on which which version of the KJV. It's in some and not in some others, right? So we're not going to get into the whole KJV only and as only as a conversations here either uh right now. So this is the faith debate. And in the spirit of that, there were three things that struck me uh about this that I'll throw out there. We can tackle them uh you know one at a time, but I'll put them out there now so you kind of know. what's coming. That was one of my things I noted that a lot of the argumentation in this book, uh The Last Days Pride Parade, it's drawing as it's kind of its authoritative source, if you will, from Maccabees as opposed to necessarily drawing from what actually is the word of God. And so, you know, that I took note of that and I'm not sure that I I loved that as a reader of it. Uh the other thing is it seems clear to me that the the perspective that's put forward on this eschatological framework is a dispensational, premillennial dispensational point of view. So those who aren't dispensational to the point of view, they might have some qualms uh with the argumentation and the and the way that the the the flow of the logic of the argument is laid out uh uh in the book. Let's start with those two. Uh w is that fair? Is that dis it's pretty much a dispensational point of view that's what we're gonna hear? I I intentionally avoided Getting into models of eschatology, which is a huge subject. Actually, the information in the book, you could fit it into different eschatologies, but it's It was really about just getting the information out. So I I intentionally avoided, but it is a futurist, yes, it's a futurist, a great tribulation. A future anti uh a future final antichrist. Right yeah, I didn't mean to say that you were making a dispensational argument and drawing attention to that but as you and so i I didn't even notice it right away. Right. But I was about twenty, thirty percent into the book and I was like Okay, I think he's coming at this from a dispensational framework. And then as I continue to read, I realize okay so there's there's some inferences, some implications. Yes, yeah. So I just wanted to, you know. So that so that was an accurate Read at least. What about the uh the dependence on arguing from Maccabees and that historical point of view? Okay, actually it's not really dependent on that because When Jesus quoted, when you see the abomination of desolation, his readers, everybody understood that that event happened uh from the book of Daniel as recorded in the Book of Maccabees. So th there there really was no um uh this is not really a historical fact it's been in dispute. Yeah, there was no dispute and Jesus Jesus attended uh the rededication of the temple, the festival of rededication, which kind of morphed into Hanukkah. You know, it kind of got morphed into that. But there was the rededication of the temple. So none of this was really in dispute The only reason why I highlight the Book of Maccabees is because this historic information has to be put out there as like the data. Now, you know, the early church, the first Bible commentary ever written outside of the Apostles was Hippolytus. This is uh You know, this is this is like in very, very early on. And he mentions this. He mentions Antiochus Epiphanes. He mentions Uh it actually he mentions the Pride Parade of 168. I mean he didn't he doesn't put it like that of course. But but it but he connects it with Revelation thirteen, the mark of the beast, because they had to wear a symbol. It was about symbolism. They they had to wear a symbol upon their head. So the early church there's good evidence that they recognized that uh this event there wasn't really in dispute and they connected it to to you know the antichrist and they use that term the antichrist. I know some people uh take issue with that. But the early church throughout the literature uses the th the singular the Antichrist as opposed to, you know, many Antichrists. Also, other church historians, having this like a Jerome mentions this again, of Antiochus Epiphanes. So everybody understood that he was like he was a model or an archetype of of that. So um I understand your point The only reason why why I why uh uh the author felt the necessity the necessity is because so many people are unaware of it. And it has so many connections to the abomination of desolation because really, how do we get our definition of that term? What does that term mean? In other words, the disciples knew exactly what that meant. It's like, if I say 9-11, we don't have to explain what that meant. And it's the same kind of thing. So um Yeah, I the the author felt the necessity to give that historic in information, but but it doesn't really rely upon, it doesn't hinge on the book of Maccabees. Because actually there's a subsequent book coming out, The Rainbow Antichrist, which ties in many other parts of the New Testament where it connects. That's the voice of Greg Windsor. I'm Troy Skinner. You've also heard so far from Daniel Rasley. Haven't heard from Imran, so let's see if we can pull Imron into the conversation here. Well, for me this uh book was really more of a uh historical value. I didn't realize that the pride praise and things that are going on on today happened back then. And like a lot of things in scripture where we have a a little fulfillment and then a big fulfillment, that's what I feel like it's happened back then. It was a little fulfillment of the pride praise of what's happening around that area and now the pride praises are all over the world, in Europe and in America and and uh you know it's it's funny that Russia's fighting fighting against these ripe raids where Russia's uh uh deemed the the villain in in in today's media. But again, I think the this is more of a It was an eye-opening for me that it was a a small fulfillment of of prophecy to a large fulfillment of prophecy now that we're living, I think, in the end times And yeah to the to the futurism type of thing, I mean as as you know, we've talked about this before. I'm I'm more of a futurist, not dispensational necessarily, but I I believe in the future tribulation period uh uh and that's that's that's coming or upon us and I I don't think uh 'cause I've I've heard uh um I've I've been in kind of conversations with this the publisher before on this topic, I think there is a lot of value to be gained from somebody who has uh a a not not a futurist view, but more of a preterist view. i if if nothing else than to not let history repeat itself because you can see things happen in history and you can see it happening again today, n only the more so. And you know, we open our eyes to say this is a pattern that the devil has been using in the past. and he's continuing to use and he's even more successful at it now than he was two or three thousand years ago. Um I think I think there's definitely a value to be gained regardless of your eschat eschatological view. Um in fact I heard him answer questions from pret uh preterist saying, Well, why why does this apply to me? 'Cause I don't think the tribulation is coming next year and in fifteen years or whatever Yeah, we're throwing a lot of terms out there and I'm not going to take time to do to uh define them all other than to uh frame this conversation. Uh we talk about the futurist view, which is basically the uh the lion's share of things that are talked about in the Bible are still to come in a future right before the second of second coming of Christ and how that plays out with the timing of a of a tribulation or a great apostasy or uh if there's a rapture, things like that. There's some disagreement on all those sorts of things. And those f all fall within the historic premill uh the uh dispensational premillennial Daniel seems to have, from shows up we've and conversations we've had in the past, seems to be more in the historic pre-meal camp with some dispensational flavors. uh mixed in. Um and I I'm I'm kinda guessing that Imron maybe is in that same milieu, although I haven't had the same depth of conversations with him, but you guys are at the same church and pleading the same thing. And I would be more in the uh the all millennial uh probably with a with more of an idealist If you know if people know these terms, you'd kind of know the players now a little bit. More of an idealist uh view. And as far as preterism, preterism has to do with whether or not everything has already happened or not. Uh I would fall into the partial preterist camp meaning that a lot of it has and and I would I would argue again I'm this isn't the point of this show but just the because we're talking about eschatology in in the context of this this book that we're talking about. Everything that has to have happened for Christ's return has, but obviously it hasn't in all the ways that it will because he hasn't returned yet. But he could but before I finish my next breath, he could return because everything that needed to happen for him that happened so that would be where where I am. And that's not where this book is, and so that's where some of this these questions and these thought threads are coming from. And I've noticed, and that's why uh that was one of my the the detells, if you will, I've noticed that those are are more dispensational, more futurist. in the orientation, uh have more of a willingness, it seems to me, and it could be just my personal experiences in reading and conversations, more of a willingness to turn to things like the Didic, the Book of Enoch, the books of Maccabees Um they tend to draw from some of the or even the early church fathers for that matter, and draw their arguments from those sorts of sources and and and make those more the centerpiece of the argument as opposed to citing chapter and verse and making a distinctly biblical argument. I've noticed that. And so um I that might sound like an accusation If you take it as one, defend yourself. If not, just interact with it. Okay. The author, since since you raised this point, uh in retrospect, yes, the author probably should have amplified Second Thessalonians because um the the the the passage on second thessalonians because if you read that actually the book of Daniel is only quoted I think four times in the whole New Testament. Three in the you know Luke twenty one, Matthew twenty four, Mark thirteen And one at a time, Second Thessalonians. And l loads of illusions in the book of Revelation. Revelation doesn't actually quote any part of the Old Testament, but alludes to it throughout. Lots of illusions, right. So Second Thessalonians, this is where which directly connects. the things in the last days pride parade. So it says, that day will not come, speaking of the return of the Lord, until the rebellion comes first or the falling away. And the man of lawlessness is revealed, who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called God, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God. Okay. So there's a quote from Daniel chapter eleven. Daniel chapter 11 is is the supposedly it it's one of the most detailed prophecies in the whole entire Bible. I think it's like 20 prophecies that Antiochus fulfilled. Once again, partially, he fulfilled all these different things except right up to this final, to a few final points. So that's like uncanny that he fulfilled all these things and then there's this last final fulfillment of the final Antichrist. So to me that's that's strong um that's strong evidence that we do need to go to Daniel and get this silica triangulation theologically from the Book of Maccabees and of course from other sources. Also, another evidence is in the New Testament, like 2 Peter, the book of Jude, when it talks about false teachers in the last days. It mentions about, surprise, surprise, about sensuality, sexuality. There's three passages in the New Testament. They speak of the, I think it's 2 Peter Jude. And you'll notice that they talk about false teachers bring in a sensuality, which is exactly what we see going on. You know, wholesale churches, wholesale rejection of you know God's plan. Uh there's a bunch of other New Testament times, but but I'll just give a moment if you guys want to Yeah, I mean I mean I I I think as long as you have a distinction in your head, look this is scripture and this is not scripture, uh and and It's none of us would would dispute that you can use the Oxford English Dictionary to make a point, or the Britannica to make a point, or Google to make the point. Word of God. Right. And as long as everyone's super clear that, well, this other book Maccabees or or Enoch, like you say, or or the writings of E uh E. White uh or Ellen White. Um these are not scripture. I don't think there's uh I don't have a problem with somebody making a doctrinal point based on the writings, Calvin or somebody else. I wouldn't even put Elvin White's writings in the same category as Maccabees or Edo for that matter, right? The point I'm making is the there's all these other and and and You y i I I think it I think it's it's short-sighted to say that th these other sources have no value at all. But yes, your arguments should be grounded in the scripture from the beginning. And I think that's that's a fair critique, but I but I I I think we It I I don't think we've established that there's a disagreement from the author of this book on on that subject. and and and and the the the the historical line, you know, connecting the dots in history that take us through Old Testament times, the book of Acabe's, uh the first century, uh today. Like we'll we'll talk about that uh next time. But we have uh like a a a minute or two uh and we haven't had a chance to promote. If somebody is interested in interacting with what has been written here in the uh The Last Days Pride Parade and The Return of the Lord. It's a mouthful of a title, by the way. I have a tendency to just call it The Last Days Pride Parade for short. Yeah. But the and the Return of the Lord is actually in the title. Anyway, if somebody wants to get a copy, what do they do? Uh you can go to Barnes and Noble's. Uh they're one of the publishers who did not shut it down. I you know, thank you, Barnes and Nobles. I didn't shut it down. Um you can go to Barnes and Nobles. Uh if you want to interact in the in the debates about these kind or you know, as far as the forum, uh You can go to Worthy News and look up the subject, Rainbow Antichrist. There's a forum going on. And I have uh if you have uh uh about ten seconds, I got one other thing. Uh those of you listeners, this is Daniel Rasby. Um there's a unique event coming up in the next couple of weeks so September 7th and 8th of 2024 I will be conducting the world premiere of a ballet that I've written on the story of Esther from the Bible and that'll be in in Rockville. You can go to Estherballet. com and get tickets. There's a discount code Hadassah, if you know, you know. Um and you can put that code in and you'll get a a good discount on the tickets there but it should be a wonderful time I'll be conducting and we'll have a ballet company there as well. So Estherballet. com discount code Hadassah September seventh and eighth. And one takeaway is don't be a Heyman. So th you know they're sneaking some uh shibolefs into the discount code there, so only those who know can get the discount. Anyway, and um Barnes and Noble I guess online you can go to Barnes Noble dot com. If you go to the local Barnes and Noble store would you find it at the store on the shelf or but it's coming out All right. So the book again is called The Last Days Pride Parade and the Return of the Lord, published by Greg Windsor, but the author name is Tom Maccabees, so that's what you're looking for. This is the Faith Debate. You heard the voices of Imran Razvy, Daniel Razvy. I'm Troy Skinner. Again, we thank you for listening. Encourage you to find us online. WFMD. com and Household of FaithInChrist. com are the best places to go for that. And again, next week we're going to continue this conversation. We alluded to some of the history, but we didn't really get a chance to drill down on that. So we're going to do that 167 and a half hours from right about now. Until then, you be good to yourself and God bless. I have a water fountain. Well, you have a water bottle. Trim the front end of this. Yeah, sorry to kind of uh overshadow the other uh thing in the end of the phone. No no no to be honest if you remember. Yeah there's only I can only put it in these first two weeks otherwise Yeah, I I know because of the timing. Yeah. Yeah, I wanted to make sure that uh we had a chance to promote the book and I totally forgot about promoting your event. Yeah, sorry. I can pro I can certainly promote myself, I don't have to have help. It'll be a two-night deal. You know, this is so good getting feedback. This is really good. You know. This communication theory, feedback is so critical in communication theory. This is like really good game. Okay, yeah, we're hot mic, watch out. Okay. Alright, so So when we get the next one ready, this next one airs on what can we say? Nine one Feedback. We test the linkage. Oh nine. And one two thousand twenty-four. Okay. All right, I'm going to jump right in while things are kind of still fresh on our minds. Does that work for everybody? Yes. That's good. I'm telling you, same thing happened last week. This mouse is really I don't know if the battery is getting weak, but it is very skittish. I almost couldn't get the music to start. I don't know if you saw me fiddle, I try and get the mouse to respond. So anyway. Um perfect pitch. Good morning. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday with us here on News Radio 930 WFMD. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, the pastor of a church called Households of Faith in Christ, online at Household of FaithInChrist. com Of course, you can follow the Faith Debate on the radio station website at WFMD. com. We picked up this week with a conversation that started last week on a book called The Last Day's Pride Parade and The Return of the Lord, written by Tom Maccabees, published by Greg Windsor. And uh we we entered that conversation, talk about some of the uh the uh biblical and non-biblical sources that support the arguments in the book and we alluded to some of the history uh church history and otherwise uh in that and we didn't really do a deep dive. So we're going to do that this week. And here to do that, again, Imran Raz Razvi from um well, two places, the the Church of East at Imrans and also Conquered by Love Ministries online at ConqueredBylove. org. And from those same places, Daniel Razvi, he's on again this week along with Greg Windsor, who is the publisher of the book The Last Day's Pride Parade and The Return of the Lord. And The Last Day's Pride Parade and The Return of the Lord is available for purchase at BarnesandNoble. com And uh it was interesting. I want to pick up on this before we get into the history stuff. Uh uh you you mentioned where people to get the book last week, uh and you mentioned that Barnes and Noble was one of the places that didn't kibosh it. So did you have some issue with people uh uh at other you know uh booksellers that said, yeah, we're not touching that something? So the shocking thing is Okay, so this author writes a book and he's quoting history. That's all it is. It's it's here's the history, here's what the Bible says, not in any way attacking anybody. Yes, yes. Um going after the ideology, but not one single evidence of any kind of hate speech. So two publishers, um Very, very large. I'm not going to mention their names, but they said, take this, take this down immediately. So they they shut it down. You know, um they they refused to run it thus proving the initial point of the book, because the book starts out that we live in a time where Christians are losing their businesses Christians are being sued for hundreds of thousands of dollars. People are being put in jail. Some people are being killed. Some people are losing their livelihood. Why? Because they they just want to hold the marriages between a man and a woman Or, you know, they send out a Bible verse and a text message. The author has has documented like 50 cases in the last couple of years of just blatant persecution. because of this agenda. So the publishers basically proved the premise of the first chapter of the book. The ones who shut it down. Anyway. week's show we did. Uh what other kind of feedback have you received? If you've had some you know hate mail, have you had some people loving you? Well some people have have been very oh that's just homophobic. I mean even some Christians they said look this is homophob sounds homophobic. But when you call them Christians then. Now that's interesting because anybody who heard last week's episode knows that you know I was the one who was asking some questions for clarification. Some of them could have even been uh accidentally uh characterized as like pointed pushback, which wasn't the intention. It was seeking to just clarify the the mode of communication in the book and that sort of thing. But despite all any pushback I would have, maybe I'm just like oblivious. I read the book. I don't think anything homophobic about it. The author intentionally tried to be uh redemptive and even mentioned, look The whole pride parade thing started because the hy because the heterosexuals through throughout the Bible. You know, the sexual revolution, that that that was mainly heterosexuals. So it's not Targeting, yeah, this is really important. The book is not targeting and saying, look how bad the LGBTQ is. No, it's it's about a a whole entire worldwide sexual lawlessness, but it's being headed I mean any by the any sex outside of a marriage between one man and one woman for life is ungodly non biblical and and sinful. So there there's there's a whole lot more that goes into that than just homosexuality. Yeah and and the reason I say I mean first of all we we've come to change our terms anyway so So if we want to go all the way back to what defining our terms and what it really means, homophobia means a fear of those that are homosexual or engaging in uh in homosexual behaviors. There's no fear of that in this book. Now I know that it's come to mean something other than fear has to has to do with some sort of a hatred for those who engage in this sort of thing. But there's no hatred in this book Either. Now there is a de a a dire uh a definite and direct sin that makes it. Yeah, there's a definitely directly categorized as a sin But those are just statements of biblical truth and facts from a Christian worldview perspective. If you say somebody's sinning, that means you must hate them. That's not the same as homophobia. Right. Now I will say this, anybody who's angry with this book or angry with what I just said or angry with the uh the attaboism getting from Daniel, you're clearly Christophobic and you hate Christ and you hate Christians and you're afraid of Christ and you're afraid of Christians which actually probably has some truth to it when you think about it. But uh but I mean it works both ways. If we can't have an honest dialogue about where we're coming from on things And it's not just mere opinion. Now, again, I asked some clarifying questions last week and said there are some differences between me and the author of this book, for instance But the the the premise of the arguments that we all would make, at least those in this room and represent by this book, are the same. The premise of our arguments is that what does God's word say? Right. And sometimes you don't always a hundred percent fully agree on on what God's word is saying because we're emphasizing different things or and we have to have a meeting of the mind, which is what a show like this is designed to do to help us figure that out so that at the end of it all we can hopefully get more closely aligned and be on the same page, like literally, I guess. Uh but there's no homophobia. That's a little bit s other than generically anything that's biblical being homophobic. If if that's what you were hearing, well then good for you, I guess. And you know the ironic thing, just for the record, the early Christians were called haters. That's what the Romans called them, haters. And cannibals. And atheists. Right. Right. The atheists, yeah. So so uh also, you know, the the r the responses have been kind of shocking, like what How come I never heard about this, you know? Um or um or or else or else and and and this is kind of hard to critique, but some Christians have a Well, you know, the world's always been evil. Yeah, yeah, it's just another evil. Almost like a blasé attitude towards it, like But what they don't, I think what they're not getting is that if, you know, God declares the end from the beginning, and so Jesus God gives us hundreds of prophecies in order to prepare his people, to encourage his people, so we won't be surprised. And so if something is happening that's a specific prophecy, if we write it off as, yeah, that's just the world. The problem is it's not just the world. It's one denomination after another. Every single denomination, I think, is pretty much and uh has either uh capitulated to that god of sensuality or lovers of self, lovers of pleasure. At least the big name denomination is a lot Right. Or or else they're compromising. Yeah, I would yeah. I I I'm a I think um I'm agreeing with what both of you just said. I think that uh what what Greg uh Greg Windsor is is saying is that at some level all the denominations are wrestling with and there are certain elements within certain denominations that are beginning to go astray. And I think what Daniel is trying to clarify is but they haven't been completely given over and some of them are fighting uh within their ranks and they're holding the line. It's been a challenge maybe. But they've been holding the line. So they're not completely so there are some good denominations and some good groups of churches that do exist, but I think that The point that Gray was making is that this this infection uh is impacting the immune systems of all denominations. And all of the immune systems are being called to bear right now. You know what I mean? And those with weak immune systems are are falling apart. And no uh no sarcasm meant. It's like a spiritual AIDS virus It goes after the immune system. And so y and and and l let me just clarify, I've I wasn't trying to broad brush all the denominations up. But that's my job. But you have to do that. Something to the effect of less than one percent of the people that that call themselves churches are actually biblical churches that are worth attending. So today's that that's uh we're pretty extreme on in that in that belief on this program. So just today you have a major theological seminary. I'm not going to mention it because I don't want to pick on them. very conservative, who see, they'll say, oh yes, we believe marriage is between a man and a woman. They'll say that, but then they'll say, but we need to accept These these these gay unions or we need to accept the Pope. You can't you can't approve of it but you can bless it But so the danger is the subtle apostasy. I mean there's the obvious there's the obvious I I believe obvious, you know, from the liberal Christianity that's They abandoned scripture decades, if not centuries ago. But then there's the subtle thing of Christians holding to saying that they believe in in marriage between a man and a woman. We believe in the traditional view, biblical view really. But but they're compromising subtly and that's the real danger. Well I would I would liken it to the the abor abortion movement You know, for the last few decades there's been a number of so called conservatives, so called Christians, well well I would never kill my baby. But you know, what you do with your butt that's up to you. No It's not up to you. Sin is not up to you. It's you know, you can say on the one hand, look, I'm it's not my place to specifically judge you because God's already gonna do that, but you need to be able to be vocal and say, Well, what sin is, this is actually sin and the same people that were compromising on that, well, you know, personally I'm pro life, but you know, what you do same those the same people that said, Well, I believe marriage is but you know, but what you do in the in the privacy of your home with consenting adults, that's that you know, that's your business. Well you should attend a lesbian wedding and that that's okay, et cetera, et cetera. So the thing is even give them a gift. Right. According to Alastair Begg. Oh man. And it says so the fundamental issue is The spirit of Antichrist wants Christians to compromise. That's what he's after, and that that's what Emperor Antiochus wanted them to fall away, to commit sin, to ruin their conscience. And that's what the spirit of this age is after. Yeah, I I think the biggest thing is there is a a real big spirit of fear that most Christians today will not stand up. Will not be standing in the gap as God has called men to do. They're not standing up for the biblical worldview. They're afraid. They're afraid of cancel culture, they're afraid of personal attacks and they have right to I mean look at the they attack the Supreme Court justices at their houses You know? So the the evil in this world is really going after anybody that stands up. And so mo most people don't want to stand up. They want to say, Well, I may believe this, but you know what, you can believe whatever you want. And that's not the gospel In fact we're supposed to pre preach to people said this is what God says. Right. It's not what I say. You don't have to there's already mad at me. Okay? This is what God says. And what I found funny you guys said earlier is, you know, the the homophobia, it's really Atheists are Christphobia. You know, they they are so afraid of God because they know they're wrong. And that's why they fight against it. If they don't believe there's a God, why would they fight against it, right? And so they have an unhealthy fear of God, not the right kind of fear of God that we're calling. If God isn't real, how can he get home? Right. I mean literally how how how can it but really the the and these the Christians are are afraid and that's That's something that I mean we understand where the fear comes from, but we still need to be strong against that because it's it's uh we're not homophobic. We're homophobiophobic. Like we're afraid of being called homophobics, right? That's and we should not be Yeah, and we need to get to the point. I think we've begun to get there on other issues. For example, I don't like using uh this word in in a typical context, but here you'll know exactly what I'm talking about. because it's the word that's thrown out. It's a label that's attached to somebody like those sitting in this room. You racist you And it's gotten to the point where that's been so commonly thrown out there that it means nothing anymore. I mean there are people like, all right, that's all you got, call me twenty years ago called somebody racist. No, then I'm not a racist, I've got many black friends. But now it's like, okay, whatever. You got something else because that doesn't even it's meaningless You've you've used it for everything, right? My you know, my shoes are dirty, I'm a racist. You know, I didn't I didn't wash my dishes after dinner, I'm a racist. Like it it's it's the labels attached to everything, whether it's a sinful behavior or not, so it doesn't mean anything anymore. So if that's all you got. I'm not offended, I'm not afraid of it. I think we need to get to that place with this this homophobia uh and all the other garbage labels. Yeah, anything that's like i it's ridiculous on the face It's not going to impact me anymore. Whatever. I'm I'm rubber your glue. You know that we have to have that kind of an attitude. Whatever you throw at me bounces on me and sticks to you. It because a lot of times that's what it is that's going on by the way, it's projection anyway. Right. So we just need to let them own the projection that they're trying to fire at you. Right. And the important thing I think that you're touching on is yeah, if you're rooted in what God said, if you know this is what God said, it doesn't matter what people say. But a lot of people there's a spirit of intimidation uh that's designed to suppress, and that's part of the the rainbow agenda. And that's why so many Christians, I believe, are falling away, or so many church members. Love that distinction by the way. Yeah. Church members falling away rather than Christians falling away. Well, yeah. But um but throughout history, you know, it's it's like Rome. By the way, the here here this is another evidence. Let me just give you a the little little piece. Okay. Throughout history there was anti there was antichrist figures And if you there's common there there's a common thread. Many of the Antichrist figures throughout history either promoted what we would call a rainbow agenda or lived out a decadent rainbow gender. For instance, Nero. Nero, the early church thought, wow, this this guy could be the Antichrist. Nero was like the archetype of Antichrist. He lived he did unspeakable things. You can't y you know and by the way, Nero had a parade too, where he married somebody and he he went around Rome and tried to convince them But even the decadent Romans didn't go along and said, no, no, no, let's let's keep marriage between man and woman. But the point is, it's it's the intimidation. Yeah, okay. So the early church, just a pinch of salt, come on, just just Just do a little pinch of salt. You know, they they finally came up with this litmus test to get them to fall away. So that's the spirit that we that we're doing. And I like that crazy. I mean, even the Romans, there there are some distinctions When I w I was in the camp of oh wow I never thought of this before because I studied history a lot. I knew about the Maccabean Revolt, I knew about the history of what now called Hanukkah but really a piece of dedication and those types of things. And even the nudity and the the the and the gymnasium stuff I had read that before but and n nobody until I had re read this book, nobody had connected the dots about Look, they were actually doing what we would call a pride parade. And they're actually do uh marching to transgender gods and and they were actually forcing the believers to to participate. That had never happened before. Um in that way until today. And except in some ways it's even worse today, and that's why you what you say, even the Romans, it reminded me I mean there there is There's one distinction because all throughout history there have been deviant sexual behaviors and even in Salem we we see that. But even in those situations, they never called it marriage or a replacement for marriage. They said this is something even the Romans would have this uh pederacy and and homosexuality was rampant in the Roman Empire but it was hey you do this thing when you're young and growing up and you get take a male lover and and this thing that's part of the culture and then okay now you're grown up find a way and propagate the species like they didn't call it marriage Because they weren't stupid enough to think that this could be a replacement for the family. This was something else they did which was fun or culturally appropriate or whatever that was separate from the family. And what's happened in the last a couple of decades and especially the last few years is an intentional destroying of the family. Not only do we do these behaviors, we are calling it marriage, we are calling it a family And to the extent that a family is not even necessary and it's it's so stupid just just logically you can't profit the species that way. But but that's the first time in history that that's been the case But it does come from the closest peril, even though it's this is worse than it's ever been, the closest peril we've ever had has been in that time of the Maccabees revolt And that's that's I think the the nice tie that this book makes. Right. That's the voice of uh Daniel Rasby, the one who just said right is uh Greg Windsor, publisher of The Last Day's Pride Parade and The Return of the Lord. And Imran Razby has also been on today's show, and I'm sure she'll have more to say as we continue today's program. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930. WFMD. So we very nicely dovetailed into the history kinds of points that uh I was hoping to focus on in this week's show. And it it's interesting, I'm not going to be the contrarian a little bit, but uh it's in a spirit of agreement. It's just it's it it's it's almost pulling out little fine hairs here and there. Um I felt like maybe the case was was overstated or overplayed a little bit in the spirit of uh you know there's nothing new under the sun as we see uh in the old testament book of ecclesiastes. I do agree though that there seems to be a pervasiveness and a scale that strikes us as as new. Across the globe, particularly the Western uh portion of the globe, Western civilization And it's so pervasive and it has infected uh uh the the visible church anyway in ways that uh that feel unprecedented. Uh and And you do allude to uh this book you've published alludes to the idea of the historical connections. We have the the sexual deviancy of Sodom and Gomorrah. We have the stories in the Old Testament of of rape and incest and all sorts of bad sexual behaviors and And uh those who want to say, well, homosexuality doesn't exist in the Old Testament. Well, you need to read it again because it does, uh, over and over again, actually. Um and then in the Uh and then and then the time of the the Maccabean Revolt. And then yeah, even in the New Test this is where my non-dispensational point of view uh uh uh has some effect on how I understand some of this. Uh I don't disagree that what happened during uh the time of the Maccabees uh and the abomination of desolation there is a precursor pointing to something future But I would say that p an aspect of what that's pointing to is the abomination of desolation that would have happened in A. D. seventy with the destruction of the temple. uh and all of the things leading up to and incorporated in that. And even that is then leading to the ultimate very end of time with the return of Christ. So I do think that there are these these um these representations of prophetic things, as it was described to me once by a seminary professor. You know, from our point of view, we look off into the horizon and and it looks as though there's just one mountain peak. Right. But as you continue your march forward and you're and you navigate through the woods and get closer and closer, you realize that oh It's not a mountain peak, it's a mountain range. From a distance it looks like one mountain. But as you get a different perspective, you realize it's multiple mountains And all of those multiple mountains are aligned in such a way that they appear as one presentation of the future truth. And so is it true that the uh what was going on with uh uh during the time of the Maccabean Revolt is pointing to things that are playing out still today. Yes, but it was also pointing to things that would play out in the first century. Oh absolutely and I don't know that that was amplified in in in in the book Oh that much, which is why i i my attention was drawn to it. Um yeah, you want to r respond to that. Um the desolation of Jerusalem in 70 AD. I think the author tried to cover territory that has not been covered. Like You study any any kind of eschatology and you know s there was a lot happening in 70 AD, partial fulfillments. But one interesting thing is that um I do believe uh there is some historic record that Titus did defile the temple with a prostitution, a sexual defilement. in the Holy of Holies. And that that's the reason why one what you know some of the praetors think that that was the fulfillment of Daniel But but again, I I agree uh with that position that that that was only another foreshadowing for the final event. of the final Antichrist. And it and you brought it up and I'm glad you did. Uh so I'm just gonna uh just make sure we don't do a a a a quick drive-by reference to it. I don't want us to run the risk of underselling the unbelievable uh animalistic, not merely pagan, but demonic behavior of Nero I think Nero as an individual and Nero and what hit those closest to more involved with is really close to what we see on a grander scale. Nero had a quote unquote marriage ceremony to his his uh gay young lover. Uh so he was even trying to treat that as a marriage. So that was a more of a microcosm for what is playing itself out in a more macrocosm kind of a way. But um yeah, things were really, really bad once upon a time and things are really, really bad now. And I think we've allowed ourselves to enter into some sort of weird Where we lived in this false version of Christianity, the Christian Dome or the Churchanity as they sometimes call it, where we think that, you know, oh, if we can go back to the nineteen fifties You know, life would be so much better. Well, you know, the the church and the the loss of commitment to uh biblical sufficiency by the nineteen fifties is what led to the nineteen sixties and everything that has followed. So it's not like the nineteen fifties were the good old days. Right? So we don't want to merely history there was evil. Yeah, we don't want to merely get back to that. We want to get some back to something better than that So we've got uh just a couple of minutes and I want to leave us time again to promote some things. So I know that you want to promote how you can get the book and Daniel's got an event coming up, so let's talk about those little quick. Um okay, you can go to barnsandnobles. com, look up last day's pride parade. And um yes, and there's a couple other outlets. Actually there's a lot of other outlets, or you can go to uh uh Draft the Digital uh and there's many other outlets that have it, but just do a Google search, Last Day's Pride Parade. And uh I also wanted to talk about an event that's happening in uh just uh this coming weekend, uh September seventh and eighth Um it's a ballet that I've written. Daniel Razby, uh I'm c the composer and I'm Do you dance in it? I'm not dancing, I'm conducting. I'll be conducting a full live orchestra in the pit in Rockville. Um and we'll have dancers on stage And please tell me Imran dances in the So anyway if you're interested I I won't say any more, but If you're interested to see what's what is uh going on, then it's EstherBallet. com. Again, that's Esther ballet. com and the discount code is Hadassah. And there's two performances. There are two performances. Saturday is the seventh and Sunday the 8th. You have all the details on the website, estherballet. com And I want to mention, you know, this is not just entertainment. Okay, this this actually will be the reading of Esther. Um it is biblical. The whole idea behind this is This is historically true and biblical, so it's not just entertainment. Just happens to be such a music and dancing and uh and all of that, but uh we do read through the book of Esther and So it's a performance for such a time as this. Yeah, well good, good stuff. And I'll promote their ministry. The Razzies have a ministry called Concord by Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. org. And um and and of course they pastor a church called the Church at Eats at Imran's house. And uh he's not here, but I'll promote him real quick, Daniel uh I did that a couple of times. David Forcy, he's typically on this panel. He's not here this time, but he's a pastor in the area if you want to get in touch with him or connect with what he's all about. You have to do that through me because he doesn't really do a whole lot of online stuff. And you can connect with me. You can go to WFMD. com, but I think it's a little easier to connect with me directly through email or even my phone number, that sort of stuff, and learn about everything that's involved with this show and our various ministries. at household of faith in Christ dot com. It's a one-stop shop where you can connect with podcasts of this show, which are always posted on the station's website and also eventually onto sermonaudio. com and Odyssey and all my social media and that sort of stuff. You can connect with all of that again through the hub that is the website, household of faith in Christ. com. So we're going to continue our conversation about the last day's pride parade and the return of the Lord and issues may be related to it as we begin to pivot perhaps into some other areas and hot topics. We'll do that next week, 167 and a half hours from right about now. Till then. God bless. All right, let me save this audio file. Um best I think logically it makes sense for us to get into uh more distinct applications for today. You know, the there's the history, there's some of the biblical arguments, there's some of the stuff about pushback, all that sort of stuff, but now It's more of a call to action, the application. Like if this was a three-point sermon. So what does this all mean for what we should be doing now? And how does the history and the Bible and the extra biblical books inform Yep. Sounds good. I had bronchitis a couple weeks ago and big bronchitis is a bear, boy. it it doesn't it stays with your past when you're sick. Like it's like the virus and the illness does damage or something to your bronchial tract and so it's taking some very dry So I apologize if uh if my coughing and clearing my throat is distracting or tr problematic. I haven't even noticed it yet then. Uh attention to it. Oh really? Okay. Never mind, I didn't say anything. What are you talking about? Yeah. Um let's see new There's one right there. Okay. Is it possible somebody to get like last minute tickets on the eighth or not really? I don't know how sold out it will be. We can certainly mention it. Yeah. And they can go on the website 'cause there will be some future performances potentially next year in March. By that time we'll have those out probably or the the next week they'll be out. But Computer running out of juice. Yeah, I don't even know. Have you referred to it that much? No, I it's a lot of stuff in my head, but uh uh No, there's no space on there, sorry. Oh you're trying to yeah, there's you're trying to find a plug? Yeah, that won't reach? Oh that is short, isn't it? Yeah. How about over there? Can I plug in it over there? That that well is. Okay, that's good. Okay, there we go. That is the the largest plug I've ever seen. That's huge. I know. Why is it so big? All the Mac plug. Yeah. Really? Yeah, 'cause you know most computers they have the cord and then they have the transformer and then they this one's just at the outlet. Wow, that makes it a little less convenient for plugging in though, because you can't always find an outlet that'll fit. Yeah, but it's but it comes apart and the little corner of it will replace with different uh country folks. So that's how that works. So you can just put it in the different. Good morning to you. Thanks for spending part of your day with us here on News Radio 930 WFMB. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Imron Razvy, Daniel Razby, and Greg Windsor. We'll be talking about the last days pride parade and the return of the Lord. That's a book that you can find at BarnesandNoble. com uh and and uh perhaps in uh like uh a a really good used bookstore or something maybe. I don't know where else you might be able to find it. Anyway, we've this is our third go-round uh talking about this book with the publisher of the book, Greg Windsor And uh by the way, I should probably do an adequate job promoting the other people and their and and their resources. You can find all sorts of really good family and devotional and uh household related, uh marriage related kinds of stuff through the ministry that the Razbies have had now for I don't know ten, fifteen, twenty years, whatever it is now. They're online at conqueredbylove. org. Their ministry is Concord by Love Ministries. And you can connect with me online, of course, at wfmd. com and household of faith in Christ. com. I know it's a mouthful, but that's the name of the church, Household of Faith in Christ. And so we just added a . com to the end and came up with a web address. And if you missed it, uh there may or may not still be tickets available, I'm not sure. You can go to EstherBallet. com. There's a performance later today uh of the world premiere of Esther, the the ballet that I've written and I'll be conducting uh and and uh a and it will have ballet on uh a group on stage and so on. So it's gonna Esther ballet dot com. And in Rockville And the uh the the world premiere was yesterday and the the second ever presentation is today. That's right. Yeah, three o'clock I think is today. I believe so, yes. Good but go check it on the website. I'm not sure if there are any tickets left, but you can also send us a message in uh be on the list if we ever do some future events. Yeah, because the plan is to do like this is the first annual of something. Right. It might not be the same Ballet might be a different ballet in the future, but it would do other events. We're we're looking at some other app to visa. Yeah, d all that'll be on the website. It's Estherballet. com Now will that uh s sorry to kick off the show with a whole bunch of like promotional kinds of stuff, but uh your church uh has done a lot of things almost monthly, at least quarterly, where you have barbershop quartets or special singers or musicians or Or presentations. You had a spiritual warfare conference this past spring, for example. There's lots of lots of things that you've been involved with. Will those sorts of things be on that same website? No, we don't have a social media presence for for the church, so you can certainly reach out to me directly if you interested in getting involved and being part of some of those other events. But this one, the Esther Ballet, was was a public event. Okay. And no shame on me and maybe there's not a good answer to this question or an or an existent an an answer to this question. But um Greg Windsor, you've got this this book you've published called The Last Day's Pride Parade and the Return of the World, which people can buy at Barnes and Noble. But if they wanted to connect with you or follow you in some other way, do you have a social media presence or something? Uh y yes. You can uh contact me through Gab, through uh Worthy, the Worthy Forum or Gab. Okay. Now the worthy form I'm familiar with. Gab I am. Yeah. So yeah. I I'm on Gab, I'm on Twitter, I'm on Facebook, I'm on uh Mi We. Contact me through Gab. Uh Parler is back, I'm on that. Um what else am I And LinkedIn. What else am I on? I don't know. I'm I'm probably forgetting Not all of us are social butterflies like you short. Truth Social Uh I feel like I'm forgetting a couple. I don't know. I'm on I'm on a uh a a lot of those uh the the ones that conservatives who got kicked off of other forms, I'm I'm typically on those And I'm on YouTube, I guess, if you want to call it. And I'm on SermonAudio and Odyssey. com. Anyway, if you if you're on any of the ones I just mentioned or you're curious about one that I maybe forgot to mention go to household of faith in Christ dot com and uh and you can see all the different social media links and if you want to connect with me there I'm happy to do it. Uh I'm not very interactive as a start, but I will respond to those who interact with me. So I post But I don't jump on other people's postings and and get into all the the Twitter wars and the comment sections. I don't typically do that, but I will post and if somebody wants to interact with me on one of my posts I'm happy uh to do that until it becomes inane and or insane. Then I will uh bow out. But I will give you ample opportunity to prove yourself as we uh as either inane or insane before I do that. So Uh fair warning. Alright, so we're talking about this book, The Last Days Pride Parade and the Return of the Lord. So the Last Days Pride Parade, we've about talked about the historical connections. We've made some biblical arguments, extra biblical uh historical connections those sorts of things, talking about, you know, what's new, what's not, that sort of thing. But now we're getting into end the return of the Lord. So now we're We are closer to the return of the Lord today than we've ever been. Amen. We all agree. And so what does that mean for us? The things that are talked about in this book, talking about these these these uh Goeth before a fall parade. Right, right. Things like that aren't anything necessarily brand new, but they seem to have reached new heights. And we talked about the how that's infected the church and the churches uh in too many ways, the visible churches. has fallen away or has been allowed themselves to be infected uh in ways that are uh unbiblical or unhelpful for sure. Um so obviously he wrote this book not just to educate us about the history But to understand that maybe the times that we're in, and maybe even as a call to action. So as the publisher of this book that's been written by Tom Maccabeas, what would you say we need to be cognizant of. What w if somebody were to do anything with what we've talked about these last couple of shows and again today, what do you what do you hope we'll do with this information? Well well well I think, you know, surrounding many uh passages in the New Testament, end times, last days. You'll notice the word. It's like watch out. Be on your guard. You know, be careful that you don't get led astray with the air of lawless men. You know, um all these you know flea flee immorality. So it's like you're there's these constant warnings. So I think that the church has to be grounded in the Word of God, you know, and and drawing near to Him and you know pursuing holiness. If we're pursuing holiness and something comes along which is defiling or You know, and or God forbid an abomination. We we recoil at that or if if it's leading astray young people which is which is a whole nother serious issue. So so so the church first of all I I think need needs to be um uh hold on to God's word and I think that the author also tries to um uh highlight the this this thing of come out, flee. You know, the Maccabees, they fled. They fled to the mountains. Matthew 24, flee to the mountains. Sodom and Gomorrah, get out. Get out. You know, so and then and and find uh in in Revelation 17 and 18, um, you know, there's there's this whole concept of Mystery Babylon. Which is a major New Testament tie-in. And what is the defining characteristic of Mystery Babylon? It corrupts the earth with immorality. So there's this defining characteristic, and you know, it says watch out for the teaching of Balaam, who corrupts the servants to immorality, and of course it's spiritual immorality too. Jezebel, what does Jezebel do? Revelation 2 uh seduces God's servant. So there's this constant theme throughout scripture linking this sexual defilement with um you know the false teachers and all that and so God's people have to stand firm and first of all separate ourselves. Be separate. N not in a holier than thou way but just Do not let this stuff infect us. Now Greg knows his Bible so well he just casually made a mention to Mystery Babylon, uh but not everybody who hears him talk about that will know what he's talking about. It's in the book of Revelation It's talking about uh there's two beasts in the revelation. One of them is depicted as uh as a harlot, kind of the church has lost its way, it's it's false teaching. It's it's And it's uh it's basically uh in an immoral way marrying itself to the world system, the world governments, the ways of the world, that sort of thing, and the and this harlot is riding atop the beast and is and uh and has a uh has a name across her forehead, mystery, Babylon and and words that go on from there. And so that's the if you want to look that up later and and and and see what the context there is. But it's talking about the corruption of the world and the corruption of the visible church working in concert with one another where one infects the other and the other infects the one and they almost become indistinguishable Um and and um they they are distinguished, but their their aim and and they actually turn on each other. Interesting in the book of Revelation, so they're not Completely in lost steps. Yeah, but their their their aim is to destroy everything that is godly. Right uh and and and by definition then those who are truly followers of Christ, the ones who have been called out at to be holy ones Uh the aim is to set their sights. Uh the the the beasts' sights are set on them. And that's what we see going on in this world. So that's why it's exactly directed to what the book is talking about. There's this incredible uh energy and effort that's directed at all things biblical, all things godly, all things that are about the true church, about holiness, are under assault where things we've taken for granted, it's not just biblical Per se it's even the things that would be merely part of the natural order of things as God created them. So it's not just the the world is attacking chapter and verse But it's attacking these pervasive truths that have just have been considered common sense. Like for our whole life until now, it's no longer common sense. Because it was common because people were rooted in a in Western civilization, common sense was biblical sense because we were rooted in biblical truths. Even if you weren't Christian You were reared on biblical truths, you just accepted them as common truth. But now that's completely rejected. Yeah, and we've we've we've crossed the line where uh I I think there's an ebb and flow to history. I think it's happened before. I don't think that we're completely distinctly unique, but there's something that's a fresh and new for sure But we've crossed the line from merely pagan to demonic. Right. Right? Yeah, and I would say that the whole purpose of that side, the evil in this world is to to replace what was common sense biblically based worldview to a new common sense, which is the evil based, devil based worldview. So what we as uh the call as a Christian uh as a biblical worldview i need is is being replaced daily and they're changing the meaning of words to help change that uh bit the the world view. They're changing um they're forcing people to accept and participate just like the last day private parade. the book is is showing it's not it's not okay just to be a bystander but you have to participate now. And so a lot of Christians say, well, you know, we think and act differently in church but now here we have to interact with the public and you know we're trying to be the salt of the world. Loving and kind. Yeah we have to be loving reach out. We we can't you know help them or save them if we don't uh participate with them And that is completely wrong. You can't put you know the you can't purify poison. You just can't. And I I I love how you're you're drawing attention to the participation part. Probably a couple of decades ago now, I had a a dear pastor, a mentor of mine really, uh he was talking about how the typical slide into degeneracy that we see uh in the world and in the church even It it starts with this this uh this lean to be tolerant. Right. You know, I I I'm not gonna agree, but I'm gonna tolerate it You know, I'm not going to call it out as sin. I'm just going to coexist with it. I'm going to tolerate it. But then the next step after tolerance and what the pressure the world puts on you is to not merely tolerate, but to accept So right, yeah, to accept and affirm. So it's not just that I'm going to tolerate it. It's wrong, but I'll be okay with it. Now I'm not going to even say it's wrong. Right? I'm not even going to go so far as to call it a sin And you feel like that'll satisfy the world. That'll keep the wolves at bay. Right? They won't be at my throat anymore. But that's not enough. What they then want is they want you to celebrate. It's not enough that you tolerate. It's not enough that you accept. You now have to celebrate. You have to march in their parades. You have to be a part of the celebration and and wave the flags and put the things in your store window and all that sort of But now we've gotten to the point where it's gone to a fourth level that that pastor I just mentioned didn't even have on his radar screen twenty years ago, which is they want active participation. There's all these articles you can read about how You are such a hater if you, a straight man, refuse to go on a date with a man who thinks he's a woman. Because of course, I mean he's a woman, so that's that's heterosexual. Well no, it's not It's homosexual and and they they don't even have room for the people who say, Well, you know, I I wouldn't date somebody that's that that that's transgender because that's no longer dating somebody of the opposite sex at that point. And and they they have no no tolerance for that. You have to you have to join in. You have to say that you're you're okay with that. And and it's it's it it's it's crazy Yeah, let me reset again. It's the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I am Troy Skinner. You just heard the voice of Daniel Razby and Chiming in for half a second while he was talking was Greg Windsor and you also heard right before that uh Imran Rasby and we're talking about uh issues related to this book, The Last Day's Pride Parade and The Return of the Lord, uh published by Greg Windsor. And you can find it at Barnes and Noble. com. uh dot com. And it's a oh go ahead. First we overlook evil, then we permit evil, then we legalize evil, then we promote evil, then we celebrate evil, and then we persecute those who still call it evil That's the other quote I've I've heard before. It's not my quote, I I uh I heard it somewhere before. persecuting people that are actually standing up the Bible. And that's really where we've gotten where w the the so-called Christians of this world are now persecuting anyone that stands up for the truth. And it's not just in the LGBT. I mean we talked about in the program a few a few weeks ago, or a couple months ago now maybe, about uh how the pro-life movement largely made up of professing believers are persecuting the abolitionist movement. Those who say that it m it should be considered murder and anybody who participates in it should be a murderer and punish criminally. That that argument is completely rejected by the prolact. In fact, they're demonizing people who hold that opinion. Um, which is a more biblical opinion Yeah, and the whole linguistic argument thing and Enron was talking about how they change the language, they change the meaning. You know, I th it wasn't too many weeks ago now, there was an article that I saw uh and it was talking about I think it was one of the Ivy League schools maybe or some big think tank or something. I can't remember what the source of this was, but the point of it was that they've now deemed that if you use the word biologically or phrase I guess biologically male or biologically female that that's hate speech So if you're trying to explain what's a trans woman, what's a trans man, and you're trying to explain stuff, well, you know, you have a biological male who and and you go on to finish that sentence, you can't finish the sentence because just saying biological male is hateful It's descriptive. And even that that descriptor, I'm not a fan of that even because that's almost conceding the argument before you started it, right? Biologically male No, male. Right? Physiologically, biologically, mentally, emotionally, you know, front right spiritually. Spiritually. There definitively Male, like where are we going to just subdivide and we've already surrendered the the the ground before we started the argument and that's that's the whole point I was saying before. It's not enough It's y you can surrender all the ground in the world until you're actively engaged in it yourself, they won't be satisfied. Yeah, I mean now the you know, we all saw well y the pedophilia still is gonna be bad, but it's not anymore. It's map Minor attractive person. So they're trying to normalize all the evil that's out there and to the point where you gotta start promoting it and then it'll be the the other so-called Christians will be turning in Christians that don't support it and don't will move forward in that. Just to um You know, there's a phrase, Revelation 13, it says, you know, speaking of commonly the Antichrist, it says he causes all to receive the mark. It's the that word in the Greek, there's a coercion, there's a manipulation, so that the people do it themselves. And and just getting back to history, that is exactly what and Bernie Tiachis wanted. He wanted each person at the sacrifice, not just the abomination temple, everybody had to own it for themselves. to to fall away. So that spirit of intimidation uh is is is alive and well. But there there's a verse that says, the people who know their God shall stand firm and do exploits. So there's knowing God, standing firm, and then doing exploits, reaching out the power of the gospel 'Cause it it's invincible. Standing stand your ground saying, No, uh we love you but w this is sin. You know, so there's a it's a call to action. And here's why it's so disconcerting. Uh y you said this is sin. That's why it's so disc Concerning. It's not so much that it's this evil, horrible sin, although it is, it's that it's it's missing a mark from the holiness that that God represents and that God calls us to. And so there's a so I don't want us to merely be talking about the negatives and be on the attack against the evil, although we need to call the evil out, particularly the evil that's within the church. You know, we need to identify the wolves and shoot them Uh so that we can protect the sheep. I mean so but protecting the sheep unto what? There's a beautiful picture there. So the uh what makes this evil so horrendous is the truth, the beautiful truth that it denies, that we have a creator who is loving and almighty and all-powerful, and he's a God of order. and and and uh and a and a god of of perfect holiness and righteousness and everything that god endeavors to do is done well, like is done to the perfection of doing things well. And so we're called to be like him. We were made in his image and that's a beautiful thing. But of course we have this sin, which is we've been talking about now rather extensively. And so that sin not only is it an evil that's a sin against God, but it's an affront against what we were made to be. We're not living yeah, we're not living up to the beautiful thing that God made us to be. And so we want to call people to Holiness because there's blessing in that. There's blessing in walking the true walk. There's blessing in having an actual biblical marriage. There's blessing in raising a biblical family and training your children up on the way they should go. There's great blessing in those things. And when we fall short of that, that's where you have all the angst and the trouble and the anger and the and the venom. And the that yeah the death and the just the disgusting dirt of our lives, it's because of this sin. And so we want to call people to what's good and beautiful. And that good and beautiful is represented by Christ. who lived the perfect beautiful life and died the perfect death that we should have died and then and then we can Once we embrace that, we can live that out by increasing sanctification out of gratitude for God. So it's not about trying to avoid the evil so much as about trying to embrace The holy embrace the good. Because that's what ultimately we're going to have in glory. Everything is perfect. There is no evil. It's only the beautiful. It's only the good that's but it but it's it's the devil's counterfeit of the biblical culture and the biblical worldview. And the biblical worldview, I mean we've we've teased this this on the program that we're going to be talking about this at some point soon, and maybe in the next few months, uh the the idea that in the in the world generally there's three main uh uh paradigms, you know, the the guilt and innocence and the fear and power and the honor and shame. And all of three of those have their roots in biblical the true versions of those have their roots in the Bible But there's also counterfeit ver counterfeit versions of all of those. And the counterfeit version of uh honor shame culture is arrogance and and and pride. In fact, mo uh the uh Uh i uh there I've heard some sermons where some pastors have uh attempted and failed to properly distinguish between the biblical desire to be honored and to have honor with pride and arrogance. 'Cause it can look very similar on the outside, but it's a counterfeit if you if you don't know what you're looking for. And this pride parade thing, this is all desiring false honor. They are in a state of shame. Sexual immorality causes great shame And they want to be honored, so they are they are proclaiming honor on themselves by being prideful, saying, Look, look at me, I'm so arrogant, I'm so prideful. And that is exactly the counterfeit of what honor because honor can only come from above. Only God can provide you honor. Someone that's more honorable than yourself can give you honor And the the honor that you cannot place it on yourself and that is the devil's counterfeit. All all of the devil's counterfeit cultures come from oneself. They don't come from God from out from the outside. So I think the Pride parades and the pervasiveness of that is the infiltration of the devil's counterfeit honor and shame into a culture that traditionally has been very uh guilt and innocence oriented and a lot of Christian uh uh pastors they may be fighting it that they're wr the wrong way. They may be thinking of it as oh no, you're you're guilty, you're going to hell, or whatever. But it's not so much that well we understand you're in a position of shame. You know who can cover that shame is God. And here's how we tell you about Him So there's a positive uh way to preach that and I think uh that may be uh something that we s we need to dig more deeply into at some point. And some are so given over that and their heart has become so hard that they would have Argue and retort to you that I don't feel any shame. That's because they become so calloused. They glory in their shame. But we can see not everybody is is is as as completely given over yet to the hardness of their heart and they're not as calloused yet. And you can see it in the statistics, the the level of depression, the level of suicides the level of substance abuse is much higher among the people within these uh the these sinful um uh groups. I I I don't want to use the word communities because I don't think they fit the definition of community. But these people who identify as belonging to certain groups uh they have outcomes on the whole that are far worse than the outcomes of those who don't uh don't say that they belong to one of those groups. And so that is something that is just you know, the statistics would uh would bear that out. Uh um I I don't want to forget we've got a couple of minutes left on uh uh on the show and so I do want to uh have a chance to promote the book one more time and we might have a chance for a last minute uh purchase of the things and so I I do want to do that before we get into is there anything specific to what we've talked about the last three weeks that you'd like to say in you know thirty or forty five seconds to put a button on some things. No? Otherwise we can just start promoting away. I I think one of the things the actual items of the of the last day of prize parade is really to open your eyes. No, don't be asleep anymore. Stand up, know what is right by using the Bible and stand for that. Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid of people telling you that This is not the way the world is anymore. The world is the way the world is, but you are a Christian, so stand up for being Christian. Good words. I like that. That should be almost like the last word, it You have something better to say? Well, I just want to say, you know, the good the good news is there's a and and this is underreported, there's a lot of people coming out of of There's people who are waking up after living in that lifestyle, just like many of us woke up after living in heterosexual sin. And the gospel is changing people. People are coming out of it to God's beautiful plan. Yeah, li like what you're talking about. So there's there's good things happening. Alright, so your websites for your um your events and stuff, the one that's today and one that might come in the future again is Esther Esther Bellet. com. So E S T H And that's gonna be the website even if you have an event that's not about ballet or escor, it's gonna be the website. Okay, very good. And connecting with you and buying the book one more time? Yes, just go to BarnesandNobles. com, type in uh Last Day's Pride Parade, and it's also available in other outlets. Okay. Thank you. And um if somebody's destitute, is there a way for them to try to get a copy of the purchase? Absolutely. Uh there's a complementary copy available to people If people contact me personally, I will get you a complimentary copy of the e-book. Okay, very good. So if you want to get in touch with uh the publisher of the book, Greg Windsor, just get in touch with me and I'll put you in touch with with Greg and we'll we'll handle it that way. And to do that, you go to Household of Faithinchrist. com. You'll find my email. You actually found my find my phone number there as well. I'm a pretty open book on that sort of thing. Uh if you harass me I might block you, but I haven't had to do that just yet. So you could be the first. You could leave precedent setting. You could be that one. There's always that one, you know And of course, I don't always give a fair shot at promoting the radio station the way I should. We're incredibly grateful that we have this time to talk about these sorts of things every week. on Sunday mornings at nine o'clock. And so definitely go to WFMD. com. You can get updates on local news and see what's going on with the other shows. And you can connect with the Faith Debate. The Faith Debate does have its own page at WFMD. com. You can see what's coming up on future shows. You can see what was on recent shows. You can connect with all the podcasts, that sort of a thing. So you can definitely do that there. And if you're on Serminaudio or Odyssey. com, I definitely encourage you to find the podcasts of the show there as well. Well we're going to continue our conversation on the Faith Debate next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless Okay, let me trim the line on this. Well Kind of what you expected or no good. This is really good. I I really appreciate I really appreciate and it really helps to find So you'll be able to see the whole thing when you post it to Rumble, this whole two hour, three hour session. And then you also um in September you're gonna get the episodes one by one on sermon audio podcasts and other Yeah. Okay, great. So yeah, I guess August twenty fifth is the first one he said. August twenty set. Great. Yeah, now I'm not feeling like there's a whole lot of additional ground with the book to talk about. Was there anything else you guys were hoping we would end up talking about in tangential relation to the book that we just never got to? I think maybe how to reach out you know, it it's so difficult for Christians because we're in this place of We ha we have to address the sin and the not being defiled and then how to reach out to people in in that lifestyle which is a whole uh important issue too. But um that's that's the only thing that I was thinking about You see basic evangelism to the to the lost kind of idea. And also to Christians in churches, trying to help Christians to not be confused by um to not be seduced by certain arguments. Um but to just judge rightly the whole situation. Yeah. And we have talked we've talked kind of extensively about the eels of the LGBT movement here on this program um quite a few times. I don't think that there's any ever time to talk too much about that honestly. Um but it's nothing that I feel pressing like oh we have to cover this. It's it's really important in in this context that we didn't just cover. Okay. Pastor says, check with the Bible, read the Bible, don't don't wait for somebody else to tell you what the Bible says. Read it yourself and don't compromise. Because we each as individuals need to stand up and be there for Christ. He died for our sins. I don't care what anybody else says. I don't care what is now acceptable. It is n it is not acceptable if the Bible says that So we need to go back to the Bible and I I would be a call to everybody to go back to the Bible and read and you know, try to come to the point where you're following God's demands. Maybe we could address the issue of what does it mean to be welcoming people? You know, it there is there is there's arguments that are set forth that that are deceptive Well let's just welcome people. And it hits there's all kinds of embedded deception that is hindering Christians from judging rightly. uh the whole issue. Yeah, I think maybe we could talk about what some of the arguments that we might hear or that others would be hearing and how they might even strike somebody as persuasive So because you want to be welcoming. That sounds like a good argument. I don't want to be unwelcoming. Right. So we could maybe think of on the fly, we'll probably think of other examples of things that we've heard and we can try to address those and equip people Um so yeah, maybe we can get we can I think get one more show uh before we wrap up for the evening. Sound good? Alright, let me uh get the thermal one. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Good morning. Thanks for spending part of your day with us. I know your time is valuable. We do not take it for granted. If you're listening to it live, well, we thank you for listening to News Radio 930 WFMD. We very much appreciate that. The radio station does too, I'm sure. If you're listening to this later on podcasts, well, we love you just as much. And if you'd like to comment uh on the social media platforms that this show ends up appearing on, glad to uh interact with you There. You can connect with all those platforms and this show and all those sorts of things rather easily. Just go to the one-stop shop for doing so. Go to household of faith in Christ dot com. That's the name of the church, Household of Faith in Christ. That's a church I pastor. Just add a dot com to the end of that and you can connect with me rather easily. You can connect with the Razvis, Daniel Razvi and his father Imran Razvy, known as Raz to his friends. They have a website, conqueredbylove. org, for their ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries, and they co-pastor a church in the Thurmont area called the Church of Meta Imran's House. And we are joined for a fourth time, it might be the last time for a little while, that we're joined by Greg Windsor. He is the publisher of a book called The Last Days Pride Parade and The Return of the Lord by Tom Maccabeas. You can find that at BarnesandNoble. com. So we encourage you to check that out. And so we've we've talked about uh the previous three weeks uh on this topic and talk about this book, we've talked about the history, biblical connections, some extra biblical connections. We've talked about uh kind of the the the the way the church has kind of lost its way in so many ways, the the pressures that are placed upon us by uh by the world, the uh the ungodly pagan and even demonic uh influences of the world and all those sorts of things. We began to get into some practical application stuff and what that all means for us last week But I think we need to spend some time making sure that we're all equipped, helping to equip others, addressing elephants in the room. uh because the the winds uh in in the sails are pushing us in a particular direction, right? So we gotta know how to adjust the tact on our sails so we don't get driven uh in the direction of the sirens and get and and get taken into uh all sorts of uh evil outcomes. I'm mixing uh uh ancient mythology and biblical truth there. Um but Um so what are some things that that are that sound like persuasive arguments that we need to be on guard against and if they're not hearing uh uh you know, answers from their from the pastors or the Sunday school teachers or what have you or the online ministries that they're listening to. Maybe we can help. So what are some things? For example, the big one is, well Imran, you sound like a real hater You just hate everybody. What's wrong with you? And it it can sound like you're a hater, right? And I began to try to address that a little bit uh toward the middle part of last week's show, but what do we say in response to, well you just hate you hate homosexuals You hate lesbians, you hate queer community, you hate trans people, you just hate, hate, hate. And it sounds like you are wagging a finger that's sinful, that sounds hateful, why are you not being hateful? Because I'm not hating anyone. I am um hating Sin and I'm loving God. So it's not me that is saying don't do this. God is saying that. So d don't come to me with your hate. I'm just uh just uh read the Bible and say this is what God says. So first of all you gotta understand who God is and if you understand God the w The w wisdom comes by the fear of God. And the problem is people have lost the fear of God. We have been so wealthy, so comfortable in this country that there is no fear of God. And because there's no fear of God, wisdom is gone out the window. And I think that's where people come back and say, you hey it's just like me coming up to somebody and say, hey, why don't you just stop beating your wife? then automatically imply you were beating a wife. You know, it doesn't mean that you ever were, but that's what it it implies. So w you know when you say w you know you're such a hater, you're assuming that something's there it's not that's not really there. And I'm not here to defend that what I hate or not hate. I love everybody. I think God loves everybody, but he doesn't love sin. He doesn't love your blatant um desire to not be with him. He is uh there with his open arms and It's a free gift to be with him, but that free gift com w comes with a price. It's kinda funny. It's a free gift but it comes with a price. What is the price? You gotta give up your sinful ways You have to leave the world. Repent. And and I mean it says the w who the Lord loves, that's who he chastens, right? If he didn't love you, then why would he bother telling you to stop doing things, he doesn't care. And and you know, it was said really well by an various atheist Pen Gillette, what they mentioned on the program. He said, look, if you're a Christian and you're not telling me that I'm So the most hateful thing is to not preach gospel. But I'll throw another one at you. So Troy, um, you know, i y you you keep saying uh homosexuality is wrong and stuff and L LGBT is wrong. Well it in this day and age and we're we're modern and involved, we've understand that really consent is the primary determiner of whether something's moral and correct. So as long as the people involved in whatever the action is, as long as they consent, they all want to do it then what's the harm in that? I mean e even the passages in the Bible and you point to Son of oh they were trying to rape or you know all these other things passages mostly talk seem to talk about, you know, force activity. And no, I'm not a fan of forcing anybody to do anything Uh we know that's disingenuous because we talked about that last week, but but what what would you say to that? Oh consent is first of all the ultimate arbiter of what is moral. Second of all, all the examples in the Bible of deviant section sexual behaviors have to do with generally forced or behavior or rape and that's being what's what's talked about as that. Yeah. One of the first things that occurs to me, it's not necessarily quoting a scripture verse, but it's one of those truisms. uh that we kind of grew up with the idea that misery loves company. So just because two people agree to participate in something doesn't automatically mean that it's not going to bring misery. You know, sin ultimately will bring misery. It might feel good in the moment. It might fill you with a sense of euphoria, and you think this is the best thing I've ever done. And it m that feeling or that idea might even stay with you for a stretch of time, a season of life. It might stay with you to your grave. But ultimately, sin, unrepentant sin Brings misery. And misery loves company. So just because two people consent to engage in it together doesn't mean that they won't have a miserable eternity. So there's that The other thing is, um, it this is a fancy term, but there's something that talks about the fall of man and our sinful nature now. We are corrupt. And one of the things that is corrupt is our mind. Our brains don't work the way they're supposed to. Our mind is not holy. It's called the noetic of the noetic effects of the fall. Meaning that I don't care how high your IQ, how clear you might think your that your thinking is, it's not perfect. And so you can make mistakes, right? We've all had errors in our thinking And so you might think that this is good because two people are consenting, but you can't know for sure that it's good because your brain is broken. God knows what's good and God is the ultimate perfect arbiter of what is right, what is wrong, and what is okay and what is not and what's going to bring misery and what's going to bring blessing. So we were totally dependent on God who knows all things. That old story about the the elephant, you know, you've heard this analogy? One person, they're all blindfolded and one person grabs the tail and says, Oh, you don't send it's like a rope And the other person uh you know feels the side of the elephant while they're blindfolded. Oh, an elephant is like a big wall. You know, and they all have these different perspectives and they and the idea there is, well, who can know? Well the one who can see the whole elephant can know. God sees the whole elephant. So God knows if you're grabbing the tail, if you're pressing against the side that feels like a wall. God knows all, so we have to be dependent on on him. So though those are the kinds of uh of things that I would And it's not just that you say that in the Bible there's a lot of stories where it seems like there's forced deviant behavior, but it wasn't always forced. There were people that were deviant in concert with one another. They were consenting. You know, somebody would have a sexual dalliance or would commit a particular sin, or there was the the group of men who joined together uh with the whole spirit of Sodom and Gomorrah. Uh though those men were all working in concert. They were all in agreement with one another that what we're doing here is good. But it wasn't. So we can find examples in the Bible too where it's not just forced. Um there's some debate about this. Uh I don't I think necessarily agree with those who hold hold to the view that Bathsheba was raped. So I think that Bathsheba was a willing participant in her adulterous affair with David. So they were consensual. So because David and Bathsheba had a consensual uh dalliance while her husband was off uh fighting a war uh to to uh uh on David's behalf, mind you Um just because they were both consenting doesn't make that adulterous affair any less wrong. So we can find examples in the Bible. It's it's so anyway, so that's a kind of a long note against it. No, just just I'm not gonna I'm not gonna condemn you. Sin no more. No, so there's a couple of things. One, first of all, there's some debate as to whether or not that's authentic scripture or not. So there is that But assuming that it is, he does then say go and sin no more. So there's a there's an implication implication there that she had sinned. And he was following the the legal framework because it says you need to have witness They all left, and you have to have at least two and Jesus is the only one standing there. Right? So there was that. And then the Me, the Father of the Spirit, like he could say he's not. But the other thing too is we have to understand the the the moment. And Christ in his first coming didn't come to demonstrate God's wrath. Right? He reads from the book of Isaiah, the scroll of Isaiah, and then he stops right before it gets to the part where there's going to be wrath. Right. So we were talking about last week about the the the mountain ranges and you see the mountain, it looks like oh there's just one mountain, but when you you elevate or you get a different perspective, you see there's more than one mountain So there's a there's like a double fulfillment. So Christ's cis coming comes in two phases. And the first phase is a call to repentance. It's the grace-filled aspects of the Messiah. And then there's the wrath of God aspect of the coming Messiah, and that's still to come. And so she doesn't repent and she goes and continues to sin. She doesn't follow the instruction to go and sin no more. She's gonna face the wrath of God. So um yeah, we wanna but you wanted to we talked in between uh last week's show and this week's show about We want to be uh reaching out to others. We want to be evangelistic. We want to be welcoming. We want to welcome people into the truth of the gospel. We want to welcome them into our church And if you're going to be pointing out their sins, aren't you being unwelcoming? And so what so how do we respond to that or what's the task to take? Because I actually uh have some thoughts about what that means and there's some truth actually in that but I don't want to steal the show I've just talked for like three minutes in a row. So what do you want to say Greg? S someone wants to put it this way, you know. We have to have grace and truth. You can't compromise the truth. And I think we have to we have to love the truth So yeah, we have to reach out in grace and I and I'm an evangelist and I I I really want to reach out to people. So there it's a really uh fine line to walk in. It's like, yeah, we want to be welcoming people, but just like anybody who has fallen f from from God's original plans, like what you were saying, you know, it's gonna be disastrous And so in in love with gentleness and respect, I think that's the key, just to love people enough to tell them and and I think that with humility most Christians have probably fallen in some way uh you know, in past life whatever, sexually and so we get that. And so we're trying to just help people like look, this is going down the ro you know, you you're heading down your destruction, you even your life is is going to be ruinous. So we're warning people, but it's it's in a spirit of love and grace and gentleness. And it's it's not easy because sometimes, you know, you you'll get a lot of pushback. But the second thing is also Christians trying to warn other Christians not to compromise and not to be confused with the word welcoming. You know, or or you know, tolerant. Jesus does not commend tolerance. He says, I have this against you. You tolerate the woman Jezebel who's promoting immorality. So we're not we're not supposed to tolerate that. And so that those words that are just um twisted. Yeah. So what you're saying is you can be welcoming without compromising, right? Right. So you don't need to go on their level, but you can still be welcoming. There you we need to be able to show them there's a better way. Right. There's a biblical way, God And and that does not mean that we're judging you because again, if you're saved, God replaced the judgment that you deserve, so rightly deserve with grace where you're not gonna be judged. You're you're gonna be based on c on on cr Christ's blood. So all the evil stuff you've done is going to be wiped away. To me, that's welcoming. But one of the things that I I've heard o often by a lot of people, in fact uh Franklin Graham was saying that at the Baptist Convention, is that you know that our children have to be the salt. They have to be the salt. They have to go to the to school and they have to be assault. You know, you you can't put up kids through the wolves. I think one of the thing first things is the the school system is still evil. Anybody that still has kids in the school system should should rethink whether they love God or love the school system. Because I think you need to pull your kids out. Yeah, and we're really running a risk. I mean, uh there's a certain level see this is what makes some of these uh uh I don't want to say a lot. I'm going to use the language I guess. It makes these lies so dangerous as they have elements of truth mixed in. So God's people are called to be salt and light, right? And so we're salt has the idea of adding flavor, has the idea of being a preservative and all that sort of thing. And so we do want to be preserved preserving what is good and right and true about God's teaching, and we want to do it in a way that is flavorful and allows for a flourishing and a and a and a and a and a just a wonderful life. But if we're not careful, if we take our children who are not equipped to do that. They're not fully formed yet. They haven't you haven't finished training them up on the way they should go. Uh you're putting them at risk so they could be the salt that loses its saltiness. And then it's use it's good for nothing. It gets trampled. It's worthless. And so you're if you're not careful, you're going to put your p your children in a situation where 10, 20 years down the road, they're going to be useless because you've you've wasted their saltiness. You've got to be really careful about that. But there's this mix, right? So, um what's the um is it Mary Poppins Spoonful of Sugar makes the medicine go down? There's some biblical truth in that song. And I think where we get out of balance or we m m we miss the blend is We are so endeavoring to be welcoming. We want to be perceived as loving and accepting and affirming and tolerant that all we do is give them the sugar. It's nothing but sugar. It's saccharin sweet sugar. There's no medicine. And the medicine is, you know what, you you you need this medicine. And nobody nobody wants to be told that they have a failing, they have a need Right? You need this medicine. Oh it tastes chucky. I don't want that medicine. You make a grimace and you run away from the medicine. And so we need we I think there's some benefit to those who are lost to couch it in a way that there's some sugar and you emphasize the sweetness of Christ. The beautiful well he's a great physician who has this medicine and you need this medicine from the great physician. And that need is the part that seems bitter. They don't want the bitterness. They don't want to acknowledge that they have failed. But to help them to understand that they have failed. uh is the medicine, the beginnings of the medicine. And I think we can couch that in terms that feel and sound more sweet. And I think that we can be prone to being guilty of doing just medicine, no sugar Um Jesus was a the perfect blend of of of of medicine with sugar, right? He's and he promises, you know, abundant life, you know. He promises like everything that we need is found in him. And uh, you know, you mentioned uh a a little while back, you know, God's plan for marriage, the family. the beauty of sexuality, all that stuff. So God has this beautiful plan. We're made in the image of God. And so if we can try to encourage people, look, you're going to miss out. You know, God has this beautiful, wonderful plan, awesome, you know, and so to try to in in love, help them to see beyond just you know the fleeting pleasures of sin or whatever. And sometimes you'll overhear what our intermural conversations. and say, well, you cannot compromise. You understand that this sort of behavior is sin. And you can't say it's not. And then the overhearing world is non-CRISPR. They're like, oh you guys are haters. But we're being very direct and exacting with other believers saying you can't because you know better. Right, you know better. Right? You have partaken of the Holy Spirit, right? You you understand the truth. You've been given the illumination of the Spirit spirit, to understand and recognize the truth of his word. And now you're turning your back on that? You can't do that because you would have been better off never believing at all than to turn your back on the truth. And so we're we're in a public forum like this, we're also speaking to the fellow Christian and the non-Christian hears us and we're not talking they're not exactly the audience in that so the non-Christian audience the the the message for you if that's you is God made you in his image. But you need to understand that you are a marred image bearer and you need to be made whole again. And God has done that for you in and through Jesus Christ. If you repent. and accept the gift of faith and then live a life of gratitude in in humble submission to God. Those things are there. But let's start with, you are a beautiful creature of God. Let's start marriage. I want to remind you of that. But you're not perfect. You're not all that, right? You're not what you think you are. You shouldn't be all puffed up with pride. You should recognize that you have a need for your creator to make you to be perfectly what you're made to be So there's this idea of both and I wanna I want to clarify too, I mean uh I I've heard even some on the left use that image of God recently. In fact I think Joe Biden used it in in a uh uh speech. You know, transgender people are still also made in the image of God. Well yeah th that that's the first half of the verse. The second half of the verse says male and female creature and male. God made us in his image Male and female. There are still two and and you were made in a specific one of the two, right? But it is still in the image of God and and you may have a have a flawed uh or or marred uh you know, um uh emotional understanding or a spiritual you know, f feeling about what thing that you wish to be different about yourself, but you are important the way that God made you and and there is a purpose that God has if if if you're gonna be uh in his kingdom then he he has a specific purpose and and plan for you to fulfill that in his kingdom. But that's the way in the way he made you specifically. Um and Okay, I'm gonna spin this no compromise thing on its head in just a second, but we first I was gonna say that was the voice of Daniel Rasley you just heard. You also heard I think the voice before that was Greg Windsor's voice And the voice before that, I think, was Imran Razi's voice. Not counting my voice, of course, because I think I was interspersed throughout all of that. Okay, we're listening to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. You know, we we don't want to compromise, so we want to make sure that we call, you know, uh properly identify sin as sin and righteousness as righteousness, and we can't compromise on those things. The church needs to hold to the truth of God. However, This is for you, believer. Not compromising also means the way you live out your life. It's not enough that you get your doctrine right If you understand that God's word is truth, but you refuse to love your wife, you've compromised. If you will call all the sins of the world, the sins of the world, you will accurately identify them, and you will even identify wolves within the church, and you will do a good job of being discerning about those things, but you do not love your neighbor. You don't put in an honest, hard day's work for your employer. You don't do those sorts of things. Then you have compromised. It's not just about doctrinal purity. It's about right? It it's about the way you live out your life. It's not just about orthodoxy, but orthopraxy. It's the practice of your life. You have to be perfect. Is that what you're saying, Trillium? We have to be perfect. We are called to be perfect as Christ is perfect. Now we fail, and so we are made fully sufficient in Christ and by the blood of Christ, which just brings it calls us uh to be reminded of our need for Christ. But we are called to perfection But we fall short. We identify that we are not going to live perfect lives until sin is no more in glory, right? Where there's no more crime, no more sin, no more death, no all those things Well for f but we are called to perfection, but Christians understand we don't live a perfect life, but we are called to it, so we're not off the hook. And so, well I can't be perfect anyway, so I'll just beat my wife. What? No. Yeah, I think the Apostle Paul might have said something about that. You raise a really good point, Troy, that yeah, we have to model this beautiful, glorious Plan, yeah, love loving our wives and and and you know uh uh our our families and all the things that go along with that plan because then they can see you know the unbelievers can see something You know, and I try not to focus on specific sins unless it's, you know, like an issue, but just try to keep bringing it back to look, here's God's plan. Anytime we anytime we go outside of that, your life's gonna be miserable You know, those who choose another God multiply their sorrows. Your life's gonna be miserable. But choose choose God, choose choose life. That's a really good point when I've had opportunity to be in a kind of a a situation where it's a one-on-one sharing of the gospel, evangelistic uh evangelistic kind of a setting or that sort of thing. I hadn't thought about it until you just said it, but I can't remember ever focusing on a specific sin. It's more generalized, like you've done some things that even by your own standard you would admit are wrong, right? What do you do with the guilt and shame and the dishonor that comes with that? What do you do with that? You you know you you own it, you just ign it it just admitted that by your own standard you've fallen short. So what do you do with that? How can you make it right And that it's just a generic general thing. Now with a and the devil has a counterfeit, right? He says you can remove the uh the that that that uh uh uh shame by by becoming prideful and arrogant. You can remove this cover uh fear by uh by becoming the uh the oppressor instead of the oppressed. You can So in a specific uh uh counseling session with a Christian or a a Christian sermon, right? I I might be specific there and say Uh when you spend all that time online looking at dirty videos and pictures and things like that, that's a sin. You need to stop. I will call it out, right? The fact that you're disrespectful to your husband, not honoring your husband, not respecting his his authority as spiritual head of the home. That needs to stop. I will point out, you know, you you're saffing your mother. That needs to stop. I will call up specific things to a Christian, either in a sermon or a one-on-one situation. But when you're evangelizing to the lost Mm-hmm. They just they need to know about the love of Christ and part of the that is recogn them acknowledging they have a need. So that's why you bring up sin at all. Right. The good news is that there's a solution to the bad news. So you have to identify the bad news some way. But I think that's where we sometimes get a little bit uh mixed up in the fray. We start wagging our fingers at the lost as though they're believers. and holding them to account and a standard that they can't live up to because they don't have the Holy Spirit. So to say, you're an evil sinner. Yeah, well that's the Westboro Baptist Church model of evangelism, and it doesn't work because it's not biblical. So anyway, uh we we've got like a a minute or so last word to somebody. Anybody Well, we have to love people with grace and truth, and um and I think that we need to be like Jesus in this world. So um as a uh elder at my church used to say, uh, you know, you you're called to be uh become Jesus' identical twin. You know you want to look and act And again it's not through our own powers through through uh Christ that makes us Yeah, I and the picture that comes to mind is think about uh a non-believer that comes to you or you just talk to them. They got arrows in them. Okay You can't judge them for having arrows in them. You gotta heal the arrows. You gotta take them out with love and kindly. You can't just accept that they have arrows and it's okay, that's part of life. No. God has a plan for each person. And the first thing is heal them, talk to identify the errors, identify the the evil that's there, and then start taking getting rid of that and then move towards, hey, let's reconcile your your relationship with Christ, because it's all about relationships. That's Imran Radzi. Before that was Daniel Radzi. Before that was Greg Windsor. I'm Troy Skinner. This has been the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find me online at householdfaith in Christ dot com. Until next week, 167. 5 hours from right about now. God bless. Somebody set off the alarm. Yeah. Thank you, thank you, gentlemen. This is very hang up on Facebook. Yep, let me uh do that. Well Again, if you have any comments, leave them in the comment section below on whatever platform you're watching this. Right now it's alive on Facebook, but it might be, uh will be elsewhere in the future. So until we meet again, God bless