No election, universal atonement, resistible grace in the volume. There's an acronym, TULIP. Each letter stands for the five points of quote unquote Calvinism, all that sort of thing. So that's what we're talking about today. If you have any comments, leave them in the comment section. I will get to them later. And joining us is the author of it's going to be backwards, but uh right? I think it's showing up backwards on the on the video. But well the author of uh this book is one of the guests on the show today, The Head Covering by Josiah Spon Joani. Did I get it right? Yep Took me like what, seventy-five times to finally get it right. Good morning. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks for spending part of your day with us here on NewsRadio 930 WFMD. I say that Not as often as I should, but you know, the the way that uh listeners uh listenership is recorded by the uh you know, the companies that do that sort of thing. You write down the call letters, you write down the name of the show, and the call letters are the most important thing, and so it's about memory recalls. So in case you missed it the first couple of times, it's News Radio 930 WFMD. You're listening on Sunday morning, 9 a. m. to 9. 30. To the faith debate on what's that station again? News radio, nine thirty WFNB. You really need to remind the listeners what time it is? We all have clocks in our cars. Well you also it's uh it's also um um Recall about what time you were listening. So I I want our show to get credit. Right? I don't want to have to write down they were listening from 8 30 to 9, although that's fine. Whatever show is on before they they can get credit too. But I want our credit to belong to us. True, right? So you're listening from 9 to 930 on AM 930, News Radio 930, WFMD. All right, I think I've got the I was noticing as I was uh doing some quality control and uploading podcasts and that sort of thing, listening to the shows and I've noticed that some shows I do a good job of mentioning what station, other times not so much and Trying to fix that. Anyway, I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of FaithInChrist. com. You also heard Daniel Razby already chime in. He's one of the pastors at the church that meets at Imran's house. And joining him, seated to his right, my left is Imran Razi, known as Raz to his friends. You can find him online. They have a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries. Their website is conqueredbylove. org. And uh if you were listening to the show not too long ago, uh you're going to hear a voice here in a little bit uh that might sound a little bit familiar. He's the author of the book, uh The Head Covering uh Josiah Bonjourney and we were talking about head coverings last time and I don't know if it was during the show or or after the show when we were, you know uh eating green M M's and that sort of thing. Um that the the subject of Calvinism and Arminianism and the tulip uh came up and people in the room got a little excited about us us tackling that and it's been a while since we've tackled that subject on this show and to be honest the last time I can remember us talking about it Um I didn't have as well a formed an idea about what to think about such things, because this is I I it's I I'll bet you it's fifteen years since we've in a significant way tackled uh the topic of the doctrines of grace as some people call them. So we're gonna go through these in order and the goal is to try to cover one letter in the acronym TULIP at a time. It's T-U-L-I-P. So there's Total depravity, unconditional election, limited atonement, irresistible grace, and perseverance of the saints, and those I'm going through this fast because then we're going through them again. And they have different uh names It screws up the uh acronym. Uh but we're focusing on total depravity today. And and and these were uh these what usually talked about as the Calvinists five points, but they weren't Calvin's Calvin himself didn't really write these down in that way and and they weren't even generally talked about points in Calvinism So uh maybe in fairness we should we should uh read Dominius is five points as well. Sure we yeah, we can do uh uh and by the way, uh John Calvin not only didn't write them in this way, he wasn't even alive When this happened. This is the next generation after Calvin. So anyway. It would be human free will, which states that though man is fallen, he is not incapacitated by the sinful nature and can freely choose God. His will is not restricted and enslaved And then conditional election. God chose people for salvation based on his foreknowledge where God looks into the future to see who would respond to the gospel message. And then universal atonement, this the position that Jesus did bear bear the sin of everyone who ever lived is just not everybody will uh it all it won't work for everybody because not everybody does exactly Accept that. And then resistible grace, the teaching that grace of God can be resisted and finally beaten so as to reject salvation in Christ, and then fall from grace, the teaching that a person can fall from grace and lose the salvation. Um and it's I think it's important to you know these are general five points and then the tulip is another general five points. Not all congregations really uh hold fast in the same way to all five points very equally. some people are are a little more weak on one than the others and and they s so there's there's nuance in all that but I know you today you want to go Yeah, and as we work through these, I uh um the one we're focusing on today probably isn't the one that people inside of the church tend to fight about the most. They fight about it, but there are others on this List of five that get thought up thought about more. But when you're talking to somebody outside of the church, this one really bothers people. Uh part of it I think is just semantics, to be honest with you. you but uh you sir you madame are depraved nobody likes hearing that right nobody wants to hear that they're depraved Much less totally depraved. What do you mean? And so d does anybody want to take a stab at what we mean by total uh depravity, or sometimes called radical depravity I mean to me, uh total depravity just means that man in his natural state cannot come to God. God has to do the initiation And you may remember a time that you were saved and came to God, but God was working in your heart to prepare your heart for that. You didn't just wake up one day and say, Oh, I'd like to be saved, and you know, this sounds good if if God didn't do any work in your heart. So God has to be the one that starts that. Now that's how far uh I I think you you there's there's a point at which you can very carefully parse your words and get both Alminians and Calvin. Calvinists degree on a lot of these things because uh a lot of Arminius Arminians Arminians? Arminianists that I that I I've met would agree that man doesn't do the starting, God starts the process and i it's just that you get to accept or you get to uh uh choose Christ but God has to open your eyes first 'cause if your eyes are closed then they're not they're not gonna be Yeah, so um but then there's there's certainly a more uh extreme is the wrong word, but um a more uh a further version of Armenianism which would say that you can you can initiate too, I guess. And it occurs to me, uh it has nothing to do with the the nation or the people group the ar are are Armenians. Yes. It's not it has nothing to do with a European subculture group or something. One of the most overlooked genocides in history. Yeah, it's it's called Arminianism because it's named after uh uh a very prominent theologian from uh nearly five hundred years ago, four hundred plus years ago, uh who disagreed with uh some of the teachings of John Calvin. So that's where the name comes from. I think it needs to be said that there's the the word total in front of depravity, depravity is hard enough. The word total, that gets misunderstood, which is why a lot of people have substituted total for radical. So what's not being said by those who subscribe to the tulip, to the doctrines of grace, what they're not saying is that you are totally depraved in the sense that you are as praised as you could possibly be. You are 100% depraved in any and all actions, behaviors, thoughts, motives, whatever. Like there's nothing at all good about you. Everything you do is as evil as it could possibly be. That is not what totally depraved means Totally dephrasing means that the totality of the individual suffers from the fall uh into sin, so suffers from the the consequences. So our our will is depraved, our mind is depraved depraved, our emotional center is depraved, our heart is every aspect of who we are is affected by the fall. So the totality of who we are is is depraved, is dead in sin and therefore unable to react to the gospel, the call of the gospel without God m uh calling and dragging people to himself is the idea. So it's not that totally depraved people can't do good things We do some good things, but even those would be clouded by some level of sin, mm, but we're not all as absolutely evil as we could possibly be. That's not what total depravity teaches. So Pharaoh, are you trying to say maybe that uh It's more of you're totally condemned, you're dead in sin. You are condemned and you can't get out of that condemnation without God Correct. And what they were responding to, if I remember my church history well here, uh what the the Calvinists uh of the day or the Reformed theologians of the day were responding to was the idea that, yeah, we're all sinners But our will is unaffected. Or there's some aspect of our intellect perhaps is unaffected. There's some part of us that's unaffected so that we can make the choice. And the reformed theologians of the day and of today too would say, no, there's no part of the human being that's not affected by sin and therefore unable on their own to respond positively to the call of the gospel So just to clarify, because that's I think a huge source of argumentation, needless argumentation, because it's a misunderstanding. It's not it's not arguing over what's really being said, it's uh arguing over what people think is being said. Looks like Josiah's uh leaning in a little bit. Yeah, I was I was thinking, um I'm glad you clarified there about um the ex how it clouds over every action that a person does. And I found some very interesting descriptions of total depravity in a And a book called Systematic Theology by Charles Finney, which surprisingly, even though he did not take a Calvinist point of view, this is one point he did mostly agree with, and I tend to also mostly agree with the idea of total depravity Um there are some nuances we could mention later, but he mentioned even an action like um giving some money to a beggar on the side of the street. Um if it's done by a non-Christian, is actually clouded with sin or selfishness, which is the root of sin, um to some degree, because if you weren't moved by certain emotions that make you feel better about yourself for doing an action like that. Those same people who aren't Christians wouldn't perform those actions. But as Christians, it's our belief since we have the love of God, which is something that's far far stronger than emotions, that we would actually do those good actions Well there's that passage in Isaiah that says our righteousness is as filthy rags. Basically if if you're not saved then then there's nothing that's good about you at all. Even the good works and and I I have heard that preached uh uh from the pulpit before, the pastor says I've heard pastors say that, you know, any good work that you might think that you have done, if you were not saved, it was not a good work, it was an evil work. Mm-hmm. Which Which it that I think rubs a lot of people, especially unbelievers, the wrong way. Oh, you're saying I I didn't even not only are you saying I I'm a bad person, but even the good things that I did you're saying are bad, and that that that makes it Uh difficult to get get that. And and and and I think a way to think about this yes, I I would agree insofar as the way we've articulated it so far. But that doesn't mean that non followers of Christ don't do some things that even we as Christians would look at and label uh accurately as that was good. Or that God didn't use for Yeah, that was a good thing they did. The point is that it's not perfectly good. That was the cloud. The motives behind it maybe are clouded by the same thing. There's something clouded there But that and and that's I think helpful in clarifying of what's being talked about here, but that's not even the main point that the Calvinists of the day were responding to from the Arminian side, uh because they're focusing on the free will to choose God And they were saying we can't, nobody, uh because of the fall, uh, and and this gets into the doctrine of original sin, which uh not everybody in the the Christian camp subscribes to. But if everybody is guilty in Adam and is affected b by that sin of Adam, then we are conceived in sin. We are born as sinners. And so we're s and therefore What is the penalty of sin? Death. So we are dead in our sin. And it's spiritual death. It's not saying, oh, dead, so you can't even like host a radio show. No, you you can do things in a f in the physical world. You could even do things in the in a spiritual sense, but you can't do perfectly sinless things in the spiritual world because you're spiritually dead. And because you're dead, you can't respond um to the call of the gospel, you need God to do that for you. That's what they're really getting at there. And it gets to original sin. Exactly. Which uh there there are uh uh believers that I've met that don't believe in original sin either. I'd be one of those, by the way. Yeah, okay. Well not sure what they would do with certain passages. So um some key texts have come up in in the discussion about original sin David writes in Psalm 51 that he was brought forth in iniquity. In sin, his mother conceived him. That would seem to indicate that from the moment of conception He was in sin. So do you understand that verse differently? Well, I've ha I'm kind of double-minded about that verse. I have a few different explanations, and I'm not actually sure which one is true. at this point. But one thought I have had is it doesn't say I was born with sin, it says I was born in sin. So that could mean a surround you're surrounded by sin, just like a fish is in water. But it's not necessarily maybe a fish is a a bad example because water could be in the fish too. But you could jump in some water, but that doesn't mean that you're full of water. You're just but you I appreciate that answer because I'm not a big fan of like proof testing and taking one little verse out of context saying this proves my point. But you start stacking them. So there are layers. So later in the Psalms, just a few chapters later in Psalm 58, verse 3, the wicked are estranged from the womb. Those who speak falsehood wander in error from birth So some would argue, well it's not original sin, it's you know, they when they're two years old, they sass their mother, and then they sinned for the first time, and now they're sinful. But Psalm 58 says that they wander in error from birth. They're estranged from the womb. Ephesians 2, it talks about being uh dead in your sins, and by nature are children of wrath. Our very nature. Well first of all I would just I would point out on the other hand Jesus speaks of little children as being pure and innocent as if they would go to heaven if they died, whereas if they were actually we're we know we're all sinners at some point in our life, so if you say the wicked are estranged from the womb and you take that 100% literally, that would mean that everybody who dies as an infant would go straight to hell Otherwise God chooses to cover this in the right. Right. But to to switch things around, Jesus says on the other hand, and this is a ver very familiar verse, but suffer the little children to come unto me So why would he say, of such is the kingdom of God, if little children were sinful from birth? He's he's um implying that they're actually innocent and pure from birth. And same thing in Matthew 18, 3, except ye be converted and become as little children, as little children. Again he's pointing to the innocence and purity of little children. But is the up such speaking about the children or is the upsuch speaking of those who are seeking to come to Christ? I I kind of feel like the whole the point of that passage is the faith of a little child, meaning somebody that believes without needing to see all the proof and evidence, just it's willing to believe anyway. And little children are more easily able to believe in things because they're not jaded by the realities of a harsh world and so what you tell them they generally believe. That's why so many kids believe in Santa Claus. Even though it's preposterous Santa Claus could exist. Uh, you know, no Virginia, there is no Santa Claus. Um but but but they agree very easily what somebody tells them because they don't have any reason not to Right. So say I think that's kind of what Jesus was getting at. Trust what I say. It's the right thing for you. It is true. Just do it. And I I that's what I get out of that passage. It's not really uh I don't really get a s a sin doctrine of any kind out of that passage. It's more like little children have a different uh a different way of going about faith than adults do. Adults want to see proof of evidence and signs and wonders and miracles 'cause we w w we are think logically and critically. But but children have that, you know, wide eyed uh imagination and and and they want they want to believe things. But faith itself is actually a Christian virtue. So if you were perfectly sinful from birth, total depravity from birth, that would mean that even that faith wasn't really faith. So that is God has unclear purity. Unless God has first opened your heart. Josiah Bonjoani. Uh you've also been hearing Daniel Razvi. Not a whole lot of Imron just yet, but he's got uh like some text I think he's getting ready to throw at us here in a second. So we'll be hearing from Imran in a moment. And I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. We have a look at the totality of the screen. scriptures. And so I can see if we look at the pat the couple of passages you mentioned so far and say, okay, so see, this seems to indicate, but then we have to throw into the mix and consider those passages with other passages like in Proverbs where it says folly is bound up in the heart of a child. So are they innocent or are they filled with folly You know, so um in Genesis chapter eight it says, Man's heart is evil from his youth. So children's hearts are evil and yet the innocence of a child. So I think the context and and what's being said there, uh I don't think there's enough there to overcome the uh the idea of being estranged from the womb and being conceived in s in sin and other, I mean if you read Ephesians particularly chapter two Uh that's it's not just a verse, that's an entire section that seems to talk about the the the need, the necessity, the the lostness of people on their own and the necessity of God to do it for them. But I I I want to get Nimrod in. You have something you wanted to add by the way? It looked like you were getting ready to say something. I can't remember what it's I waited too long to get you. I'm sorry. My fault. th the original sin i there's really not uh a way to g get around that. And I mean, it's more of our us saying, well and uh especially coming from a Muslim background, right? Muslims don't believe in original sin. And they learn to sin as they grow older. And when I came to Christ, that was a a hard point for me to get over But then if you think about it, why is a just God allow all this evil to happen to children? If he's just then there if there's no sin, if there's if they're not born in sin, if they're not sinful, if they're not in the original sin, then a just God would not allow all this evil to happen to children. To me that was a big turning point as a m as a Muslim coming to Christ, that okay, there has to be original sin. Otherwise, you know, how can I call God just And and I think there there one there's one passage that comes to mind I think which is very relevant to about the salvation of children specifically. Um and there's the this passage that Paul talks about where uh uh you know your children i if if uh the unbelieving spouse or or the believing spouse sanctifies the children of the unbelieving spouse, speaking of stay together if one of you gets saved, don't Don't just divorce or separate because your children are now um uh sanctified, otherwise they would be unholy, which I take as the implication being that they may if if neither spouse is believing that those children are not necessary God can choose to save whoever he wants to save. But hold that thought for a minute. But I think really the the Eastern culture of honor and shame is a much better way to explain its original sin than what the West generally does. Because I actually agree with Josiah that when a child is born, they have not sinned. They are innocent in a sense, but they are in a position of shame. Think of the case system in India or think of the class system you know in uh in in different classes in in many cultures around the world where you if you're born into this strata of society, you cannot I mean the American dream is unique in that. Right, you can move up in in classes. But most countries and most parts of the world that's not really possible. Wherever you're born, that's where you are. Right? You can't move up to a different level And we're born as children of Adam and the world is all affected by Adam's sin. So we are in a position of shame from birth and as as such it is impossible for us to get to God unless He brings us out. Only somebody that is more honorable than yourself can lift you out of a position of shame. Shame, whether or not you've personally done any of those sins, and that's why I don't think see it's a contradiction when the Bible says God visits the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third or fourth generation, but then he says also the children should not be put to death for the sins of the fathers, and the fathers should not be put to death. So they yeah, I I speak so fast. But but that's I think that's that uh meshing of those two. Yes, the children are innocent because they haven't personally sinned yet Um a but but they are born in a position of shame. So that's where I would say I agree with the doctrine of the original. I think they I think they're born in a position of shame though because they stand guilty with Adam. As a group, all of us are in Adam and Adam is guilty he's our what a theological term for that is federal headship. He's the federal head of the entire group of of humanity. He's guilty as our representative, we're guilty with him. And it's it's and that's the and it's important to the gospel because that's what Christ does for the those who are born again. So those who are born in Adam are born in guilt and shame because they're born in sin. So I I would disagree. Well you're disagreeing with Romans chapter five. No, they are born in shame. But I would say shame specifically and not guilt. You have individual guilt for your own sins and you have collective shame for from Adam's eyes. is what he's talking about there. Sin entered into the world and death through sin. Yes. And so death spread to all men because all sinned. All do sin, yes. But if the penalty of sin is death Mm-hmm. And newborn babies die sadly every day. Some of them mur murdered in the womb, every many of them every day. They died Without having sinned? Without being a sinner? Without being guilty of sin? I don't know what is in the mind of God, but they've they're just what the passage is speaking of Yeah. So I that's that's what I was saying. They they have not had time to be guilty of their own sins, but they do, you're right, they do bear a responsibility for Adam's sins. Right. I don't disagree with you in that. And they're both biblical concepts. And I think too often we we confuse the two and there there is some distinction. Yeah, and this has come up a few times on the show, and I would say this. I I do appreciate that there is a uh There is a distinction to be made, but the two cannot be separated. We have shame because of our guilt. If we are guiltless, I mean, Christ bore our shame because he took on our sin. Right? You know what I'm saying? He took on the guilt of the world, and in that he's taking shame upon himself. Uh I I don't there's there's no need to be a a shame. Imagine if you're not guilty of the if you're in the Hatfield of the McCoy family, right, and you've been feuding for generations and you're born and you're a Hatfield, well you're always gonna be a Hatfield, you're never gonna be McCoy You can't become a McCoy. You can't stop fighting the McCoys. You already are. Whether you personally ever fired a bullet doesn't matter, because your great great grandfather shot somebody on the McCoy face. Right. That's like an argument for federal headship, by the way. Well that's but what uh and I'm that's what I'm saying. I think I think we we are saying the same thing, but I I'm making a very distinct difference between the shame because we are Uh in in my example, I am never fired a shot at anybody in the McCoy family, but I'm still responsible for all my family's actions, and I can never become somebody else unless there's a marriage, unless there's There's somebody that that brings brings a sin. We're going to have to draw this to a close in a second, but uh uh a cutesy little phrase that's been used for years is uh people aren't sinners because they sin. They sin because they're sinners. So I was conceived in sin. And people want to argue and say, no, you weren't. And I say, well, have you seen my life? The the the the the tree is known by its fruit. The fruit of my life is then filled with all sorts of sin So I'm the kind of tree that is a sinful tree and the fruit, when you're a little baby, it's not as obvious, but it gets enough time and every baby will prove that they are A sinner because they go on to sin. Anyway, that's a a cutie little thing, a little memory hook maybe. Maybe I pick up on social priority a little bit, or maybe we'll dovetail it into our uh our conversation of unconditional election, which Which is next. Daniel Razby, Josiah Bonjoani, I'm Troy Skinner, Imron Razby, also on the show. Thank you for listening, spending part of your day with us here on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find us online at household of faith in Christ. com and WFMD. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from I'd say, oh, right about now. God bless. I don't know if that was instructive for the listener or not. It's hard for me to We didn't talk too much about total depravity. Oh we sort of did, because total depravity goes to the original sin, I think. And uh I think that's often the two are two ideas are wrapped up together. They're not the same concept because there are plenty of Armenians, in fact most Armenians would say that they hold to the doctrine of remote original sin um you would be more of an anomaly in that, I think, as far as mainstream Protest Protestant Protestantism. But there are plenty of people that say I'm not I don't believe in total depravity. But yeah, of course original sin. To me, total depravity follows from original sin. Um they go they go hand in hand. And so you might be more logically consistent in that, honestly, if you don't uh hold too original. But I I to me it's it's it's an important part of the gospel. I I agree with Troy. It is we are responsible for all of Adam's sins. And that's as virtu by virtue of our birth. But that doesn't mean we each have necessarily individually sinned in order to be responsible for Adam's sin. So that's uh to me, you don't have to point to a specific time I I assume they all have because Roma said we all have sinned. I don't uh I have you know the uh my own thoughts about it age of accountability and all of that as far as whether you can do that. Um and I think you have to actually have that state of mind to commit sin personally and individually. But collectively you are a sinner because you are part of the fallen race. And nothing can change that unless God brings you out. So that's where I I think it kind of It's hard to define what exactly original sin is anyways. Because a you know, a lot of people speak about how you inherit original sin, but it's like at the core, what is it And most people will argue that it's some sort of hereditary, almost biological gene that's passed on from one generation. But it's like where is that in the Bible? You have to just talk about it. Are we not going to go through all five points or two at the same time? Maybe not. Well yeah, well I'm gonna actually bring up unconditional election here. Uh but they're they're all intertwined. This is why some people are three-point Calvinists, four-point Calvinists, you know It's it's hard when you start to parse things. It it it it it does at some point in the conversation, if it goes big enough, you end up it becomes an all or nothing system of of thought and theology, i it seems to me. But Anyway, let me uh get this going and You are depraved. Totally even. That was firmly established on last week's show. I'm not sure how firmly was established, but I like to say so. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Find me online at WFMD. com. You can go to the Faith Debate page of the station's website and to see what's coming up on the show or connect with past shows or learn more about this show's history or how to reach me. But the the best way to really reach out to me, well all my contact information and everything else is at my church's website, Household of Faith in Christ. Joined this week by Josiah Bone Giovanni. He's uh writ uh he has written a book that came out like a year or so ago, I want to say. No, earlier this year. Five months ago. So well as we're as we're recording. So it's coming up on a year as this airs. Because we're we're uh we're uh we're in the summertime, but this is gonna air in the in the autumn, so uh the the head covering and we did a series of shows on that topic uh just like a month or so uh a month month or two ago. I can't remember exactly recently And uh helping me with the dating was uh Daniel Razvi. You just heard his voice. He and his father, Imran Razvi, they pastor a church called the Church It Meets at Imran's House, and you can find them online. at um conqueredbylove. org and it reminds me if somebody wants to find you or your book online, Josiah, there's a website for that, right? What was that? I turned it out. And I think you you you gave us a little trick last time, Daniel. I think you just Google Josiah and head covering. Josiah Headcovering, you'll find his book, because there's only like one Josiah that's written a book on head coverings, apparently. Something like that. So it doesn't be Google, by the way, it could be any search engine. Google has become like Kleenex, right? It's just the generic term for but uh I'm not necessarily a fan of uh Google, although to be honest, these days All of the search engines seem suspect if you ask me. Right. Even these so-called conservative ones. So we were talking primarily about uh total depravity and issues related to total depravity last week and original sin is closely aligned and connected with total depravity so we spent a lot of time talking talking on that. And we're going to try to talk about unconditional election or sometimes called unmerited favor. In case you're wondering where these what what these labels, why we use these The history of that was given last week by Daniel Rasby. I'd just say there's been a big debate raging in the church for hundreds of years. Centers around freedom of the will. And um one way of thinking about this, I'm not sure if this will be appreciated by the people in the room or not, but one way of thinking about this is which is more prominent in your theology, the freedom of the human will or the freedom of God's will? Because that's kind of what the debate centers around. Who makes the choice, whose decision places somebody in heaven or hell, who's ultimately in control. That's kind of what the argument boils down to when when you get down to the break Well Yeah, well I mean cu because the The Armenians the the the the next logical point would be well wouldn't you want God's will to be sovereign? That's why the the Right. But the Armenian arguments and sovereign and a lot of our minians are inconsistent. Some Calvinists probably are too But a consistent Armenian is going to actually be fine with how I frame that, saying, yes, and God created things in such a way that he made mankind is the pinnacle of his creation to have that kind of freedom of will. So he his sovereign will was to give men a will that would e trump even his in the no no uh no presidential election uh reference there. But Trump even his will uh on these matters that he's decided to refrain from exercising his will that way. So I think that even our Minian could agree. And maybe it'd be helpful for me to give just A quick 45 second sketch. Um I was without knowing what the labels were, you know, you learn over time what all these theological semantical phrases and terms are supposed to mean. But if you went back even twenty years, thirty thirty years ago for sure, thirty years ago, I would have been an Arminian. And I would have argued to the death with somebody that was articulating Calvinist doctrine, the doctrines of grace, that sort of thing. I didn't know what they were called, but when I when I heard them, I would have argued against them. And probably around 20 years ago, uh I began to enter an odyssey of trying to think through those questions and those issues. And I still was probably Armenian in my thinking 20 years ago, but began to become a wobbly Armenian. And then five years after that, I was kind of, I don't know, I'm gonna flip a coin. I just don't know what to think anymore. They're both right. They're both wrong. Who's to say? And then five years after that I was like, yeah, I think I'm probably leaning more in the reformed direction on this. And then as recently as five years ago is probably where I'd say, you know what I think I've gotten to the place where through my study and this odyssey that I've been on, I'm now firmly on the reformed side. And here we are today in 2024 after this 20-30 year exploration And I think I've completely flipped polls, where 30 years ago I would have staunchly argued for and tried to defend what I now know as the Armenian position, and now I would pro I I would pretty consistently staunchly fight for and defend for what I think are the reformed doctrines. teach. So I've gone through this odyssey over a long period of time. So if you're hearing my voice and you're listening to this and you're uh and you disagree with me, hey, 30 years ago I agreed with you. Um and I I think it can go both ways. I think somebody could probably be uh staunchly reformed in their theology and then thirty years later not be s so reformed anymore Armenia. I think that can h and I actually I know people who've who have surrendered one for the other. It goes in both directions. And this is going to sound pejorative. But I'll end with this and you guys can react and say what you have to say about these issues. Again, I don't mean it as a perturbative, it's just in my personal case study. The more I've studied the scripture, the more I've examined the teachings of the these doctrines and read the writings of people on the various sides of the issues, the more energy I've devoted to the questions, the more convinced I've become that the reformed doctrines of grace. are the biblical uh lens through which we should understand the scripture. That's what I've found to be true in in uh in my life And again, I don't say that so the more you study the scripture, you'll agree with me. That's not precisely what I'm saying, but that is that has been my experience. So all three of you at various points during the last two minutes as I've been talking have leaned in And then back back up and then lean back in. So who has something they want to say either in response to last week's show talking about total depravity and original sin? Or wants to get us talking about unconditional election and or unmerited favor, it's called uh this week or respond to something I just said. I want to start because I've been itching to say something for since the last show. I think um you talked about uh the original sin, whether it's there or not there or what's going on there. But I think one way to put it is a relationship. God's all relationship. The two greatest commandments love the Lord your God and love your neighbor. They're both relationships. So I think when Adam sinned, he was no longer in a perfect relationship with God. And when babies are born, they're born in not in a relationship with God. They're born in a relationship with their parents. And That can be equated to sin if you're not in a relationship with God. And so God has to reach out. Sin is what separates you from God. Yes, sin sin is what separates you from God, but there's the what what is sin? It's not having a relationship with God Right? Not trusting God completely for everything. And ev so a baby newborn baby is trusting their parents for everything, right? A baby in the womb is hoping that the mother protects it instead of killing it there it just does not have that relationship. So once sin was entered in into this world and Adam was kicked out of Eden and he had to come out come here and scrabble for a living, he did not have that perfect relationship with God And so children, babies are born without that relationship with God. And that's really you can you can call it sin, you the original sin you can call it whatever you want, but I think that's really where it comes down to is they don't want uh the babies are born without that relationship with God And so do they go to hell? Well that's up that's God's decision. And I don't know I don't know the mind of God. Uh I can guess in that. Um he's a just and loving God, so there may be a way that he has that the babies that have have not ever had an opportunity to have that relationship, may have a relationship, I don't know. But they don't have that relationship. So how does God create that relationship? And with a baby, that's only God knows And what we do is we come and look at it from a humanistic point of view as saying, Well that's not fair. You know, I wanna whine about it because I am in control and I wanna make those decisions and I wanna do this and I wanna make those choices And yeah I just don't think God would do that. I won't worship a God that that would put babies in hell. I won't worship a God that would accept Hitler after he killed all the Jews and all the other people and if he Hitler just at the last minute said, God forgive me, I I repent of my sins and God will accept it I've had a friend that said there's no that that's why I cannot become a Christian because I cannot accept a God that would forgive like that. So it's a relationship. And I think that's where people get get it wrong and and you know desire you're saying there's you don't really believe in it, there's no sin. But you know what? They don't have a relationship. That's really c what it comes down to. Yeah, they certainly don't have a positive relationship, right? They might have a negative relationship. Well maybe neutral. They're an but their enemies uh of of guys. He is not for us is against us. So I think I think they can't be neutral. Yeah you're either a friend or an enemy. I mean you make your decision as soon as you have the abilities to do so. I wouldn't I would argue maybe a baby in the womb doesn't have the abilities to choose God or Satan at that point. But once they do the age of accountability which which we would kind of bear in the and it might be related to the unconditional election thing um or the unmerited favor. And the the reason some of these diff so there was an acronym that was created years ago when all this debating started four or five hundred years ago, and tulip was the acronym, and so every letter stood for something. T was total depravity, and U unconditional election. That's where we are now. But the total depravity as we talked about last week was totally misunderstood and people were uh arguing over semantics and not understanding each other. They weren't arguing over the theology, they were arguing over misunderstandings. And so people to try to get away from those misunderstandings say, well let's not call it total depravity, let's call it radical depravity. Does that help? In some cases it can, in other cases they just continue the semantic arguments. There's no perfect language for this Unconditional election, people didn't like the what that was uh uh what they thought that was saying, so to try to get around the misunderstandings there said, okay, it's unmerited favor meaning there's nothing that the person does to merit favor from God. God grants favor upon whom he will grant favor, right? He'll have mercy upon whom he will have, and he will not have mercy upon whom he will not have mercy. God it it's up to God to decide and it's not conditioned on anything. The um and there are a number of you know texts of verses and stuff that would point to that and we don't have to go down that road now unless you would want us to So anyway, those are some of the the linguistic games uh that are part of this. It looks like d Daniel's uh wheels were turning quite a bit there as I was talking. I'm not sure if you wanted to say something in response or trying to read a body language. No, I I mean uh unconditional erection uh to me uh the uh it really boils down to the most at its most basic is we are not a we don't as Christians we don't believe in workspace salvation. Mm-hmm. You don't have to do anything to become saved. Now a lot of the Calvinists or the or the uh more hardcore reformed uh people would say, well, if you have to choose and accept Christ, then that is doing something. Um and that's still working for yourself Salvation. Whether or not you would have a choice in in the matter in the I'm sure that'll be irresistible race, we'll discuss that. But the uh I don't I I think that's a different thing than works based where you have to do something. That's what sets Christianity apart from all the other religions Every other religion, even cults of Christianity, they call themselves Christians, that are not actually saved, what they all have in common is to get to whatever the end goal is, whether it's nirvana or heaven or higher place or w uh total bliss or whatever you want to call it, Valhalla, you have to do something in order to get there. You have to do something And Christianity says you don't need to do anything. In fact, anything that you possibly could do, going back to total depravity, is meaningless in the eyes of God unless He's uh he's uh the one that's the saves you and he does the he does the doing. And that's the finer point. It's not it's not so much that you uh you don't have to, it's that you know the reformed Calvinist argument would be that you can't. Right Nothing you can do could ever get you to heaven. You can't lose that. And you need to repent, and repentance is brought about by faith. And the New Testament makes it clear that faith is a gift of God, and so that's not something we work up and muster from within ourselves, within our own will, which Again, from last week's show you the uh the Calvinists would argue you can't muster it up from your own will because your own will is sullied by sin And so you need God to grant you the gift of faith. And if He didn't do that, uh then you would never come to Christ. And so um eternity in glory with the Savior is conditioned upon faith that's rooted in repentance, a turning from sin unto obedience, but even that comes from God And so yeah, I would agree with Dan. I think you were saying it the faith and that sort of and repentance, that's not a work. And so I'm agreeing a hundred percent it's not a work. Well give me on if I throw in um uh dif that dictionary definition actually from Wikipedia. But um so take it for what it's worth. But this is a definition I found there. God has chosen from eternity those whom He will bring to Himself, not based on foreseen virtue. merit or faith in those people. Rather his choice is unconditionally grounded in his mercy alone. And that's the general Calvinist view. So maybe you guys are differing I mean most of the Calvinists I've heard would hold to this that even faith is a work in itself. Um and I I I see it as a work. It's something that we do. And so I think it's something you have. So that's one of the reasons I don't actually delete in this this um point at all. Um I'm not sure uh I don't maybe I missed a nuance there. I don't I didn't find myself disagreeing with what you read. So what what is it about you just I just mentioned that I don't think that Faith is uh is a work. Um it doesn't count as works based salvation. Believing in God is not works based. Um now there are c what Josiah is saying, and I agree with him, many Calvinists would disagree there. They they'd say uh Um no, faith itself would be a work. So even faith is a condition. If you put faith on it, that's a condition. Now it's now it's a conditional speaking about unconditional election meaning there's no conditions to it I don't I'm trying to think of Calvinists or Reformed theologians that I know that make that ar the uh what what maybe again it might be semantics. The closest I can get in my head is those who would and I would probably count myself in agreement with them, saying that uh making the decision for Christ. That's common language in today's church, right? Make a decision for Christ, choose Christ, to make choose today to make Jesus Christ your Lord and Savior, you have to something you need to make a decision. Call on the name of the Lord and be saved. You know, that kind of a thing And the uh you making the decision, the reform theologians say, you aren't capable of making that decision. You can't, because you're mired in sin. You need God to give you by the power of His Holy Spirit the gift of faith, and because God gives you that faith, you then, quote-unquote, make a decision, if you will, but you make the decision after God's made the decision already He said your decision is response to his decision. It's not that his decision is response to your decision. You choose God and then he therefore accepts. If he chooses you, well you therefore accept. And that's why a lot of Calvinists will tongue in cheek say, Well, I mean Armenians are still saved. I mean you don't have to know how you got saved in order to be saved. So you you you haven't you have a wrong understanding of how you got saved, but you're still uh you still are saved. So that's what they would they would say about things that we're going to do. So I'm so I'm still even with the the help of Daniel, I'm I'm just that dense. I'm still not understanding the point that you Josiah were trying to make by reading that Wikipedia definition. What was the what was the crux of it? Because I'm missing it. I was trying to get at is we're speaking of the point called unconditional election Which is supposed to mean that there are no conditions to election, that God just chooses randomly or arbitrarily certain people that he's predestined for eternity to be saved and certain other people. I wouldn't say randomly, but I would agree with arbitrary arbitrarily. I have a hold of a very different opinion that God in his wisdom chooses those whom he foreknows will will respond to him with faith and with repentance and forsaking all and following Jesus. He chooses those people So the idea that he looks down through the borders of time and sees those that would respond. So that's kind of like an open uh theism kind of an argument, which by the way I uh this is the pastoral hat on me coming up. I know that consistent Arminians end up having to entertain those ideas, but if you go too far down that path you begin to embrace another gospel. Open theism is very, very dangerous for the Christian. I'm just we we'll have a separate two on that maybe I'm not going to get the details of that, but just for what it's worth Uh open theism sounds attractive on the surface, but the digger the deeper you dig, the more unbiblical it becomes. And if you're going to embrace it, you're arguing against scripture pretty fundamentally. Okay. I'm not familiar with the term open theism. However, I am familiar with many passages from scripture, such as in First Peter, he speaks about um let me see if I and get this quoted here word perfect. Well I'm not going to have it word perfect, but basically um God says we are his elect according to for his foreknowledge. So I take that as okay, foreknowledge and what he did for knowing. Yeah, it's very important for us to understand the biblical language on this and not our contemporary. Oh, I have I have the verse here, though. I'm sorry. 1 Peter 1. 2. Elect according to the foreknowledge of God. And so what for knowledge is he talking about specifically? Those who are lost because they are disobedient to the word. And why are they disobedient to the word, you could parenthetically ask as the reader. And to this stumbling, they were also appointed. So they stumble because God appointed them to stumble. So even their stumbling is foreordained by God. And this is where to me in in in It it it's hard i it's hard to understand what an infinite God who is sits outside of time, how how that even works. How uh we w in the a nonlinear time how how would that would actually work 'cause we are entirely linear people, right? We think of one thing after another after another. But is there really a difference between foreknowledge and predestination at all. Because think about this. If you are God and you know everything that is p possibly going to happen, you also know the consequences of every action you might possibly ever take. Um that if you move one thing this way, then that causes this and that causes that and you already know ahead of time as God all the different things that are gonna happen. And therefore you s decide to create Adam and you decide to create this and act in this way You know the consequences of that will be that X, Y, and Z happens in the future and those people become saved. So just the fact of you starting everything, and this is I I know it makes you sound like a deist. I'm not I'm not making a deism argument where God just winds up the clock and lets you go. God certainly acts throughout history, but my point is he acts knowing what the consequences are going to be because he doesn't know everything And so would not wouldn't that that be the same as uh deciding deciding I will do this because that's gonna happen. Also I knew that was gonna happen and therefore I did it. But gets it. is what's different. So if God certainly knows his own mind and he's a God who's both inside and outside of time and he existed outside of time before he created time and space and history as we know it. all that sort of thing. And so when he makes the creation he knows exactly the beginning from the end. He knows he knows and everything in between. He knows exactly how it's going to play out. Uh that's how the prophetic passages of the Bible actually come to pass because God knows what's gonna happen. He foreordained all of that to happen. So he knows his own mind and so he makes the creation with all of those things in his own mind in mind. That's one thing. But if you there's some sort of like cosmic car dealer out there who's given Who's dealt a hand to God, and now he's got to look at his hand and then determine from this hand by looking through the quarters of time, oh, this jack with In combination with that 10 and that nine ooh, I got a straight run in here. Like I can I can manipulate the cards I've been given to then orchestrate so things will work out. I can look down the quarters of that That makes the car dealer more prominent than God himself. God is God and the car dealer, if you will. So I think I think it's I don't think it's a salvation question for so unless it goes too far and you're completely rejecting the hand of God, that could be an issue. But uh I think that we can disagree and still have uh uh have salvation as as believers. I'm just checking the clock here real quick. So um these are some key verses. I wasn't necessarily going to do the these are a few key verses in Ephesians chapter one Uh he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. So I guess Josiah would say that well he chose us by looking down the corridors of time before he the foundation of the world and then set the things in in motion, I think is what you're you're you're saying. Uh for new what we centering it on the foreknowledge thing. That reminds me what I wanted to say before. When the Bible talks about knowing or knowledge uh in that way, if you look at the root words there in the original language particularly Adam knew Eve and she conceived and bore a child. Right? No has to do with relation. It's not about intellectual, it's about relation, it's relational language. It's to know someone is to intimately be connected with them in relationship, to to to have a a love connection with them. So to say that God foreknew is to say that God loved these people before he even made them. In his own mind he loved them before the creation of the fact that foundation of the world. That's uh a more accurate theological way to understand the language uh that's being used there, by the way. Um we're gonna run out of time. I've got like two minutes. Anyway, I would point you uh some some key passages if you're interested at home, you want to study along. Uh Romans chapter nine is a is a big chapter on this question. The book of Ephesians throughout, particularly chapter 1, is going to be helpful as you try to study through these things. And I mentioned Romans chapter 9. You probably should read Romans 7, 8, and 9 kind of together, maybe all the way up through chapter 11. But nine particularly, but eight and nine maybe at least. Read those and and and and start to try to wrestle with God's Word and come to your own conclusions on some of these things. We've got about uh two minutes left before we have to call this one a show. So I want to give somebody else the final word if somebody's been, you know, feels like they're getting shortchanged, they want to say something before the show ends. Who wants to say something? Well I'll just I'll just throw out Acts two thirty eight where Peter is asked, you know, what shall we do? Um the people are asking him what shall we do to be saved? And he says, Repent and be baptized, every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins. So there's some conditions given there. But how does somebody come to repent? That's the question. Yes. Right? That's that's really what the crux is. Repentance is a choice that we make. I wouldn't say God gives us the gift of repentance. is something he expects us to do for ourselves. And that's why Peter says to them when they ask, what shall we do? He's like, this is what you shall do. Repent. Does God not move the heart to make it repent? I mean Lee definitely is working in the persuasive things through the Holy Spirit to change our hearts because by ourselves we Cannot because we will not obey him. I don't think I can repent without God moving my heart to show me that I need to repent. And I think it's important. Um But there's a divine harmony between us acting and God moving at the same time. It's not like it's all God We're gonna have to draw this to a close and one other key passage. I don't know if this is like the centerpiece actually of the argument. I don't know what I was thinking. I got a little distracted in my own thoughts. You gotta read John chapter six. You gotta read John chapter 6. If you read no other part of the Bible, I would say John chapter 6 and secondarily Romans chapter 9. That's where I think you you gotta go to start to wrestle. with these sorts of questions seriously. Anyway, we've had a good debate. We might pick up on some of these stray thoughts and uh talk about these topics that we've talked about this week and last week again next week, but we're going to try to also move on to limited atonement uh next week as well. They're all interrelated, so we're not really shifting gears too much. Anyway, Josiah, Von Joani, Imron Razny, Daniel Razley, I'm Troy Skinner, URU. Thanks for listening. You can find us online at WFMD. com You can connect with me at household of faith in Christ. com. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless. I'm not sure what anybody noticed. This mouse goes like in sleep mode. When you don't use it for a while, it goes into sleep mode. And then you have to try to do something to wake it up and I'm always afraid that as I'm waking up I'm I accidentally gonna like start the music or stop the music. I don't know why it does that. Anyway. So in between programs, if it's all right. Yeah. I'm just curious what you think about these other verses. Um which I wanted to slip in, but there was a lot to get to. Um but in Matthew eleven forty. Matthew eleven twenty eight says, Come unto me all you that lab are labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. So coming to Christ is a But who comes? No man can have the father that he's drawn. I mean Jesus gives the command, he says, come unto me. But it also says no one comes to the Father unless he draws him. And that's that's I think the the crux of it. Does God do the initiating? And then you come, sure you do, but that's only because God started it. So it's more of who starts the process. I don't think anybody is disagreeing that you do come to him, you do believe, that is an active thing that you do. Yeah. But I think the point of the doctrine of the grace is that you God has to start that in you. He has to he has to um Plant that seed that grows and and open your heart and once that's open, then now you do have the capability to come to him and to believe and and so So that's why I I I I think it's a good thing. So my question is why is it given as a command then? If he does it for us by starting it and do And that and that's why does he give us a command? Is it all the same? And that's why you and I are gonna agree more on the on the irresistible grace where I think you can actually refuse it once your eyes are opened. Um I think once uh once you decide to become saved, at that point you can't lose your salvation. So we'll disagree on that last point. But the irresistible grace I think we you and I might agree and Troy will disagree To me it makes no sense to give a command like repent or come or believe or forsake whoever you know. You have to forsake all in order to follow Christ. It g makes no sense to make it in command form if God is the one doing and orchestrating everything anyways. It's just like just say say it a whole different way. Say, I will make you come to me. You will forsake all if if you're my disciple, as opposed to, you know, you you need to forsake all. Yeah, we can probably dovetail this into the next one. Just some software in between. Because uh it's all like I said, it's all interrelated anyway. This is the yellow mouse. I'm t it didn't used to do this until like a couple months ago. And all the I don't know, they changed Mike, maybe this is the old mouse? Does this one work too? They both work. You are in timeout. All right. It's probably slowly sliding. What I need to do is I should hold it over here and mess with it while you while you're on the I just want to say I love mice. These little technological technological gadgets. Yeah, little technological gadgets. So a little behind the scenes, there are two mouse type objects in the studio One of them actually looks like why they're called mice, so it's got a little tail on it. It's hardwired into the board, so it looks like a mouse. The other one's one of these wireless Gadgets, so it looks more like a pet rock than a mouse. And the pet rock version of the mouse has a mind of its own. It it refuses to uh operate under the sovereign will of the Lord. Anyway, so I've switched mice and I'm loving mice right now. And I'm loving life as a result. This is the fake debate on News Radio 19. So that's Daniel Razby trying to get us back on track. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. And I say get us back on track, but you sort of show trying to get us on track. We're also joined in the studio this week by Imran Razvi as Daniel's father. They co-pastor a church called the Church that meets at Imran's House. You can find them online. at uh conqueredbylove. org. And Josiah Bonjawani, he wrote a book called The Head Covering. You can find that online. Just go to your favorite search engine and put in the head covering, Josiah, and you'll find a connection to his book or his website and all that sort of stuff. And we've been talking the last couple of weeks about uh the doctrines of graces are sometimes called, or tulip, uh Calvinism, Reform theology versus Arminianism, all these theological buzzwords. A couple weeks ago we talked about total depravity or radical depravity. Last week we were talking about the unconditional election, which is also sometimes called unmerited favor. And this week we're going to try to transition a little bit into limited atonement, which is also sometimes called particular or definite redemption. And these have different labels because the labels have been problematic. So what's at issue is the theology and the labels labels can be helpful. But when the labels are misunderstood, and over time our understanding of words and language changes, which is why dictionaries get updated over the years, right? So what somebody meant by a particular word 400 years ago might not be precisely how we understand that word today Uh last week the uh the the the word for knowledge came up actually and how we would understand for knowledge, we think about in uh uh intellect and knowing it advanced something in our mind what's going to happen But biblically that word would be used differently, and so maybe our English Bible translators should th should maybe think about a slightly different English translation there so that we would better understand what the Bible is actually saying by that phrase or word. So anyway We have a lot of dangling participles from last week's show. So uh I don't know if we want to kind of pick up and continue our thoughts on total depravity and unconditional election or if we want to try to transition into limited atonement Uh Josiah had a lot of things to say in between shows about the unconditional election, so maybe we do want to start there. But Imran's leaning in now, so what do you think? Well I want to start with an analogy and maybe get us thinking a little bit differently. differently. Aga again, I am talking about relationships. We talked about that a few weeks ago. I think it's all about relationships, right? So Troy, I'm gonna pick on you. You've been living in this neighborhood of yours how many years Twenty three years. And you have a relationship with all the people in that neighborhood? Not all of them. Well relationship. Speaks to the depth of relationship, right. Uh but to be honest, some people have moved in in recent years, I don't know every single person who was on my street. Okay. Right. So how does that happen? I mean you're in the same neighborhood. We were all separated out, no relationship. And when we moved into our place we wanted to have you know, get to know the neighbors. We went and talked to everyone. We invited them over for dinner. We reached out to them and We uh tried to get to know our neighbors. Okay. But not everybody came over. Most people did not. Yeah, yeah. Okay. So that resonates with me, that story. So what I'm saying is If we put you in the picture of let's say you're God and these are your people over there, you went out and reached out and opened the knocked on the doors and said 'cause they're not gonna they're not gonna come up to come to relationship with you. They don't care. They haven't they haven't they're not missing anything. They don't know any better. Okay. They don't know who Troy is. They don't know that hey knowing Tro Troy would would enrich my life. Okay? So they're in their little house, closed doors, you go and knock on the door, you make that initial step and they open the door and they can reject you. They can say, No, I'm not coming over for a barbecue, I'm not coming over dinner. This is what it is. I don't want that relationship. They're gonna be nice about it, whatever. And I think that really feeds into this tulip that we're talking about. God is gonna come knock on the door. We're gonna open it. We're gonna see him. Are we gonna reject it? We're gonna move uh it depends on how God works. I mean you could go in there and force yourself put your foot in the door and and make sure they listen to you and and do that. Again that's a humanistic type of view. I'm just trying to say is that unless you go and initiate that relationship, it's not gonna happen. How many people actually go out and relate relationship. They don't. And I think the same thing with with us as being totally depraved, we can't really initiate that relationship with God unless God knocks on the door and says, Hey, I'm here. Search me. Come to me. g for you know, give up every b all the other relationship you have for me. He's doing that and he's moving in that direction and he's giving you specific instructions to do that, but he is orchestrating that move. He is it's not for everybody. Uh whoever he elected and whoever he foreknew and it's uh it's uh by his choice, not by us and we don't understand why why he chose that but and I often wr uh wrestle with that uh Why did he choose me? I'm the only one saved in my Muslim family. And my father was well exposed to the Bible. In fact he knew many Bible verses by memory. He m he memorized them. He knew them. But he was never saved as far as I knew. And my mother, my brother, my si sister, none of them are saved. Why me? Why did he choose me? And I know that he chose me because he came after me and I could feel the Holy Spirit coming after me I didn't know what it was at the time. So why did he choose me? And that's often a it's almost like a you know, if you were a survivor, survivor syndrome, right? Well why did I survive everybody else is going It's dead but I survived. But I think to understand Tulip it really is about the relationship. Well are we do we have original sin? Yeah, we don't have a relationship. There's no relationship when a baby's born. There's no relationship with God Okay. If they're an open book, they can have that relationship. God will move and have that relationship. And then is it conditional? Well God's gonna decide that. So I I think I just want you guys to think a little bit more on the relationship side and how God's relationship works with us. And And if you're looking at Thulip, we're looking at uh Armenianism and choice and whatever whatever you want to look at, whatever theology you want to really go into, look at it from the viewpoint of a relationship with God. Because th that is comes back to the two most important Commandments. The most important commandment is love the Lord your God. Second and again, as uh Josiah would say, well you're doing it. God is not making you do it. But I mean that's the first one. The second one is love your neighbor, okay? A as yourself. So those are both about relationships and all the law is based on those two things. All the law is based on the relationship So so I think if you look at all these things when you're looking at Tulip or look at Armenianism or looking at any kind of theology, look at the look at it from the relationship. Well the God somehow, for no reason whatsoever, wants a relationship with us. You should it's amazing that the God who created the whole universe wants a relationship with us. Why? I'm nobody, I'm nothing In fact, I'm depraved. My thoughts are evil all the time. I'm always falling, I'm not doing what I don't want to do. I don't do what I want to do, even though I know what God's told me to do and I should be doing it, I don't do it. Why would he want a relationship with me? I'm so bad. Just think about that. And what he just ended with, I alluded to last week. I mentioned uh you should probably read sections of Romans, particularly centering on chapters seven through nine. If you do that, or if you've done that since last week's show, what Imran just ended with, uh he was basically quoting Paul there in that portion of Romans. So the people in the uh in the uh on this panel, um are mostly in alignment so far on these these questions. I might be the most staunch, although I haven't found any reason to think that Imran isn't in full alignment with me so far. Daniel's mostly in very close alignment, if not full alignment. I think the things he said so far he's been in full alignment, but there are conversations we had off-air that uh there's some things coming up that uh we might have some distinction in our thinking We often joke that he's a pie eating uh tulip. Yeah, three point one fourth now all five. So but the one who's been the most uh uh at odds with with the uh the Reformed Calvinist point of view has been Josiah Bongiolani. So What are some things in response to total depravity, unconditional election, or is that we now transition a little bit into limited tonight on any of those areas of tulip? Again, tulip, each uh each letter of the five points of Calvinism start with letters that spell the word tulip, that's where it comes from. But of the first three. on the doctrines of grace. Anything that you want to go back two weeks ago, last week's show, or start something new. What are some things that you've been itching to say? Well, I guess most people would call me an Arminian. However, I do sometimes self-identify as a zero-point or half-point Calvinist. And I say that because I kind of agree with the the the first point of Calvinism, which is total depravity. So I do think that, you know, people are totally depraved. I don't think it's since birth necessarily. Um Otherwise, uh Jesus himself would have been depraved from birth since since he was fully human? No, absolutely not, because he was not born of a man. There was no the it that that's where a lot of people get that wrong. He did not have man's blood in him. Well he was fully human, so he had to be a man. He was fully human, but he was born of a Virgin Mary. There was no man's um Are you saying that the SIN gene only passes down through men and not through women? He was created to be fully man and fully man. We're putting scientific mo you know contemporary or modern scientific terminology to it. I don't think I mean it's it's an analogy and it can work to a certain degree. It's not so much about it's built into our DNA. It's it's built into the spiritual reality because we're much more than just our DNA. Well I thought I would just throw that in the push and buttons I really liked what you had to say about relationships. He was God. He already had that relationship, so he's not born without that relationship. He is the only one that was besides Adam that was born without a relationship. Adam was created with the relationship intact and he threw it away. Jesus was born with that relationship intact, and only on the cross when God stepped away was he did he felt lonely and said, Why have you forsaken me? See it it ties to uh original sin and and and and you're saying you're a half point on total depravity. So that's why I but in fairness, uh based on how you've articulated what you mean by that uh a a true blue Calvinist would say, no, you don't agree with that one either. Yeah, so you're zero point. And if you're a zero point in you seems like you're agreeing with the arguments that the Calvinists of the day four hundred plus years ago were responding against when they came up with their five points. You're agreeing with the arguments they were trying to refute or correct So you you don't have to call yourself an Arminian, but your theology fits somewhere within the Arminian camp. And I'm not saying that it's pejorative. I'm just trying to, you know, make it simple for us all to kind of get a sense of where we're coming from, particularly for the listener to have a sense of where we're coming from. But Imran jumped on that right away about Jesus and his sinlessness and him not having a a natural biological human father. And that ties to the federal headship idea. Who's the spiritual head of the family? The father. Right? So the so the the lineage, the spiritual lineage is tied to the man in the husband-wife relationship. And so Federal Headship says that Adam sinned and all of humanity coming through Adam share in that s shame and guilt uh in Adam. So that's why that's one of the reasons why Christ is uh comes into being as a human the way that he does. So he has a human mother, so he's fully human. But he has a uh a deity, father, so he's fully God, and he's not sullied by the original sin because his spiritual head isn't Joseph His spiritual head is God himself, the Father. So uh I don't uh I don't know if that's helpful and helping you to understand at least where the Calvinists will be coming from. on that so you could probably you know tell tell any Calvinist i if you continue to want to think the way that you're thinking, you can say, Yeah, I reject all five because I don't agree with even a half a point of the total depravity thing. So Um I don't have that I'm trying to not pull off adversarial. I'm trying to respond in a concise way, which sometimes we could have this conversation over hours and we're trying to squeeze it into twenty-five minute episodes, which can make it feel a little more terse. And I'm not meaning it to be terse, so I hope and and you have uh you're really easygoing guy, so even if I was being meaning to be terse, I don't know if you would take it that way. But anyway. So what else do you have to say in response to any of that? Well, I probably could have a lot more points to um to do with uh original sin, but just skipping on to unconditional election, I also I'm I'm totally not on board with the Calvinist um opinion about unconditional election. I believe there are conditions that we have to meet as Christians to um to be chosen by uh to live for within the He's not an arbitrary God, he's a God of wisdom, of foreknowledge, of understanding, omniscience. So I think those attributes come out when God chooses wisely. Why is it you think that the Calvinists would disagree that God knows all things and sees all things? Okay. election. God chooses to be able to do that. I don't see the disagreement like even a little bit. So that's why I was asking that question. So how is it, God knowing all things, how is that like a knockout blow against uh unconditional election Can you repeat your question? I'm sorry. I understood you to say that you know God's omniscient, he's all knowing, he has all this foreknowledge, all this intellectual understanding of the creation that he's made and and all this wisdom. Yes. And so therefore unconditional election can't be true. Well that's how I'm hearing it anyway. I'm saying in God's wisdom, well in his foreknowledge he knows what's going to happen in the future. And in his wisdom he chooses those who are going to respond um in uh in faith and repentance. Has nothing to do with the omniscience. It has to do with the relationship that Imran's been focusing on. I would beg to differ on that point, because I think a single word can have multiple uh meanings and you can see that when you open an English dictionary, you might have a single word that has like So knowing could have to do with relationship. You know, Adam knew his wife Eve, it could. But in this context I think that the translators have done good jobs translating. text in Romans chapter 8 and we know that for those who love God all things work together for good. That's one of the favorite passages that Christians quote all the time. time, right? And uh and then they kind of stop there. But for those who are called according to his purpose. And then this is verse 29 now in chapter 8 of Romans. Because those whom he foreknew so if we if for know there means what you're saying, it's about his intellectual understanding, his omniscience, the mind of God, of the future, right? Then How does that flow? Because those whom he foreknew, those who he saw in the future, he also predestined To become conformed to the i image of his God. So did he predestine them, or did he already know? Like it seems like those I think if he's outside time, those two are one and the same. But if you see this is a distinction that's actually it takes a bit of thought to think about. But I would argue that the Calvinist actually reverses the words in that in that phrase. They say God for knows according to what he predestines because they see them as kind of a quote. You're totally missing a point. I'm getting frustrated now because foreknowledge doesn't mean intellectual Well, I believe it does. And you are biblically on thin ice. So if let's put it this way, if foreknowledge means relational love. I have set my heart upon this person in advance of the creation. If it means that. If it means. Right. I'm just saying that. Then your interpretation can be. I'm saying for the sake of argument If he loved these people, he therefore predestined those who he loved to be conformed to the image of his son, so that he would be the firstborn. And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. This is called the golden chain of redemption here. They're all tied together So how is it that foreknowledge, the way you're defining it, fits there? Well, I want to uh also add in a little bit and then have Okay. If you're if it's only intellectual knowledge then it makes God a puppet. Well I believe God has relationship too. I just don't think this verse is specifically Speaking of that aspect. Uh again to me, that's what comes to mind. If I was trying to explain something to a non-believer, your interpretation of saying that this was intellectual knowledge, God knew that these people were going to Right, and so he is basically responding based on human and he's and it's all and the humans are in charge. And that's that's where I have to disagree. The humans are not in charge. They cannot So so so let's look at it like this. We have uh uh a election and like a like a political election. Okay? So if I'm running for office And I go in forward in time and I see who's gonna vote for me. And I know who's gonna vote for me. So now I choose to only canvas and only advertise to those people. Why would I bother advertising people that are not gonna vote for me But then I'm basically making decisions based on what the other people are gonna do, not what I want. And so that's I think that's the argument. what man is gonna do. I don't think he's a slave to man, he just set conditions. He's like, here are the conditions, if you meet these then you can you can go to heaven. Right, but then he's he does then he's choosing only to show those people who are initiates, he's the one who comes to the other. But only those people that he knows are gonna You know, but rather than he's causing it to happen. It's more like he he knows that'll happen, so he's he he's initiating away with those people. It'd be like be as a politician only advertising to those people that I already know are gonna vote for me. Only to my base. Um but I'm not showing you uh I don't know. Maybe the analogies can only take us so far, but Yeah, and and you've mentioned some verses and in fairness, I I you know I probably should mention some too, so that we're arguing scripturally here. Um in Revelation chapter seventeen, uh It's it's talking about uh well I'll just read the whole verse here. The beast that you saw was and is not and is about to come out of the abyss and go to destruction. And those who dwell on earth whose name has not been written in the book of life, and here's the key phrase from the foundation of the world will wonder when they see the beast that he was and is not and will come. So if your name is written in the book of life, before they had any opportunity to meet any conditions How does that fit your framework? Well, I believe God is outside of time, so he may have written the book of life way before the worlds existed, or you could look at it as way after, it doesn't really matter because he's outside of time. time. But um uh in other words it doesn't it's not like he um how am I how do I one didn't come before the other because it was outside of time in the first place. This was Thank you. Yeah, but in this kind of saying it's in the book of life from the foundation of the world. So from the foundation, there uh when the foundation of the world is established, there's already a book of life And people are in it. Right? I mean that's how I m I'm I mean everything is present to God, so it doesn't really matter In Acts chapter 13, and when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. So those who came to belief, who met the conditions, met so because they had been appointed to that eternal life. How do you understand that in your framework? So I understand that as God has certain conditions, he's like you have to believe in me, you have to repent, and you have to forsake your evil ways and follow after Christ in order And if he's the one who initiates it. Can God be wrong? Um God cannot be wrong. So if he knows in advance that you're going to choose him Aren't you bound by his, to use your way of understanding the word, his foreknowledge, his omniscience, aren't you bound to make that decision? So I don't believe you're bound to. You have free will that you can exercise God just happens happens to know how you're going to exercise that free will. And so he makes his decisions ahead of time, if you want to look at it that way, even though he's outside of time Before the creation. Yeah, so before the creation is like I've determined that these two are going to heaven for very good reasons because namely they're going to be able to do it. Could he have made the universe uh he could he have looked down the quarters of time and and saw a situation where you believed uh but your next door neighbor didn't but then decided in his wisdom that you know I'm gonna have the next door neighbor believe and not Josiah believe could he have created Differently in that way and made that. So God could have made us robots where He controls whether we believe or don't believe, but He wanted us to be people who had the ability to actually love Him from the from our hearts and to express, you know uh be in the image of God. So he created us in the image and that means specifically that we have free will and can exercise that free will. That's how I view it. I mean and how what about that verse about uh God loved Jacob and hated hated Esau So once again, God couldn't foresee what type of character these people would exhibit. So before they were even born, he could say, I love Jacob and hate Esau because he knew what types of lives they were going to live and how they were going to respond to his offer of of different page than than Troy uh we said earlier is I do believe in in free will mm but under the under the authority of God. And I think God gave us free will to an extent. And And uh that he built us that way he chose and and there's room for free will and for uh predestination in the Bible. I think and that's one of the things that uh struggled with a long time. You know, how do how does that how do they harmonize? And it also comes down to as a human I'm offended that I don't have the free will to choose what I want to choose. That's my anyway. And we're not in and we're not in disagreement. I I believe in in free will. I like to use the word free agency because it it's it creates creates less semantical disagreements uh because it it it different label. But in this context I'm fine saying we uh we have a freedom of the will, but our will is in bondage to sin. So we are dead in sin. And so we are free to choose as we want, but we want to choose against God because of rebellion So until God changes the heart, takes away the heart of stone, and gives you the heart of flesh, you do you choose what you want to do. And until you're in Christ, or until you're given the gift of faith, you're choosing to be in rebellion. But once he gives you the new heart, once he sets his affections upon you, Jesus says, those who the Father gives me, I are the ones that I have. So God gives the people, and then their will is changed because they have a new heart. They no longer have the heart of Adam. They now have the heart of Christ. And I would say I I struggle with sin every day still. I'm saved. I know that I am savage, yeah. I'm going to heaven and I have no um no question about that. I'm not at all concerned where I'm gonna end up. I know I'm gonna have it Yet I struggle with sin every day. I struggle with my sinful nature of of longing for sinful things and not godly things. And that's why as Paul said, I I do what I don't want to do, I don't do what I want to do. Because even though intellectually I understand it, so why would God choose me? I'm an evil, nasty, terrible person. And I struggle with that because again, me only in my Muslim family he chose. Why not everybody else? Well why me? I'm not any better. In fact I I think my mom's a better person than I am. She's very nice, yeah. At least I don't see all the evil that I see in myself. Why didn't he choose her That's Josiah Bonjawani with also from Daniel Razby this episode. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Fate Debate on News Radio 930WFMD. We'll be back 167. 5 hours from right now. Until then, God bless. That's an awful way to end an effort. Yeah, out of out of time, sorry. Sorry, I wish I knew when it was ending. Yeah. And in fairness, so I was trying to remember when he started and I think it's a good idea. We'll let it go. Okay. And just to be fair, Troy was very much in line with you long ago. time ago and he's he's changed. And not that he's matured as better than you now. I'm not that's all I'm saying. And I was very much in line with you as well. But the more I s I I study, the more I struggle with why me it all of a sudden it has to be God because there's nothing I could have done. There's nothing I deserve. And if em any time I figure that I deserve this And and I'm choosing God and I deserve it. No, then the death of Christ is of no count. It's just it's you can't mess the two. You it just can't have Now within that I have free will. I have free will. Now that I'm saved, I still have free will. I can still choose sin, which is wrong, and I repent, but I'm still saved. I I don't know. It's it i it it is a difficult concept and and one of the things uh Troy mentioned earlier, you know, we have these words that mean things and and they're changing and culture changes and and definition change and stuff. But the reason we have these terms is so we can actually discuss other things related without having to explain everything before where we're coming from because we know what this term So we're coming from hey, this is you know. Well I apologize we never got to limited atonement. I meant to give you a really brief answer to your question. Yeah. I mean this is definitely this is I think this is An interesting topic and I think us having different hands on the other. At length in the context of the show, at length, we had talked about the definitions of the terms and uh it felt to me like it was completely dismissed and you went back to your talking points from like seven minutes earlier and I was like Oh my gosh, he's not he it felt like you were purposely not wanting to hear the argument and so I was like we gotta move past this. So that was I I didn't want to distract the whole flow of the conversation earlier and say I disagree with your your terminology because it moved on to something else at that point. But um I don't see any reason to believe um that foreknowledge means relationship At this point, maybe there is. Maybe I need to do some more research, but at this point I don't How do you understand in the Old Testament when it says that Adam knew Eve? I see that as sexual knowledge and I see that as one definition out of many possible. It again I don't know the Hebrew or the Greek or whatever was written in. I'm not uh as as learned as some other people but I'm willing to look into it though. relationship with me. It still boggles my mind. I wake up sometimes and like, thank you God. I don't know why. Even in my sin. Yeah. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You know, and uh I guess who did he die for that's the window atonement. And also while yet we were sinner he loved us. So that again goes back to the knowledge. He loved us while yet we were sinners goes to knowledge Hmm. All right, let me get this one rolling so we can not pull this mic on. Well I'm not gonna say all black Welcome to the bate debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to us on your favorite radio station. Right? It's your favorite radio station. Of course it is. You can find it online at WFMD. com. You can find us and the show at that website. You can also find us at householdoffaith in Christ dot com. I'm the pastor of that church. I'm Troy Skinner. You heard the Of Course It Is voice pop in there. That was Daniel Razby. He's on the panel again this week along with Imran Razby, known as Raz to his friends. You can find them online at conqueredbylove. org. They co-pastor a church called The Church that meets at Imran's House. And we are joined yet again by Josiah Bonjoani. He wrote a book called The Head Covering. Encourage you to look that up online. And uh learn more about arguments in favor of wearing a head covering for for women in the church, and actually the argument against men wearing a head covering when uh praying and prophesying. That's what you'll find in that book. But we're not talking about that. This week we're talking about irresistible grace. Or are we? Because last week we were supposed to talk about a limited atonement and we never really got there. Because the last couple of weeks before that we talked about total depravity and unconditional election, and we didn't really have a chance to finish all our thoughts on that. And so it's just become a mangled mess at this point. But I think that helped to illustrate the point that the what are called the five points of Calvinism, uh they are intertwined in such a way that they're if not impossible, very, very hard to separate and s and and run through the strainer and and uh put put one in one pot and one in another pot. They are the the they're the the tentacles are so intertwined and and and and and sticky to one another. But if you talk about total depravity, you end up talking about the other four points in the discussion. If you're talking about unconditional election, you talk about the other four points in the discussion And so even though we haven't specifically addressed limited atonement, we kind of sort of have uh in theory, because the idea behind limited atonement, which is also called particular redemption or definite redemption is that those totally depraved people upon which God places his unmerited favor, those are the ones for whom Christ has atoned their sin. So they're all inter interrelated. And then irresistible grace is those that he has done that for. They will effectively be called by God. They can't help but uh uh obey I guess to to to God's will in these matters because God has known from the beginning of time uh you know who those people would be and his will cannot be thwarted. So they're all interrelated. So with all four of these now thrown into the mix a little bit, we can we can maybe build upon and expand upon the conversation around the acronym of TULIP. The last one that we haven't mentioned at all this week is Perseverance of the Saints. That's the P in Tulip, also called the Preservation of the Saints or Eternal Security. And we'll talk about that maybe more next time. We'll see. Anyway, so we've uh we've got in the room somebody who used to be Arminian, who's now pretty staunchly reformed in his thinking. That would be me. We've got somebody who seems to be pretty much uh I don't know about if he was ever Arminian, but as far as where he is now, pretty much in agreement with where I am, that's Imran Razby Uh Daniel Rasley hasn't said anything that's perked my ears as a as a on the show anyway, as something o about which we disagree, although he promises me there's more to come And then Josiah Bon Giovanni, he has said absolutely nothing is true in right now. I'm just getting Josiah Bonjoani is He he he wouldn't uh he he wouldn't necessarily self-label as Arminian, but uh accidentally or n or on purpose or or whatever, he kinda represents an Arminian uh view on the Bible in the conversations we've been having Actually I don't know. I I think uh after hearing um this I I think I would do it a little bit differently. I don't think he's Armenian. He believes in free will, and he believes in the concepts of Tula But not as an end-all. They make some sense, but I think it's r it's mixed in with free will. So take that I only agree with the T in into a total depravity and only to a limited extent. Okay. Yeah, and as I alluded to last week, if I took the time and five, ten minutes to give a a a A full orbed definition of how I understand or how I rec uh th think I recognize that other reformed thinkers understand total gravity and say, so that's what's in view Do you agree with that? He would end up saying no, I think, based on what we've heard so far. But you I think he's a zero point. Well if if I would say, do you believe that man has a s has a sin nature and is is separated from God in his natural state? Yes. Okay. Do you believe that uh Um uh d that it was not from birth. You can't work your way to heaven. Yes. Do you believe that not everybody will be saved? So a limited number of people. Like so the first three uh you can make a really, really narrow definition. Now I I I hear these Calvinists listen to our show screaming at me right now. That's not what I believe. Yeah, I know. I'm intentionally making a very, very narrow definition because that's the basic gospel Right. And where the Calvinists and Armenians differ is how they expand on those definitions, but they do come back from those same place. Total gravity comes from The core truth that we all agree with that we have a sin nature and and and uh unconditional election comes from the core truth that you you can't work your way to heaven. God has to save you And and no and then limited atonement comes from the core truth that not everybody will ultimately be saved. How you define that, whether Jesus Jesus died for all but then he doesn't use his salvation for all, or did Jesus only die for the people that will ultimately be saved The the bottom line is they won't all be saved. So that's the thing we agree on, right? And then the the irresistible grace, I don't think anybody denies that God is powerful and can can make whatever he wants to happen happen the the Armenian would say, well, God allows you to resist uh him, but uh obviously if he really wanted you to become saved and he made it happen, he would make it happen. We we agree that God is powerful enough to do that. And the Calvinists would say he is powerful enough and he always does that. Right? And then perseverance of the saints may be one w where it's a little harder to get a hundred percent agreement on if you believe you could lose your salvation, but I think there may be some very narrow po points that we can even come to agreement there. So that that's that's kind of been my and that's why you haven't you you haven't gotten a great read on me, Troy, because it doesn't sound like I disagree with you necessarily And when I talk with uh Josiah, it may not even sound like I disagree with you that much, Josiah, because I I really try to find where is the common ground and what is very easy to all agree on biblically and yes the the rest of it's important but we want we want to understand this is what makes us in fellowship with each other we are believers because we agree on these core things. So for you the listener, there's a lot of arguments about different things. And we've talked in this program about, oh, don't go to a church if they have a woman pastor, if they believe in LGBT, or if they believe in killing babies, or uh, you know, if they don't believe in the inercy of scripture. If they disagree with you on the doctrines of grace, I think you could still worship together. That would be one where I say I I think there are some things, at least to a certain extent, that that's that should not prevent you from fellowship Uh there are other things, other doctrines that should prevent you from fellowship, deity of Christ and so on. So this is not one of those. It's very important, the doctrines of grace and and tulip and so on. It's very important to understand and that hopefully have some common ground in it, but it is not something to break fellowship over. And I know there are some books people that might disagree with that statement. And it also just depends on how far you take it because there are even Calvinists who would say we can't agree with the hyper-Calvinist. To me, hyper Calvinists are just practical Calvinists. They take their theology and apply it to life, but I understand there'll be some differences of opinion here on that I'm not sure that that's how I would define hypercalvinism. But hyper Calvinism would say don't even go and preach the gospel because God already has everything determined. It doesn't make any difference. They would say don't pray. Because I I know people who were like, I don't even see the point of frame I'm a Calvinist and God already has everything determined, why pray? So I don't think 'cause he commands us to pray. And if you love the word of God you will do his commands and he says that. And that's why I was getting up earlier, Josiah, that that I knowing you I think you agree with with a lot of things but unlimited definition as Daniel was pointing out. Yeah I see what you're saying. So so I think you could even be a five point tulip but very narrow. You don't want to expand the definition to include other things that you you disagree with which I understand. But the the the core of the gospel is there. Tulip is essentially the core gospel, but when you really flesh it out and and expand the definition, there's some of those the expansions you might say, well, that's taking a little too far. I I agree with the the core of it, but not the extent of it. Yeah, and uh giving you giving you grace for the for the perseverance of the saints with I think we might have a little more uh uh uh disagreement on, but I'm not sure if he coined it or if he's I've just heard him say it a lot, but there's a rather noteworthy Christian apologist named James White. And uh he he I've heard him say in different contexts uh over and over pretty much I don't know, at least a couple of dozen times I've heard him say that uh those Arminians, because for those who don't know, James White is Calvinist, he's reformed. The Arminians that he has good fellowship with that he, you know, he would count as brothers. He intends He expects to see them in heaven, all that sort of stuff, are inconsistent Arminians. And they usually will add, you know, and thank God, like literally I think he means it like thank God for those those uh inconsistencies. that the inconsistent Armenians. And that's uh I'm thinking of that because of what Imran just said. You know, Josiah w would at some degree kind of sort of maybe try to find some elements of what the uh uh the Calvinists would argue, say, well I can agree with that, but I don't like this. And um He I I'm one of them. So instead of making about Josiah, the former me from twenty-five, thirty years ago, I would have been arguing against some of these what are called the doctrines of grace uh while trying to hang on to the substance of what they're saying while throwing out the details that actually are definitional to what is actually being taught And I was being inconsistent in doing that. That's why I was saying a couple of weeks ago. Well I become well, at the very least I've become more consistent. So I it's possible I've become more consistently wrong. But I have become more consistent uh in in my thinking. So for what that's worth. And the argument that would then be uh w Troy would it not be consistent with Calvinist theology just Well first of all like like my dad said, it's because it's commanded, but is there any other reason besides commanded? Yeah. Well is there a connection between me Exactly. God is a God who uh endeavors to accomplish his will through means. He works through means. And so it's not it so prayer and preaching, we we do it because we're commanded and we should be obedient, for sure. But there are other logical reasons why you should obey. Also, it's not uh it's the understanding and the recognition that God works through means. Also, there's great blessing in that obedience And so if you want to experience the fullness of the blessing of God, you're going to do these things. So there are more reasons than just mere obedience. But the Armenia would say uh uh uh the the the full on Armenia would say, Look, I I have this uh composure and I I must preach the gospel because if I don't somebody's not gonna hear it, then they might not get saved. Like that's really, really important. And the and the Calvinists W on the countless position we do have a little bit more of a danger of becoming complacent and think, oh well I didn't feel up to going out witnesses. That's okay. I mean God will still take care of it. You know, so you you don't have that urgency and stress level. But that can be a risk, and that's why sometimes the Calvinists, uh particularly those that lean in a hyper-Calvinist direction, will be referring to To as the frozen chosen, right? And that's what Wesley, honestly, John Wesley was fighting a lot against when he started his his ministries of uh of sending out missionaries. I go why bother? God will save the ones If he wants to save him, he'll save him. But in f in history, practically speaking, if you examine church history, uh coming out of the Reformation, the overwhelming majority of missionaries that were going to all parts of the world, leaving Europe and going to other parts of the world. The overwhelming number of them came out of Geneva. They were Presbyterian Calvinists. They were doctrines of grace people. So they weren't the frozen chosen. They were the exact opposite of the frozen chosen. So practically speaking, in history, we've seen at the very least that the it it mustn't need be true. uh that they are frozen. They certainly can. Now you might argue they're being inconsistent, but in fairness, uh I I use the all these labels kind of interchangeably and I probably shouldn't do that because these labels can really be over the last several shows I've used these labels interchangeably I probably shouldn't have in fairness to those that would identify as belonging to the reformed camp on these things. Because the five what are called the five points of Calvinism, the tulip that we've been talking about Sometimes Calvinism is reduced to that. Reform theology is much larger than just these five points, and these five points are more s more definition. No, I'm not summary Because they're a subset within a much larger theology. And these are the five doctrines of grace, but there are so many other doctrines that make up the fullness of John Kelvin and his teachings and the followers of Kelvin and what is now under the umbrella of Reformed theology. So Reformed theology would talk about he's a God who works through means. He's a God who brings blessing through obedience. He's a God who expects obedience from his people, so when he gives you a command, you do it. So all the other things are part of Calvinism. They're not necessarily part of tulip, but again, tulip didn't originate with John Calvin or his followers saying, here's what Calvinism is There were non-Calvinists in the Arminian camp. Jacob Arminius was their leader. And in fairness, I don't know that even Arminius agreed exactly with what his followers articulated as well by the way. I'm not sure that Arminius would be a a uh I think there's a lot more overlap between John Calvin and Jacob Arminius than uh than we like to think Uh but their followers are the ones that kind of had these these battles and here we are left with that still trying to suss it out even now. But the um The fullness of what the Bible teaches is what a good reformed theologian, a good quote-unquote Calvinist, would advocate for, and they would and they would argue that these five points of the tulip would be part of that. So it's not a summary of Calvinism. It might be a summary of what is distinct in Calvinism from Arminianism. That might be more fair. But there's there's huge overall, which is why we can be brothers, right? And we can worship together, we can even do ministry together, we can do lots of things because uh there's more to what the Bible has to say about things than just these five points that we're focusing on. Yeah, I want to take you back to what w why did the Reformation happen. Okay. Why did Calvin go and and Luther, Luther, Luther. But w why did that happen? It's because they were trying to take power away from man and give back to God where it belongs. The the Catholic Church had had put onerous uh uh restrictions and things uh on man and tried to control man and and you gotta do this work and you gotta do that, you can buy your way into heaven, you can do buy your these and things. So they were coming back to say this is not the gospel, this is a different gospel. Let's go back and reform to what the original gospel was. And this is what our belief system is. So a reformed gospel is really going back to the Bible and not to man and not to say what what does a priest tell me? He tells me to do this. Okay Is it from the Bible or not? It doesn't matter. The priest told me to do this. The Pope said this. And that's what it was really for. And so the Reformation, the re reformed theology came out of that to get away from and pull the power away from man. And these arguments, by the way, wouldn't using Jacobinius and John Calvin and the reformers as kind of our starting point in history. These arguments actually predate that. It goes back to like Pelagianism and I mean it goes way way back because the you know uh the um it was said probably two or three shows ago now. Um if it's a command from God then we must be able to respond positively, otherwise it's unfair or it doesn't make sense that God would give that command. That was kind of the core issue around the Pelagian uh controversy And so these issues they go way, way, way, way back. And they and they came back to the fore about 500 years ago with the uh the Reformation and people trying to get back to articulating what the Bible says about these things. So anyways, a whole bunch of people are wanting to say something now. Daniel I was saying we maybe we've got a good if we were going to have time in the this week and next week to go on and finish the five points, at least we should But maybe talk a little bit more. Yeah, let's take a few minutes and talk about what's being said there. What's the limited atonement first? The argument from the Reformed camp is that when Christ died on the cross and atoned for the sins, He was atoning for the sins of those particular people that had been foreordained unto salvation. And this becomes a conventional. So they would you are they would argue he did not die for everybody because not everybody will be saved and if he had died for everybody they would all be saved whether they wanted to be or not. or whether he had revisited them or not, because that would be a good idea. And a lot of people don't like that because they quote John 316, you know whosoever the world. The world he died for the whole the the the the whole thing Whosoever. Now first of all, uh and I don't want to get bogged down in John 316, but if you if you look at the Greek, the word whosoever is i isn't actually there. But even if it is there. That's a translational decision to try to have it make sense in English. But even if it is there, it doesn't answer the question of how the whosoevers come to believe. So it still doesn't solve the riddle Uh because that's not what the reform the doctrines of base are really addressing. And how would you define limited or uh unlimited atonement if whatever you you believe on that subject. So I definitely do not hold to the doctrine of limited atonement. I would agree more with the Arminian camp who would say that it's unlimited, that Christ died for everybody in the whole world. And that doesn't mean that every single person is going to be saved, obviously. He just offered you know he offered up his life as a public sacrifice to show that God was displeased with sin. He didn't pay individually for everybody's debt in the whole world But it was a public act of you know and and and a lot of times the re the reformed uh uh would sum it up in a sentence, Jesus' death was sufficient for all, but was not efficacious for all. Meaning Armenians would say that. Well it it I mean even yeah I I've seen I've seen Calvinists say that. It was sufficient. Right. He would only have to have died for one time. Right? But so It was sufficient to save the entire world. If that had been his intention. It did not effectively save the entire world. And so this is where I think it's a semantic thing. Uh the limited atonement is the one that makes me laugh the most in their in in the uh arguments between Armenians and Calvinists 'cause it sounds like we're saying exactly the same thing. We both agree not everybody will be saved. However, Jesus was powerful enough by dying on the cross that it could have saved everybody However, there is one major distinction, which is um Calvinists would say it's impossible for those who Christ didn't die for to be saved. However, as an Arminian, I would say it is possible for those people, and it's because of their unbelief and refusal to repent that they aren't saved. So it's Jesus and God offered offers them salvation just like everybody else. But they're the ones who refuse it. Well that would be more on the ir irresistible grace side and then Troy's gonna jump in and say, Well they're all the same thing. Do it is one doctrine, not my own. What a was it God's intention? With the sacrifice when the father sends the son, the son offers himself up. Was it the intention of God that all would be saved? Um, I would say it was his will that all would be saved. Because there is a verse to that effect that God is not willing that any should perish, but also repentance. How do you understand God's will So God's will is perfectly benevolent, perfectly loving, he wants the best. However, he has given humans free choice and so he sometimes limits his omnipotence. He has it, but he chooses not to always use all his power to cause everything just He subjects his will to human will. I wouldn't say he subjects it, he just sees in his wisdom that there is more virtue in allowing men to have free will and and actually you know, from their hearts love him than there is in just forcing everybody to be robots and do what he wants. or definitional understandings of what is meant by God's will. So there's God's perfect will uh and uh and then there's God's uh you know, sovereign practical will or what have you. So he's got for example, I think you would agree, God doesn't will that anybody would sin. No, yeah. And yet people do sin. So in those cases, if we have d uh uh a a too narrowly under defined understanding of what God's will means, we would be in the awkward position of having to say that God's will has been thwarted. Like Imran just mentioned last week or two weeks ago that there are o almost his whole family his extend almost his whole extended family um are are not Christians and he and many of them have probably gone to their graves not Christians If if Christ died for all, but they and he and his will was that Imran's entire extended family would be saved. We could say that God's will had been forward, his intention didn't come to pass, that he somehow is disappointed, and he's like gnashing his teeth and chewing his fingernails in heaven right now because he failed. to save those that he really, really, really intended and willed to save. That would be an the kind of argument a reformed person uh would say. And so we would talk about the different aspects of God's will. There's the Some reformed, I mean Leaving out the hyper Calvinist, but I would say that most of the the people we term hyper-Calvinist would be like, no, those people God intended to go to hell. And that's a really sad doctrine, I believe. And I was just watching a video, um, I just came across this YouTube channel, it's uh Soteriology 101 by Layton Flowers But he actually debates James White, who you mentioned earlier on the subject of the thing. If you want to call it a debate, by the way, Leighton Flowers uh he doesn't argue for scripture, he argues by analogy. and he doesn't follow the rules of debate and it's not really a debate. It's it's James White engaging in debate and Leighton Flowers engaging So honestly, I haven't I haven't watched that debate yet, and I'm very curious to watch it at some point, so I can't say yay or nay. But I did just listen to a different video that um he put out, which was basically testimonies from former Calvinists who had had turned atheist. They were like, um, God and some of them were even arguing, you know, well even if Christianity is true, it doesn't really matter because I'm one of the reprobates. One of them was like, I can't be saved because Jesus didn't die for me, I'm not one of the elect. And that attitude would prove they're right, I guess. So they're like it's there would be like if I was going if I was trying to become a Christian, I would actually be working against God's will. And that would be sinful. So that's that's the problem I see with limited atonement and the doctrines of Calvinism. It can lead to things like this in the past. Now part of the at part of the atonement of Christ isn't just his death, but he also is a resurrected Lord and Savior, and he's in heaven right now interceding for those people that he died for. So is he up in heaven right now interceding for those who are going to go to hell? I would say he is. He's interceding for the So the Father is not going to pay any attention to the intercession of his own son in heaven? See that's the that that's where the logical inconsistencies start to cause problems for me. These are the kinds of questions that led me to be like, okay, that's Well I would say God the Father does listen to his son and he sends his Holy Spirit to work on the hearts of those people. They still have a choice, but he's you know increasing the pressure that you know the um the persuasive work of the Holy Spirit. So if he is listening to Jesus And that gets into the the next topic, which is the irresistible grace, where the the Calvinists would say that when God does work in your heart with his grace to cause you to be drawn to him that there that that will cause you to become saved. There's no at that point you you can't just say, oh well actually I don't want to. You will you will want to From not being forced to, you just are going to have that desire. Once you're going to be able to do that, you can't do that. Find us online at WFMD. com or Household of FaithInChrist. com. Thank you so much for making us part of your day today. We're going to continue this conversation on next week's show, 9 o'clock, Sunday mornings every week here on News Radio 930 WFMD. Until that time, 167. 5 hours from right about now, God bless. What was the end of your thought? Uh I was gonna say that I disagree with it. I uh th this is gonna be the part that I agree most with Josiah and the least with Troy is is is on irresistible grace. See because I do also believe that God does draw everybody at one point in their life. And most of them say no. And God doesn't force them to become saved. He knows who will become saved, and that's who he ultimately did die for. I uh uh that's sure. But that's uh Um and it's a small number, but he's not gonna force them to become saved, nor is he intentionally gonna make his grace powerful enough that that will force that. Now I think there are some people there's some examples you can find in the Bible where God says he caused this person to become Or he caused this person to go to heaven like I uh I re I rejected Pharaoh or I re you know or I hated Esau basically. There there was doesn't seem to have been any point at which God opened those uh So there's no arguments against um God also trying to convert them or Well and that will be the the the reformed which well I'm sure we'll get to but the reformed argument is that well if God tries to do something and fails then he's not a sovereign God. So either he's not actually trying to do it, in which case he hasn't Or he does try and he succeeds because God is all powerful, and there's nothing that he can try to do that doesn't also succeed. something better than succeeding in that case. Going to hell intention, but going to hell about succeeding. Well what could be better about going to hell. I mean if if you have the choice of either people can have free will and love God from their hearts or he can turn burning in hell. They can he can force them to have you know, the emo or the uh the make the decisions that he wants them to and they no longer are humans in his in in his image anymore because they don't possess free will. Which is the better option And I would run option and run option involves that. Probably the last thing though, because this is already Yeah. If you want to grab this one, well come over here and This is debate debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Good morning. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday with us here on your favorite radio station as we established last week. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find us online at WSMD. com and Household of Faith in Christ dot com. On the panel as we continue down our uh kind of twisty, windy, uh inconsistent road of tackling Tulip, the doctrines of grace, the uh the tenets of uh the five points of Calvinism as opposed to Arminianism, all that sort of stuff we've been talking about. We're gonna uh try to wrap that up as best as we can on this week's show Here to help us view that is Imran Razvy, Daniel Razvi, and Josiah Bonjoanne. By the way, the name uh Josiah Bonjowani might ring a little bit of a familiar bell because he was on the show as a guest uh a couple months ago He wrote a book called The Head Covering, and I encourage you to Google that or go to your favorite search engine and put in the head covering, Josiah, and you'll be able to get it. And of course the Rasbies, they've been on pretty regularly now for the last uh several years on the Faith Debate, so hopefully their voices are the names uh resonate with you. And I'm not sure w we started talking about a limited atonement with some more focus last week. We never really got to irresistible grace and what was planned for this week was perseverance of the So our our goal as best as we can is to at least spend some time touching in a meaningful way on irresistible grace, sometimes called effectual calling. and the perseverance or preservation of the saints, which is also sometimes called eternal security, by the way. So uh I'll start off. Irresistible grace. I think If God ordains it, wants it, it's irresistible, but he allows us a choice to resist it and refuse and go to hell. Um so in that sense that's the one point that I think I see both that that man can walk away. I think uh Saul did do that. He was chosen by God, he was anointed by God and he chose not to obey him and not to re And left and walked away from God. So uh in God in in God as Josiah said, in God's mercy, he allows us the free will to walk away. I think there's some to that, but I think if God wanted specifically Josiah, you're going to heaven, I don't care about your feelings then that grace is irresistible. You wouldn't have a chance to I think God's capable of that. And I think he's done that many, many times. But I think in some cases he does say, Hey, I've I've knocked on the door, this is what it is, and you know what You want to go to hell, that's your choice. You're going to hell. I'm telling you, this is the way to get saved. I'm reaching my hand out to you, drowning in this ocean. If you don't want to take my hand, I'll let you drown, but I'm giving you my hand And uh some people would just grab by the by the back of the neck and pull them out of the water whether it was kicking or screaming. That's kinda like me, I feel like uh he could pulled me out when I wasn't really even looking, I wasn't searching, I wasn't doing any of that stuff So that can be a little bit w one or the other. So the that's the the li uh the uh irresistible grace. Limited atonement, not everybody's gonna be saved. We d agree on that. Uh but how the definition i i is is is fleshed out, that's where we differ a little bit. And then perseverance of saints, same thing with Saul. not saved. So and we're gonna go into another show later when where they have all these supposed evangelicals that are becoming Catholics. Are they now being unsaved? What's going on? So we'll talk about that some other time. But that's really the core of the of the factors of TULIP. And I think the whole idea of that is trying to help people understand what God intends what he does and man can take it a little bit too far. Okay? We take everything too far. That's just who we are. So let's go back to the core beliefs. And I think core beliefs were pretty much the same. It's just how far do you take it And so kind of what I was I I want to piggyback on that this is we were saying off the air before we started this this segment, uh is that that's also where I d Daniel w where I would um with the overall doctrines of grace is I do believe that God, while his grace is certainly powerful enough to be irresistible, he intentionally gives you a small piece of it. So that it can be resisted if you if if you so choose, and he does not force you to become saved. I do believe salvation process cannot start until God opens your heart. But I also believe he does that for everybody at some point in their life because all uh nobody has excuse. We're all um uh uh the condemned uh we have condemned ourselves and so at a certain point most people are exposed to that truth and then rejected it and then they will go to hell. Um so that that would be where where I would more more disagree and and now I sound most like an Arminian than that than I would than I would ever sound Um and then on perseverance of the same still, I do believe once you are saved, now there's no going back. You're a child of God, you're in this camp, he that is not against us is for us, and now you cannot lose that. It's not possible And I think the ability to lose your salvation would be works-based salvation, meaning you have to do things to keep it. And if you didn't have to do anything to get it, why do you have to do things to keep it? And that that that will be where I So obviously the question uh I'm sure if you disagree with me, Josiah, the question you're probably gonna raise is, well, what do you do with these people that look appear make all appearances to have been saved and now now are not. And there's two ways to to to read that. The the two easy answers are well um I don't know what's in their heart. Either they weren't saved in the first place they just putting up a good act, or they still are saved and they're just going through a temporary uh uh fallen phase where they they're they're trying to block out God's uh conscience that he's given them and and someday hopefully they'll they'll see the light again. So but I th it's really uh hard to prove one way or the other which which of those is true or whether they actually have lost their salvation. So then we have to go back to scripture and see what that has Well I'll just throw in that um I maybe take it a step further than both of you towards the R menu So I would think I believe that it is possible in all cases to resist God God's grace that there is nobody I I do appreciate what you said um earlier, um but um I believe that there There is resisting and there's I mean here's a few verses that just kind of illustrate that it's we're able to resist and Acts seven fifty one, ye stiff necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so do you. John five forty. But I won't read all these verses. But I do believe it's possible to resist um God's grace and uh As in regards to perseverance of the saints, I definitely do not believe that um we necessarily have to continue being saved after being saved. I believe that God still allows us to have free will even after And so we can make the choice to walk away from God. I don't think there's any exterior force like Satan, um, people around us. Any exterior force, life or death, um I'm trying to remember how Paul puts it. Anything in all creation. There's nothing in creation that can separate us from God except ourselves. Because that's the one thing he doesn't mention. Um none of those other things can separate us from God, but if we walk away from God, he's still giving us the free will to do that. So I don't I mean that that's an interesting argument from silence because the the Actually it's not from silence. I could quote I have ten verses here, I'll just quote one of them. That particular path that particular passage he said that Paul lists all these things but he doesn't mention himselves, and so that's an argument from silence. And the point of what Paul's making there is he's trying to make it clear that because we're talking about our definition of terms, what foreknowledge means and all that sort of thing. All can mean different things. It can mean all meaning every individual particular thing, it can mean a particular subset, it can mean all kinds. So all doesn't necessarily mean all every possible uh thing in existence would be all. Um for example I could say that um uh yeah when you say that uh But anyway, the point is, because all can be understood different ways, Paul's making an argument there saying uh that all of these things can't keep us. And he might well what do you mean by all? And he lists like just about every possible he he he lists like a half a dozen different things there to make it clear. In this case I'm saying all. There is nothing that can uh thwart this reality. So anyway, you said you have other verses though, so what other verses do you have? Well let me just throw a few of the hard ones out right off the bat. But um in regard to perseverance of the saints, or once saved, always saved as it's more commonly called, um Hebrews six, four through six I believe totally destroys destroys that It says, For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened, who have tasted of the heavenly gift, who were made partakers of the Holy Spirit. So these are people who had the Holy Spirit, were enlightened. And have tasted of God. So there's a possibility of them falling away to renew them again to repentance. Seeing they crucified themselves again come up God fresh. So that's one verse that shows that it is possible to lose your salvation. And then there's many others. Yeah, that particular verse you're you're stretching it beyond the bounds of what it it must mean. And so if we use scripture to interpret scripture, how would you understand that that particular verse you just read in light of 1 John chapter 2, verse 19, it says that they went out from us, but they were not really of us, for if they were of us, they would have remained with us. But they went out so that it would be manifest that they are, they all are not of us. So how would you how would you harmonize or understand the verse you just read in light of what John writes in his first epistle Well I feel feel like they're talking about two completely different topics. Um Adam Clark in his commentary, there's no no one knows exactly who John is speaking of in that passage, but he he gives a suggestion that possibly is speaking of false teachers And these false teachers used to be in the churches, but they were excommunicated or kicked out. And so, you know, they went out from us that is manifest to the congregations that the These people were not actually true believers. So that could very well just be speaking about a very specific group of people, such as False. But they were identified as part of the visible church. People would have looked at them and said, There's a Christian. But then they they left. So, and John's saying no, they were never Christians. And the fact that they left shows that they were never Christians. Because it doesn't say that they were never teachers. It says they were never of us. Is his is the are you would you be arguing that the first epistle of John was written only to teachers in the church or those written to them? No, but that specific verse you read could refer to any number of things and tea false teachers as one definite possibility. So it doesn't necessarily have to mean uh it doesn't have to be interpreted in the Calvinistic sense. Okay, no, I okay, but who's us? He uses the word us twice, three times, four times, okay Five times. In this one verse he uses the word us five times. So who's us? He could very well be referring to the the council of apostles or you know like church leaders and such. No, they're not of us. Or he could just be referring to Christians in general. It doesn't really matter either way. 1 John opens with John talking about how he saw and touched and heard Jesus Christ and I write this so that you can have this fellowship that that I have. You can have the fellowship of the apostles, all of those who witnessed Christ. He's talking of church leaders later. So he's talking to the leaders To persuade them of what they already knew? Is that how you would understand the opening to the letter? Not necessarily. Just speaking to Christians, but preferring when he says us to perhaps You know, hit himself and the his fellow apostles. Uh there's a there's a thing. Yeah, provenient grace. That's a very fancy theological term. The idea is that uh God takes these people who are dead in their sins and opens their heart enough to give them the freedom to choose. So they were dead, but he gives them this little window of opportunity, if you will, a convenient grace. I find challenges with that view because I cannot find a scriptural argument for that. I I I think it you can make some sort of a logical argument if your presuppositions are are more Arminian. But I I it's hard I'm hard pressed myself to find uh 'cause I've leaned in that direction once upon a time and I was challenged and I I tried to defend what I was trying to say and I I wasn't uh able to. And it's tied to some of the other things we were talking about. Uh if somebody believes that Christ uh um Those he redeemed was a particular group of people. So at the cross he has a particular group of people in mind That ties intimately with the irresistible grace. Because if he died for them, they are going to receive the call positively and accept him because he died for them. He had them in view. Well otherwise for but if he died for Imran's great great grandmother And she's now great-great-grandmother. She's I'm sure she's long deceased. And as far as we know, she wasn't saved. But if he intended, if he died on the cross for her, then for her he failed. If he intended for her to die at some point in her life she would have accepted Christ as her Lord and Savior, we would have responded by the fact that the R. But he It it does require a response. I mean it requires th that humans also desire to be with God. It you know, God God is making a way for that relationship to be repaired, but it's we still have to ag agree that we want it repaired. Okay. I'm not uh I I I'm missing the connection with what I said, but that's that's I'm I'm we've been do at for those who don't know, we record a whole series of shows at one time and we're now like in hour two, two and a half of talking about this and um I'm getting a little muddle minded. So I'm sure what Daniel just said was exactly on point and totally uh connected to what I was talking about, but I I wasn't hearing it, but I'm sure that's on the other. when he died on the cross, I think he had in mind that he was saving the world. But the world doesn't always want him or accept him. So those that do will be saved from that. And uh on the same point, I mean uh it comes to mind I don't remember the exact passage but you could you guys Right. That's from John chapter six. Right. I've not lost one. Except Judas, which is But that that's what people say. Yeah, but then why would yeah, it wouldn't it doesn't fit. So he uh Judas was not given to him. He was never saved Okay, because he didn't lose the one. Because it says he was because it says except for one the son of perdition, meaning he was Not a child of God, he was a child of the devil. So that the scriptures would be fulfilled. I mean there was a So that the scripture would be filled, which then he says a few verses later, I have not lost one of who you gave me. So that would be why th I mean there's that and and uh the hard passage you brought up in Hebrews where hard for your your perspective, uh which is that nothing What was the Hebrew passage again? Well I was bringing out the point that if you shall fall away, so it's actually implying that Christians can fall away. So I wasn't trying to go into the theological nuances of the new you know revelations when it said the if or wherever it was if that left could be deceived. If it were possible. If it were possible. Meaning it's not possible. It's not possible. So if you know if it so I think it's a stretch. And same thing when you were t uh talk talking with uh Troy about who's us, I think you're stretching it. I think you're you're trying because you have a harder minian viewpoint, you're stretching that definition of us to be It could be this, it could be that, could be this, could be that. But I think if you actually go back to the Bible, what does the Bible say and and and really test it with the Bible, your argument doesn't hold water there because it can't be just believed Otherwise this gospel is is not not for us, it's just for the leaders. My point is it can't be a verse that's used to prove either side. It's just there's so many possible interpretations of that verse You can't say this proves Calvinism because it could just as well pass the case. And I will agree, by the way. I don't know if we can take any single verse and prove anything. you know, all of the books of the Bible, all sixty-six books of the Bible, and we look at it in its totality, and you take this passage and that passage in this verse, and that verse, and this author, and that verse author, and this context, and that context. And you look at the whole tapestry of it, that the Yeah, you could take away, you say, well that verse doesn't have to mean that. Okay, but if you combine that verse, it doesn't have to mean that, with these other four dozen verses that are nuanced versions of that and when you pull them together they're all they have one big meta narrative that fit together um then you start to get to a point where they kind of sort of must mean that. So it's not that the whole doctrine rests and falls on one verse But the totality of the verses make a compelling, consistent case from scripture has been my experience anyway. Uh and you were uh referencing uh Hebrews, that same book in chapter twelve It refers to Jesus as the author and perfecter of the faith. So uh he's the author of the faith. We're not the author of our faith, he's the author of our faith. And that's why it's a gift from him. So it's it's i even within that same book we we find reasons. Imran was already finding some issues. We find more reasons to understand Hebrews. But in what sense is the author of a faith? There again, it's like a verse that can't prove one way or the other because faith could just refer to the Christian religion. How do you understand author? I see him as the originator of the Christian religion. But it says author and finisher, so then it's if author means the originator, he was the beginning and the end of our faith. He is our faith. But I don't think it refers to that um type of faith that's within us that causes us to believe in in him. It's it's just faith in general, like um religion. I would say um you know just on a logical note and this is something that Bodhi Bach said very very well I thought uh if you could lose your salvation you would and Fully says uh he thinks you you have to be extremely arrogant to think that I'm saved and now there's a possibility that I could mess this thing up, but I haven't. Like if if you have to s you say, look, I I could mess this up and potentially lose my salvation, but I haven't yet. So you could. possibly do because if our our nature is such that if there was a way to to to leave the fold of God we would and And so that that's why I I d I don't really hold but again that's that's not a moral logic argument on logic as Choi was talking about. Christians. The Holy Spirit enters our spirits and He transforms our lives and that's why we're called a new creation. I agree. And that's that's why we can't lose our salvation. As a new creation, it's much easier to retain salvation And so we're not necessarily like we were before where we just try to walk away from God. So why do I get sin? I mean, see, th there's still free will. If if we um if we If it were true that we could not lose our salvation, then it would also make sense that we'd never sin again as Christians. Because God would use a biblical article and try to make your point for you for a minute. Troy, what maybe what do you what do you have to say about the parable of the sower? And the seed that falls and springs up eagerly, receiving the word, grows big is strong, and then all of a sudden, you know, it has no root so it disappears. But it has all this fruit apparently, or it it not fruit as far as far as n next generation see but it really appears that it's growing and it does eagerly receive the word it says, I think it's the phrase that's used. They eagerly s received it. So they liked it, they loved it, they they wanted more of it and then they died out. So how would you equate that to losing or not losing your salvation? Well again, I would call to mind uh first John chapter two and and then to put a a a even a larger point on that. Um These are not phrases that are original to me, but there's there's there are those that talk about um there's the church that we see, and there's the church that God sees. So the church that we see is is often referred to as the visible church. It's what we can see with our eyes. And then there's the church that we can't see because we don't we don't have the eyes of God. We don't have his omniscience So the the church that only God can see is invisible to us. And so that's called the invisible church. It's not invisible to God, but it's invisible to us. And so to a point that was made earlier in our series of shows on this topic, we can't know ourselves with precision who is saved and who is not. Only God knows with precision who is saved and who is not. So those that uh eagerly uh double that up and they want more of it, or whatever that phrase was that you used, Daniel, they love it, they want it, they want more of it, or whatever you said. Um They had an enthusiastic response, but it we're not saved by enthusiasm, right? We're saved by God. We're not even saved by uh raising your hand when somebody says close your eyes and raise your hand if We're not saved by that. We're not saved by walking an aisle. We're not saved by anything like that. We're saved by the sovereign will and choice of God would be the reformed argument And so those people that raised up enthusiastically, actually you mentioned uh the very first show we did on this cycle of shows, uh Charles Finney. That was one of the weaknesses of Finney's approach, was it was uh high on enthusiasm and and he had a lot of manipulative tactics uh in his preaching um uh he put benches there for people to come and sit with in in anxiety the anxious bench it was called and uh they were so overall with their sin and he orchestrated things today would do that with music mostly and fog machines Back then we we we did it and with lighting. Uh back then Finney did it differently and he got this exuberant response from people and it was said that oh Finney saved, you know, thousands and thousands and thousands of people. But what was the legacy of that? If you go back to that part of upstate New York, the generations that followed, those people were so hardened to the gospel because they felt like they were saved and they actually reject ended and it was referred to as the burned out district So that's connected to that parable. It was also burned out before him when Jonathan Edwards had come through some several generations before. He was a Calvinist in a pre Yeah, no, and and most Armenians actually uh uh actually would. I I find I I I I'm not s uh questioning Charles Finney's uh place in heaven. As far as I'm concerned, he probably is in heaven, only God can know for sure. And there were some good things there. On the whole I think he was far more dangerous than helping For what it's worth. But um uh we've mentioned it a billion times and I I think this is a key verse and I I'll just read it. This is from John chapter six. This is uh picking up in verse thirty-seven and Um all the Father gives me will come to me. And the one who comes to me I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of Him who sent me. Now this is the will of Him who sent me. That of all that He has given me, I lose nothing, but raise it up on the last day. And I myself will raise him up on the last day. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day Truly, truly, or verily, verily, depending on your translation, I say to you, he who believes has eternal life. That is a key passage connected to all the things we've been talking about over the last uh five shows. We've got like maybe a minute or so left. So if if anybody has a short, quick point or rejoinder or something they want to say, otherwise I'm going to begin to take us down the home stretch and as some people like to say, land the plane. Well, if you uh I wanted to go on a different topic we'll say. Just a little second. You know, in this in this day of c of castle culture and and things like that, people get upset. We upset a lot of people. We say a lot of things that people and like. So if you're out there and you're you're hearing some of the things and you enjoy and you and you like what we're saying, even if if you're not sure you don't agree with what we're saying but you like the fact that we're saying it bringing it up, then reach out to us. Give a positive comment. Reach out to the the s the radio station and say, hey, I like what they're doing because very quickly we could be taken off the air because we've ticked off too many people. Just be aware of that. Fair enough. Appreciate that. Yep. Send your complaints to me. Anyway, that was Imran Razi closing us out. We'll also hear from Josiah Bonjawani. Daniel Razley on the show too. I'm Troy Skinner. Find us online at wfmd. com and household of faith in Christ. com. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from right on now. God bless. We talked about that before and just kept I kept saying last couple shows and it but it went so fast. I know. I don't know how we covered two points in one show. I was like, there's no way. Well they can't go into the orderly the fro framework. I mean a lot of it's all related. Yeah. It's related on the whole the gospel is the gospel. And again, I think as Daniel pointed out, you believe the core of things. Yes. The expansion of it, you say, eh, taking it too far. That's the definition of the words, yeah. And it's just like most of the Jews, you know, they're gonna have hey if this is sin I'm gonna step not here but this far away from sin and this is all sin to me now. And that's kind of what it is. And I think if you If you believe the cores of of it, just the just the basics of it, that's what we can fellowship. We're okay. Yeah, yeah. And maybe you you come to a different understanding before later, or maybe we'll come to a different understanding. But uh the whole idea is we love the Lord, we know that He saved us, and we can't do anything to save ourselves. And that's really what the referitation was 'cause It is all about Catholicism saying, No, you have to do this to get saved. You have to pay this to get saved. You have to m get married in a church in order to be sanctified and be married. None of that was true before that. It was it was all control from the Catholic Church and the Reformation and Reform faith really came to push back against that and pushing back against that it had to define some things. And the definitions that this is not in the Bible, but we're using the Bible to to make the definitions. May maybe somebody went a little far or a little a little this way. That's arguable, but I think the core core thing is very similar. You you and I are very similar in most of the things. And as I said, I really do believe we have some free choice in there because the the Bible says that. Okay? And and I s I still struggle with um Saul losing his uh appoint uh anointing. He lost his salvation. Was he never saved? Was he never anointed? No, he was anointed as a king of Israel. Mm-hmm So where did that go? So I But even God said I'm gonna give you this king that you won and you're gonna see why you didn't you shouldn't have asked me to take well that's actually not gonna be a good one Perhaps he kne Burno's the future. Yeah, and because he didn't but he didn't know you then. So okay. So I think there's room for all of us there. And I think the biggest thing is hopefully some of this cause us to think about this more deeply and go back to the Bible and first around and pray about it. That's really what it's about. And I hope we've impact the people that heard this hey this is interesting. Let's read the Bible. And that's what this is all about. Maybe I should have also pointed out at some point Um Finney makes a very interesting point. He doesn't seem to be against Calvinists per se, like he doesn't agree with their doctrines, but Jonathan Edwards came along and he had great revivals during his time. He was total Calvinist. And then he came along and I I believe he had legitimate revivals where half a million people got saved in in his time too. And there's been Calvinists and Armenians who have come afterwards and seen the same sort of things. But he pointed out there's kind of a pattern where the Arminians come along and some of them take it so far that they're like it's all about you and about your works and stuff. And eventually people can kind of forget God's side of the picture and how he he's also involved. And then there'll be some Arminian who comes along and they see massive revival because I'm sorry, some Calvinist that comes along and they'll see massive revival because they bring in God's side of the picture again. But then you eventually over time you get people who are just like, it's all about God and I can't do anything, I can't believe And so you think the extreme is bad. Yeah, so it it's been kind of it goes back and forth throughout American history. It's like you have a wave of Calvinism, then you have a wave of Arminianism. I think we had a lot of writings where he said look we can fellowship with all these other people, just not the Catholics. They're terrible. Like they they all that's what they want they all agreed on. The Catholics were terrible. But but they but the Catholics were all based on works and and and neither one of them based on works. So So all right, we gotta go it's not dirty late. Oh wow it's not dirty late. Again. And as a uh this went by really fast. Yeah. And by the way, I'll leave this on the screen too, because I'm not exactly who the one that's hanging in there with us. Thank you. God bless you. Um This a again, this is like the pastoral heart in me. I'm I'm I don't know everything the Leighton Flowers has ever done, but I'm familiar with them and I want to caution you that Leighton is really committed to the idea of trying to be a consistent Arminian. And as I alluded to before, Leighton Flowers is on the road to open theism, whether he knows it or not. And open theism is not biblical Christianity. So you can really define open theism like that. Keep this thing in the back of your mind that Leighton's uh way of handling or not handling scripture brings with it a lot of theological dangers. You can disagree with that that's my point, but that that's true. But just no, I made the point so when you're listening to him, see if you can be aware that one guy I know who thinks he's dangerous at some degree. Can you please define open theism? You've mentioned it several times. I've actually not heard the term. I will point out that Calvinism can also use um tend to create universalists. Because if you take all the points of Calvinism and then you realize oh the Bible says that Jesus Jesus died for everyone. But God can't be thwarted in his will. That's what naturally leads to believe, okay, well everybody must be saved in the end. And nobody's gonna get go to hell. So that's also there's there's errors on both sides that you can go towards. So that is one area and I'm and I'm not fired out of calculation. In this context it's hard to do this. I'm not here to try to defend Calvinism per se. I'm trying to defend what uh I I'm pretty persuaded at this point is the best scriptural understanding of reality. So I'm trying to argue in favor of what scripture teaches. Whether the Calvinists Armenians agree or disagree when it all comes down to it I don't really care. Same with church history. I mean I I talked about Pelagius and the Re Reformation and I brought up uh Finney and you brought up Edwards. Uh by the way I would uh the fruit that came out of the first Great Awakening I would argue historically had much longer lasting positive effects than the fruit that came out of the second great awakening. But you know what? I don't care about that either, because I don't want my arguments to be from history. I want my script my arguments to be from scripture. And so Leighton doesn't do that well. And he picks and chooses and he hopscotches purposely, in my opinion, because he's not a stupid man, and takes things out of context. So he'll read one he'll read a verse And then he'll read a verse way down here, and then he'll read a verse way up here, and he reads like there's a there's a thread to an argument So that you know the author is making an argument. In a debate it is hard just to he'll take a point from way down here out of context and use that to alter what was said at the beginning. He's very inconsistent And he doesn't debate. That's my point in the debate. I'm not saying uh I would if I agreed with his theology, I would still say he's a horrible debater because he doesn't actually engage in debate. I have yet to see his debate, so he has he he has basically pre-fab, pre-written presentations. So he's not actually engaging. So he'll make an opening presentation and then Enron makes his presentation and then in a formal debate what's supposed to happen next is that if I went first, I'm supposed to respond to what he said in his presentation. Leighton never does that. He just picks up where he left off on his opening. So he gives you a series of opening presentations. That's all he does. It's not a debate. It's frustrating actually as a viewer. It's like you're not engaging. For what it's worth. I could see that. But anyway, um I you don't have to agree with me, but at least just keep in the back of your head. Like Leighton Flowers is questionable though. Yeah, I I'm not a fan. If you can tell. Anyway, I appreciate you guys uh hanging in there. Yeah, it is uh it's now nine thirty on the have you ever given a read to Charles Finney's memoirs by Jack? Um his memoirs, no. I I actually had to write a uh like a thesis paper as part of uh one of my classes and my master's degree. So I did a bit of research on on uh on Chuck Finney and uh and and you you might appreciate this. I purposely chose to go counterintuitive of what the professor might have been expecting. So I made the whole like twelve or fifteen page paper they had to write. I I purposely chose to focus on the positive So I did kind of a defense of Charles Finney, if you will. I chose to do that one. I thought it might catch the professor by surprise and help me in the grading. But I also felt like it was easier to write because the material was more limited and I could be more focused. So for what it's worth. But anyway, I'm going to uh Shut down this stream now. Thanks so much for uh paying attention to the stream. It'll be posted on Rumble probably tomorrow and then it will eventually make its way on to sermon audio and Odyssey as well. So till next time, God bless