And it looks like we're rolling, so I assume we're live. It's right around six o'clock, so five fifty nine. Hey. I'm a minute early for a change. So um this is our new time. Welcome to it. This is the household of faith in Christ. We had been meeting together via Facebook Live on Sunday evening. We're now moving that to Saturday evenings at six o'clock. That's going to be our new regular time. And if you missed it live, you can catch it later on Facebook. And also if you give it a couple of days, uh we're then posting them on a YouTube channel for the Household of Faith in Christ as well, so you can follow along there. And as I've extended the invitation several times uh in recent weeks, if you're anywhere within driving distance and you would like to participate with us us in person, just message me and we can talk about that and uh figure out what works for everybody, what makes the most sense. So uh we would love to have a a an increasingly larger gathering. Uh here if people are comfortable and able to do so. So we're going to jump into a message and then have a discussion and we should be done by about seven o'clock today. That is the intended goal. So actually I um I typically turn to Angela and ask her to open in prayer and ask her to do that and then later on at the end you maybe close us in prayer. So if you could start. Gracious Heavenly Father. We thank you for another opportunity to come and honor the name of Jesus Christ, to learn from your Father, to be edified by what you would show us. And we pray for Father, that whomever you bring to this meeting that they would be touched e in exactly the way that they need to be touched, that they would be taught and corrected and instructed And uplifted exactly how they need it. We thank you, and we know that your Holy Spirit is able to do so. So we invite him to move through Pastor Troy and to speak through all of that. of our voices and we bless this time together in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and we thank you in his name. Amen. Amen. Amen. In the words From long ago by Kelly Savalis of Kojak Fame. Who loves you, baby? God does. And I do, or at least I should. Do you love me? I mean, do you really, really love me? From the people that are sitting around you. You really love them? Do we even really truly know each other as well as we might, well enough to say that we really love each other? Well if you would indulge me, do me a favor. I I'm assuming that you have somebody with you, and if you do, turn turn to those someone who are with you. either side of you, all around you, look them in the eye, and I want you to, with all the sincerity you can muster, I want you to tell them that you love them. I love you. I love you. And I love you too. I'm giving you my cricket voice. Thank you. Well, and that's easy for me because I do love both of you, obviously in a sisterly way and in a husband way. I thought yeah brother and a sister way. I love the both of you. Yeah. No, and that's a blessing to be able to say that, you know. So and Facebook land, how how did that feel? It's pretty easy for some, like here it was pretty easy I think, because you have immediate family or really close friends that are nearby, people you're interacting with all the time. Now it's possible though that there's somebody that you don't know that well and somehow they got left out. So just in case anybody got left out, that wouldn't be fair. So if anybody was left out, turn to them and if you've already done it, you can do it again with the same person twice. And this time I want you with all the sincerity you can't look them in the eye and I want you to say say two things. I want you to tell them that they're special to you and that you love them. You are special to me and I love you. You're special to me and I love you. you and you're special to me and I love you. Angel you're special to me and I love you. Ty you're special to me and I love you. You know So it's comfortable and yet I think we can honestly say at some level it feels just a little bit weird. Right? So you know it's a little force maybe in this context. time stumbling upon a Facebook live video that we're doing or you're watching it later as it as it broadcasts on YouTube, uh, will you ever stumble upon a second video? I put out the invitation for you to come and and join us in person at some point in the future if you're within uh driving distance. But now are you having second thoughts? You're like, ha ha I don't like anything to do with them because I don't want to get trapped in what seems like a really strange and awkward church Yeah, I I get it. But maybe felt really good to you. Maybe you're one of those that felt pretty natural. Nothing too out of the ordinary. I mean all the time You're telling people you love 'em. And sometimes you even mean it. Alright, so enough with the group exercises. Although there's one more group exercise. Hopefully you've got your Bibles handy and ask you to Grab your Bible and open it. If it's an actual paper Bible, great. If it's a Bible on device, that's fine too. We'll be looking at 1 John, beginning in chapter 1. If you've Paying attention to what we've been doing the last few weeks. We were in a series on the first epistle of John. Our very first message in the series was on 1 John chapter 1, verses 1 and 2. The next message was on verses 3 and 4. Uh and at some point in the mix of our series we took a break from the series to do a message about the example that John MacArthur and his church in California has set for the rest of us about churches meeting and more importantly about who is in charge of ecclesiastical matters. The leaders of the church make church decisions, not the secular elected political people don't make decisions We took a uh brief time out from our series to talk about that. Then we jumped on board and we did back-to-back series on um a message that connected together themes from first John chapter Chapter 1 verse 6 through chapter 2 verse 6 and then also chapter 2 verses 15 through 17. Well, all that said, you might have noticed, maybe you noticed before, maybe you're noticing now. We skipped parts of God's Word. We skipped 1 John 1, verse 5, and we skipped 1 John 2, verses 7 through 14. Well, we're making up for that Here today. So this is beginning with verse 5, and after verse 5, I'm going to jump right into chapter 2, verse 7. This is the message we have heard from him and declared to you. God is light. In him there is no darkness at all. Dear friends, I am not writing you a new command, but an old one. Which you have had since the beginning. This old command is the message you have heard. Yet I am writing you a new command. Its truth is seen in him and in you, because the darkness is passing in the true light Is already shining. Anyone who claims to be in the light but hates a brother or sister is still in the darkness. Anyone who loves their brother and sister lives in the light. And there is nothing in them to make them stumble. But anyone who hates a brother or sister is in the darkness and walks around in the darkness, they do not know where they are going, because the darkness has blinded them. I am writing to you, dear children, because your sins have been forgiven on account of his name. I am writing to you fathers because you know him who is from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, dear children, because you know the Father. I write to you, Fathers, because you You know him who was from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God lives in you, and you have overcome. The evil one. Let me pause for a quick word of prayer. As we've just now heard, the inerrant, infallible, inspired word of God. We thank you for the blessing of your word that you've left for us to learn about you, to study, to press into, to lean upon as a perfect rule and guide for faith and all matters. Of righteous living, as they go about the business of bringing your name, glory, and being useful to you in advancing your kingdom. We thank you for the presence of your Holy Spirit. here amongst us and we ask that you would illumine our minds by your spirit, that we would come to draw closer to you, Father. All made possible through thee. Almost unfathomable sacrifice of your Son. And it's in his name, Jesus Christ, that we pray. Amen. So as I read, you might have noticed a bit of a theme in First John. The word light kept popping up in contrast with darkness. What does it mean? God is light. What does it mean? In him there's no darkness at all. Well, John, he says he's not writing a new command, but an old one. Which we have had since the beginning. And so, let's turn to the Old Testament. And I'm not going to ask you to turn there because I go to a lot of places pretty fast. So just kind of pay attention as I and and try to focus as I Go along. We're going to look at the Old Testament and consider the word light. What are some of the biblical passages, maybe that John, the apostle, had in his mind? Come in from his mind, enter his mind as he was writing this letter almost two thousand years ago. If we could have asked him, I think these are some of the passages he might have cited for us In Genesis at creation, God said, Let there be light. God saw that the light was good, and he separated the light from the darkness. In Exodus through the wilderness, the Lord went ahead of them in a pillar of fire to give them light. Leviticus, as the law was given, command the Israelites to bring you clear. Clear oil of pressed olives for the light, so that the lamps may be kept burning continually. Numbers talking about the tabernacle. Charge of the oil for the light. Second Samuel regarding godly leaders. He is like the light of morning at sunrise on a cloudless morning, like the brightness after sunrise. Rain that brings the grass from the earth. And Job, in the context of calling down a curse, may God above not care about it, may no light shine on it. From the Psalms. Let the light of your face shine on us. Fill my heart with joy. In Proverbs, the book of wisdoms says, For these commands are a lamp. This teaching is a light, and the corrections of discipline are the way to life. Ecclesiastes, the counterbalance to Proverbs. I saw that wisdom is better than folly, just as love Light is better than darkness. In Isaiah we read, I, the Lord, have called you in righteousness. I will take hold of your hand. I will keep you And will make you to be a covenant for the people and a light for the Gentiles. Lamentations, we have the experience of God God's rebuke here. I am the man who has seen affliction by the rod of the Lord's wrath. He has driven me away and made me walk in darkness rather than light. He has turned his hand against me again and again all day long. And yet this I call to mind, and therefore I have hope, because of the Lord's great love we are not consumed, for his compassions never fail. They are new Every morning great is your faithfulness. I say to myself, The Lord is my portion, therefore I will wait for him. And in Amos We hear God's words to those who falsely claim to be his followers. Woe to you who long for the day of the Lord. Why do you long for the day of the Lord? That day will be darkness, not light. It will be as though a man Fled from a lion only to meet a bear, as though he entered his house and rested his hand on the wall only to have a snake bite him. Will not the day of the Lord be dark? Darkness, not light, pitch dark, without a ray of brightness. So what do you think about all these images and perspectives? On light gleamed from the Old Testament. I mean, God said the light was good. And we like that And God He provides guidance by the light. And He has He has His people use light and their worship of Him. And He He teaches us that light is the way of wisdom. But we like that too. Now, knowing full well what all of these Old Testament passages teach, the Apostle John John writes to us, and he says that God is light. And we like that too, don't we? We like it sometimes in the idea in the same way that we think about liking. God is love. God is merciful. God is full of patience and mercy and loving. And kindness, God is Savior and grace filled. We like all that stuff. We remind ourselves and each other of these truths. And they are truths. God is all of these things. God is good. Oh, how we adore This good God, who is good to us, good to us Oftentimes as we define being good to us, we not only love this guy, we love Like this guy. He's cool. What a cool God we have. He's up in heaven. He's kicking back. He's got his feet up on the footstool. He's just chilling Hanging out, being fabulous. This oftentimes is God in our mind. Or perhaps oftentimes we have a vision of God that's more mellow than that, not really hip so much as a doting father. Perhaps Sort of professional. You know, he's focused. God is focused on giving us the good life. He wants what's best for us, which means he's up there somewhere trying to figure out ways to help us sidestep all the consequences of the the horrible and selfish and short-sighted decisions that we we make? Spend more money than I have? Well maybe this God will help me to win the lottery. Take in more calories than you can burn? Well, maybe this guy will miraculously help you to avoid the dangers of high blood pressure and high cholesterol and high levels of body fat Afraid to witness Christ to people that you meet? Perhaps even afraid to witness Christ to people that you've known for years? Well, maybe God really won't mind so much Probably bugs him a little, but he understands we're only human after all. I mean what more could he expect? He is he is laid back. He he he is la n fair non-judging no worries. This is God too often in our mind. Is this the biblical God? Well, is the God of Holy Scripture love? Yes. Is the God of Holy Scripture good to us, merciful, and and interesting what is best for us? Sure is. Is the God of Holy Scripture holy? You betcha. Holy holy holy you betcha you betcha you betcha God is patient and kind and Full of grace, God is love. God is also truth and righteousness And just He's holy. God is light Now I said all of that to say this. We can't take God and try to chop him up in a bunch of little bite-sized pieces and just hold on to one piece of God, the one that we we seem to like more than the other pieces. We can't cover them up and embrace those parts that we like because if we toss the part the side the force that we don't care for all that much, well what happens? We can't do that because to throw away the bathwater is to throw away the baby. In this case, God is love because he is light. And he is light because he is love. He judges sin because it is the righteous and loving thing to do. His wrath burns against the evil to defend the good. His light exposes the darkness so that true love will flow. And we live in a world that would rather everyone just get along to each his own. Everyone has his or her own truth. to say who's right or wrong, right or left. Live and let live. Well the problem is to live and let live Is really to live and not die. You know, we can attempt To have unity by dimming the light so low that no one can discern the differences anymore. We can attempt to do that Or we can have honest to goodness, authentic unity by turning up the light so bright that it chases away the shadows. leaving us to see clearly our diversity and our uniqueness. Not pretending to appreciate each and every individual, but to really appreciate every individual individual Every individual, while we're all equally bathed in the light of God, the light of truth The light of love. Light and love. They go together. Justice and grace, they go together too. to exclusively claim only love or only grace at the expense of Light and justice, well, it's to lose both ends of that spectrum. If we lose truth and righteousness and holiness, we lose God. And without God, we have not love or mercy or grace. So, do you want God's love? Do you want Him Do you want to want his grace? Do you want his mercy? Then embrace his commands. Obey His word. Because to do otherwise is to embrace the darkness and In God there is no darkness at all. Now this just about covers 1 John 1, verse 5. So now on to the other eight verses we're going to be covered. covering. Kidding a little bit here because we have covered actually far more than one ninth of what we're going to be talking about this week and next, so there's no need to panic. Angela will have you out of here in time for breakfast tomorrow, no problems. Lunch by the latest. Now, to show you all that we have learned so far, maybe even without realizing it. From John's epistle here. Here's a brief recap of where we've just been. First John chapter 1, verse 5. It says, This is the message we have heard from him and declare to you. God is like In him there is no darkness at all. So John is passing on the teaching of Jesus Christ here, and he's saying that God is light, and this is contrasted with darkness. I just a moment ago finished pressing that very point. And before that, we we covered some of what the Old Testament has to say about light. And why do we do that? Well in 1 John chapter 2, verses 7 seven through nine it says dear friends I'm not writing you a new command but an old one which you have had since the beginning. This old command is Is a message you have heard. Yet I am writing you a new command. If truth is seen in him and in you, because the darkness is passing and the true light is Already shining. And so there is nothing, nothing at all new about God's nature. I mean, God is unchanging in this respect. The God of the Old Testament is the God of the New Testament. There is no new command. And yet, there is something new, a new command. That is a recasting of the old command. And what's new is him. The truth is seen in him And in you, as it turns out, the follower of him. Well, who is him? Now we can assume that we know. But because we've been skipping around a little bit, let's just make sure that we're not, you know, taking anything for granted. From verse six, the verse immediately prior to the passage that we just read, we know that John is talking about Jesus because Verse 6 reads, Whoever claims to live in him must walk as Jesus did. And because Jesus has already come, John can write that the darkness is passing, the true light is already shining. Now I can really feel the already not yet tension In that phrase. Do you feel it? The light. It's already shining. But the darkness, it's not gone. passing. It's a reminder that we currently live between the ages. The age to come, it is here, while at the same time, the age of old It's presently being overlapped until Christ's second coming. Now don't miss the truth of this matter. Professionally Truth for God's church, for us right now. This passage from John's letter, it says that at present the truth is seen in him. And in you, his follower. The truth is seen in Christ and in Christ's church. Christ's light is already shining. And darkness is passing from God's people. Let me ask you, is darkness passing from you? How would you know if it was Well, do you hate your brother or sister? 1 John chapter 2, verses 9, 10, and 11 say, anyone who claims To be in the light, but hates a brother or sister, is still in the darkness. Anyone who loves their brother and sister lives in the light and there is nothing in them to make them stumble. But anyone who hates a brother or sister is in the darkness and walks around in the darkness. They do not know where they are going because the darkness has blinded them. John here, he's talking about brothers and sisters in Christ, your spiritual brothers and sisters. And you will not stumble if you live in the light, he says. And you can tell that you're living in the light, he says, by your love for your fellow believers, those also walking on that path, the way to the Father through the Son. Your fellow believers. Now, if we are not loving each other as the church, then we are walking around in darkness. And we are blind. We are deceiving ourselves. We do not know where we are going. Now in the words of world-famous theologian, Diana Ross of the Supremes, I may ask Do you know where you're going to? Do you like the things that life is showing you? Where are you going to? Do you know? Do you get what you're hoping for? When you look behind you, there's no open door. What are you hoping for? Do you know? Well, do you know? Do you like what life is showing you? What are you hoping for? If what life is showing you is dissatisfying, perhaps it's because you You are hoping, placing your hope in unsatisfying things. Perhaps you've fooled yourself or Perhaps Satan has tricked you. Maybe the views of the world have overwhelmed you. And so now your hope isn't really in Jesus Christ. If your hope is in Jesus Christ, then you are saved from the spiritual death penalty. That is due to you for your sin. That penalty has been paid by Jesus the Christ, Jesus the Messiah, Jesus the Our king. He paid that penalty. God's justice and grace blended together perfectly. Beautifully light and love together We're going to pause there for tonight and we'll pick up with the rest of our exploration of this part of John's first epistle next week. So let me uh close the time of message with Father, we thank you and praise you for your plan from the beginning. You have made all things with your eternal purposes in mind. You are a holy, true, righteous, just, and loving God. We thank you for all that you are. Forgive us for our too frequent attempts to try to break you off into the portions that are more palatable to our situation at any given moment. moment. We ask for continued encouragement and leading by your word and by your spirit as your bride goes about the business of being your church. Help us to be obedient, Lord, out of love and gratitude for what you have done for us so that we can be a witness to a loss and a occasionally watching the world so that they might ask us, what is the reason for the hope that you have? What are you hoping for? And why do you have that hope We ask you to bless our discussion here as we ponder these deep eternal truths. Again, we thank you for the presence of your spirit. that we would tangibly feel your presence here with us this evening. Thank you for hearing our prayer. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. He went to talk to shower? I'm so glad. Took a shower. Oh you have to do a show take a shower. Exciting? Yeah. Yeah, about a half hour. We'll be done in time. We've got a good half hour here to chat. So any original or uh any Initial reactions or comments or should I seed it with a question or I mean I don't I don't Okay, well let me ask Ask the people that are here, and if you're on Facebook and you want to chime in, what are the things you find yourself hoping for that you know are going to be dissatisfying? Because anything will be here and now. that's under the sun. You know, if you love someone they're eventually gonna die. If you have a wonderful job, they might eventually get fired or have to retire from that job. If you're in love with the beauty of your home, your house could burn down to the ground. I mean things change, things happen, so those sorts of things will end up disappointing at some point in some way. Our ultimate hope needs to be, you know, in Christ. Our treasures need to be in heaven. So are there any things that we would want to volunteer where we find ourselves guilty of putting our hope in things other than Christ I mean I definitely have put hope in people being true to their words. being um you know looking for the best in me and others. You know, looking at situations and offering grace, you know, I and I've been disappointed, I've been hurt, crushed, all of those things because ultimately they They're not capable of giving me those things. Only Jesus is capable of giving me those things. So I shouldn't be surprised, but yet I'm devastated sometimes. at how people not only treat me but treat others. I mean you can see it on social media, especially in this day and age. It's it's pretty devastating. And the rest of the world who doesn't have Christ, you know, it's been described by a lot of people over the years that, you know, we're all made with this God sized hole. And only God can fill that God sized hole. But yet we try to fill fill it with so many things that aren't God. And if you pay any attention to the news over the years, you know, you think our our tendency sometimes as people is to think, well if I have If I had more money, then I'd be satisfied. Or if I had more popularity, then I'd be satisfied. If I was more well known, had a bigger platform to share my view on the world. If I was you know more famous, popular you know, I I I I would be satisfied. If you know if I was able to have just the perfect job and career that I was made for, I would be satisfied. And yet you have people who are giving Doing what they're most talented at doing, making a lot of money in doing it, a achieving incredible fame and wealth through doing it, whether they be actors or singers or or any sort of performer an athlete or even a a big business mogul or something like that. And then you read in the in the news how they were found dead in their bathtub I mean they had everything, and usually these are not you know, they're called the beautiful people for a reason. I mean, they're not just talented and famous, but they're beautiful and A lot of times they're young and healthy and it's like, what more could you want? Well, what more? Is the one thing they're not using to fill that God-sized hole is that their treasures here on earth and they will without fail dissatisfy. And you know, the the stock market has been really um uh turbulent this year and you know famously you know all the suicides that took place back after the the uh stock market crash leading into the Great Depression really rich, wealthy, powerful, connected people saw their fortunes disappear and all their hope was in that and they ended up taking their life but they had no More hope. You know, now in fairness to them, back in nineteen twenty nine, you know, Diana Ross and the Supreme hadn't put up their song yet. So maybe if that song had been recorded earlier those people would realize the error of their ways 'cause she is a world famous theologian, you know. So uh all right, how about uh us having a tendency sometimes to uh be uncomfortable like trying to mix and match categories and and and placing God's justice and mercy at odds with each other, his his love and and grace and righteousness. his his love and grace against his his righteousness and his holy truth and having them at odds with each other. Can you I I don't really have a problem with that Yeah, I um I um pray a lot that the Lord would keep me in vows in terms of being merciful, you know, and not just focusing on it on justice because I want to see justice so much but so many things that are wrong that are just appalling to me. Now we have the benefit of having some people in this room who have been Christians for a while. a long time uh have been reading the Bible over and over again over the years, have been faithful church attenders and Bible studies and all that sort of stuff. And so we've got a different take. But I in different settings With people that are newer to the faith or maybe aren't even in the faith yet, but they're part of a Bible study trying to learn more. Uh a very common question is, well how come the God of the Old Testament is so mean and angry and it's God of the New Testament is so loving and kind. And they think it's two different gods, not realizing that the God of the Old Testament was also loving and kind, incredibly patient. And have they read Revelation? Have they read the words of Jesus as he rebu as he's rebuking the Pharisees? Uh so it's the same God throughout. We just like to pick and choose the parts And um most Christians today spend a majority of their time in the New Testament and they like to center their focus on parts in the New Testament that are About a charming God. You know, this delightful God who's just gonna be your bud and you know he doesn't really know what's going on. He's detached maybe, or you know, he He does kind of the the God of the Shack, which we'll be t actually talking about uh somewhere down the road on one of these Saturday evenings. But Tyler Dean's uh having quite a musical fest over there. It's a good thing we're not placing our hope in that. Is that your contribution to the con to the conversation, Saribola? Yeah. Was there anything that uh at all so far in because now we've basically have in our series we've covered all of chapter one And uh a good chunk, if not all, of chapter two at this point. Is there anything in the theme or anything about his style that you've noted so far? What style, what do you mean? Um well uh John Style. Yeah, John Style, yeah. Right. Um I don't want to leave it too much, I wanna see if you volunteer or anything because I've got I mean I think he's talking to the believer. You know, I think that's his intended audience. Yeah, he's talking to believers at different levels, right? The that poetic section where he's talking to the to the uh to the to the children, to the fathers, to the young men. You know, those different stages of spiritual maturity um that he's addressing there. And um he's discipling us. They're all believers. Right. You know, if you're a child of God, you're child Child of God, but if you become a spiritual father, you're still a child of God, but you're a a father in the in the church context to those others. And there's those that are progressing from mere childhood to fatherhood within the church and they're the the young men. So and and by men, the Bible uses masculine pronouns for a reason by the way. I'm not a fan of of the Bible translation I don't think that's helpful. So John's not meaning to exclude the ladies, he's including the ladies. Um but that idea of leadership and fatherhood and and that idea of of of of inheritance So for for the uninitiated, Tyler was sharing with you a little uh a little portion of the theme or part of the sound effects. from the TV show Survivor. That's what that was. So anyway, the co-heirs thing, you know, in that culture, the idea of the inheritance, it passes through the the males, the men. And it's important for us to make that connection about the inheritance, but now there is no more male or female. And so the the women our inheritors too. But we lose that whole focus on inheritance if we um if we lose the the the pronoun mix. So I'm not a fan of that. Is there something that um you have identified that you were putting your hopes in at some point? Yeah, I think I'm probably going to touch on this in the upcoming message more specifically, but I I think we're all guilty of, you know, we put our hope sometimes in the trajectory of our career. You know, we want to get to a certain point in our career and that's where all our hope is, and then when those hopes are disappointed, we can be devastated. And you can go through a season where you've lost sight of God's hand on your life. You know, like, how could this happen to me? Not realizing that maybe God's shifting you into a different season of your life for grander greater more eternal purposes. We don't tend to focus on that in those moments. I think we're all guilty of putting our hopes in our family. We want our children to to grow up and be respectful. and successful, put our hopes on our health. We all live under the illusion, you know, put when we're seeing that front and center with the whole coronavirus thing Well it's illusional we're gonna live forever. If it weren't for that darn coronavirus, we'd all live forever. You know, and so we have so much hope in living forever that any Any threat to that, it knocks us off the tracks. And we're seeing that even in the church. And so where people are afraid to go to church. Exactly, yeah. Absolutely. Or afra afraid to be around people. We can't witness to people and share hope with people if you're not around 'em. You know, and so we we we really kind of in my opinion, so see If you've been watching these videos over the last few months, uh, we've really lost our way as it comes to that. We put our hopes in financial security so we can have a secure retirement. We put our hopes in uh the political process. process of the politicians that are gonna rescue us. Um you know we put our hopes in a national sense in the might of our military. Um or what's going on right now with every all the cities around the country in even smaller towns like Kenosha, Wisconsin, that you know that everything's on fire. Uh putting her hopes in some sort of ill-defined equity movement. You know, our hopes are in that Some day we'll achieve equity. I put it in quotes because I don't think they mean equality. Because equality and equity are different. Equity is we all get the exact same outcome no matter what effort you put into it. And we need to have perfect justice. Well that's fine. We do have perfect justice available to us for everlasting, for all eternity, after Christ Second coming. We have that, but expecting it in the here and now it's it's an ill placed hope because the here and now is yeah. It's foolishness to the world and you know there You think of the scripture that says that talks about oh not even a s it's a theme, vengeance is nine, mu vengeance is mine, vengeance is mine. So there's never going to be wrongs righted in fullness this side of the second coming. It's not possible. It's just not possible. I'm not saying that you let people, you know, get away with things that are, you know, not that are sinful. I'm not saying that. What I'm saying is if you you're putting all your hope in one day, um, you know, whatever, this this is gonna happen, you will be disappoint disappointed because that one day i is just not gonna happen Or it's not gonna it's gonna happen and it's not gonna be what you expected it to be. It's going to fall short. By design it's supposed to fall short because all our fulfillment needs to come in Christ. So praise God it falls short, otherwise there's no need for Christ. That's why the rich man and I use quotation marks rich because it doesn't necessarily mean monetarily wealth. It means So if you have everything that you need, you know, um you get your way, whatever, all your movement Go your way, all your protesting works in your favor, everything's going swimmingly, trust me, that will also fall short. And so now again connecting it to the world that we're seeing around us right now, I think this is actually pretty instructive. So this is this this is A, if not B, it is certainly a central difference between the the believers' view of the world So the believer, to Dina's point, we pursue righteousness and justice and fairness and equality and all of those Those sorts of things because God instructs us to do those things and out of obedience for Him, out of reverence for Him, to honor His name, to bring glory to His name as the Bride of Christ. Pursue those things because our hope is in him and we're doing these things knowing that they won't be perfectly accomplished here on earth until the second coming. But we're obedient to those things anyway because Because our hope is in him. But the world doesn't have that. And so their hope, you take that away, and their hope is in this. And now what we're seeing happen around us And you can see it with the whole systemic racism uh kind of thing and the white privilege thing. So they put their hope in the system. Right. Right? It's like the Tower of Babel story. That's that's kind of a They're trying to try to reach up to heaven, they're trying to uh try to achieve this this heavenly thing, absent God, and make a name for themselves, so they're creating this this system, this structure And they can't get there from here. Uh and God realize you know he knows they're not going to give up on that, and so he frustrates frustrates and scatters and say, don't put your hope in that. Your hope needs to be in me. And yet we keep chasing after fixing the system. But now we've noticed there are a lot of people that have recognized that the system can't be fixed. And what's wrong with the system is people that look like us, we're white and have privilege and we're going to be raised is forever no matter what. You can't be fixed. And because the whites built the system, the system can't really ever be fixed. And so they put their hope in the system while at the same time they say the system is hopelessly lost and corrupted. And so now they're angst written. What do you do? Well I guess what you do is you try to throw things through storefront windows. You light cars on fire. Yeah, you try to destroy everything. They're trying to destroy the system, not realizing that the system is really people. Right. So um Um we can have the best you know, the best system, but it's people who will fall short. I think we do have a good system. I think we have in this country, we have a traditionally b you know Bible based government. We have a constitution. But you know we're imperfect. Right. So it's it it's it's you know so it they think the the answer is to replace to throw out the constitution and put in a different system, but you're still gonna have spinners running that system. Right. That system system is inherent any system that doesn't have a Lord in it is inherently lesser. So they are totally deceived about that. Evil. It's evil. Exactly. It's it's lesser it's evil, it's not of God, God's not in it. So they are just totally and I have not fixing the system. And believe it or not, I have friends that, you know, disagree agree with me pretty strongly politically. They would be on the left end of the political spectrum. And those people have had good conversations with them and they have uh uh they're huge fans of the ideal And they're huge fans of this uh idyllic. Wow. No I mean they're also these leftist people often the ones I talk to, they they have a really high view of of this hope for w which is really illusion of the Star Trek future. Yeah, well the the French Revolution it was altruistic and there's actually a lot of good things in it, but it misses something huge and that is the sinfulness of the human condition. And so the French Revolution was doomed to fail from the start, but because they don't understand the necessity And need for God, they didn't have that peace, foundational peace, undergirding what they were doing. And so the French Revolution, which had a lot in common with the American Revolution But the big difference is God was missing. And so the American Revolution led to arguably the greatest nation ever on the planet, and the French Revolution ended up as an utter disaster of blood flowing through the streets almost immediately. So and then the Star Trek universe or oh all the earth is going to have this too much Moment where it's a one-world order and it's a star fleet that represents Earth to the rest of the planets, but everybody on Earth gets along. That can't happen until Christ returns and at that point there will be a judgment and the only ones left on the new heavens and the new earth will be obedient Christ followers It's the only way that Star Trek hoped for future could possibly happen. And here's even better news for you, Star Trek enthusiasts. But even better news is that in that real reality future that awaits us, there won't be Klingons shooting at us. to say even Star Trek ideals, they have these horrible people. So everybody supposed to get along on Earth, right? They climb the outer space and they find Hugh You know, they find all of these terrible aliens. The Romulans. The Romulans they find the people the square foot with the big the board. The board. The board collective. You know, the people, the soulless, um, you know, consciousness, you know, you will be assimilated people, you know. So it's just there's you know, it's it it it's it's a very interesting And you can see how these herodized it's messed up. I was at actually on the radio earlier today and we were talking about the school system issues. related to public education. And you know, one of the things that's going on right now that you know our our kids are being taught things that aren't biblical. And it's been this way for a long time a long time now. But so many parents feel you know, what's the right word? I don't obligated to or trapped in chasing after some dream where The the two people in the family, one, there might not be a husband and wife in the family, because they didn't honor God enough to honor their covenant with him and so the marriage broke apart. Or it could be that they are still married, but their financial goals are so important and they want to save up the money to send their kid to a two hundred and fifty thousand dollar four year education degree somewhere so they gotta save up the money. So you have dual income earners, so nobody's home to train up, raise up the kids. So they don't homeschool because the Bible says you as a parents should train up your child in the way they will go and they will not depart from it. It's not that you send them off somewhere else. Now getting support from people in the community, that's fine. The ultimate responsibility is the parents Parents believe that. Parents only did a little bit. But anyway, yeah, and we're guilty of it too. So yeah, I'm not wagging a finger of of uh uh of of rebuke necessarily But I'm saying that's evidence that our hope isn't on the things of God. We're chasing after things and we end up with dissatisfying circumstances. We end up with a school system that fails our kids. We end up with a school system that has our kids not agreeing with and even worse than that rejecting our biblical values. We're like, how did that happen? And we're disappointed We're disillusioned in that. We had our our hope in the system not failing us. Well god that wasn't God's system. And so we we always get ourselves inside out and we do it all the time. Yep. That's true. Any comments on Facebook or shout outs we need to do? No, just um your mom with Tyler, you know. Yeah. They're happy with his little serenading. That's probably the highlight of the whole thing. There you go. Maybe if I could figure out how to have Tyler just sing for an hour We're gonna wrap up here in just a minute, Bubba. Do you want to say anything else to grandma? Yeah. On Facebook? You wanna look at the camera over there? Yeah. Go ahead. Say I love you, Grandma. I love you, Grandma. I love you, Aunt Carrie. I love you, Aunt Carrie. I love you, Kyle and Cole. I love you, Kyle and Cole Alright, once Sing a song? Yeah. Okay, hurry up. You can sing a song, what do you want to sing? You wanna sing Jesus loves me? Yes. Go ahead. Jesus I meet this I know the Bible told me so that we don't really buy How about you come you wanna come Sit down close us in prayer? Oh done. Okay. Sit down and we'll have a prayer? Yeah. Okay. Oh. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for that this time together. Ask that you would bless our week, that your Holy Spirit would fill us to guide us. We do pray for revival in your church. We pray for that your kingdom would come, that your will would be done just like it is in heaven here on earth. We thank you so much. And we ask that you would be glorified with everything that we do and say this week. In your name that we pray, Jesus. Well thank you for joining us again. This is our new permanent time, so we'll see you next Saturday at six o'clock Eastern Time. Feel free to share this video if you like, and feel free to add additional comments and I'll check them out later if there's a question or something. I'll be glad to interact with you and answer those questions. So till next week, God bless