And it looks like we're rolling. Hello streaming listeners and viewers. You're gonna see this backwards, but if you uh g can uh reverse your image for having There's a a ballet coming up five weekends from uh tomorrow. Uh it's gonna be at the F. Scott District Theater in Rockville. I don't know have anything to do with it, but the the Rasbies are involved with it and I'll let Imran talk about it a little bit before we start recording the Fake Debate show. Yeah my son Daniel um he wrote the full score of the ballet and uh uh you know, wanted to put it on, but when the October seventh happened it really became an urgency that you bought really wanna do it. It's the story of Esther. So it's gonna r they're gonna read the entire book of Esther uh with the musical score for with the full orchestra And there'll be several um sections of actual ballets and that's gonna happen uh in uh September seventh and eighth. Seventh will be at seven PM and eighth will be at three PM and then they'll have uh uh Daniel's doing a full ballet uh next spring. probably in May after Porum. So uh you can go to don't bea Heyman dot com and check it out. Um love to get you guys to promote it. Don't be a Heyman dot com And so and the ch the day to be remember it's uh the the weekend is Exactly eleven months after the October seventh um horror. I'm not sure what else to have to call that. I want to call it a tragedy. It's not a tragedy. It's a So just a great evil, heinous evil. And and there are still people held hostages, uh the prisoner and it seems like America has forgotten about them. And there's so much. Don't take in personal Israel because America forgets about everything after about seventy-two hours. That's just the way it is. Right? Well forty-two seconds on a video, right? We are fat, dumb and happy. That's just the way it is. is. Well I'm not sure how happy we are. Just fat and dumb. So all right, so we're going to start recording the Faith Debate radio shows now that are going to speaking of October are going to begin airing in October. So Okay, Bob, I need you to turn that down just a little bit, okay? Thank you, sweetie Good morning. Welcome to the Fay Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thank you for spending part of your day with us here. If you're listening live, we really appreciate that. And you know if you're listening later via podcast, well, have a blessed day no matter what day of the week it is. And as these shows are recorded, some of the things we'll be talking about today are rather proximate, but as you hear them on the radio, it's going to be kind of like a time capsule. So you'll be able to listen back to what life was like in the summer of 2024. The olden days. The old in the good old olden days. You know, back when they were merely trying to kill presidential candidates and things like that, when things were simple and kind. Uh but seriously there are so many things going on coming so fast. It seems a little reminiscent of what happened the summer of twenty twenty where the news cycle was just on Hyperdrive. And here we are another presidential season and the news cycle feels like us on hyperdrive once more. I'm not sure if that's a coincidence or if I'm imagining that or or what have you. But we do want to uh start today talking about the whole Trump assassination thing, but not the X's and O's and I mean we might touch upon that, you know, how'd the guy get up on the roof and why didn't the Secret Service do a better job and But really uh this is the faith debate, and I want to take some time to talk about some of the biblical, theological, church world stuff that was talked about in ways maybe that it shouldn't have been Or that uh or maybe in some case we'll give an attaboy, maybe we did a good job talking about some of these things. Or things were completely ignored that they should have been talked about. The first thing I want to want to bring up is the uh the Ephesians 6. 11 Apparently the I wouldn't have known this if people didn't make the Ephesians 6. 11 connection, but apparently the bullet whizzed past Donald Trump and clipped his right ear at 6. 11 p. m. local time. And so people say, oh, it was 6. 11. Ephesians 6. 11. Full armor of God, don't you know? And that sounds reasonable, right? Totally reasonable. Seriously, uh uh I think I'm speaking to a friendly studio audience right now. What is wrong with that sort of biblical exegesis? They had a one in sixty-six chance of getting it right. Well, at least all the books that have six chapters. Yeah, and and that's the voice of Elijah Dirksen, by the way. He is a seminary student pursuing his master's of a divinity degree. And uh he's been on the show in in the past we're talking about Christian nationalism and and maybe some other things. I can't remember exactly. And the other voice you're about to be hearing is that of uh Imran Razvi, known as Raz, to uh some of the locals who who know him and his business, uh Higher Ground Financial is a company that he owns and he's also founded a a ministry called um um conquered by love I don't know I I have this hard time remembering the name of that ministry for some reason. Conquered by Love Ministries online at conquered by love dot org. You can follow the show of course at WFMD. com and House. So they had a uh one in sixty-six that's a really good point, right? Why didn't they pick out one of the other books of the Bible? Let's see if I can oh is it not there anymore? Oh here it is. I actually picked one up just just for the sake of it. So here is Genesis 611 Now the earth was corrupt before God and the earth was filled with violence. Trump must be full of the world. That works too, right? Okay, so yeah they they just randomly pick the time on somebody's watch and point it to a Bible verse. And it is random books in the Protestant Bible, they could a they had a one in sixty-six chance. Well, if you believe that any one of them would apply, they had a one in sixty-six chance. Uh Imran, any additional things you'd like to add to the idiocy? Well the there it seems like people are looking for something. Right? They're they're chasing some kind of mystical thing to attach to this. And well, why are they doing that? I think uh you know, Elijah and I were talking about earlier, I think it's because the lack of of of uh the church not providing the path to God, the the the straight understanding of who God is and what God's doing. Trump Trump has really stepped into the void where we used to look to the church for our our source of moral guidance and now we we're going to this womanizing, foul mouthed presidential candidate. Because there is a void right now. Yeah, and uh I'm gonna make a note so I don't forget uh Pastor's void because uh I uh I have a thought about that. Uh Others have shared similar kinds of ideas in recent days and weeks in the post-Trump assassination attempt world But I wanna I want to finish the Ephesians 6. 11 thing first. One of the real just practical reality problems with trying to do this sort of bizarre cultural proof texting. The numbers in our Bibles like this, the chapter headings and the versifications are not inspired. No They you know Paul's not writing Ephesians and saying chapter 6 verse 1 now verse 2 he's not doing that it's it's it's one big long letter And as recently as about 500 years ago is when we finally have verses in the Bible, so for the first 75% of the current history of the church, there were no verse numbers. So would you argue that since that was added to God's word, that that person whoever added that is then added have all those plagues that the Bible says to have a Well I would make the argument on that poor person's behalf. I hope that you're there's nothing to it. He's not adding to the word, right? It was merely meant as reference so you could more quickly find things. More organization. Turn into your Bible to Ephesians chapter 6, verse 11, and say, bang, okay, I can find it. as opposed to open your New Testaments somewhere in the middle. There's a paragraph that begins with, now go down four sentences. It would take you know a long time to get to where you're trying to go Uh and so I don't have a problem with there being versifications, although I will say sometimes they're problematic. Sometimes where these chapter visions or even the verse numbers are placed don't make a whole lot of sense. You know, like there's a new verse in the middle of a sentence. It's like it's a thing, thought. Like why'd you break that into two verses? Or or sometimes the thought like the the big uh one of the big pieces of the argument isn't ended yet and now chapter five, verse one starts. It's like no, but it The argument's not over until chapter 5, verse 4. So why didn't you wait until verse 5 to start the new chapter? Like there's some problems with it, but we we can't treat it as though that's inspired. That's a That's an unhelpful kind of a numerology. Now I'm not a guy who's opposed to uh j what's called gematria. Uh that's the uh uh seeing um uh uh the the letters in words uh counting up to numbers and those numbers meaning things. Uh but it's got to actually be in the text and you have to have reason to think that has to be in the mind of the author right using it. Yeah. Did the Apostle John intend for you to make this Jumatria connection in the book of Revelation? And I would argue in some cases yes But to artificially just start randomly ni willy-nilly picking things and say, oh, because there's twelve letters there. Twelve. That To me a lot of these these things like they grab something tangentially related, it reminds me a lot of soft reading and psychics. Like I I'm seeing the letter M out here. Your does your name start with M? No it doesn't. Well does you do you have a dog that starts with whose name starts with M? Or maybe you have a mother the the And and that kind of soft reading to kind of get you to the point where it makes sense. Right. So they're seeking spirituality where there is none. And that's why they're grasping at these throws. going to any place and say, Oh wow look at this. This is an amazing thing. Now we have something more spiritual to talk to talk about and he's looked it it's in the Bible. But there's no leadership in this church of today And that brings me back to the point I made the note about that I didn't want to forget. So we're styling right back to where we were, which is good. I don't disagree that there is a leadership problem in the church. Actually one of the reasons why I decided decided to go down the house church path that I took was I felt like it would give me the opportunity to mentor men and develop more leaders within the church, that sort of thing. So it was a it was a it was one of the driving forces behind behind me uh uh leaving behind as I say a band-aid that's that's a way the right way to think about that. Leaving behind the more traditional American model for church and doing a house church. However I think that that also, the way we tend to phrase it and hear it said, begins to also put the finger on what the real problem is. You know, people they expect to get leadership from their pastor. They're looking to the church for guidance. You know, yeah, as far as that goes. But only as far as that goes, the real problem is we're not looking to God for our guidance. We're not looking to his word for the truth and how to make it. The thing is the church should be pointing to that The church should be what directs society in that direction. Think back of like John Knox. He was a a hugely influential political asset of the church in England and the church in Scotland. But the he was the one who dictated what was moral. He was the one who challenged the queen when she was being awful. Eventually she killed him for it. But because he was standing up to her and he was actually challenging society's norms. Where are those Christians today? Well now we're afraid to be canceled, not be killed. Well I I do think those I think that those Christians today do exist. Uh I could you know uh Look, I I think that um it it's been a problem throughout the history of the church. It's been a problem throughout the history of of of man. Mankind, right? Men uh are prone to being derelict in their responsibilities to take leadership. You know, we see it all the way back in Genesis chapter three. You know, that was that was the uh the big driving force behind what's going on there. uh uh Adam abdicated his leadership role. Eve was all too happy to step into the leadership void. And here we are. So I I'm disagreeing with that, but there are so many people, particularly in today's world, where everybody's got a podcast. You know, uh I mean heck. We're on the radio. I mean if we can be on the radio, come on. So so everybody's got some sort of a platform now and everybody's voicing and taking pot shots at the church, whatever that's supposed to mean Well, you know, my experience, generally speaking, when I'm reading the Bible, is the pot shots end up getting taken at myself. Right? I'm reading the Bible and I'm convicted. And so I think we need to, that's when when God is the leader, when when we're looking to God for our answers. We have a tendency to looking at a mirror at that point, and we see the warts and freckles of our own complexion, and we realize I'm falling short. So yes. There are far and we've talked about on the show before, so I'm I'm not opposed to uh we've named names before on this show. I'm not opposed to that. There are some really bad actors, some horrible pastors and and leaders within the church dropping the ball. But if that's where it begins and ends, and let's say you're listening to the show and you're a man, you're like, yeah, those pastors, okay, that's fine. But now what about you? Yeah. It it it's not just the churches that this is the that we're calling to to account for this. It's every single Christian Everyone has some kind of sphere of authority, whether it be just as an individual putting to death the sins in your life, whether that be your family. leading them effectively, whether that be your church, you have an awesome influence in your church. And even within the state. Go out there and make your voice heard as a Christian. And m make sure everyone knows what your values are and knows that you that they should respect them. Yeah, I think uh the society and culture is As even the uh missionaries and frequent street preachers and all those, it's all about saving lives, but not really about discipleship. We've talked about this before And so there's a real lack of where to go where do we go now? We're looking for s something, searching for something, and as we're searching, then we try to connect the dots where there may not really be a dot there and or line that goes from point A to point B but we're trying to Now the Bible does say well God puts people in authority, right? country unless God allows it. And so with things like that, people are trying to connect those dots. So is God doing this? Is he working through Trump? Well, I was kinda disgusted. I mean I voted for Trump. I did. And uh but now he's become pro choice. He's uh uh totally against um you know it's it's a baby and you Yeah, if if if it's not a baby, then you're not pregnant. Simple as that. Right? Yeah. And that itself has really killed my desire to vote for him. I didn't want to do it. And it's on the agenda for us to uh get to maybe not in this show, but according to a series of shows along hot topic current events events in the summer and trying to put a biblical lens on it and talk about the theological implications. And I've got some thoughts on that as well. I want to amplify what Imran just said and Elijah probably does too. By the way, good opportunity to uh reset I'm Troy Skinner. This is the faith that you just heard Imran Razvi, uh conquered by love uh. org is his website. He's uh one of the pastors at the church at least at Imrans, and Elijah Dirksen is a seminary student pursuing his master's of of a divinity uh degree and so uh that's typically the degree you get when you want to become a uh a pastor or get really serious about uh uh your mental And so that's uh the path that he is on. So you talk about trying to find these connections and looking for some sort of mystical, spiritual, oh, this is what's going on in the world. How do I make sense of this all? And we talked about Ephesians 6. 11 already. Another thing that happened in the aftermath of the uh attempt on Donald Trump's life was the the the fact that the uh bullet grazed his right ear And so he got blood on his right ear. Would you like to expound upon why I'm mentioning the the right ear and the blood, Imran? In Leviticus, God uh told Moses to to uh sanctify Aaron and his uh sons. And they sacrificed a a an animal and used the blood to anoint the right ear, the right thumb, and the right to uh toe. And it became very evident, um and and and we I've heard pr uh pastors preach on this, that he's been anointed. He's got blood on his right ear, right thumb and right toe. And why right toe? Well he was s uh seen and heard uh saying that I need my shoe, my shoe is off. So who took his shoe off when he was shot in the ear to anoint his toe? And again, anointing This is this is his own blood first of all and there was a person that died. It wasn't an animal that was sacrificed. It was a person I don't know that God is out there in the in the business of sacrificing people for for it himself. Um he's killed people out of uh anger. Of course Jesus, yes, but but that's it. I mean that's Jesus. So he's not doing that and Jesus rose from the dead. Right. And it's him h offering himself up as well. I mean the whole but there's so many things that are missing. So somebody who hasn't you know studied the Bible or or cracked their Bible open in a while, particularly in a book like Leviticus, right, that's that's the part where people start to read read the Bible in a year program and then get to Leviticus and by that point they're Interesting really critic your family has a prophetic insight here. So here are a couple of things. I'm not I don't want to spend this isn't a Bible study, I but I do want to kind of just make the point. So picking up in in it's in Leviticus chapter 14 I think is what Imran's talking about. And picking up with verse 12, then the priest shall take one of the uh the one male lamb and bring it near for a guilt offering. So Was there a priest uh on the stage with Donald Trump on that day? Yeah, that Secret Service lady that was bowing behind him. Was there a male lamb anywhere near what was going on? Was there a guilt offering happening? Was it a religious ceremony? In other words, it was happening. No, it was a political ceremony. anointing with the blood of the lamb, it pointed to a greater lamb sacrifice. That that that's the point of this. It wasn't this made these priests so great. It was, we're going to sanctify these priests by pointing to Jesus, who would be sacrificed for them in the future. It goes on to talk about the male lamb being slaughtered. uh offered up as a burnt offering in the sanctuary. Again none of this was present uh on the on the day the the former president was was shot at and and hit in the ear Priest shall then take some of the blood of the guilt offering. I'm losing my lines here And the priest shall put it on the lobe of the right ear of the one to be cleansed, and on the thumb of it wasn't on his lobe. I never saw any blood on his thumb. Was there were there pictures of blood on his thumb? I never did see I I don't know. I mean grabbed his ear. Yeah, and it got on his hands, right? 'Cause he reached up and so it's definitely done on the specific but that yeah, that's not the same I Anyway, and I I don't know. I guess the only way that you could talk about the right toe is if somehow blood dripped onto his big toe when his shoe came off. Which is bizarre by the way, right? They're running trying to go and say, Wait, wait, wait, let me get my shoes. You wanted to be comfy. Why didn't they take the shoes off Or did they tackle him and knock him out of his shoes or something? Like I that was that's bizarre. But then his sock would have to come off too, unless the blood went through the sock and I mean That's just the you're you're grabbing at things and yeah, he probably used his right hand to touch his right ear and got blood on his thumb. And then uh you know, maybe maybe one secret service agent stomped on his foot and he had to take his toe out to rub his toe with his the bloody hand and now his toe is uh got blood. I don't know. But there are pastors that that were been actually pushing this all through summer. The the been several different churches, several different pastors have been on the air and putting videos on how this is just an anointing from God and how Trump is gonna be here, he's gonna save this country, he's gonna save these people, it's gonna save Christianity. I don't think, hey that's true I think God's going to use Trump as he wants to. But I don't think no. Well God is using Joe Biden as he wants to. People see this as well he God sovereignly protected him from being assassinated. That's true. But the same would also apply if Joe Biden had a near missile in assassination It was still part of God's plan for Him. This will blow some people's minds who aren't used to thinking this way. God sovereignly His hand was sovereignly involved in the assassination attempt. Yes. Right? Nothing happens outside of God's control or is not sovereign. Absolutely. So I okay, yeah, he's protected from what God orchestrated to begin with. What I would disagree with would would be this is uniquely part of God's plan as opposed to every anything else that's happening, which I is I think how a lot of people are using it. Just God specifically intervened in this particular instance but no other time because Trump is God's anointed. I don't think I don't buy that Now here's uh uh Brandon Biggs, apparently is this gentleman's name, and this made the rounds big time on social media. Let's let's hear what uh this uh prophetic uh prediction of the Trump assassination. apparently made back in March of this year, March 15th, I guess. He said this on his on his podcast or somebody's podcast or something. Oh I saw a a red wave coming out of um Michigan and then I saw Oklahoma and there was embers of people and they were all on um these These they had torches all throughout Oklahoma and they were raising up these torches that looked like tires and they were bringing forth a new patriotism upon the nation. And it was coming, it was being birthed Now let's pause there for half a second and just Have we seen anything like that? Were there a bunch of torches in Oklahoma? Did I miss that news story? Something about Wisconsin. Attempts on his life. Wait, no, wait a minute. It went whizzing by his ear. In fact, what actually happened in history is that the bullet hit Donald Trump's ear. It didn't whizz by his ear. So that's a factual error in this prophecy. And his eardrum was. Secondly, his eardrum was not busted or whatever he said, right? Yep. So that's two Errors in this prophecy. Let's you know let's give him the benefit. And I saw um he was he fell to his knees during this time frame and he started worshiping He got radically born again during this time frame. I'm talking w people say he's saved now, but he becomes really on fire for Jesus for what so did he fall to his knees worshiping? Yeah. I mean he might have fallen to his knees back there but I don't think he came up worshiping and I don't think he and he never penit he never made a statement that I you know this uh he did give credit to I heard him say credit to God. Did he say Jesus specifically? I don't know if I caught that. I don't know. I I don't remember But he did give credit to God several times and by the grace of God, by God's mercy I'm here. So he gave credit And he was saved because God's on his side. I heard him say that too. God's has he changed But God's not on anybody's side, right? And the question is whether or not we're on God's side. Right? That's the question. And now there's a little bit more to this. I'm not sure uh that I remember how this ends, but let's let's see if there's anything else uh uh interesting. And uh then I saw people interceding when he I and I see him I saw him winning the the presidency uh through great uh the Lord showed me it would go clear into the the Summer great persecution would come on him through the judges and through the um through the law and all these people trying to sue him and all this stuff. But there would be a stop to it and their things would start to to to break free come toward the fall. And then I saw him winning uh the election uh through uh the Patriots coming out and voting. All right, so the law fair, that's not pathetic, that was just in the news, that's news coverage. Uh and the uh whether he wins or not, uh uh whoops, whoa we can give you a free advertisement there for him S NBC. Sorry about that. So there's no no way to know right now whether or not he's gonna win, but he whether he wins or not, I mean he had a fifty-fifty chance of of calling that one. Right This guy's getting credit as being like a true prophet who predicted the assassination down to the detail people were telling me. What am I missing? Am I missing something? To be fair, I I hadn't seen the video before and him guessing the right ear I I can see how some people would think, oh that's that's awesome. He actually he actually predicted it. But yeah This is what I think a lot of the Elijah's a real Christian. He's generous and kind-hearted. Not not like me, jaded and bitter and angry at the world. Okay. Well here here's my jaded part All he's doing is what a lot of uh false teachers and false prophets do. They throw a lot of things at the at the wall and see what sticks. They find something that's plausible, a deeply unpopular president who a lot of people are super angry at Yeah, it it's probably likely that he's gonna get assassinated or have an assassination attempt. Well, okay. So I I'm not alone in this. So you can send your heat hate mail to all three of us. Anyway, that's going to be the conclusion of this week's Faith Debate Show. We're just plum out of time Elijah Dirksen's the last one you heard speaking before me. I'm Teroy Skinner. The other voice you heard today was that of Imran Razby. Find us online at wfmd. com or household of faith in Christ. com. We'll be back next week and we'll be talking about I think the Olympics, that's what's next on our agenda here on News Radio 930 WFMD. Gosh, the mouse again I'm telling you. Meanwhile, this is I mean there's nothing audio being recorded, but else won't jump to the other screen. Mmm. Come on. Wow. Okay. Ah, now it's over on the screen. That's just bizarre. Okay, now I can find a sort of thing. MSNBC was controlling your mouse. See that? It's and control everything. Alright, so let me uh trim up that last two minutes of dead air that got recorded. Otherwise that will air. That won't be good. Let's try this again, let's guess. Wow. Take me a minute to find the end of this. There we go. Now I can find the end. And there we go. All right. Daddy you No, you can't use a computer on you. We're busy using it to record the show, okay? Yeah. Yeah. Uh Let's see. Let me save this. If you want to plug Esther again during the break, you can. Let's see While we're waiting for uh Troy here to get ready for the next uh session, if you're watching this on Rumble or if you're watching this on on uh Facebook uh live um take a look at don't beahayman. com go there and don't be a heyman right this is a ballet of aster We're going to read the entire book of Esther to a music score, ballet, and then in between there'll be uh several sections of ball of ballet. Um with the it's gonna be really nice. It's gonna be down in Rockville on September seventh and eighth. Just a month before uh the years up for when uh Israel was attacked horrendously And this is to show that you don't want to be Haman, you don't want to go against Israel or God's people, uh 'cause God is a lot more powerful and he does have uh um have uh his eye on on his people. So again this is a ballet that we wrote. It's it should be a lot of fun. Please come out and see it. Tell your tell your friends, tell your church. And hopefully uh you will have it sold out September seventh and eighth, down in Rockville. All right, very good. Guys ready to jump back in the next show? All right, we're gonna start recording episode two for today Wow. Good morning. Welcome to the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday habits uh with us here. And I know some people it is a habit. I hear people say, Oh, I listen to you every Sunday as I'm doing this or doing that. So uh appreciate that And hopefully last week we didn't uh alienate you too much with what we had to say, as we we we talked a lot of religious bubbles, I think. We were talking about all the fake theology that surrounded the Trump assassination. uh attempt. Uh I told it was only attempt as this airs. Uh because as this airs, the election hasn't happened yet and uh who knows what could happen between then and now if a time capsule episode. I'm Troy Skinner. Uh you're listening from Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. You can find us online at WFMD. com. Also at my church's website, Households of Faith in Christ Joined this week again by Elijah Dirksen. He's a seminary student and uh has a uh a long loving history with the um The family that's represented uh at at the uh at the as a figurehead, the the the head of the family, Imran Razvi. Uh and uh the Imran is the pastor of the Church of Mises. in Ron's house and also the founder of Conquered by Love Ministries online at conquered by love dot org. So uh as we uh are giving voice to these words on today's program, the Olympics are are are uh underway and some things have happened rather noteworthy that won't be forgotten by some people for a long, long time. Uh by the vast majority of the population, they were forgotten about five minutes after they happened. I understand that Uh I don't want to beat to death the whole opening ceremony thing with the the uh the Last Supper and Dionysius and and all that sort of stuff. Um but I think we need to talk about it to put a a good biblical lens on it. And there are other things related to the to the Olympics as well. Uh first off, are you watch like Are we watching? As the Olympics was happening, were you watching the Olympics, Elijah? I wasn't watching the opening ceremonies. I wa I I was watching a little bit later on, but that was before I actually figured out what was going on. Makes your stomach stomach sick. It really disheartens you. Yeah, I have not watched a single second of the Olympics in quite a number of years now, so I I can't remember the last time I watched it actual live well none of them are live these days. Actual broadcast as it was happening kind of you know broadcast thing. I I can't remember the last time and I I I made my living in sports radio for quite a number of years So I was a sports guy, a sports junkie uh uh unfortunately in too many ways. And I lived and breathed this stuff. So I've I've just I haven't watched an NFL game in over two years. Um I haven't watched a Major League Baseball game in probably three years. Can't remember the last time I watched an NBA game. I mean it became a League of Thugs and I just was how are you filling this void in your life with all this force that you're doing. It's amazing. I've been able to read more, uh you know, spend more time with family, do more faith debate shows. Uh yeah, it's it's amazing But did you happen to see it when it was happening, Imron? the family for certain things. And yeah, we watch usually Maryland Terrapin's um uh football and basketball that's we went to and uh we s you know We got our kids involved in that, but we don't watch any professional sports. And uh Olympics we used to watch a lot. We used to be glued to the TV watching the Olympics, but we really haven't for the last several cycles. And this time it just was disgusting. I mean I heard it, I posted it on social media, I heard it on the news, on the radio, and I'm like, wow, what in the world is going on? And I was almost afraid to look. I I didn't want to actually see what these people were saying. You can't unsee this. Yeah, and what was your uh an initial reaction and has it changed, Elijah? My reaction to all this is this is the world taking their victory laugh over Christianity. This is them saying I we ha we have you guys conquered you don't have any power here we can do anything to you we want Hmm. That's an interesting take. I don't know if I accept the premise of that take. Well I don't I don't accept the premise. I am looking at it from the point of view of the Olympics, the world, the the world system. Yeah, now there are people who are listening to what we've said so far and already crawling out of their skin because you Christians are taking it out of contact. Okay, listen. This is my understanding These are just facts, okay? This isn't me trying to put a Christian take on it or a secular pagan take on it or anything like that. This is just, these are the facts of the situation. Based on what has been is i unless it's been expunged from the social media records and stuff. You know, they're all on record on s on these points I'm about to bring up. It's really unassailable unless they're changing the facts, which in a George Orwell 1984 world is certainly within the realm of possibility. Yeah, well that's a teaser of next week's main topic, by the way. So these are the facts The organizers did intend to make a connection with that now very popularized image of debauchery to to mimic and draw attention to a connection with the Last Supper. It but they also they weren't merely doing that, they were also making connection from that last Last Supper imagery to imagery about the whole uh Greek god and goddess pantheon, uh Dionysius uh particularly, and all of that sort of stuff. But even that is part of the Mockery, it's i i if this is where Elijah would go anyway. Because they're saying, look, Christ is no different than these other gods He's basically just as debauched as they are. One God's the same as another God. And in fact, the fact that the Lord's Supper imagery then morphed into this other thing It's as though the one was superseded by the second thing. Well, the blue man superseded the Last Supper imagery, and so that's to put Christ underneath the the blue Greek god of fertility or whatever the heck that was supposed to represent. So that's all part of what's going on. And let me just finish one last factual thing. The other thing that a lot of these these countries do when they host the the the the the Olympics, the opening ceremonies It gives them an opportunity to talk about their culture, their history, what's important to them, the touchstones of of who they are as a people. And so this is the French telling us who they are. And so that's why you've got a decapitated uh woman talking in part of the opening ceremonies. That's why you've got all this debauchery. This, you know, my my father-in-law said, I can't believe they did this. French, uh uh France, uh th they're a Christian nation. Well, first of all, that's a debate about what a Christian nation is or isn't. Can there even be one? But if they ever were, they're certainly not now, and the French are going out of the way to tell you so in the opening ceremonies of the Olympics. That's part of the narrative. Look, we're enlightened now We're all inclusive. We let all this debauchery stuff not only let it come in, but we celebrate it. We throw a party for it. It's bigger than Jesus Christ. It's bigger than the Last Supper. Those are the facts of the reality. Now, what's our reaction as three Christian men to all of that? We need to do better. We need to show them that they need to respect Christianity. Now they don't. But how do we do that? How how do you sh how do you make somebody respect you or show them that we're gonna be respected, gosh darn it? How do we do that? We need to actually have opinions in culture again. A lot of times we've had The uh the members of you listen to the faith debate show churches everywhere. They pull out of society, they pull out of culture because oh, it's a lost cause. It's all all gonna go bad. It's never gonna be good I you see so so many pastors, even people that I respect a lot, like John MacArthur, say, we lose down here. We're never going to win. We're only going to lose. Now in fairness, first of all that clip is like decades old and uh you gotta be careful because that's like proof texting out of the Bible. Uh i if you take him in this fuller context, even within that moment, but certainly the the broader context of his ministry career Uh I I don't think that that's what defines MacArthur's take. I will say though that it is an Achilles heel for the dispensational theology that dominates the American church. landscape. Because you aim at what you you you hit what you aim at. And if you're aiming at just getting out of here without without having to fundamentally change society before that happens. And in in fact, you get a benefit if society gets worse. I I know a lot of dispensationalists will say, well we still need to do the work. But it gets better for them if things get worse. It's not automatically going to make it make it a game change though, right? I mean Jeremiah spoke it boldly about the truth and things didn't change for the better. Right. But it takes a really strong will that I don't know if a lot of the church has to go against what you think is best for you. But what's a platform? See, what is what is the church's platform? Church's platform is the church's the the media and and they're 'cause they're not involved in entertainment. The problem is we are so rich in fat that we are like Rome and that we are just inundated with uh with entertainment. And look at these people that are getting fifty million, hundred million, five hundred million, seven hundred million dollar contracts to play a sport to entertain us. Okay. Yeah, it was I think seven hundred uh twenty million dollars was a record deal but for some baseball player just recently, um, to play baseball. Does he deserve it? Sure he deserves it. That's all that's how it should be. That's how capitalism is and you you you demand what you're worth. But Christians are not in that arena. They're not in the entertainment arena. They're taking care of their families, they're taking care of uh uh their the their fellow men uh you know helping people around, they're not out there trying to entertain. And if we have left that arena and and there are few Christians, or s uh supposed Christians in Hollywood. There are a few people who stand up and many of them get cancelled, don't don't get uh movie roles, don't get T V roles and and get harassed and harassed and harassed to get 'em out of there. Um but it is uh the Hollywood is dominated by uh genetic Jews is a lot of genetic Jews I'm saying because they're not practicing Jews. There's a lot of Jews in entertainment. And uh they've really lost their connection with God and spirituality and they're doing this garbage out there. So I think that's one of the problems. That's dominating the airwaves of everyone in this country around the world. That's what they're seeing. And so in my family is Muslim from Pakistan and that's what they see. They see this and they see this as a Christian country and and like uh Laddy said, you know, this France was a Christian country or you said I don't remember who my my my call him out, but my father in law was shocked because I can't believe France did this French. I mean the French people, but that's a Christian nation. I was like Dad. But then the book they haven't been a Christian nation, i if you want to argue that there even is one. That since since the French Revolution. Right. That's like a couple of weeks ago. Your dad sees this, but uh think about it from from the Muslim world or from the um Hindu world or from the um Buddhist world. They s they still see this as a Christian nation and they see this is what they're doing. And now that's a recruiting tool for them away from Christianity. Well absolutely people like I think it's Andrew Tate. became a Muslim because he looked at Christianity, he looked how weak it was, and he thought, I want strength, I'm gonna go to the the the religion that has principles. Yeah and I wanna I wanna uh address the Andrew Tate thing. I had a note to to do that and uh Elon Musk similarly. Uh but be before I I I get into that, just to put a a cinch on what the brute facts are, there's nothing new under the sun and all we have going on here with this Olympics mo uh opening ceremony is the dog returning to its vomit. The Olympics started out as debased entertainment. You know, this uh the the the the the the Greek wrestling of the time that was featured in the Olympics was nude guys grappling with each other and then other reasons. reasons, you know what I'm saying? I mean they're racing across the field in the buff. Like that's not, you know, decorum. That's not modesty. This stuff was just debased and debauched from the beginning and they're just returning back to their to their roots. Now it was sanitized somewhat uh over the last you know hundred or so years and the era that we grew up watching it on TV, you know, the Olympics in the sixties, the seventies and eighties, it was wholesome. It was it was good family entertainment. And uh you said earlier and I I I I don't know if I said it, but I I was gonna say that until recently I would have never missed a moment of the Olympics. You know, I was hanging on. That's why the nineteen eighty hockey team's win was such a big deal because The Olympics were front and center in my life and in so many people's lives. But that's not what it was once upon a time, and that's not what it is now. And the Olympic costumes of these That's something I wanted to mention actually is have you seen what these uh gymnasts and swimmers like these synchronized swimming ladies It's like pornography. Like nothing. Nothing left to the imagination in some instances. They might as well be nude. It's like stuff that Unless it's your wife, you shouldn't see. Right. And it's on oh that was in the opening ceremony too, by the way. Did you pick up on that? There was one guy who had his uh junk hanging out Oh, is that the blue guy? No, no, no, no. One of the uh like probably the guy that was supposed to be like, you know, the Apostle John or something. I don't know, one of the people on the main stage. He was wearing black. And if you it's n now I'm gonna draw people's attention if I do. But uh if you pay just like a couple of things. What is it I'm looking at? And I was like, it can't be. And so I zoomed in and sure enough he's got his junk hanging out On national international television. But but y y you you also remember that after this opening ceremony there was uh literally tens of thousands of French people in the streets singing hymns, singing uh Christian uh you know, modern songs as well and protesting. So there were a lot of Christians and that comes to my point. It's just they're not involved in the entertainment side You know? Recibens, real solid you're saved, um, dying for Jesus Christians, but they still have some Christianity in there, so they were offended enough to come out and sing And uh uh do that. Yeah, Christianity used to drive society. We had a a country that was based on Christian principles that no matter how many people How many people decide, oh, that that's a horrible thing. It's true. You you look at the common law that our country was founded with, they're pulled straight from the Bible. So cultural Christianity is something that we used to have, now it's reversed. Now we have society and worldly culture infiltrating the churches. Yeah, culture is changing the definitions in the Webster Disc dictionary. When the Webster Dictionary was based on the Bible and now the definitions are changing as we speak, as as something happens in culture, they change the definitions Now uh you mentioned uh Andrew Tate who was just a gross individual as far as I'm concerned, and uh and Elon Musk who was an anti-hero. Uh some people want to hold him over as his great hero. I think he's a he he's a hero by accident for the most part. most part because his worldview does not match a biblical worldview. So he's an anti-hero. I think that we run a really grave risk as as followers of Christ if we start pointing to um Muslims like Andrew Tate, like gross Muslims like Andrew Tate. And uh and anti-hero uh self-professing, well maybe I might possibly be a cultural Christian Elon Musk. Uh we point to that because Elon Musk uh uh publicly said that, you know, Christianity's problem basically is it's tooth toothless. It needs to be get some teeth in Christianity again. I think we gotta be careful because they don't have a Christian worldview. Well absolutely. And I'm not so sure that those sentiments of we gotta get tougher and we gotta be get put teeth in our bite and stuff like that is necessarily a Christian worldview. Not necessarily tougher. He he was saying it if unless there's more bravery to stand up for what's fair and right, Christianity will perish. And honestly, I think I do agree with that sentiment. Bravery doesn't need to be violent. It doesn't need to be Um it doesn't need to be attacking someone else. The uh probably the most the bravest people in history were the apostles getting slaughtered for their faith. I don't see any higher standard of bravery. So in in today's context, what would that bravery look like? Not being afraid of getting canceled. Actually. Speaking up and so you and I are doing that right now. Imran's doing that right now. So we are the church. We're being brave. Hopefully. So I right? I I I'm not I just don't s I think that these the that we wag our finger of accusation uh saying the church needs to, you know, there's the there's the the um In my theological circles, there's a distinction drawn between the visible church and the invisible church. The visible church, the institutional church, those that we see with our eyes, those that human eyes can see, the visible church. But not everybody or everything that comprises the visible church is actually the church. Not all Israel is Israel. So there's the church that God sees. And so that's the invisible church, meaning it's not invisible to God, but it's invisible to us. And so some people in the church shouldn't be in the church. And some people that aren't in the church yet, uh God sees them as his elect, and they're they're they're maybe they're they're you know they're being drawn, they're gonna be in the church tomorrow. They're not there today, but God knows they're his, that kind of whatever, there's this distinction I would argue that those that are the church are being brave, are standing up for what's right, are living their right their lives righteously as consistently as they possibly can. And those that are weak in the knees, like the David Frenchers of the world or you know, that uh I think at this point we have to we have to suspect that they just have a false profession of faith. They do and and also Christians that actually go to church should hold their passport. accountable and the church leadership accountable because that's really where the money is, right? So like that church down wherever it was they started doing those videos of movies that actually were uplifting and have cr uh Christ standard uh meetings. I I don't know they haven't done any in a while, have they? Yeah you're talking about the Kendrick brothers, uh Alex and uh I don't know what happened to I think they're still doing movies. They're not as high property. Sure What pictures maybe I think was in the end. They started doing that again there was uh they gathered enough money from the church from all the people and they actually decided to try to fight back against culture. That can happen. Uh you know, you as an individual, me as an individual, I just as an individual, we just don't have the funds to fight against this jaggernut of uh you know entertainment and and cycle with all this money that's involved, we can't do that. We can't buy um you know twenty million dollar TV spot on on Yeah, and and trust me, I get it. You know, I I try to take the whole council of God into account. And so we are to be salt and light And so we are to be uh to salt preserve what is good, uh to give flavor to the world, to uh the light casts out all darkness and so we'll expose the the you know the the best disinfecting is sunlight kind of thing. All that is true. But our primary mission isn't to win the culture war, right? Our primary mission is to preach the gospel and then make disciples. Yeah. But if we do that, culture is naturally going to be affected by it, right? Right. So I'm concerned that we've got the tail wagging the dog. I think that's my pushback by the way on the thing. It's like, you know, we've we've got to preach the gospel and then uh hold accountable those that are Christians. We should evangelize, but that evangelism should have an effect on the culture. E if I become a Christian, I'm gonna live like a Christian. I'm not gonna separate my Christianity from my world from my society. We talked a few weeks ago, maybe a few months ago, about that uh great big thing that they did on Superbowl Sunday with uh Ease one of us and he gets us. That campaign was supposedly started by you know people like from Hobby Lobby and other Christians, but it was such garbage. Mm-hmm. It had nothing. It had baseless complete I mean if you're gonna do it, if you're gonna spend your money You gotta at least have Christians that are that have strong faith and understand the Bible to do that. And they didn't. They they're still trying to appease everyone that they appease no one. If he guts if he gets us were a food group, it would be a cancer causing, sugary laden, you know, garbage treat, right? I mean that's what it is. Yeah. So so th the uh I mean that was another another attempt, uh like the Kendrick brothers that to go after culture, but that was such badly done and then we have the the Jesus movie. We have several again they're led by Mormons or Seventh day Adventists. And that's one of the things that Daniel, my son, often talks about is all a lot of these so called conservative uh movements are led by non Christians. You know, Blaze TV is run by Mormon, right? Um uh you know this is Trump's Freedom Network, whatever it's it's by Trump who's not really a professing Christian. He said He you know he says, Oh by God's grace I'm here, but he hasn't repented, he hasn't uh led in prayer, he hasn't uh you know and and again, one of one of my big litmus tests for that is does he value life like God values life and he does not. He has completely gone away from uh pro-life to pro-choice In the last handful of minutes we will have on this episode is the foot to uh talk about the other big uh theologically charged uh story from the Olympics, at least as we are recording to this episode, who knows? the Olympics aren't quite over yet as we record this. So something more could happen. But the the uh two uh boxers from uh countries uh one Algeria, I think, and the other one, I forget where they're uh where they're from, but um biologically male apparently, fighting against women. uh in the boxing ring. Uh we have time for some quick you know takes on that. his jawline, his face, everything that's stubble, he looks like a man, he doesn't look and and they're saying he's Malgeria and Algeria doesn't doesn't allow transitions. And he was actually born with a XY chromosome, but with the female genitalia, and so he's actually a female, he's always been a female in his life. But he failed the genetic test. And he has the bone structure of a man. Yeah, so I think to be accurate, I think he's intersex rather than transgender. I think a lot of people have been pointing that out and I I don't want And again, I don't know the truth. Because these days you don't know what you're doing. But it does seem like there was sure he had too much testosterone. Well and but it's more than that. Apparently down to the genetic level has X and Y chromosomes. The bone structure, the muscle structure is all of a man. They tested that's all man m uh it's a man, so there's women that are fighting a man. Well what we know for certain is it's not a woman. And and that's the p uh a side point that that's what gets me so disgusted about today's uh movies and stuff. All these women, these short little five foot nothing women are beating up these giant six foot five men that are bodyguards and again and that's why these new Marvel things are not showing. That the new Marvel movie that just came out, it's been a hit. Why? the two m main characters are men. But this this whole transgender issue is the reason why we have that is because we've abandoned biblical principles Biblical principles bring logic and order. When we abandon those, kick those out, say those are wrong, then we end up with madness. And that's what we have. And I just want to say, you know, any uh man or someone that uh has a lot of uh uh man, male, masculine things going on in their DNA and their body chemistry and what have you. Um the fact that they would desire to get into a a ring and start just pummeling a woman says something about the psychology of that individual to me, right? I mean that's the psychology of a wife beater Right. That's that's the psychiatology of an abuser. Like who who wants to do that? Now we we don't talk about this that often. How did he not withdraw after he sees sees his opponent in tears breaking down? There are uh the It it's uh the you know, I don't know what the percentages are. It's it's less than a percent or whatever of these odd medical abnormalities that we're in a fallen world and and bad things happen in the fallen world. So you have these confused situations And so this individual might fit in that situation, but knowing that he's got this enormous physical advantage. He wants to go pummel women in the face. I don't I don't understand the fact that the fact is the IOC allows it. And they feel they feel it's more important to be fair to this person It's fair to the women's sports and the women that that are actual women. You know what? If he doesn't uh if he is not allowed to box or he, she whatever you want to call him, he's not allowed to box, it's nothing in the world And it's okay. We don't get to do everything you want to be. I wanna be on on the on a jet that I own. I d I can't do that. Well and that's what Imran Raz before that was Elijah Dirksen, I'm Troy Skinner, and you know we're right because there was a big blackout that happened at the Olympics, and that just proves that God's on our side, right? So that's just the way that goes Anyway, this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find us online at wfmd. com and at household of faith in Christ. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless. And we didn't talk about the French trying to push over their climate agenda by feeding everybody vegan stuff and the fast they need protein Well. Yeah, we can talk about I'll I'll make that. And uh they also wouldn't let the uh the air conditioners. Yeah. Climate change. Well they're just gonna kill all of their athletes and that's apparently gonna be better for the environment, so Yeah. Let me uh trim this up real quick. We'll get into the next one. By the way, we got another sixty seconds probably if you want to promote your thing. Yeah, that's up to you. That's all right. If they haven't gotten it by now, they're not gonna get it. Uh now that's really close to the uh the wedding, isn't it? Yes, week before the wedding. We are so busy at our house. Eliza. So my wife and I were just gonna fly up for the ballet and just stay through the wedding. Yeah, Eliza was out there working on the backyard too. Oh yeah. I lost five pounds today. I wouldn't be surprised. Alright, we got a couple of uh stray hairs we didn't get to in the first couple of shows. I'll start with those and then uh and then we'll switch into some of the other things we talked about, the all the Tamil stuff and DEI and how that relates to biblical stuff. But let me uh Save this first Tell us you got a little stim By his uh his thing over there. How about Aluska? You haven't felt your game? Yeah. Yeah? Okay. We have to work on being quiet, okay? Can you do it? Can you be quiet? Oh. No, you can do it. Right? You're good at it. Okay. All right. Okay. Raise your hand. Okay. It's funny, that the movie thing gets me and they they don't make that connection. This new Marvel movie is a hit because the two People that are beating everybody up are male. Well, it's just appealing to its audience. But all these women that were being charged with Marvel movies all failed and they don't know why. What it must be the Marvel, it must be the the Marvel universe at an end. We can't seem to figure out why it's failing now. I'll just go hate somebody. It's men we're supposed to protect Good morning. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930, WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Find us online at WFMD. com, also at Household of Faith in Christ Last week we were talking about the Olympics and we had a couple of things left that we didn't get to last week, so we're going to bring those up this week. And um two weeks ago we were talking about the aftermath of the Trump assassination. There was one thing uh in particular I wanted to bring up. And we never got there, so we'll bring that up, and then we'll switch gears and get into what the scheduled topic for today was going to be. And here to do that with us is Elijah Dirksen. He's a Um seminary student pursuing his master's of divinity. That's right. Master of Divinity. And uh Imran Razvi, he's a master of his own domain. Uh he is the pastor of the Church of Misa Imran's And uh Imran's House, and he's also the founder of Conquered by Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. org. And so let's pick up where we left off last week with the uh The Olympics, 'cause there was there was more. We talk about the the whole Last Supper thing and the the boxing fiasco, um, the accusations of the uh Christian church being toothless and easy to be g be tougher and and be more culturally uh engaged and And that sort of thing. I even jokingly talked about the blackout. Uh which is funny because uh in one video of the blackout in the background you can see a a Christian Christian structure fully illuminated while the city surrounding it is in the dark, so that just adds more grist for the mill uh uh on that one. But you were mentioning as we were wrapping up last week's show, Imran, that there's so much more about the globalist anti-Dod, anti Bible agenda that was pushed during the Olympics. So you want to talk about what some of those things were? I don't remember what we were doing. Oh well what had to do with the food. Yeah, the food. Right. So these are athletes, right? They need high protein. They need meat to be able to compete and to be at the top level. And they get there to the to the Olympic Village and it's vegan food. In fact they passed a law specifically that they're not allowed to source any eggs from outside of France and somehow they didn't have enough eggs. That that would take plants had enough eggs for these athletes, but they didn't have enough eggs. So these athletes are expected to compete at their peak level on vegetables. And the rich countries brought their own chefs and food in. Yeah, Australia, England, uh US, um but what about these other countries that d didn't have the resources and funds to be able to support their the athletes. I think it's just pushing their agenda on that. And then they got rid of all the AC units. You know? If you want an AC if you don if you want to be in the heat, turn the AC off. But why push your agenda on other people? Yeah, so the United States apparently um shipped over their own uh air conditioning units so the American athletes could have air conditioning. I mean I'm I've never been to to France, much less in the summer, but I can't imagine their climate is a whole lot different in Paris than it is around here. It's almost a hundred degrees. So that's brutal. Yeah. Well think about it. So what do you do when you don't have God? Well, the next best thing is nature. Nature sustains us. It's idolatry. You're worshiping this the this God of nature. And you do it to the detriment of these people. So they're apostolizing. Yeah. What what But ironically they they what they want to worship well go ahead. What happens when you worship? You give up of yourselves You give things up to the thingy that you worship. And right now you worship the climate, you worship the the government, all these things. They're idols And ironically, it's just not working. Because, I mean, he had uh triathlete retching after swimming in a toxic soup that they call Maybe they could have fix fixed that first. You know, the river that runs through the city is like you know, they got like fish with four heads and seventeen eyes swimming around and But that's just it. It's a contradiction. You you virtue signal signal in one area, but then the other areas are just they fall to pieces because there's no foundation for it. There's no foundation for idolatry. Now, if you try to research the facts that we're throwing out here, you might not have success because uh things being retconned left and right. And two weeks ago you were talking about the uh the attempt on uh Donald Trump's life in Pennsylvania, which by the way You almost want to be able to say it was just gross incompetence, but nobody is that grossly incompetent. I mean, come on. But if you try to look into it and you start to go into the search engines and you type in assassination attempt of, you can put in the T and the R and the U and in my case the M and the P and still not get any you know it starts to auto-populate and it suggests what you're looking for Nothing! Nothing! What what shows up is the assassination attempt on Truman, which was over what six, seventy years ago? So the the incredibly famous uh Truman assassination attempt that we all think about and talk about first, right? Yeah, I mean Lincoln's assassination would come up, Kennedy's, Ford. I mean, you know, all and Trump has had other assassinations attempts on his life, by the way, that we don't hear a whole lot about. During his first presidency they they snuffed out some some stuff before it got as bad as what happened in Pennsylvania. But s they're they're censoring all of this stuff in order to uh mask the fact that their their agenda agenda and their nature wort nature nature worship isn't working, I guess Well they don't they don't want people focusing on it because it's so obvious for anybody that looks at any j not even leave evidence that this was a hit by the Biden administration, by the Justice Department, or by somebody because they were told to stand down there twenty six minutes. I mean I at this at this stage in in in uh uh day and time we might already pass that it might have already come to that, but uh when we're recording this, it's still everything's being hidden And deny. It doesn't even need to be that. It just the assassination attempt made Trump look good and made him look strong and powerful. That that image of him standing up after the attempt. Yeah. It was remembered for about ten minutes. In fact the me the media had uh petitioned Congress to make that photo illegal because 'cause it was it may cause violence. And the uh Associate Press pulled it and uh said that their uh media stations were not allowed to use it for a while. I mean a iconic picture like that, and that's what they did. So the the media a actually petitioned the Congress to make it make it banned. Now in fairness it's not like Donald went out of his way in his and his talking heads that are on his team went out of their way to draw a lot of attention to it in the aftermath. They got bogged down at a whole bunch of nonsense has nothing to do with his his what should be his talking points and Parf of course for Trump. Yeah, yeah, he's yeah, he's a he's a he'll loose cannon for sure. He's all over the place. Every once in a while that cannonball hits the target, but sometimes it'll off target. I'm gonna fall back to idolatry. This is idolatry of the state, idolatry of power. And guess what gets sacrificed when you worship power and what you when you worship the authority that the government gives? Well, let's throw truth on there. No one no one needs truth. We can sacrifice that to our God of power. Now while all of this is going on that we're talking about, you know, the the Trump assassination attempt, the the Olympics nonsense uh followed by more Olympics nonsense, there's uh it almost got lost in the shuffle uh i in in large measure it seems to me. Uh Bibi Netanyahu comes to the to the United States to address Congress And while he's here, there's all these protests and the defacing of monuments and stuff and there's spray painting on 'em and and and uh they're basically uh it it's basically death to the Jew kind of rhetoric. But to the Democrats, the most is useful. They don't mean any harm. I mean it's pro-Hamas. This isn't like speculation. There's spray painting. Hamas is coming. Right? We're all about Hamas and Hamas is all about death to the Jew And and also lost in the shuffle on all of this is, you know, the mastermind of 9-11 toxic plea deal. So it doesn't even have to face the death penalty, which would be the biblical uh prescription. Which I guess Biden knew nothing about until they said, Ah, it's a done deal. Yeah, well oh that's believable. Yeah. Either he's lying or he's the he's the most incompetent president Ever. Well, I've said this before, maybe even on this show. So if I'm being repetitive, I apologize, but for years. I mean, before he was even vice president You know, when I started paying attention to politics uh was in the 70s, when I started paying attention to the politics seriously was in the 80s. So my whole life, Joe Biden's been in the public eye. And for my money, until recent years, Joe Biden was the least intelligent senator in the United States. And he was known for being a liar, so much so that Robin Williams did a whole skiff on him being li a liar. He he was never a smart guy. He had to plagiarize and lie and cover his traps because he couldn't get by on his own merits. He was just dumb as about a box as a box of rocks, right? So that's Guess Joe Biden. I think he's only been superseded in uh in ineptitude and stupidity by his yeah, by by his number two. Stupidity loves company. I I will challenge anybody. I would like to see proof that she actually passed I think she either slept with somebody that that passed the bar for her or b or did something. There's no way somebody this stupid, this dumb, that can't put a sentence together could pass the bar. the bar. The bar is not an easy thing. Elijah here passed the bar. My son Daniel passed the bar. It's not that easy to pass. And Ben Shapiro got on the show and said, Oh you know, yeah, it it it was easy to pass. Well it's Ben Shapiro we're talking about. Yeah, so he's a really smart dude. I understand that it was easy for him. But for most people and for somebody to talk like a mala, there's no way he's a big thing. And the other thing is, you know, Ben, he is smart, so don't get me wrong, Ben is a very, very smart guy. But he's also somebody that wants to signal to the world how smart he is. So he's he might have been sweating his brains out during that test. But then when it's over, oh that was a piece of cake, that was easy, because that's how smart I am. So you know I think that was a grain of salt, considering the source So um some people have talked we're pivoting now into the the Kamala Harris thing some people have talked about uh Kamala being a DEI diversity, equity, inclusion hire by the Biden administration. They chose her merely because she's a woman who has non-white skin, right? She's a woman of color. Biden said that on several occasions that he is going to find a woman of color to be his running mate. Yep. So then people push back and they say, Oh, so you're saying that uh you know she's a DEI hire? Now how do you understand Is DEI a good thing or not? Absolutely not. In fact, most of the top companies have already started getting rid of the DEI programs. But the leftists want to say that it's a good thing. Right? Which is why they're saying, oh, she's not a DI higher now. Because Obviously twenty twenty. That like they they that was out and proud. That was uh what they wanted. They wanted to know, hey, I have this black woman or this Indian American woman as my my strength. And this has infected the church. This was a big part of the whole woke church not near fight that was going on and still continues to this day. You know, Matt Chandler is a relatively well known name in Christian circles, particularly Protestant uh Reformed circles. He was a part of the young wrestlers and reforms movement of like twenty years ago or whatever. And so he made a big name for himself. He's got a rather large church in the Dallas area. And uh you know, a lot of his sermons have been very popular in podcasts over the years and that sort of thing. He's he was the up and comer. He was gonna be the next John MacArthur, you know what I mean? Next R. C. Sprole, that sort of thing. What a disappointment that generation of uh reform. guys have turned out to be. Anyway, about five, six years ago, uh at um at a big major conference, Matt Chandler stands up and says, look, the church has to do better. And so like I tell my people, my team, you know, when we're bringing in associate pastors, assistant pastors and stuff, I said, bring me the candidates, you know, and if one guy is, you know, basically if the one guy is white and he's an eight on a scale of one to ten And another guy, he's a seven, but he's black, you know, we're gonna take the seven. Now if he's a six, we don't want to take the six because then that would basically seem like, you know, we're we're not playing fair and it would look bad. It would seem like he's a token higher But if it's a seven, that's close enough. It's still a token higher. So this whole DEI diversity, equity, inclusion thing, um and last thing, we have a diversity, equity, and inclusion officer in the city of Frederick. was hired back in the in uh 2020. And uh I said at the time, there's a tape of it somewhere, I said at the time I said, look Whether or not Frederick City has a problem with hiring and firing people who aren't, you know, Northern Europeans Whether or not that's a problem or not, this guy is going to find that problem because he's been hired to do exactly that. And if he doesn't find that problem, he's out of a job. And sure enough he's found all sorts of evidence of this sort of problem. So it's not biblical, you're saying. DEI. Yeah, the the the main reason why D A D I is wrong is the same reason why racism is wrong. We all come from the same beginning, Adam and Eve. So there's no inherent there's no more value and more recently Noah. But there's no more value to w to one person than there is to another based on their race, their ethnicity. Now, with racism the the trend is to look at it badly and th because of your race. But with DEI, and I would still consider it racism because it's making a value determination based on someone's ethnicity It's just doing that but in a positive way. This race is more valuable than the others, and so we want more of this race. Yeah, it's um I I I think we should rearrange the letters. It should be you know D I E. Yeah, it's about death. It's about killing a culture, killing things Well that that is actually what you said is actually true. They were they're trying to kill the successful this quote unquote white culture of the Being on time, getting your answers right, being respectful, uh being honorable, they're trying to kill all that. And uh because you know those uh things that said these are all racist th those are things that the values that they were racist. You sound like an Oreo right now, Enron. Because you're a person of color and yet you're talking like a white man. And you know, I've had people be racist towards me Uh, 'cause I am b uh brown, right? But that doesn't change what is right and what is wrong. Somebody wants to be an idiot, they're an idiot. They want to be racist, yeah, they're an idiot, they're racist. But that doesn't mean that the system is racist. In fact, I had that same problem with the uh colonial life. They they took the an agency away from me because I stood off and said, No, there's not systemic racism and some you know, lady over there who was black and and decided, Oh, th he doesn't believe in systemic racism, we can't hire him. contract over that. So it's just they're so touchy about that. It's ridiculous. This is I mean, I would venture to say that yes, this country was much more racist a hundred years ago. It's not so racist now except when you try to make it racist, try to divide everybody up and go after each other. And that's DEI does that. And and that's what they're trying to kill. And this uh sinful ethno ethnocentrism 'cause I don't like using the word uh racism because there's there's biologically speaking there's one human race. If you want to add the spiritual component there are two races. Uh You know, the uh but we talked about that before in the faith debate. But it takes on these bizarre forms. Because n uh a controversy in this election cycle now is whether or not Kamala Harris you know, is black or Asian or Indian. And apparently there's all sorts of stuff on tape. You know, Trump got in trouble for saying something about it, but there's now there's a whole bunch of tape that come out. that uh you know Tamala's basically bragging and talking up how she's the first Indian woman who's done this and the first Indian woman who's done that. And even calling yourself an Indian woman is offensive, right? 'Cause, you know, uh Um because it's like calling something Mexican is is right, you you you heard that? There's there's a there's a a a comedian waiting in the wings that the to to come out on the stage and he's a Mexican comedian and the guy introduces him and said, No, my good friend, you know, uh funniest Mexican in the world, blah blah blah. And he comes off the stage, the Mexican guy goes out and uh the The the the MC comes off the stage and behind there's a guy waiting for him like his his face is ashen, he's like panicking. You can't say that. Can't say what? You can't call him a Mexican He's from Mexico, he's a Mexican. That's that's racist, you can't call him a Mexican. We he can't call Kamala an Indian, that's racist Right? You can't call people what they are. But it's interesting, you know, well and then Native American, uh they have the uh other senator from uh Massachusetts. They put so much value in things that don't really matter. She wants to call herself a different kind of an Indian. Yeah, so you get value points for what color your skin is and you're you're elevated to a higher position because of that particular thing you had no control over. That that doesn't make you a better or worse person. Okay, so all of you guys listening, whenever you go fill out any government forms that ask for race or ethnicity or whatever Make your own box and fill in human. I've been doing that for uh decades. I've had the MBA get very mad at me and uh said we don't have a place for this, we can't do this. Well this is against my religion. one race, it's a human race, and if you make me do anything else I will sue you. And they backed out. They actually put human, they typed in a human on the form. Okay. Um at least they said they did, I couldn't see that computer. But I've done that on the passports, I've done that on Ever every place I can I always make my own box and put it in a human. And if it challenges me, I always come back to it. That's a that's against my religion. So I would challenge you guys to do that. And that's that's a good place to start, at least it's someplace, something we can do. Now that doesn't sound very toothless, so you must not be a real Christian. So all the stuff we're talking about, the DEI stuff, somebody's an Indian or Mexican or what have you, or you know, forcing the the Olympian athletes to eat vegan food and go without air conditioning. That all strikes us as very strange, going completely against any sort of common sense, very weird. And yet And Campbell has been called weird for as long as she's been in public office. That's what they want to call JD Vance. And yet yeah. Talk about projection. See, the thing is they're true. They're right though. Family values, Christian values are weird now. They want to make anything that is right to be weird. Not uh right wing, I'm I'm just talking right and good and natural and and godly to be weird because they don't want that They want all the abominations to be natural, to be re ready and to be uh wholesome. They and they want the wholesome stuff that is Christ centered to be weird. And I don't really know J. D. Lance's uh uh uh Christianity or not because he's married to a Hindu and they had a Hindu prayer at the at the uh um uh uh Republican National Convention which was kind of really gagging yeah there. But I don't know what he comes from. I don't know. He converted to Roman Catholicism, you know, as an adult. Yeah. I don't think I I don't know what his I don't think either him or Trump are saved. I I I am extremely disappointed with the public and platform. Uh you know, but uh yeah, I understand what they're doing. Wait till you see the light of their eyes because with poker fire, that's gonna be the main topic for the why they did that though. They would they did that because they know that all these crazy Christians have nobody else to vote for, they're not gonna go anywhere. So now they can go after the independents and Democrats by saying, Oh, we're pro choice and come on over, come on over to our side, vote for us. That's all it is. It's all about power. It's just so sickening But it's also about confusion and flipping ethics. I I do think that they're demonic and d demons want to flip and and choose what's evil over what's good. Make what's evil normal and what's good weird and what is the whatever is strange. Biblical values is now weird. Mm-hmm. This is the real normal. What they're saying is is not. And make no mistake, this is a spiritual battle. This isn't a battle with Kamala Harris and Joe Biden. They're not masterminds. They uh n it's not even in the establishment behind them. It's the demons that are working through these people. And I know I I have people you know that I've known for years and so I'm still connected with them on social media. I used to work with them in other radio markets and that sort of thing And you know, they would count me as a friend. I'd count them as a friend, but man, they they they don't get it, and I think it's because they can't get it, right? The gospel is a mystery. The definition of the biblical definition of a mystery is it's impossible, it's unfathomable for the human mind without God opening your eyes to see. It's impossible to understand without God making it clear to you. So they can't see it. But it's still frustrating that they can't see it. You know, we're talking a lot of politics today, for example, even the last couple of weeks. You don't understand everything's theology. Yes. Right? And so you can say it's about what's right versus left, right versus wrong. There's some truth to that. And this whole Marxist ideology, this leftist ideology, it's what do you say, demonic or it's it really is. Now why do you s why do you say so? I agree with you, but why do you say so? Because it espouses those ideals that Yeah. Or Antichrist Ig ideals. I want to bring up I had my daughter go to Portugal for a study um for surgery for medical school and it was going to be good on resume, so he went there for three three weeks and there were students mostly from America because you can't do that here in America 'cause you uh patients have rights in Portugal they don't. They so they don't have to get permission to have students watch it. and and and and do that. But she was so frustrated. All these super smart kids that were in in pre-med that and they had uh there were a couple of Christians there, a couple of um Muslim there was a Muslim there. Yet all of them were pro choice, pro transgender, pro evil, and they called themselves Christian and Muslim and they're like, What's wrong with No. It's because the school system has totally corrupted them. They have absolutely no idea what they're espousing. And my daughter was was very put off and saying, I can't talk to them to them because I'm surrounded by them all day. It's just they're so in it's so ingrained in them that they become violent if you say anything else. And that's becoming a third rail issue even in insider baseball talks. I was having a conversation earlier today, actually, with somebody. Today as we record, not today as this project. And uh a lot of the same kinds of cultural top of mind issues we're talking about, full of agreement. We're you know preaching to the choir, we're just you know scratching each other's itches kind of thing. And then I mentioned the schools and I said you know the problem is we you know at at this stage of the game the um the the the government run schools are basically burning buildings. Ideologically, we're sending our children into burning buildings day after day after day. And at that point I could tell I lost it. He's like, uh it's a bridge too far because he you know, he sent his kids to public school and you don't we don't want to own our own mistakes and our own Yeah. But even all these homeschool parents are sending the kids to colleges that are totally corrupt and totally corrupting them. And they they wonder why their kids are are changing. They're becoming But up. I want to give one more reason why I think it's demonic. It's because the policies that come out of it aren't good for people. They're not they're not interested in the self the self-interest of the preservation of the human race. Transgenderism, homosexuality, abortion All these things don't provide for the next one. Like the things that Christians would point to and say, well yeah, but they do care about the poor. Yeah, no, no. By stealing from somebody to have equity to f no quote unquote equity so that it's an even flank if you steal from one to give to the other and worse for the poor is demonic. And again, they're not really giv giving up their money. They want other people's money. Yeah. All of these policies hate people. And they can only be demonic. A regular person couldn't have come up with an idea that's worse for humanity. It's not an accident that I think it's something like ninety percent of the abortion clinics are in brown communities mostly black with some Hispanic communities. That's not an accident. It's not an accident that the the marriage rate among the African American population of this country has plunged since the advent of the Great Society in the nineteen sixties. And and it was like eighty percent or ninety percent back in nineteen sixty. I mean it's like polar opposites flipped. And during that time you could have walked in the black neighborhood without any fear of anything because the uh both uh mother and father were there and they were they were uh it was safe neighborhoods. And the percentage of uh young people, the children who were growing up in a family led by a mother and a father was almost all of 'em. Now it's almost none of them. Add on to the the description of the traditional family. Traditional family is the best way to raise kids. I think there's plenty of studies that show that. But that's the main target And it's not that people on the political right get everything correct, in fact we're gonna set our sights there next week, but the the the political left I'm not exaggerating. They get every single issue wrong. It can't be an absolute truth. Every single one. There's not one. So what does that tell you? That sounds demonic to me. I'm I'm gonna amend that one, Elijah. So that was the uh I'm amenning Elijah Dirksen. He's a seminary student who's pursuing his MDiv. Imran Razby on the show again Uh this week he pastors the The Church of Mis at Imran's House also is the founder of Concord by Love Ministries. Concord by Love dot org is their website Uh I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me at WFMD. com and also at household of faith in Christ. com. Yeah, as promised, next week we're going to set our sights on the right, or are they even right anymore? The GOP and all that nonsense. That's our focus on next week's faith debate. So we'll get started about, let's see, let me check my watch. Yep, 167 and a half hours from right on now. God bless The number stays the same no matter what week you're doing, right? Yep. Well it's always 167 and a half hours later. There's 168 hours in a week and we're a half hour show. So to be honest, I have no idea when that thought occurred to me. I used to end every single show with it and then I got a little bit laughing. about some of those little formatic practices. Yeah it's kind of like you know the Carol Burnett tugging on her ears thing, right? It's like I I should do it 'cause it's I don't know anybody else who does it. I think I invented it So long you can take it for Mark Levin says he hates if anybody else uses his stuff. It doesn't give him credit. My goodness, that guy drives me nuts. If somebody else said the same thing he said, he it goes on and on and on for how bad that is. They didn't give him credit. He was the one that first said it. We don't have time for that. I don't care who gets the credit. As long as the way things are being advanced, who cares? I know. It's so it's so funny. I I mean he'll literally spend half hour to an hour just railing on somebody else using his idea that he said a week before or something. I haven't listened to Levin in years. I used to listen to a lot. Uh it's been years. now since I've listened to them. To be honest, a lot of people I s listened to a lot, I stopped listening to during COVID. Yeah. Because they were so wrong on the COVID-related issues. So wrong. Like every single COVID issue they got wrong. I was like, I can't trust you anymore. Yeah. So all right, whoops. Oh, did you know they were wrong? Just in hindsight. Oh no, I was frustrated in the moment. I was like, how Yes, I know. Right? How is it that I can see this old day? I'm little old me and I can see this. How do you not see this? What what was he saying? I I I hadn't listened to him a week before that. You gotta wear the mask. Yeah, but they were pro lockdown, pro mask. You gotta take the back pro shot. You gotta protect. You gotta take the shot. Pro six feet of distance. Now he's distanced himself in from that. But uh they they were all doing that Because again, they will get cancelled. All the media platforms will cancel them if you did not agree with what the government was saying. Mm-hmm. We told you how uh we were trying to sell masks before it became vogue to sell masks and they banned us. They they checked down the entire internet Because of our little store. The entire internet? Well, um the the uh the uh the uh the magazine. Remember that the the competing with Amazon? We tried to list it on Amazon and they said no we can't process it we it shut down on Then we put it on Magazon, which was supposed to be, hey, you're conservative, you can do this, and they shut down the entire magazine. So they apologize. They they called Tammy and apologized to her and said, I'm really sorry. I we want this on there but we can't because they won't let us process anybody's payments if you're on here. Do you have the uh that Tennessee resolution by the way? Is there a website for it? I don't know. Yeah, I can't get my phone. Oh that's right. I I can pull it up. Do you text it to me too? You text it to me and Anisa, right? Oh yeah, yeah. And Anisa, I think. Um I should have had this pulled up. If it had a particular like name or something, if I can search for that name, I'll find I'll be able to find it and pull it up. And while you're doing that, I'm gonna just Yeah they're just the guy that had like a house number or something, right? House resolution number uh eight oh three in the Tennessee House res house of what do you call it? Is it from the Yeah, this must be it right here. Oh, nope. That's not what I maybe it's a link to it. That's not. I wanted a direct link. Can we go find it? Let's try this one. Here we go. This is it, right? Does it start uh whereas our state and nation suffer from violence committed upon our citizens? That's the one. All right. Good morning. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. We are so grateful you decided to pass our way today and spend part of your beautiful Sunday morning. I'm assuming it's a beautiful Sunday. It might be Gray, dreary, rainy, windy. It's still beautiful if you're alive. That is true, right? Yeah. My grandmother before she passed, you know, she's having all sorts of medical issues and you know, was feeling weak in the knees and having some real hard times and she said, uh I'll I'll I'll clean up a little bit for a Sunday morning audience. Ah, it's it's heck's growing old But it sure beats the alternative. So anyway, this is the Faith Divade. I'm Troy Skinner. You heard Imran Rasby chime in. He's the pastor of the Church that meets at Imran's house and also the founder of Conquered by Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. org. We're joined this week again by Elijah Dirksen. This has got to be, I don't know, how many times have you been on the show now? If you know, have you been keeping count? Have a kept account. Something like eight, yeah. Eight, ten times? Something like that? Wow. He's a veteran. Alright. They can start coming after him now. Get the claws out. Uh actually I get the claws out. We're going to get a couple of things. My address is an on file thread yes. station and you all find it. So double getting the claws out. Alright, so we spent the last three weeks uh you know alienating a huge portion of the of of of our listener base. Um I don't know if it's true anymore. Once upon a time I had access to the to the the data who listened to WFMD. And it was surprising actually at the time. It was uh less than half of the audience was registered Republican. at least at the time. And um something like forty percent maybe I want to say. And then um the rest were pretty evenly split between registered Democrat and uh unaffiliated So I feel like the last few weeks we've probably alien alienated all of the unaffiliated and registered Democrat. So this week we're gonna complete the project and we're gonna alienate all the registered Republicans. Well maybe Troy, your audience may be a little more intelligent than the average Democrat and average uh unaffiliated. They might actually want to uh have an open mind to listen to some food. They they clearly must be to be able to decipher my nonsense. You have to be very intelligent week after week to know what I'm talking about. So yes, kudos to you for listening to the fake debate. And and Of course, the the the guest panelists they help to make sense of of my nonsense. So let's start with the the the big one first The convention was in Milwaukee this year, the GOP convention, and They had the perfect opportunity to just go all in on conservative values because if memory serves, it was only days before the convention that Donald Trump nearly lost his life at the hands of an assailant's bullet that hit him in the ear. He has all the wind at his back. He's got all this momentum. He could do no wrong. He was walking on water for crying out loud. And in that moment The RNC decides that they are going to gut from their platform everything that Christians most hold dear. What is going on? Well, I think they felt that they already had the Christian vote and the Christians had no place else to go. So they weren't going after the independents and the Democrats because they're trying to get them to vote for the vote there. That's all it is. It's all politics. They don't really care what they stand for. They just want the votes. Yeah, politics says abortion's a losing issue now. No. More people want to keep abortion and so with the flow, we gotta dump that. And even those people that say, Well, I wouldn't have an abortion, but I don't want to stop you from having an abortion. We we talked about the power hungry democrats last week. Uh maybe even the week before that. Republicans are the same way. It's not a one party's good, the other party's uh bad. It's one party's bad, the other party is maybe even worse. So they had the you know the uh abolish abortion language taken out of the platform They had a a prayer to a demon basically featured on the opening night. And they welcomed a rather Well-known public figure who's only well known as a public figure because she takes her clothes off for public viewing She's basically a you know the equivalent of a porn star. She's a stripper. She's an internet stripper. They have her give one of the uh major speeches uh from the platform. Oh what's her name? Do you remember her name? Rose something I don't remember her name. I don't even want to remember her name because I don't want to give her a plug and have you go look her up. But what are they thinking At the RNC. They're ta you're right, they're taking us for granted. But can they? Have they? Have they lost Christian votes? They're they're trying to be like the Democrats, because they're trying to take the Democratic votes away. That's what they're trying to be like the Democrats And uh you know, look Kamala Harris has this b big, you know, like what, Megan the Stallion or whatever. I wonder kind of stupid name is that, but she fills David's. And uh so What does that even mean? Some rapper that is really gross rapping And so the rapper's name is Megan Miscallion? And so Kamala Harris, uh she was for Kamala Harris, so they had a stadium full and as soon as Megan D. Sally and left, most of the people left, Kamala left was like ten thousand people out of seventy. So it was it was it was crazy. It's uh but that's what the Republicans are trying to do. They're trying to make Mimic the Democrats. Bringing in these, you know, like we which you said the stripper on there to do exactly what the Democrats do. to go after votes. Popularity. And then I think what, once they get elected, if they can even be allowed to be elected fairly any means necessary. That then they will govern conservatively and get away with it? But this is this is why we need to cling to those founding principles. We need to cling to principles and I would say biblically based principles because those don't change. But neither party's left doing that and there is no chance of a third party. So I'm not sure what the political arena is to be in the future. But neither party has any principles left. Well America has become post-Frence Revolution France. I mean that's kind of what it is. That's the end of all. What is truth? What is right We don't know anymore because now we're left with what's popular. Yeah, you know, there's a c I've heard it in church circles, but it applies in this circle, uh in the political sphere too it seems to me, you know, that which it takes to bring 'em is that which it takes to keep 'em. You know, if you're gonna try to attract people into your church by becoming like the world They're gonna leave as soon as your church starts to not share worldly messages. Or you ever give them the bic biblical truth like, Oh, I'm outta here. Yeah. So if he's and that's a great point, it doesn't it isn't just limited to uh political parties, it's the church too. The church wants to be popular and so they're abandoning biblical principles. They want to go with the flow and homosexuality is okay now, abortion is okay now, divorce is okay now. And I'd go so much. It's okay to want to be popular, but with who? We want to be popular with an audience of one, right? We want God to smile down on us. We want him to to say, well done, my good and faithful servant. And we want to love truth too. What happened to that? If my people's hearts were humbled. But they're not. We have no f we it's all about pride, it's all about who who's there. There's no And there's no nobody shining the light anymore. It's gone. And I would say, you ask that question, have they lost Christians? I would say yes. Uh my son, myself, my wife, my other kids, uh The Razzley family is a precinct. Maybe maybe one or two uh we're running time actually one one or two might vote for Trump. But I certainly cannot vote for Trump. But I my my son is not my eldest son was not working for Trump and my wife definitely is not voting for anybody. She's like I'm done. I'm not voting Well, yeah, uh it's probably part of it is the uh the stance is taken on issues and part of it is does your vote even matter anymore, right? I mean it's well he he completely lost my vote and any support that I had for when he said after he lost the twenty twenty election, well it it's all your fault, conservative Christians, because you wanted Roe v. Way overturned. How many babies are alive because of that? And he throws a tantrum because he lost an election. Yeah, I don't think the to the change in Roe v. Wade really saved a lot of babies. I uh But I know it saved some and if it saved one I I don't even know if it did. I think all those people that wanted abortions went across the state line had abortions. I can't believe that I've come to this point of view because I wouldn't have thought so a few years ago. The whole Roe v. Wade thing was a canard. It was actually worse. It was a canard from the start. Yeah. Yeah. It turned into something awful It was worse, what do you mean? I I think uh when Roby Wade was pulled back there was actually more abortions that happened. Oh. There was m people rushing to get abortions because they were so afraid they couldn't have an abortion. There were people that were on the on the on the line whether I mean there's several studies showing that there actually the abortion rate went up after we made this taking out. I'm I'm not a hundred percent sure on that because a lot of the people who are having abortions are more poor, they they can't just take off a weekend and drive to California where multiple millions of dollars coming in for those poor people to drive them across borders. Do that. I can't trust Google anymore, so you I can't say Google this anymore. Search it whatever you want. But the abortion rate actually went up after O we waited And the stats that are shared with us, and you know, you can't trust uh I would say if anything they minimize the numbers probably, but the the numbers say that last year, the fourth leading cause of death in the United States was planned parenthood abortions. Not all abortions, just the abortions is a place of planned parenthood. But the fourth leading cause of death in the United States. And now if you add in all the other clinics that for or hospitals that that uh that murder children or all of the at-home uh uh murder m uh uh child sacrifices are taking place through like ingested drugs and that sort of thing. 'Cause that's the the that's the future now. It's all you know, it's gonna be over the counter. You know. And that drug was ten dollar copay, go kill your baby. That drug was actually made by the Nazis. It was made by the Nazis and it was re-resurrected and brought to the social media. I'm sorry you can't talk about Nazis, you'll be cancelled. The mean German people from the It was a drug to kill. The Nazis, the people that uh fraudulently perpetrated the uh Holocaust, those people? Are we gonna get this show canceled today? We might. I mean come on. Nothing's real anymore. Not that n-word, but the n-word. Seriously. Well uh or nationalist, that one? We'll get to that in a minute. Uh so For years we are told and it's a and uh up until recent years, like the last few years, it was we gotta defeat Roe v. Wade because that would be the game changer. And then as soon as Roe v. Wade gets defeated, well no no, it's really about the states. It's it the it's not about the federal level, it's about the state level. Okay, so let's turn to the states. Let's go to our vaunted conservative Bible Belt States and see what they're up to. Can you think of a Bible belt state that comes to mind that maybe had a resolution of any sort this past summer? It was so exciting for all of these Christians to hear a month of fasting. and praying. What state was that again? That sounds so good. I believe it was Tennessee. Tennessee, let's see. Oh here it is. Joint House Resolution 803 It says by Fritz. I don't know what that means by Fritz. Maybe they're running around really fast. I had a dachshund named Fritz once. I went to buy my dog. Uh so a resolution to seek God so so far, right? To seek God's hand of mercy healing on Tennessee. Yes, the state's stepping up with a resolution. Not the same as the law, but okay, we'll take it Whereas our state and nation suffer from violence committed upon our citizens by our citizens, and I'm not going to read everywhere as. I'm just going to do one big long round. And our state and nation suffer from violence committed upon our citizens by non-citizens, and acts of violent crime in our schools are unacceptable. Human trafficking is an unacceptable and violent evil in our state, enslaving lives and violating the core values of our Creator endowed rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. I let me pause there. Anything you don't like about that? Yeah? I kinda like all that so far. Yeah, okay. So they continue. Whereas drug addiction overwhelms our families, our government finances, our workforce productivity, as well as our health care and our law enforcement resources and Deadly fentanyl flows uncontrollably across our southern U. S. border, resulting in the deaths of Tennesseans and driving under the influence and Drunk driving results in great pain and injury for Tennessean families. And we have approximately 9,000 children in need of foster care, indicating a brokenness in many Tennessee homes. Okay, so far the whereas is I'm I'm I'm up tracked with all of this. I'm waiting for them to get to the big ones. But these are I mean these are pretty big, but the big big ones, right? Uh evidence of whereas evidence of corruption in our federal government stands to impact every Tennessean, and our national and state founders trust in the omnipotent hand of Providence to guide and bless our land. And then there's this big long paragraph that quotes uh John Adams. I'm not going to read all of that. But John Adams, okay, one of the founders, we like that, and they acknowledge truth. We acknowledge the truth in these founders' words. And we hold that except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain. So they're quoting scripture. You gotta like that. I mean, you know what, this is the kind of thing that if I saw this, I'd be tempted to share it with everybody I knew. Mm-hmm. Because it goes on then to end, be it resolved because of all these whereas, be resolved by the House of Representatives of the one hundred thirteenth General Assembly of the State of Tennessee, the Senate concurring that The period of July 1st, 2024, through July 31st, 2024, be recognized as a time of prayer and fasting in Tennessee. For the further resolve, they recognize God as King and Creator and God's mercy upon our hand. We beseech Him. Uh recognize our sins and shortcomings. I'm not trying to diminish any of this, but there's some good languages here. Lord Jesus is mentioned by name, and he can heal our land and remove. I wanted to focus on this one. We ask the Lord Jesus to heal our land and remove the violence, human trafficking, addiction, and corruption. And we ask the Holy Spirit basically to be involved in helping all this. So they're asking for all those things, those are all things they should be asking for. I'm on board 100%. However, I when I first saw this, I read it out loud, like I just did to my wife. My wife doesn't pay a lot of attention to the cultural things like I do. She pays attention, but not like I do. Who does? I'm insane. But I read this to her and I said, honey Anything missing, do you think? And she said, well, they didn't say anything about abortion. Yes. And anything else missing? My dear beloved wife, who I adore so fervently, please, please notice the second one that's also missing because I noticed it right away. And she said, Well, I don't say anything but the whole trans nonsense Those are the issues of our generation. Those are the issues of the moment. We're murdering our children, and if they survive the abortion mills, we're butchering them and uh and uh emasculating if they're men or or chopping off their uh their hoo-ha's if they're women. I mean we're mutilating our children if we can't kill them. These are the big issues. And they don't touch you with a ten foot pole. Right, y yeah. But yeah, like you're saying. The big three I I loved a lot of language in there. I think it's the right thing to do is fast and pray and have God direct it. But it for me it's a situation of yes and It's virtue signaling. It's it's mere virtue signaling. These they didn't touch the third rail. They went where I mean seriously, what leftist is gonna disagree with Violence. Violence and trafficking trafficking. Right. They didn't talk about anything that somebody would push back on. This is the correct solution to those things But we should also be using it for bigger things too. And and how is God going to bless us? How are we going to say God bless this country when we're allowing the murder of millions upon millions of children? And and I apologize, I'm getting amped up and my voice is becoming very elevated. Let me just let me calm down for a second. I I'm as incensed and animated and irate about this Because it's cowardly. They're cowards. And these are our leaders. It's trying to do the right thing, quote unquote, from these cowards. It's frustrating because they almost got it right. I I was I was really excited. They got it wrong on purpose is my point. They forgot about abortion? Oh, should have had a V8 Come on! They purposely left it out. The whole trans thing? That's not top of mind? Are you kidding me? But it's not popular anymore. We've lost that battle against homosexuality and even trans now the battlefield isn't uh in reality whether you should do that, it's whether you shouldn't do it to kids or whether you shouldn't have to do it. We've lost an even trafficking battle too, let's not get ourselves. Yeah. Nothing serious has been done about that. We kept giving ground over and over again. There are more slaves in this country right now than in any moment in our history. And I think the church has led the way in that retreat. And there was a recent Democrat on the floor, a black lady that actually went against us, I can't stand with my my fellow Democrats uh that are not fighting this h human trafficking that's happening. So I was in uh impressed she's she's a very far left liberal to actually come say I'm I'm done. I I I gotta stand up for this human trafficking. We gotta stop this. So maybe there's some hope and light someplace, but you're right. They came up with this and sounds so good on the surface. It got so got me so excited. In fact, Troy, I'm the one that sent it to you. And then and then I get the negative thing back from you and I'm like, Yeah, you're right. I didn't I missed the entire I'm sorry, my my jadedness might be infectious if I'm not careful. Yeah, right. I I I get it, but I you know I get the instinct. I would want to share it too. But I'm so tired of being played. And I shared this with you uh after we had some conversation. You you shared with me earlier how, yeah, you kinda ruined my moment. And I shared with you. God gives you eyes but you cannot see. The reason I can tell you that the kind of an uh it was a gradual awakening. for me. It didn't happen all overnight. And it you know, I was all in on the uh the evangelical W campaign, right? George W. Bush, he's one of us. Sarah Palin, she's one of us. You know, this is gonna make all the difference because one of us is gonna be, you know, running for office, making a big deal. And boy, W sure campaigned like a biblical conservative But he sure didn't govern like one. He I guess he suspended uh biblical governing principles in order to preserve biblical governing principles, if you know what I'm saying. I mean it's it's unbelievable and I thought I felt snookered the first time in in 2000. But I gave him the benefit of the doubt and got snookered again in 2004. And I was like, I'm not doing this anymore. And so I refuse to to to buy into the whole McCain campaign, the whole uh Romney campaign, uh n all all of the nonsense ever since. I just I I won't buy into it anymore. And I've been so um focused on looking for the lies of omission, right? The the We can the things that they they they you don't notice because they're not out front. And it's like that was that's a lie of omission. We need to be praying and down on our knees fasting and praying before God because we're slaughtering our children. And this is what I was talking about. And mutilating them. This is what I was talking about earlier about the church being more brave. If the church was out there in the face of these politicians and saying this is unacceptable you need to include the big the big ticket items, things would change. They don't respect the church. Chris Plant says, you know, the the biggest the la the greatest power the media has is to omit things. not report on stuff. And you're seeing it. The problem is um yeah the the the the church but I will say I I I I I really don't feel like the problem is those who are actual Christians who are reading their Bible, who know what's going on. being cowardly for the most part. I think there's some of that. I don't think that I think the main problem is we have so many people who are professing Christians, maybe even in fact saved. I mean God can only know the heart I I know They're all about abortion. It's okay. I I know a lot of genuine Christians who don't like abortion. They don't like any of this stuff, but they just kind of sit on their hands. What what can we possibly do? I I know a lot of people like that, who I would consider my brothers in Christ. They're just, they don't have that fire in their bellies to go and make things change in society. It reminds me in the in the Old Testament, you know, you hear these the uh the chronology of the kings and and talks about they did this, they did that, and you know, they're almost all bad, right? But even the good ones Almost every time it's did a lot of good, this good, this good, this good, this good, but they didn't remove the high places. Right? There's always something a Christian can get better at the we can always be sanctified and go on and on to better. The abortion mills are the high places of today's culture. Definitely. And we refuse we refuse to remove them. Yeah. So until we label abortion as murder, not abortion, it's not gonna change. We have to say it is murder. It is premeditated, first degree murder, and anybody that is complaining with it is conspiracy to murder. Absolutely. Now the we only got a couple of minutes, which is fine because I'm not sure there's a whole lot to be said about this. We've done a whole series of seros on Christian nationalism, but it's just a a warning shot. Like like I've just got done saying, I've been looking for, okay, where are the lies of omission? Where are the the sneaky deceptions? And I'm telling you, it's more of an intuition in a sense, I can't point to a whole lot of specific, like I can't bring a lot of receipts, I could bring a few, but they would be just anecdotal. I'm telling you, I'm getting a sense of a grifter problem in the Christian nationalist movement. I think a lot of people are gloming onto the whole movement and calling themselves a Christian nationalist and nationalist dressed in Christian clothes. Because they want to make money. Yeah. They're trying to sell books, they're trying to get a lot of views on their videos, they're trying to have a popular podcast, they're trying to try to name evangelical votes trying to get yeah, trying to get votes, they're trying to get invited to big speakers conventions. I'm telling you, a lot of it smell and I'm not if you've listened to the show this past year, I'm not on board the Christian nationalist train. I'm not like a never Christian nationalist, like a never Trumper. I'm not on that train either. I I I you know, I'm trying to play it kinda out of the middle 'cause I think there's some validity in trying to play it that way. So I'm not a hater. But I'm telling you, if I were in the movement, so if you're let me put it this way, if you're in the movement, if you are a an avowed Christian nationalist and you're all about that You gotta start paying attention and be willing to root some people out and clean some house, because it's an emerging problem, I'm telling you. I think where you run into problems is you have more nationalists than Christian. So you have someone who wants to be active politically, but they want to use Christianity to get ahead in that. And that's a crunch. I I don't think that's even the proper understanding of Christian nationalism. That's I think that's something that's the right thing. And hopefully they'll repent. Because yeah, what what I would label as a Christian nation and Christian nationalism is us saying we're a nation based on biblical practice. Principles. We need to act like that. We need to use the Bible as our our guidebook on how to govern. Catholics, they were saying they're Catholics uh they're for mass, but they're in the culture they're for business. And they wouldn't bring their their God into their business. And I couldn't uh I can reconcile that as a Muslim when I was growing up. I said No, that's who you are, it's your identity. Well how can you separate that out? But I think that's more and more what all Christians are doing. That there may be Christians in the in the closet, closet Christians. They're Christians at home in the positive, but when they are exposed to anybody else in the culture, they're like, I I really don't want to push my biblical views on everybody else. Yeah But the thing is if you're not pushing your biblical views, you're accepting their pagan views. Absolutely. But I think that's what this nation is coming to. The world has come to them. You know, it's it has nothing to do with anything other than you mentioned uh these Roman Catholics you knew years ago. Years ago, the old Roman Catholic joke was, well, is the Pope Catholic That joke doesn't work anymore. Anyway. So laughing along with me, thank goodness, because it's it's it's it's always uh a a dud when you tell a joke and nobody laughs. Uh Elijah Dirksen and uh Imran Rasvi, uh thank you so much for being on uh on the show these past several weeks. I'm Froy Skinner. Thank you for listening and for putting up with uh my nonsense and the brilliant insights of the guest panelists. You can follow us online at WFMD. com. You can find Imran's organization online at conqueredbylove. org. I don't think that Elijah has a a website, but someday he might have a website. Or you can find me online at household of faith in Christ. com. Until next week, 167. 5 hours from let me check. Yep, right about now. God bless He is taking a request from guest preaching though. So he's got guest preaching different churches. Oh okay. All right. Very cool. Mm. I think I'll have my first full length sermon at Samuel's after Samuel's wedding. Is that right? And that was actually an example I would have brought up if I had to do that. And do you already know what you're preaching on? So The Israelites needing more fire in their belly to go rebuild the temple. And that that's an example that is on my mind to bring up an I think these were genuine Christians. They just had their priorities wrong. They weren't out there doing what they should have done. And they could have grown. You've done an excellent job, Bubba. You've done a good job tonight Yes. I'm gonna shut down the screen by the way. Do you want to leave a comment? I'll get to it later. Um until our next recording session or what have you. God bless.