Hey everybody, welcome to Contra Talk. My name is Richard Henry, and this is the podcast where we talk about things that matter. We're going to be talking to a pastor. He's a husband and a father. He's a blogger and a radio host, Troy Skinner. He's out of Maryland. We're going to be having a good conversation about House Church and the pros and cons there and the reasons he is doing what he's doing now. I hope you enjoy the conversation. All right, welcome to the show. Well, Choy, how are you doing? So thank you, Richard. It's good to be on your show. Uh recently just came to know that your whole channel thing here existed, but uh Uh since discovering it I've become a fan, so keep up for good work. Well I appreciate the first shot, thank you both. Um so you are in Maryland. Um you're pastoring a house church, that's kind of the foundation I guess the topic of our conversation. I know that's uh kind of ebbed and flowed over the centuries. Of course, house churches were early in uh the New Testament and the first century, especially with lots of persecution and things like that. Then of course we have a few centuries and Constantine and making Christianity legal and and and the preferred religion and everything else. We can get into that if you want. uh about Constantine or or anything if you have any thoughts on that or or historical notes. But what are you were you you so you're pastoring a church uh it's called Household of Faith there in Mary. House of faith in Christ, yeah And and have you always done that or have you have you been a pastor at a normal or conventional church in a normal conventional building, whatever you want whatever you want to say? How did you how did you get to where you're doing that? Yeah, up until a few years ago, the conventional route. You know, I got my uh Masters of Divinity from uh Reformed Theological Seminary, so I got a traditional seminary degree uh you know, was um a a ruling elder with a uh Southern Baptist Church uh in Maryland uh for a number of years. Also was um at more of a like uh they weren't denominational in any way, shape, or form, but you know, kind of the typical community church kind of idea. And uh I was involved in helping to lead the um the the youth. uh and teaching the uh the the younger folks in the church and that sort of thing. And uh I was the um the pastor of a uh stereotypical American church now unfortunately in that uh it's it's dying. You know, everybody in the church is old and gray and no new blood coming in and uh you know tried to be um uh a voice of renewal there and then also pastored a church uh all of these have been in Maryland by the way and then the uh also pastored a church in um in in a town next door to where I am, um, that was like a church plant kind of a situation. And um COVID happened and I had an idea years ago, uh a decade before COVID. Uh I had an idea about house church and planting house churches and how that could look, maybe how it should look, that sort of thing. And I just parked the idea, stewed on it for a long time, never did anything with it and then when COVID happened I was like, maybe this is God's way of telling me I should move forward with some of these ideas that I've had. So um I mean that's the general thing. If you if you want me to try to get into the the specifics now I can, but I don't I I you know if you want to lead the specifics or me to just jump into the specifics. specifically let me know. Yeah, no, that's fine. I mean I know there's again um I mean I'm originally from California and you mentioned off air. Uh you know Maryland's kind of California East, you said The People's Republic of Maryland, yeah. That's right. Uh, which is always funny, like the People's Republic of China or the Democratic Republic of the Congo or whatever, and they're like the most oppressive places. It's funny. And we have uh we uh we we have envy because everybody knows California's freedom. So anybody who's not a leftist whack who lives in California gets an automatic sympathy card You know, like oh I feel so bad, it must be so horrible living in California. Us in Maryland, our flight is basically the same. And but we don't get the sympathy guard, so I got a little envy. I'm a little sympathy Maryland's way. Okay, I will. I'll party again. Um so I guess the uh I kind of one of the main main questions that comes to mind and probably the audience's mind is okay, so COVID, that makes sense. Uh but now, you know, everything's back to normal. We realize a lot of the the COVID stuff, probably gonna get tagged on that from YouTube, but whatever. Um wasn't really exactly accurate, right? You know, oh it's actually a lab leak, oh the masks don't work, you know, a lot of these things we're realizing Now we didn't see it in the middle of twenty twenty, and okay, you know, forgiveness is is is gracious, but uh or abundant. But now it's like hey everything's back to normal, quote unquote. Um why not rent out a school or why not partner with a dying church and you know that happens a lot, revitalization or kind of a replant type thing. Why, because I was looking at the website and it says, you know, we're always going to be a home church, and when we get too big, we'll do another one, and when we get too big, we'll do another one. Why always a home and not uh a central building? Yeah, well part of the reason our website says all of that is um it is almost like a a personal self uh accountability because when it gets hard I didn't want my default to be, okay, this is a bad idea, and bail. So I wanted to have some sense of a commitment, like we're going to give this a go. We're gonna try. And if it gets hard, we're gonna try harder. You know, and we're gonna try to press it, and we're gonna give this our darndest to see if we can make this work. before we decide to you know abandon the idea to go maybe in a more traditional model or uh or some other variant uh idea that we might have that's maybe not fully traditional but not fully what we're doing now, maybe a hybrid. I've uh I've I I've got the beginnings of some thoughts percolating percolating uh percolating in my mind on that right now, but they're not formulated enough for me to really talk. uh out loud about because uh I would look back years from now and and feel like uh the fool. We might get a a short visit here in a second from my from my son Hey Booba. Oh, we can't do that right now. Can we do that later on? Yeah. Maybe? Yeah. Okay, but not right now, okay? Yeah. Okay. Sorry about that. That's all right. Uh I have an adult disabled uh son. He's he's thirty and uh uh but he he's kinda like the eternal, you know, seven year old. Uh so uh he he he he popped up to uh to see what's going on here. So anyway. Gotcha. No, it's all right. Um before I do that though, the reason I want to do that is because I know how nuts it can seem to some And in some senses, rightly so. Everything's a mixed bag. The traditional model has its problems, it has its advantages. you know, the the institutional let's get a building kind of thing has its advantages, has its problems. Uh the house church uh movement, there really is a bit of a house church movement going on right now. uh it's not a panacea. There is no Shengola. It there are advantages and there are disadvantages. And so I'm not going into this old you know white eyed and bushy tale saying, oh this is gonna be the best thing ever. Uh and also I think there's too much of of of an emphasis or or perceived emphasis that someone like me is doing, oh, so you're trying to do like an an axe model church, right? You're trying to go back and do church the way they did it in the book of Acts I guess there are some commonalities. I mean you can't help but they were meeting in homes or we're meeting in homes. So there can't help but be some commonalities, but my motivation is not looking backwards. My motivation is okay, how do we go backwards in time two thousand years and be a Luddite and pretend that, you know, all the progression of history hasn't happened. Like that's not my motivation either. So the kernel of the idea, going back 13 years ago now, the kernel idea uh kind of hit me when I when I realized that one of the Big problems we had in the church then, we continue to have in the church now, and our society is really reaping the fruits of that these days, is an absence of leadership in the church We don't have enough leaders. Part of that is because we don't have enough men in the church. You go to the average church in America, and the majority of the attendees are women. And those men that are there, majority of them are not involved. And so they're not growing. They're not becoming leaders. And so there's no pipeline. And so then you're forced to have someone like you, someone like me, is like, okay, I want to be a pastor, but how do I do that? Because I haven't been prepared to be a pastor. There's a call in my life. People are telling me, hey, you b you might make a good pastor. But I'm in no way prepared to be a good pastor. So what do I have to do? I have to pay tens of thousands of dollars to some institution somewhere to get a little piece of paper that says I got an MDiv. So that then I can pass some credentials committee somewhere. Uh, but that's the practical side. The theological side is I I didn't know enough about church history I didn't know enough about theology, didn't know enough about the Bible, quite frankly, to be a pastor, and so I had to shore things up because the church failed me The institutional traditional model church failed me. It fails all of us. It's like, what could we do about that? And I'm thinking, you know, Timothy was trained up and mentored by Paul You know, Mark got his act together and was pulled pulled uh uh around in the right direction by Barnabas. You know, the Jesus intimately invests in the lives of a dozen men. Like this idea of being a little smaller, being a little more mentorship uh model. Uh the institutional church doesn't allow for that as naturally. You start doing the small church thing, the the small group thing and that sort of stuff. So it's ironic. That's what that's really wh I think where the pivot happened for me when I realized The churches that are trying to invest in the future leaders, trying to grow and develop future leaders, the way they're doing it is they're taking their big system. And making it really micro and small into these little intimate groups where they can try to form leaders. Maybe we're doing it backwards, rather than starting big and then forcing ourselves to pare down What if we started pared down and then as we organically got bigger we would we would grow an organic way where we the The magnitude wouldn't be one of singular scale, it would be a multitude of scale. So if if what I'm doing in my idea, in my head, I'm thinking this 13 years ago If if what I'm thinking about doing is successful, I could have a church, if you will, plant it that has I don't know, a thousand people, let's say. But it's a thousand people meeting in fifty locations. where there are these pods of fifty fifty pods where more replication of leadership is being developed. That was that was the idea. The problem though was figuring out how to get started. That's why I sat on it for a long time. I was like, how'd how do you make this work? When there are no men going to church, there are no men interested in being leaders. And to be honest, and this is going to sound really cheeky, and I know you probably have a lot of men uh who watch your channel, they're gonna be a little offended by this. So if you're offended by this, I'm not talking to you. Probably. Uh at least if you're if you're right, if your if your self-analysis is honest and accurate and you're offended by this, then I'm not talking to you. If your self-analysis is dishonest and inaccurate, then maybe I am. But Um men, generally speaking, this is a broad rustroat, are wusses, they're not leading. They're not leading in the marketplace, they're not leading in their homes. They're not even leading their own lives well. You know, they're not they're not physically fit, they're not intellectually vigorous, they're not community connected. The the they're not mission focused, they're not they don't have a p uh a career path, they just have a job and they kinda meander through life and And and sometimes it works out for 'em because, you know, they have some good fortune that falls in their way and God's got a plan for 'em in spite of their lack of energy and initiative and all these sorts of things. So given that's the state of manhood these days How is this going to work, I'm thinking? But we've got this leadership vacuum, but for my model to work, we would need a lot of leaders. I mean, if you have a church with a thousand people, the traditional model, you have one really high uh charismatic, you know, uh uh charismatic um personality wise, not theologically uh you know, a high woo personality who's got a lot of skills. Uh he can kind of get a CEO and you get some other pastors that come along. You can probably have Three, four, five gifted men run a church of a thousand, fifteen hundred people and and get away with it, if you will, the way we do that. I know what you mean, yeah. But my model four five six, that's not enough you got fifty pods. You need fifty, at least. Right. Ideally you've got a hundred. If you got fifty positive, ideally you've got a hundred because you got maybe one who's the main guy. So the idea is this replication, the idea is to Basically be planting and replanting over and over again. So to try to pull together a group of of people that would meet in your home, that you pastor And then uh uh through the process of pastoring identify those that you think, you know what? That Richard T. Henry guy He's pretty sharp and he's got a lot of th th th there's a lot of instincts there that feel pastoral and he's asking a lot of the right questions and he's not ready yet, but you know what? If if he were to be mentored A year or two from now, he could be shepherding a house church congregation. And so then have a conversation with that person, what do you think? And you're gonna say, actually, I was actually thinking the same thing myself. You know what? Always spend a little purposeful time together. Here's some books you should read. Here's some podcasts you should listen to. These are some preachers you might want to make sure you're exposed to. Let's make sure we're talking about these sorts of things. And I'm going to start to position you as more of a leader within our group over time and have you tried on for size. Get people to begin to perceive you as more of a leader, uh, and start to position you as a pastor. And when the time comes Okay, start recognize you as a pastor and then by that point hopefully the church will have grown to where we've got uh in our location twenty-five people. 30 people meeting in our home and we say, you know what? It's time for us to be an Amoeba and split. So Richard's ready. As you can tell, he's been doing some of the teaching. He's He's an open jerk in a rather informal way, in fact, increasingly formal ways, as you can tell. And we're ready to have him host his own uh home group house church, uh and we need at least ten of y'all. Um, hopefully more, maybe maybe two thirds of y'all. uh to go and worship at Richard's home and the rest will stay here and we'll start the process over again. That was the idea. And uh it's hasn't exact we have um grown, but we haven't grown that way yet. And I can talk about that in a minute if you want. How we have grown though is People start there's a bit of a networking that happens. You know, like if you if you're the new pastor in town, you probably had this when you moved to uh you're you're in Kentucky, I believe, right? Mm-hmm. Yep When you move to Kentucky and you're the new pastor in town, you start to meet the other pastors. It just kind of happens organically. It's like this informal natural networking that begins to happen. So people find out that I'm house church uh leading and I find other people are house church you start to talk and I start to do that Um and I really know that person's doing a lot of really good things theologically. I can I I can either sign off on or live with everything that they're standing for. We should part think about partnering together And some of this has been more purposeful than that because one of the real Achilles heels for the uh a any house church, well any church, but it's really a problem for the house church is accountability. Um so it's not that different than the you see the the uh the megapastor who has a CEO model, he goes rogue and he's not gonna he doesn't have anybody he listens to Or he has to be supposed to listen to, but he refuses to listen to them and everything implodes and falls apart. There are some faint stories that we don't even name those names right now, because that's not the point of this conversation. But that happens at the smaller level in the house church too. It's more natural actually. Because if I'm meeting in my house and I've got a dozen people, dozen and a half people who are uh under my shepherding care, under shepherding care If I'd go rogue, who knows? Who would care? And if the people in my church aren't equipped enough to know that I've gone rogue, who protects them Well I so I that's a real problem. So as I was talking to some of these other uh who've now become dear friends of mine, broth and brothers in the Lord, obviously uh who were doing house church. I called them all up, you know, one at a time and I said, you know, I'm trying to do this thing, and I'm realizing very quickly here, this was within a month or two of us launching Household of Faith in Christ I'm realizing I've got a problem and you've got the same problem. Whether you know yet or not, you've got the same problem. If I if I screw up uh for my people. If I am in gross unrepentant sin, or theologically my teaching is off the rails, or something bad happens in my life and I handle it horribly What are my people supposed to do? Who do they turn to? How do they get help? And so your people have the same problem. You need accountability, I need accountability, and I'm a I'm all about the elder led model. And I said I don't have anybody in my in my church. I don't know if you guys do in yours yet, but I don't have anybody in my church who's equ who's equipped or qualified to be an elder. So I can't have a plurality of elders. I'm the only qualified elder in my church. That's the problem. But you're qualified as an elder, and this other guy I know who's a house church leader I think he's a good guy. I want to introduce you guys and get you to know each other. And so what we've done is we now have four of us, four house church pastors, are one another's elder board Okay. That's good. Yeah, I was curious about that. So I've had guys come and preach at House on the Faith in Christ, so my folks have gotten to be familiar with them. Uh everybody in my church has all of their contact information. There was a time a while back when I was horribly sick. I was actually in the hospital for a bit, and somebody needed some help and I was in no shape to help And so they were able to reach out to one of the other pastors who they obviously didn't know all that well, but they knew and they were able to get the help they needed. And so we had although I say they didn't know them that well, to be honest Knew them better than most people know their quote unquote senior pastor of the church they attend in most American churches, uh the way they function today. So in fairness to to us Uh and we try to do some group events. Uh you know we've done uh a couple, I guess. I mean we've only been doing this a few years now. So we've about once a year we we try to do something where all of the the house churches kind of come together. There's a little bit of what I call cross pollination, where not only does the congregation know the leaders, but the congregation knows themselves. They they they connect with other believers in these other churches and they compare those And we all do things differently. So that's been interesting too. You know, if if you were to visit any of the house churches that uh that we're currently connected with, uh their their their approach to how to handle house church is pretty significantly different. Um and so um that can be fun for those that are willing to venture out and go visit somebody else just to see how they do it. Uh get a different perspective. So And go ahead, you have a question I can see. No, yeah, so I've got I've got two I want to rewind just slightly with the uh lack of um male uh leadership and strong conviction and and and all those kind of attributes that we can look around and say, Yeah, I I see it here, here, and here, especially within the church. There's that and then another question after that. But what what do you see? I guess I know you're older than me, not crazy older than me, but you know, enough to have your own experience Uh you're on the East Coast, a little different, pastoring a long time doing AM radio and and blogging and writing and other stuff. And so obviously You've been around, right? And so wha where do you see uh or why are we here in twenty twenty three with such a lack of of male leadership in the church, in industry, uh in politics, you know, there's you know, beta males everywhere, kind of spineless guys that are just wishy washy and just kinda go along with the there's a there's a long Yeah, there's a long historical thread that all kind of culminates. So and so forgive me for the brevity because yeah, I I want to do this quickly. Um you mentioned Constantine. I actually think that's part of the problem. So when when when when men stopped having to fight for the faith and give a vigorous defense for the hope they have within because it was just the accepted and approved government sanctioned, you know, the birth of Christendom. Uh i i it gave i I think that was the beginning kernels of giving men the the freedom, if you will, if you want to call it that But the excuse would be a more negative way of putting that, well being a little bit lazier uh in in understanding their faith, defending their faith, fighting for the faith uh doing kingdom work, uh uh under uh under threat, under duress. Uh you know, it's more masculine to have to fight through those things than to than to just kind of have it given to you. So I think that was I think that might have been kind of parts of the beginnings. I mean human nature is part of the begin. I mean, we can go back to uh Genesis chapter three when Adam's standing there letting his wife do what the heck she wants and not saying anything. I mean that it's been part of the the the the fallen male condition since th the very first man on the planet. So we can go back to that too. But then more, you know, culturally speaking, uh in in a Christian church contest, I do think that Christendom is part of the problem. And then Um the Enlightenment happened and men who were serious thinkers and wanted to make a difference in the world started to put their energies into things that weren't all that theological, maybe, a little bit less church oriented, a little bit more um uh esoteric or practical thinking or whatever. And then in an American context, um, you know, it might be the West in general, but I I'll speak more specifically of America because I I have a little more confidence about America as opposed to the West. But the Industrial Revolution happens and men leave the home and they're going to the factory. They you know they're they're they're they're they're working on the farm all day, but the farm was the home And so there's this disconnection. And so now the the the role of men in society shifts and changes. And with the urbanization that goes along with the uh uh the change in the economy Uh men weren't then having their their social outlet be church on Sunday. You know, they were hanging out with the buddies uh after work or at lunchtime or whatever. And so they they're they're they're they weren't going to church as much. And so you certainly the thing I mentioned before, you go to a church today, most of them are women. Um because the men uh they're getting what they feel like they need, you know, they they need. Uh elsewhere, they're not getting it from church. So there's all these factors that uh Uh and then if you if if you are masculine, uh you're you know, for the last fifteen years, ten years at least, you've been called toxic. Um but this goes back further than that. I mean back in the seventies with Hawkeye Pierce from MASH and the the sensitive uh you know uh Yeah, entertainment I think plays a huge role. I think I think far more. I think significantly more. Not to discount what you just said. Uh but I think entertainment All of that culminates and comes together and uh and and now men now they live their masculinity it's in in large measure, again, broad brush strokes They live their masculinity uh vicariously. So they're watching, you know, big, strong masculine men bash into each other on on Saturday afternoons or for college fans on Sun uh on Sunday afternoons for college fans Saturday afternoons. uh for example, or big Herculean men doing amazing physical feats on the basketball courts or bashing each other's teeth in on the hockey rink, you know. Uh or doing it all vicariously Uh and then where the the keyboard warrior thing kicks in where you you flex your masculine muscle uh under uh under cover and protection of of the internet. And so there all of these things come together, but we don't have enough men. Uh and I'm guilty. I I've had to be self-aware enough to realize my own tendencies in those areas. And so, you know what That's not behaving very masculinely. I have to get better at this. I have to lead my family better than I'm leading it. I need to get more involved in leading the church uh that that I happen to be a part of locally, uh than I am. I need to take some accountability. So all of us need to have an awakening on that on that front. Yeah. No, that's good. Um my second question is just kind of the practical. So that that's good. I'm appreciate you covering the accountability, uh, because yeah, whether you have a five thousand or twenty five thousand, whatever the number is, like a Stephen Furtick, right, or a Joel Osteen or some of these other we know them, you know, and Yeah, exactly. Pseudo passcars into the conversation. So you're gonna include some pseudo paskers into the conversation? No, I'm saying like you have those you have those guys that do their thing and there's no accountability. I think I forget what his name is in Tennessee, but he's you know, super right wing and okay, fine. But, you know, he has no accountability at all. I f completely not remembering his name. But um same type of thing. Yeah. Yeah you go to their website and that's it. And sometimes their wife is a pastor, which is you know a whole other conversation. Yeah uh Yeah. Yeah, co-pastor, whatever. But you have that, a thousand people, five thousand, twenty thousand, some of these huge, huge churches, so called. But then you have fifty people or twenty-five people in either a Bible church, which happens often, and I've seen and experienced and heard stories, or in a in a household church. There's no accountability, right? And I mean and for me, I mean even for myself, you know, the standard Baptist model in a lot of ways is kind of pastor, CEO, uh, king of the church type thing. Which just I mean that's just not scriptural at all. And however we got there, I'm still trying to figure it out myself uh historically and and uh denominationally and everything else. But that whether you have a building or you meet in an elementary school or you're in a field or you're in a house, you need accountability. So I appreciate you sharing that with with having the kind of cross-follow nation and other elders. Uh but practically, I mean you've got the website and you mentioned I think off-air with YouTube and trying to be there. I mean YouTube's the second largest search engine behind Google. Of course they're both owned by Google. But you you gotta be on YouTube if you're gonna do anything, right? I mean that's just the kind of the the nature of it. It's kinda like having a smartphone. You almost have to have it to exist, almost. Uh but where do you find people? Like how or how do people find you is probably the better way to say that. Yeah. So Uh but part of the uh the accountability uh addresses this actually because it's not just accountability with other leaders, but there's this almost like this community accountability. So everything they do is very transparent So I don't use screen names on social media. I don't have any of these clever handles or anything. Everything that I do, it's Troy Skinner. Household of Faith in Christ. Like it's all it's out there. It's who we are. So I've been doing a radio show. Uh the predates Household of Faith in Christ. I've been doing the radio show for almost 20 years. And I've been bringing some of the other pastors who are house church leaders onto the show because it's a panel discussion kind of a show. It's uh the the nature of the show is we try to identify an area of really significant importance that we're just going to hash out or something the more fun shows are the ones where we purposely pick a topic we know we're likely to disagree about and then hash that out on the radio. And it gives people in the community, the broader community, who aren't necessarily even churched. To hear what we're all about, to hear how we think, how we try to think through things, get a sense of our personality. that we're not these you know whacked out woodsmen who are gonna uh you know once you come to our church we're gonna turn you into cultists and uh and make you go ask murder your family in their sleep kind of thing because there's something about that. And to be honest, I think it's fair Because we're depraved. And that kind of scenario isn't that far best in my mind. It could happen. And then on social media, same thing. Everything I put out there, it's it's just me being transparent. You know, I've written a couple of things for uh for TruthScript, you know, John Harris's new venture. Uh part of my motivation for doing that is the same thing. I want anybody who stumbles into finding out who we're all about to then see that, oh, he is kinda wacky, but he's not a whack right, he's not a whack job. Like he's a serious person who's trying to do serious things. That means that his church is is trying to be a serious church, even though this house church idea seems, I don't know, doesn't seem all that serious because it's like, what's the deal? So I'm trying to be as transparent and open with all of that, and that's part of the accountability too. So there's accountability to the broader church the broader community for that matter, uh in addition to the leaders we brought in. And I and I lost my thread of what the original point of your question was though, because that was related to your question, but it wasn't the question. You remember Specifically what your question was? Oh how do people find you? Yeah. Yeah, just just the I mean the account of or I mean, you know, I pastor New Harvest Baptist Church And it's in Canydale. And there's a sign and there's a building and there's a website. And people drive by there and, you know, here's the time, here's ten thirty, Sunday morning. Uh I mean is there a sign outside your house? I mean do you do invites? Do you got business cards? Yeah. Kind of an evangelistic Bible study? Like how how does that work? So there are some things. I mean we I do the radio show which is an advantage, not Most churches don't have pastors hosting radio shows on on the big AM station in their local town. So we have an advantage there. So I have had some people reach out and know that we exist because of the radio show Social media does help, right? You can't help but get noticed on social media sometimes, so that helps. Uh venture. Uh somebody actually found us through that website. Uh anything that's family integrated or house church or conservative theological church oriented website that you can become a your church can become a member of. Our church is has become one of the member churches of these various organizations that you know, we don't really have any ties to, but at least we show up on their website. So if somebody's looking for a a family integrated church and they find that particular website that has a listing of churches that, oh Look at that, there's one right in my hometown. So I'm trying to do those kinds of things, but I gotta say, those are all at best secondary. uh perhaps even tertiary. The primary strategy, and it's not just for me, this is more of a theological conviction, the primary strategy needs to be We need to stop thinking like the world's marketers, and that's a big thing for me to say, because I made my living as a marketer for over two decades Right, yeah. We can just start thinking like the world's marketers and start thinking like the church is supposed to think So how people should find out about House of the Faith in Christ, how people should find out about your church, Richard, is they should be interacting with you and the people who attend your church. That's how it should be. It should be boots on the ground, you know, feet on the street, uh press in the flesh, you know, uh, you know, uh What what's the old line? Uh uh kissing hands and shaking babies, right? Like did that on in reverse on purpose, right? But we should be w we should be out there and we should be giving a defense for the faith. We should and uh that's a big part of the training at Household Faith in Christ, by the way, is this is a big light bulb moment for me I'm a very involved pastor. To be honest, some of the people in my congregation, they might belly ache them a little too involved uh because we got work to do. Uh the world is burning down around us. The church has been AWOL for years. And The Christians have not had the kind of accountability in their life that they should have for a long time, and like we've been talking about already, particularly the men. So I'm going to invest in your life. And one of the things that's it's on my website, on our website, and it's um it's something that comes out of my mouth quite frequently. You don't come to my church to hide You cannot hide at House of the Faith. I wouldn't think so. It's impossible. So if you want to be a wallflower and just kinda hang out and say and check a box and say I've got a We're not the church for you, I'm not the pastor for you. I'm going to invest in your life. And if you want to grow, and if you're a Christian, you want to grow by definition in my view. So if you're a Christian, you should be very happy with how we do things. If you're not really a Christian, meaning you're not you're not committed to the to the faith, you're not there there's that there's no increasing evidence of growth in the fruit of the Spirit, uh you don't have any sort of spiritual disciplines beginning to take root in your life. that will get found out very quickly and you might not like it or make you feel uncomfortable. Um but if you're the real deal that you're gonna be equipped as you can go out and so this is where I started to go, a big focus for us has been um helping me understand what the gospel is and how to share it. And the light bulb moment for me was I'm doing these uh pastoral visitations, because like I said I'm a very involved pastor, I'm doing pastoral counseling and pastoral visitations. And just kind of standard throwing out the question and I'm saying, you know, Christian Richard, you know? So Somebody comes up to you and says, Hey, I notice you live life a little different and you seem to have a lot of joy about you or you know these things are you have a lot of things thrown your way you seem to always like handle it well. What is that? Well I'm a Christian. Oh Christian likes So what does that mean exactly? Like practically speaking, like what what is it to be a Christian? Like what is that? What would you say? And you give some sort of answer. And I say, okay, now what if I'd be more specific and say, well, the Christian message is this thing called the gospel, right? What is that? What's the gospel? And asking it as point blank as that. I'm not kidding you. Easily 95% of the professing Christians that I have interacted with since this light bulb moment Easily 95% of them cannot physically answer that question. It was it's been a shocking awakening for me. So obviously you get the the the the vague most common answer from a professing Christian you meet on the street is going to be something like Well, you know, you y y you try to be a good person, follow the example of Jesus, and uh, you know, uh and go to heaven when you die. That's the gospel. No, it's not. That's not the gospel. And some people they can and particularly if you're more on the left, they they have a tendency to confuse the gospel with the law. Um and so that's what we that was the the core problem and continues to be the core problem with the social justice movement, by the way, in my view It's confusing confusing categories with the law and the gospel. And how how do those categories get confused? Because they don't know what the gospel is. And so everything's a gospel issue. If you don't know what the gospel is, you can make anything a gospel issue. You know, the Chicago Bears defeated the Green Bay Packers. Gosh dark, that's a gospel issue. Who's to say I'm wrong if nobody knows what the gospel is? Yeah, you can't question it, it's you can put gospel on it. That's right. So I started asking people you and it's become my chief means of evangelism now, by the way. Um that's good. I like that. You know, I I'll walk up to somebody and get into a conversation and I'll try to find some way of asking trying to find out if they are a churchgoer or if they identify as a Christian. Because I don't know, well over half of America still professes to be a Christian. Right. But it's in my view, it's less than five percent who of the American population who actually are Uh and that sounds maybe a little bit, you know, black pilled or something. I just I just think I think it's active. I'm not trying I'm not saying that for a fact. In fact, five percent seems generous. I think it might be closer to three percent if I were to put a more precise guesstimate on what the number is. The vast majority of people are not Christians in this country, which means the vast majority of those who claim to be Christian aren't Christian. And so that's really low-hanging fruit. You walk up to somebody and you see a little, you know, cross hanging around their neck, or they've got a a cross tattoo or some sort of psalm, you know, verse on their arm tattooed or they're wearing a t-shirt that says something that's kind of religious. They have a bumper, so there's some sort of an end that makes you think, hey, things like professors are Christian. So I'll say, hey, I couldn't help but know she got that cross thing. So you go to church somewhere? And usually the answer is no. But sometimes the answer is yes. But even if it's no, it's like, oh, so why are we wearing the car? Are you a Christian? So why I'm a Christian? Oh, well. You know, Christians typically go to church. What's up with that? Then you start you play playful or whatever. So let me ask you something. This might be a little forward, but I'm curious. You were on the cross, you say you're a Christian, you go to church, or the one who doesn't go to church, you don't go to church, whatever. Yeah. Tell me, what's the gospel? If your friend comes up to you and says, what's the gospel? What would you say? And they don't know how to answer it 95% of the time, which then gives me an opportunity to immediately launch into sharing a full-fledged, full what I call a full orbed gospel presentation as without preaching at them, I'm teaching them And then when we're done, I can say, so next time somebody asks you what the gospel is, hopefully you'd be a little better equipped and you can you can share this information. Hopefully it's been helpful kind of thing. And it's it's been hugely effective. And so we do No, I love that. I've I've I've had that similar sentiment and done it done that probably not as as much as you. Uh but it's one of those things. I've done man on the street videos and things like that. Yeah, and we do role playing in our church where I'll say, okay, uh Uh and I'll I'll set up a scenario. Here's the person, here's the situation, this has been the nature of the conversation up to this point. So share the gospel, go. Because I've got what I call a five-fold gospel presentation, that's how I teach it And the reason I teach it the way I do is because it gives you five entry points to beginning a gospel presentation. And so I'll set up the scenario and say, basically, this is scenario number three. So, Richard, scenario number three, start with number three, go. Okay, now it's uh your wife sitting next to you. I don't know your wife's name, but let's say it's Cindy Lou. Cindy Liu, uh scenario number one, go. And it's hard. Nobody likes to do it, right? But we've gotten so much better at sharing the gospel as a group as a result. So that's something we can do in the house church. You can do in a small group as well, but it's certainly something you can do in a house church that's a little You know, that sort of role-playing and and uh and and combat training, if you will, is easier to happen in an house-church setting. But the downsides to the house church stuff too, uh probably should get into that at some point, but I'll let you ask. I was just gonna ask you, yeah, what are I mean, so you got pros and cons, kind of rapid fire, give us some you know, you mentioned some of the cons, obviously pros of of a of a normal or regular, whatever you want to call it, church. You know, you got the building, it's central. You know what time it is, you've got parking, you've got chairs, there's a bunch of stuff. So those are pros. Obviously cons are, you know, tradition, baggage. Uh and not all tradition's bad of course, but there's a lot of other And some of those pros are cons because they're distractions. I mean having sat in so many elders meetings over the years where You end up talking about how you're going to pay for the broken down HVAC unit that you need twenty thousand dollars for and you don't have the money. Or, you know, uh th those kinds of things instead of being focused on the the needs of the people and uh the direction of the teaching, like what your next series is gonna be and handling the pastoral things, you end up dealing with a lot of minutiae So there's that the there's that, you know, or the bickering that can happen in in the traditional churches, and it's such a cliche, but it's a cliche because it's true where people get all bent out of shape and fight because they they wanted pink carpet not blue carpet or they wanted green carpet not you know with yellow walls and the other people wanted green walls with yellow carpet Who has time for this? You don't have to deal with any of that in the house, church, because your house is your house and what are you going to do? The other thing though is there's a lot of stuff to make the institution work that in my view are are At best non-biblical, at worst unbiblical, uh to make the church function. So A huge percentage of churches in this country are not truly elder-led, even if they have a board of elders. They're not truly elder-led. They're board-led, but it's not a board of elders. They've got a president, a vice president, a secretary, you know, they got a you know a a superintendent of s of uh of uh of Sunday school, uh you know, they've got all these different roles that are carved out. None of them are biblical offices None of them are biblical leadership positions, and yet they're the ones who are really the church bosses. They're the ones who are really running the show. And they become the ones to whom the the biblically ordained, biblically sanctioned leaders have to answer to And so that was part of the motivation for getting out from under that too, because any and all problems I ever had as a pastor in the traditional model were because of that. because people who had no business being in church leadership were making the leadership decisions. And so even if I do eventually figure out how to do something that's not quite so firmly rooted in the house church idea that it maybe looks a little more traditional. There's no way on this green earth that I will ever be a pastor where the leadership is a board that's not a board of elders. That's never happening again in my life. And I would strongly encourage every church to try to figure out how do we exit that path. It's and like I said, at best it's non-bibical. At worst, it's unbiblical. There's no sanction for it. I really think we've done ourselves a problem. And then you end up with a lot of women in those roles too because what what there's no prohibition against having a A woman president of the board is there. What's the biblical proof text for that? There's no precedent at all to begin with with these things. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So so that's what so that's a problem. But one of the problems the house church movement can have, uh house churches in general, there's a lot of wing nuts. There are wingnuts in general, right? I mean uh Westboro Baptist comes to mind now. Exactly, right? They're not like Westboro Baptist isn't a house church per se, but they might as well be. It's basically one giant family that that, you know, extended family. They got maybe thirty people at I don't know what where they are now be Several years back they had thirty people all related to each other meeting in a building. So they weren't technically a house church, but they were all family. They're all they they weren't doing outreach. They weren't part of the community. And you can have a lot of that kind of mentality take root because of no natural accountability structure in the house churches generally speaking. So I we we bet we have a lot we've got a lot of people who a number of people who have wanted to join in with what we're doing and I visit them, I talk with them, and if it's not a fit, I just take, you know, I'm I'm not sure it's a really good fit. And I'll share why. Part of the problem is a lot of people call what they're doing house church. They don't have a pastor. They don't do the ordinances. They have no mechanism for church discipline. They their time of gathering isn't a worship service. It's a Bible study, maybe. It's a fellowship gathering, for sure, but there's not really there's th there's not a a a a It's not a combination of Bible teaching and prayer and worshipful singing and fellowship and the ordinances. It's not everything that a church is supposed to be, but they call it church. And that's the problem. Oh, I'm meeting in a house church. No, you're not, you're meeting in a fellowship group. Which is fine, good. Right. You know, one guy was offended. I said, No, continue meeting in the fellowship group. That's totally fine. Do that forever. Invite more friends to come to your fellowship group But go to church somewhere. Or turn what you're doing into a church. It's not a church right now. So you would say just just for clarification, because somebody's asking, I'm sure. Um So you're saying like a standard, I mean we can go, you know, in the pastoral epistles or go to the Old Testament, Nehemiah, or other places You know, reading, public reading of Scripture, we see uh proclamation, right? We see teaching, we see prayer, we see other things Singing is is kind of peppered throughout the scripture as well. It's not necessarily in the pastoral epistles, I don't think. Uh doesn't mean we shouldn't do it, of course, make a joyful noise, etcetera But you're saying all those things are what make a church service 'cause that's something even as a pastor for the last few years and it's just me and I'm trying to work towards having you know, biblical deacons and then hopefully, you know, another or two uh biblical pastor overseers um as well besides me Getting there, hopefully. But you know, you think you're like, Well what is what is church? You know, is it 'cause it's a pulpit, is it 'cause you got a sport coat, or is it because you got no pulpit? Is it 'cause it's Sunday? Is it because you you sang some hymns? Is it because What what is this and what would be different if we were down the street at the park or if we were at a house or in an elementary school? Is it because we have a big building? Because that's what you know, those people, I'm gonna go to church. Or I'm going to go to the church and it's an empty building. You know, I've I've trained myself over the years and I encourage everybody, you know, it's a church building, it's a church building, it's a chapel, it's a structure, it's a it's a me Meeting house, we used to call it that in church history, right? Chapels Meeting Houses Now it's just kind of synonymous and therefore I go in this building and that somehow kind of baptizes me. And I'm convinced a lot of people think only God can see things in the church. So people unbelievers or or people in sin or whatever you know, whatever whatever you want to categorize them, they're I'm not gonna go to church 'cause God's there. And it's like, well, I mean he's everywhere. I mean, let's be real here. But I think we have this really truncated weird view Uh and so anyway, what would you say I mean is all those things you just said as far as service unto the Lord? It's a great mega question for the moment too because you know the shirt the the uh the the the the church uh uh corporately shot itself in the foot and atomistically some individual congregations, some individual churches shot themselves in the head by by the way they handled uh the um the the uh the the infectious outbreak. I'm trying to protect you on the algorithm here. That that that outbreak that we had a few years ago when they shut down and admitted to the world that what we do isn't essential. Uh you you know, uh the church isn't a building. The church is God's people. That's true as far as it goes. And we don't have to come together uh for qu to to to worship because all of life is worship, which is true as far as it goes So all the things that are broadly true. So we should be praying. We should be learning and studying about God's word. We should be subjecting ourselves to the teaching of those who know more than we do about such matters. We should be seeing God's praises We should be coming together in fellowship. We should be doing all of these things in all of life. However, It seems to Mickey that there is a biblical model for all of that coming together in this synthesized, crystallized, singular moment Once a week, where all of that happens at the same time. And during that time, because you're all together and you're in this I don't know, heightened moment of worship is exactly what I want to say, but this uh this heightened sense of what you're doing being worship, because I think everything that we do when we gather together for the worship serves is service. So if you guys pass the collection basket at your church or whatever, that act of giving is an act of worship. So even the taking up of the offerings is worship. Everything that we do uh during that time, if it's properly oriented, is oriented toward worship. And it's that idea that all of life is worship, but right now it really is in like a different kind of a way. And because we're all gathered together in this really kind of a way We're now going to have the Lord's Supper together. We're going to uh celebrate this baptism of a of the new believer together. We're going to do those kinds of things within that context, that framework as well. It all comes together But if all you're doing is praying, you're having a prayer meeting. It's not a worship service. If all you're doing is a Bible study, or even worse, a book study Uh meaning not a book of the Bible, but like a Max Locato book or something. Um you're you're learning about God's word, but that's not it's worshipful perhaps, but it's not a worship service. Um, you know, you can sing songs, you can put on your favorite your favorite hymns, you can put on like you know sovereign grace music or something like that, a contemporary hymn even and sing to your heart's content in the shower and you're worshiping God, but that's not a worship service. Right. So all of it pulled together as one singular thing once a week where there's an intentionality. Where there's a purposeful focus. That to me is what churches should be doing. That to me is what the worship gathering of a church is And that can be done in a traditional church building, that can be in somebody's living room or basement. I mean, a lot of people that worshiped uh together in big, gigantic churches might not realize their church started in somebody's basement in all likelihood. So all I'm doing that's different is we're s we technically not in my basement, but figuratively speaking We're starting in my basement and as we grow we're staying in our basement and sending people into other people's basements. That's the only that's the only real difference between what I'm trying to do trying to do. One of the other weaknesses uh in the house church movement is it give me strength too is y y you end up taking on the vibe and the persona, the personality of the most dominant personality types in your gathering. And so one or two families can radically alter the vibe of a house church in a way that isn't as true in a more traditional building with 150 people around. They'll alter you've had it, I'm sure. You've had that disruptive family, that difficult family, or that really energized, contributing the family. They're they're they they're game changers because they they they slightly alter the the vibe a little bit. They change they they they they they kick the trajectory in a slightly different direction So even the traditional church has that. But in a house church it's not a slight kick in the trajectory. It's a dominant pervasive like it it becomes become a challenge. So like one of my um uh pastor friends who's in our network Um his church has a lot of uh has a very laid-back, easy-going, kumbaya vibe because the dominant personalities in that church it happens to be who they are. It also happened to be, by the way, how do you meet people? His his magic sauce uh to to growing his church is he's a homeschool dad, homeschooling family. and they know all these other homeschoolers and there's a nice fit there. Homeschooling families are a little more receptive to being home churched as well. Right. So he's he's been able to get a lot so a lot of people in his church or house church are are are homeschooled uh families. But they got kind of a a thing. There's another church in our group and they're they're very uh organized. uh very specific about things. They have a huge family and because they have this huge family, their life has to have a particular structure to it. And because They're a huge family. Uh they are the dominant family. And that whole we do things a particular way, and that's just how it is, dominates them. Uh our church, interestingly, it's majority singles. So interesting. Uh which hasn't helped the the the numbers side of things very much because you know we get somebody new who joins it's it's A lot of times it's been one person. Uh you know, as opposed to a family of six, you get one new person to come, you just added six. So we feel smaller. Uh I have the same number of households as another house church and he's got like three times as many people as we do. So but because we're smaller Uh you know, all of all of the issues and warts that that that might be brought into the equation can can have a delirious effect. on uh on the overall dynamic. And so we're we're more prone to being affected both positively and negatively uh by a singular person or singular family. And so if anybody's already in a house church and thinking this through or you're thinking about getting involved or planting a church even Just know that you gotta figure out quickly how to get on top of that and stay on top of that. To be honest, this is me kind of preaching to myself. I haven't been as quick uh I I I've learned that I wasn't as quick on that as I should have been and I gotta I've got to be quicker and and and make determinations faster and just be a stronger leader And say, hey, we're we're we're not doing that here. You know? And and and be willing to say that. Which could be difficult I think depending on personality or or if it's a housework in the sense of the thing. But I'm very direct, I'm very uh but I but I'm also willing to to uh to to to uh bide my time and try to find the moment. Uh eventually the moment doesn't arrive, I'll just okay, we can't wait anymore. But if you said something offensive to me in this very moment, Richard, my instinct wouldn't be to call you on uh out on it in this moment. My instinct would be like, okay, that was offensive I'm going to process, I'm going to decompress, I'm going to think about it, give it a couple of days, and then I think I'm going to maybe reach out to Richard on the phone and say, hey, by the way, that thing you did Kind of really bothered me. Uh and that's a that's a wise way to handle most things. Yeah. Absolutely. But they don't say anything or they lash out right away. But when days turns into weeks or possibly months That's not good. And so particularly w in a house church context, it can really i i i you know, that one bad apple spoils a whole bunch. Uh if you allow that bad apple to sit too long, it can really have uh have a problem. So those are some of the some of the weaknesses. Yeah No, that's good. Well, I uh I mean I appreciate it. I mean I think I think we kind of covered the gamut that I was looking for. Um definitely uh Household of faith in Christ dot Um Yeah. There are a number of churches that have household the faith dot org dot net dot com, uh but we caught a break. You know, Galatians, Household of Faith, that's where the name comes from. But in today's very confused world, I want to make sure that everybody who stumbled into our website would know faith in what or faith in who So we added the in price and fortunately, unfortunately it makes for a lot of keystrokes and you're typing the uh the web address in, but fortunately it was enough keystrokes that the domain was available. So Houseful of Faith in Christ dot com was available. Like, wow, score. So it's tricky it's trickier more and more these days with with naming stuff and websites and and and everything else, logos and all that other stuff, yeah. It's like everything's taken almost. Uh well I appreciate this royal. You have any last final words any where people can find besides the website, uh follow you and things like that, and any just closing thoughts Yeah, well as far as the finding me thing, um I mean if you go to the website, it's a one-top shop, it's a hub for connecting to everything they do. So if anybody's interested in the Faith Debate radio show, you can connect to that through If you want to connect with me on social media, all my social media is connected on the church's website. If you're interested in things I that I write or whatever, all that can be found and be connected to through the web. So anyway, but uh uh in in case this will ring a bell, uh I'm on Facebook, but I don't really interact there. I only post stuff that's basically church and radio show related, but I don't get involved in the comment sections on Facebook. Eventually I hope to leave Facebook in the dust and not use it anymore. That's a life goal of mine. I'm on Twitter, I'm on Truth Social, I'm on Gab On MiWii. Of those, MiWee is probably my favorite actually. I think that's that's the uh the most underrated platform out there these days I'm on LinkedIn. Uh what else am I on? But uh those those are the I'm in Getter. Was on Parler, but Parler kind of imploded. They took themselves down earlier this year So I know so as far as reaching me, that would be the uh uh that would be a way to find me. And just the last thing I'd I'd like to part with, I guess, is a is a word of encouragement. uh for anybody who is a house church pastor or a small church pastor. Because we're we're in the same game. What you do and what I do isn't that different, Richard. The only difference is I don't have to uh get in my car and drive to work. I just, you know, walk down the hallway and walk to work. But we have small congregations, uh, we're trying to make a difference in a in a particularized context, and it can become a little bit frustrating like, you know, I feel like God's got a call in my life so I can make a difference in the world, am I making a difference? And I'll make it personal to you, Richard, or anybody who vicariously is identifying, if you impact one person's life, you're having an impact. If you don't impact one person's life for the positive, you've still impacted them. Because our job is to we're called to obedience, to share the truth. The results are up to God. God changes hearts. God converts and saves souls. God does that work. He just calls us to be obedient. So if we are humble servants, being obedient in that humble servant uh uh with that humble servant's attitude There's blessing in that. And if you don't see huge growth in numbers in your church, you don't see huge changes in the lives of those you're investing in or you know, your your social media metrics aren't what you want them to be, or y y you're just not having the breakthrough moment you feel like you should have. Just let's all remind ourselves, we have an audience of one. Our job is to make God happy, and if God is happy with us, Then we should be happy. Mm-hmm. Yeah. I mean I'd rather have God be happy with me and have my ha my house church stay ridiculously small. that have what I'm doing explode into a network of a thousand house churches and and God's not pleased So anyway. Well what does Christ say? You know, if your prophet uh what is a prophet a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits a soul? I mean, you know, you have this and it's so sizzling and scandalizing and exciting and whatever word you want to use that's you know big popularity fame whether it's Christian or celebrity, whatever, musician, politician. It's it's it's enticing to most of us in the flesh. You know, if you if you if you look at it for too long, it can mesmerize. And you can I mean, countless people, countless Christian celebrities, musicians especially, and we know 'em uh by name, have compromised, compromised, compromised. Oh, it's still beyond for what? For what? In the church, in the culture, right? I mean, we've all been beguiled a and we and we're living lives that are We're trying to make ourselves happy or make others happy, make the broader society happy, rather than worrying about what's going to make God most happy with us. And so anyway, I just I'm I'm also trying to preach that. I just uh I wanted to end with a Because I imagine once this gets posted, people are going to see, oh, house church, I'm kind of interested in that, or I'm already doing that. What's this guy got to say? I wanted to speak to that person right now who probably feels some frustration uh on occasion and but also having been a small church pastor myself you know it can it it can be frustrating like what am I doing here and you know what we're doing here is aiming to uh to please God. That's what we're supposed to be doing here, right? To glorify God and enjoy Him forever. That's what we should be aiming to do. And if we're doing that Nothing else really matters. You know, there's great stories about people who thought they were on a deathbed, dying of a death, feeling like their life was a total waste, only to see that the the fruits of their labors would come post their death. And they had a huge impact for the kingdom. They didn't get to see it from an earthly perspective, but they're certainly getting to see it from an heavenly perspective. So let's just You know, but let's just make sure that we we we do a good job and and and holding each other up in regard to that and having pastoral hearts in it and um You know, uh before we got started on this stream, you know, I I took a chance and I I just tried to share a pastoral moment with you, even though we don't know each other really, right? Uh but we do because we're brothers in Christ. We're we're we're we're co-combatants, uh co-combatants for the kingdom, right? We're both pastors, we have a lot of shared experiences, whether we realize it or not And um and it can be tough, but it's it's great. Um and if you're just leading a family, you're not leading a church. You're just leading a family and you're frustrated. Be obedient in that. There's incredible blessing in that. And if you're not satisfied with that, then you've got to check your heart because there's something askew there. Yeah, no, it's good. Well that's a great word to close on. I appreciate it, Troy. Uh Pastor Troy Skinner. Uh check him out and and Household of Faith and and on all the socials there. And yeah, I mean I'm sure someone can reach out if they're interested in connecting or starting a house church. I I'm sure you'd be I mean Correct me if I'm wrong, but I'm sure you're more than happy to answer questions and all that. Yeah, if you want me to share with you some more nuts and bolts and some things we've been through and stuff, I'd be glad to do that with you offline. And hopefully you and I have a chance to meet in person. Anybody who's watching this hope we have a chance to meet in person because uh we need to we need to do better. We need to be more personable with one another. Uh this is great. But if I had could actually shake your hand and give you a hug, that'd be so much better. All right, Drew. Well I appreciate it, brother.