Uh Forcy is here, I'm Troy Skinner, and Daniel Razby is here. I have it on good authority that he is chock full of fun. So today we're talking about um pastors, elders, overseers uh in a general sense. And so I'm trying to figure out how do I collate these in a way that makes sense. I wouldn't break a roll. Until then, God bless. Are they the only ones that can preach? And we came to a consensus really early, so it wasn't a huge debate show last week, but this week might be different because Daniel Razby and David Forcy uh have differing opinions, I think. Some of those passages are really including anything that that exhorting that's going on. I think that's well within their authority. And we're going to just start right on that topic until in between shows we realize there's a lot more to be said about pastors officiating wedding ceremonies. I wouldn't label my wife a pastor or even if she's teaching women all the time. that that uh domain name. Here we go. that should administer the world separate. I know there's a lot of churches that practice uh the fathers or other uh uh friends will baptize you, not necessarily a person. uh this do as oft as ye eat it, it being the Passover meal he was currently eating. being broken and jet uh uh for us, that that's the commandment for the Lord's Supper. life, whether you're saved or not. Let's see if we can get a second one. Verses 2 and 3. Are any churches that do something all the time? So that's that may be uh where that comes from. things that's we're talking about is that 'cause that's what it kind of exists now. Yeah. The panel this week, Daniel Rasby and David Forcey. He's no he's older than me if he's old guys. the you know the churches. in uh I mean you don't have to get a pastor, you can get a justice of the peace, but somebody's got to officiate. uh pa in in Middle Eastern culture it's it's not very common to do it the way we most people do in America. I agree with Daniel that um you know uh again it's not officiating weddings is not listed as a particular role of the elders to clarify it in the past a few times so I'm clarifying that. were just so receptive and I said, Well, then I'm not so sure I'm real comfortable moving forward with this. Isaac saw her, took her to his tent, they're married. You know, see people say, Well, if you're co cohabitating, isn't that the same thing? Yeah, how this will play out practically speaking. If I make an honest woman out of my uh girlfriend, we want to get married, uh would you know, would would you officiate? Um you get out of that sticky wicket I guess if you're not actually officiating the weddings in this church building at all, ever. wedding ceremony we do or we don't have the money for that. Daniel Razby, I'm sure you know this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Uh where's the line here? So I I I think part of the key again, yeah, and and not a new believer, right? Troy Skinner. and they'll be listed as like a couple. uh is what I would assume there. I think is also an interesting uh thing. Right there, Miriam. church call it a special, which he thinks a special. Mm-hmm. What you know, these theological terms, these buzzwords they they're given labels, right? Um but uh those of you on the live stream, uh you still have time today to go get get tickets and and be able to come to this event. Effects. And there's only two days, September seventh and eighth. uh score for ballet on the story of Esther from the Bible. as well, so it's gonna be chuck full of fun. Good evening, afternoon, or whatever it might be to you. Daniel Razby is here. uh elsewhere too. to obtain the sets. or send a passage where he's talking about, well, I'm really glad that I didn't baptize any of you because otherwise you could say, well, Paul baptized me, so I'm some special person. And so I thought that w that's interesting and and I I I would take that passage to you know and infer from it that you'd bap you don't need to be baptized by any particular person because that's that's not the point. the the the people who are leading this church who are responsible for leading this church trust the message you're going to hear and uh so we're giving the platform I think that is totally and uh appropriate yeah Dave I think I probably have a similar kind of an attitude about the Lord's Supper, actually, because the elders uh typically are the ones, you know, the lead pastors, sometimes these uh that you know, that you can't like nobody is qualified to baptize you except yourself. Doing baptism wrong doesn't necessarily unsafe you either. a lot of people say now, from Passover they really need to be late. And know that and and does that. out there. that if if a child has not reached the mental age where they're able to able to process what sin is and salvation is verbal accident. And by the way, I I I am And I think it does say let us a it's like a head covering for me. uh communion position because of a covenant family idea. that that that's the case, that the the senior elder, if you will, is the the senior most elder is ultimately taking on that responsibility people think that it should be extremely micromanaged, right? It it doesn't go in the trash, it doesn't go down the drain, it all gets consumed. uh next week I think. I I mean I I think you you could use that that particular passage to say, okay, God God calls particular people to particular works like but but Paul and Barnabas were obviously not called to be uh you need to either be a member of this church or a member in good standing of another church that you affirm to us you are and we and we uh um you know don't have reason to in in Eastern Some association with the Passover season. get the impression the baptism historically was done in the middle of a church service in in a building or whatever. do a bunch of baptisms. be apt to teach. disbelieve you on that then we'll do that. kids 'cause they don't believe them. understand what the heck's going on. Conquered by love. Last week, if you tuned in, you heard us talking about pastors, elders, overseers, undershepherds, whatever level you want to attach to, bishops, I guess. Um Still no. The Shaq. for the record against the Shack. Well I got the William right. Yeah, no, no. uh congregations to to to let women do um and certainly to teach any of the other women. And there is a public uh uh uh proclamation of we these two people who are getting married, uh husband and wife obviously. not calling something marriage is not marriage. you you can't enter into that kind of you can't do that. and potentially arranging of the families. For a pastor to stand there and say, okay, repeat after me, here's the different vows, you have to say, you have to No. on that subject. is David Forcey. Mm you still see it in the in the uh the Near East and the Middle East. No but n worse of the thing. The the Western uh process uh practice of oh, this is the biggest day of her life and it's all about her and she's gotta have the prettiest dress and this and that and and and Everything's gotta be perfect and accurate and all that. uh and making the focus on the woman, the the wife, which is completely backwards. T but we're not they haven't consummated this wedding until he comes down to get his bride with much fanfare and excitement and enjoyment for the second coming of Christ, which we all look forward to in different ways, I'm told. Certainly not just the wife. I don't spend a lot of quantity time with my children, so I'm gonna make sure I spend a lot of quality time with my children. the days of the Middle Eastern wedding is so much more joy and fanfare and to do than it and than the whole the whole thing of a Western wedding in most cases. Like that's that's what they do normally. make sure it does get consummated. kind of involved that. 'Cause as you learned last week he's chuck full of fun. You know, not not to have them tell them exactly what to do in every situation, but uh again, to to seek wisdom ad advice and to of the wedding. uh and can highlight the things you think are out of balance. a hair? And so but but I do think it's been out of balance. without without a scorecard. anything other than of course they have to be married then. on that, but uh you you had a little bit of of help you gave to my my side there. physical picture. handle that up. circumstances of the world have kind of forced me to really dig deep and look for a more consistent clarity that maybe I didn't demand of myself. have not been like the fathers haven't been spiritual leaders. And and or the other thing, but maybe we should continue a little bit of this topic on the show then, since if we feel like there's a lot that much more to be said. Um thing here, here we go. Joined this week by David Forcey. officiate the ceremony and we talked about how we were going to get into this week whether or not only married men can serve as pastors doesn't want anything to do with him and then maybe maybe a little younger but but it's it's still there there's no family involvement. I would suggest that you make a big celebration and divide a lot of people and say we're gonna have a party, we're married now. and tax benefits or whatever, sure, go for it. of what this is my husband. they were married. they're not in so many words, but that's what he was he was saying. in sin um and and she was admitting that she was not married and not treating it like a marriage. Because I don't I I don't see anything unbiblical about two people who are not followers of God becoming married to each other, other than the fact that they are not followers of God That's the main thing. uh other male uh friend they're gonna get married. It's like okay, great. Procedural, it has to be everything, every dot, uh every I has to be dotted, every T has to be crossed, it this day has to go one hundred percent perfect, otherwise the bride's life is ruined. And I w that was my playful way of saying, man, this wedding's gonna be expensive, isn't it? Just your family, like all of your family and all of your friends and acquaintances, and feeding them for multiple days and and so on. End the discussion. who are walking faithfully. Right. that and we we kind of all agreed that whether you could point to a specific verse, it's very clear that every single time anybody tries it, it ends very badly. I think the but the scripture does say and it also said this about kings. educated would not have gotten himself a wife by the time he was you know old enough to be able to to do the things he was doing. uh his own household, how will we take care of the Church of God and not a new convert so that he will not become and the snare of the devil. Uh because we start to get into some really interesting conundrums if we try to make it something other than that point. And what happens if the guy's a great pastor and his wife dies? Faithful in the little things and God gives you m a little bit. that he lives, for him to then also give give counsel, right? the that the the the left in in this country has has really pushed in recent years is that you know well you don't know my experience you've never been such a such and has children. Every well, everybody's everybody has been not married at some point. be X, Y, and Z. It goes out of the way to say not a recent convert, right? and all those sorts of things, I I I think it precludes women from being a pastor. uh teaching and having oversight and authority over the men in the church. Is he gonna demonstrate that through owning a business and having employees that he treats fairly and and reasonably? We'll continue with similar topics next week. uh his ability to lead a believing household. in in the church and wanted to be an elder, I don't know. 850 when we wrapped up. And David Forcy is on the panel again this week. And we've touched on this topic that we want to make the centerpiece of today's show. quite often on their list of leadership page they'll have Bishop uh uh Mr. this you know, which we talked about last week is they're the example for the church and she's never gonna speak, she's never gonna preach, she might give a women's conference, she may pray in the church, she may even sing a song, but she's not gonna be doing the preaching and most of these predominantly black churches that I've that come across, that is the way they they do it and and at least a number of the ones I'm aware of they wouldn't Uh uh what other biblical words does he not know the meaning of? uh their contacts and their experience growing up that that's just this huge blind spot. David, your wife is not a pastor. disqualifies them from being a godly church, uh just because uh they have a conditions. She's also a pastor and then she's also like the but if in a specific s in the specific situation that I'm I'm talking about, which we all all see that where it's it's the pastor and then he's just pastor and his wife are kind of listed as one an under shepherd uh can get something like that wrong, particularly since it's such a big issue now in the culture and for the church. if they play fast and loose with these things. I mean hopefully we all the three of us hopefully live our lives this way. uh because I feel like in two thousand nineteen like the wheels came off the truck, you know, and uh were careening off of a cliff as a result. I mean I I listen to old shows. you're you're confused about something I I think if you would agree that they shouldn't have the role. You know, uh all yeah, all all kinds of things like that. the the head of his household, right? Um but I don't think there's anything wrong with women singing as well. I don't think that's necessarily what it's talking about. uh singing the melody of a song and leading others to sing then you're also leading men so women cannot be singing the the uh the melody and and so the you have a man that's actually leading the leading the worship. is supposed to not be on the music, but the music's supposed to enhance what you're what you're doing, you're worshiping God. congregation in some kind of corporate setting. the during the summer on head covering. But I know from previous shows that like, okay, how are we defining what we mean by the women keeping silent? uh it's the idea that it's it's man, you know, male led. And there's the responsibility that those men carry that uh that you don't have to carry that sort of a burden. church choirs for years and she's a pretty good singer if you ask me. The bur there she's kind of everybody that's singing this song and and they're all singing the chorus together, but I don't really know. if the song itself turns into a sermon and and she's uh also kind of giving a little bit of exhortation in between like a lot of a lot of pastors tend to do a lot of what they call worship pastors do that. things and not really strict worship settings necessarily. uh s singing and in fact uh there was somebody I considered if uh her husband had had come to preach at the last the weekend conference we did then I might have asked her to sing something too. kind of forced to think about things afresh that you begin to like, hmm, maybe I should question. make that point now. Daniel Rasvy and me Troy Skinner and David Forcy and uh you also hear Imran Razby a lot and we've had um The the the two Rasvies, David Forcey and me, have kind of been the core. We uh it says play psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, basically any kind of music is fine. ordinances and and and so on. I I I understand where the regulative principle comes from. Right? In uh Rockville, Maryland. A bunch of people we've been handing out at synagogues and so on and every time we get a rabbi we look at it at that and he's don't be oh that's good. of content. d on the air or shortly after show was done off the air and we said, ooh, let's write that down. to perform. You can't that anybody other than a pastor would be allowed to do the Lord's Supper. You know, but the there's certain certain things that that the elders do, but it does it doesn't say only and I guess w we have to define a minister too, right? to show an outward expression of of what God has done for you, not not about anybody that that's you know specifically I mean it even says Jesus didn't baptize anybody only his temporary phrase. the elements they're part of that they're holding the cup or the bread or what have you. So if we're gonna make that type of association, should should the Christian celebration of the Lord's Supper include all the children? covered by their their parents. take that part of it which is interesting. the week. is the service. This is God talking. that sort of thing. And I think that's true. kids. or years later before they get baptized. Um so but but I I can understand, especially from as now I'm a parent, you know, when do you when do you believe that they actually are uh making night. Or based on the events. Yeah, for sure. times with your family during the week? i whatever you think the Lord's Supper however often you think it's intended to be, it's based on Passover, which was a household defining okay so what is that special role for the elders? I think their ultimate responsibility, and all three of us on this panel are pastors, so our ultimate responsibility is to be guardians of the gospel. and proclaimers of the gospel and teachers of the gospel and clarifying the gospel. feel like in their church it should be done. council. And then you take her into your tent and you're married. Getting married in a church building. um medieval period wanted to uh wanted to control who was marrying who so they could tax them and tithe them and the different things and control who the uh the maybe the greatest political power. you know, control of the populace. I think both the fathers are believers. officiating uh being a requirement uh or or even pastors being as involved as they normally are. that these women it's their dream to have the big special day and the big special ceremony and all that sort of stuff. And so of course the bride's gonna feel special because they just spent two weeks. For sure. How are they married? lot more festivity and joy and and and and stuff. or even the top five most important parts of the way a lot of people in our culture today would agree with you because they don't include their past weddings. Well they can if they have to be, but he's almost saying they shouldn't be. And that's not what I'm saying. to be involved. But Christ in turn then makes it all about his bride and gives all that he has to the bride. you know, uh help in in pursuing righteousness. truth to that and the w and the woman ends up getting all that she wants. family to be the one organizing w the wedding and I think that is still a uh that that it has a lot of biblical basis for that. those things. The one who had the most to say this week, and maybe next week too, Daniel Razby, we'll see. uh can only married men serve as pastors. show anyway about whether women can be quote unquote pastors um and uh in either function or title there's been a debate about that recently Yeah. Right, the ring of truth, I'm Troy Skinner, take what I say to the bank and cash it. Wait, why uh so I'm now I'm really curious because based on the second half of this and and then with your response if I say, Well of course yes. Um but like essentially then it makes sense for the the Um but but ultimately yeah like the If someone came to you and said would you officiate my wedding as my pastor, would you say no, like get your dad involved? Um I I wonder how I might approach that a little differently now. myself until more recent years. Counseling sessions, a number of sessions with the couple. marriage. disagree or something. And he's like, Well yeah, you have had five husbands and this guy's not even your husband and you agree with that, so so yeah, I i that's that's true. It needs to be reasonably published that you're married. And that's just that's not really I think a biblical way of thinking of it. You know. means when he says a married man, like we need to define that. definition of marriage of of what qualifies as being married uh and and divorce is not an option and all that. elder be an elder of a local church, I think he will be disqualified. could be. Beginning with verse 1. He desires a good work. Pugnacious, but consider it peaceable, free from the love of money, leading his own household well, having his children in submission with all dignity, but if a man does not know how to lead his oath or a wife, right? basically well behaved, he should have a good reputation and that right all of those things are true. If you desire to be that, so it's it's almost like this person's applying for for the job, right? Be careful, what you wish for, but it's a good thing, right? That's kind of what's described here. just for the sake of argument, if he was not married, then Paul would be disqualified from ever being an overseer based on his own letter to Timothy. Right. the man to be married, then why can how can you use that same passage to say that the woman can't be the other? He needs to be a re mature believer, but he has to demonstrate that he is good at overseeing. But I don't I don't know that he should be an elder. your church. Um it's you think at eight forty five. Uh let's do that. Christ online at householdfaith in Christ. Well you know the word pastor means to you what the word pastor means to you, and the word pastor means to me what the word pastor means to me. preserve that word for us in the Holy Canon for a purpose. intellectually and biblically like what do I believe and why and can I defend this from God's word? So-and-so, pastor of such and such church. Have us end up. Respond to what I said or amplify. the final say, the final word, uh, right, the the uh the authoritative sort of proclamation and and the and the voice of of correction and admonish. in this show about, you know, uh women not asking questions and uh and not communicating during the time of They shouldn't be resented by the women. uh in that. Teaching might be the only area where there's some opportunity for some nuanced discussion and quote unquote debate among the three of us because everything else that Daniel says, like yeah, I I could've uh for three minutes or four minutes how long the song is. music has a place in in a corporate worship setting necessarily. Um that I think is not not something that the a woman should be doing in in a church setting. that kind of is some proof that I'd I'm not against it necessarily. uh Steven um Jurger Jurger, thank you, uh on somewhat regularly and then some uh some other guests popping in and out, but pretty much it's been Um y you know, that that but that that's a broad definition and people can use that principle and come to different conclusions because there are churches that use the regulative principle to say regarding music for example. You know, God's not dead in the church service. don't have as as much of a strict guidance on that. look at the old text thread and be like, what the heck were we doing on this show? into what is hoped to be this series of shows. and baptism and I didn't ever have the impression that it should only be elders or pastors that administer those until it happened to come up in casual conversation with a pastor passage talks about that only elders or pastors should be administering these things and I I really can't see one. Now, I do think that the elders of of a local body have some responsibility to police what's happening in the pulpit So not just anybody willingly come preach, and I think that the responsibility for making that call would fall to the the elders or the pastors, the old Taking responsibility for and then also being able to say, you know, if if someone says something not good or right, and so then making the correction. And so I guess Daniel would be saying that, you know, if you're gonna recognize or ob observe the the supper, it's gonna be the father who's that it actually is representative. They have particular work to which they've been called. might that may be a s that would be an additional conversation we have, but they would say there is something different where these guys are set apart and called. out to each man like a cup and the the man shares with his own family. doing what is included in you know what what work are they set apart to do specifically and and administering the Lord's Supper and baptism are not in those thing to uh to me. like that day um and I did w you at the time we were going to church they had a baptismal and the pastor, you know, went in with me and dumped me in the bathtub basically and that's what it was. You know, you get your vetting process is more complex. as pastors. So you got you might have three more in you. Red. But I think they have differing opinions on whether or not pastors uh only should officiate the wedding ceremony, but more particularly this is going to be the fun question. heresy in the American church today. the uh the elders, the pastors of the church are responsible for what is taught in their church and so they have responsibility to oversee that. uh position on that from you. elders feel like immersion is the only way to go, then they need to police that. see. or something like that. Oh. um outsourcing that uh that families uh uh an uh an unhealthy outsourcing of spiritual things. keeping keeping that sort of thing in mind. So we'll do that next week. things and stuff. valuable time with us today. And uh he co-pastors a church called the Church that meets at Imran's House. thoughts. And organizing this whole thing. And I think that's where it comes it comes down to. times uh that that might shed some you know, maybe she's maybe the woman that well uh wasn't actually maybe they weren't living as if in your situation, but many and if not most times if your parents do have a lot more wisdom and and uh and experience to share and and their counsel should be extremely valuable. officiate for a member of my church that's in good standing that I've done the counseling. I mean, families are fully involved in the loping thing. Um but I understand in many cases it just it doesn't work out so uh a lo a loping seems to be used a lot these days to refer to ol older people. You know? wife. But I think we gotta be careful. And I assume Jesus was not because he was God. I think in answer to the I don't know if it was meant to be a rhetorical question or it was just a comment. David said that it's the optimal. he can be observed uh as in in in his life, right, in his marriage, in his fatherhood. y you can then you can vet him much better. You know, so yes, so that is a fallacy, but there's a fallacy on the other side that says, well, I can I can always tell you what the right thing is even if I'm not Firmly convinced was not married, didn't have children. But I think that's a bad idea. And there's no women around anywhere. Point blank question is, can women be quote-unquote pastors in either function or title? dream of ever having her preach. And I think that should be the a man. Sure. We have to know the gospel and we have to know what like biblical words mean. um that would make me very very leary of you know watchful of of other other I have much more of a problem with m with a church that would then just like here's our male pastor and then They haven't been fully discipled yet. opinions, I'm I I've been endeavoring to be far more clear and and and far more consistent you know, is the the main leader is the idea, right? you know, as regards the church are our men are supposed to be heads of households. m my answer is so so swift and and easy to me in the sense of just saying no, like I don't think a woman should uh perform the the role of a pastor or have the title because if you have the title then you're just So does that imply not speaking at all? said that not as well, but I would have said pretty much the same words. in the area and today we're addressing specifically the the the role of women in the church and can they have the title or the function of pastor and you know can they speak or basically what can they do i in the church I should think about that. or unique directions that are not that that at least run more of a risk of being contrary to scripture. Exactly. Um and the whole point of baptism is I think to be public. I'm not sure that I can think of any teaching from the Old Testament that children would have been excluded from that meal. smaller churches because if if there is this great spiritual danger uh in participating in the Lord's Supper, for example, or false conversions and baptizing somebody willy-nilly who doesn't really understand Even if it's not the pastor handing them the elements, the person who's handing them the elements would be like y y y y y y you can't. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. But you sure it wasn't satire? a distinct responsibility for the elders. And should have among themselves an accountability system, but they are an accountability system for the flock. any other area of the yeah. I'm not saying that's ungodly or something that you shouldn't be hoping for or looking for. then that that is their place. like that the that the father is the one who brings the like it you know, I don't mind the uh I I think the imagery of the father walking the bride down the aisle is great and then the father also saying I'm not sure we all agree with that premise, but let's just say we do all agree with the premise that it really needs to be the past the fathers and the families that are that are giving this their their blessing and approval and But but it doesn't have to be as as big of a deal as as and I think it's you were talking about this Troy last week where you know people make it into such a clinical thing almost uh pretty qualifications for being a bishop or elder and both of them, as far as I remember, clearly state, must be the husband of one wife. You find it very odd that a man in his early 30s, as respected as he was as a rabbi, a teacher of God's truth, wouldn't have had a wife and family? Um so again if we're gonna be intellectually consistent we almost have to say that he would have to have children, it seems to me. And so you can't you ha you like you're not a woman, you can't speak about abortion. His household is in order. charged point that makes the similar point. So having a wife is important. You know, feel free. a number of times where I see them having the title and I and I don't believe they mean by that what we think when we hear it. into well he is this is the lead pastor, then this is the youth pastor, this is the women's pastor, this is the the outreach pastor, this is the missions past well to me pastor, pastor, pastor, I mean I I don't know, it almost people. And you wouldn't because that's not biblical language. important than what that actually I think I can meet you this far. uh an ability would be the heads of the local bodies of believers. uh a question I had written down beforehand so it wasn't sparked by anything any of us have said. Pray out loud, sing out loud? from even praying necessarily in corporate prayer or maybe even out loud uh from uh you know f from giving some kind of testimony like we talked about last last week. Um I've been in situations where I've been invited to guest preach in another church and uh they know that my wife has been involved in in you know good evaluating what you're doing and why you're doing it and how it squares with what scripture teaches. are things that are specifically prescribed and commanded to happen during such a setting. or elder at a Presbyterian church who was like uh not and he was extremely kind about it, but it it but it took him by surprise. uh I am saved witnesses and so if you're doing it to yourself and like that's if if that's public and you're doing it to yourself then it's uh it it's uh it seems a little bit arrogant uh uh to me. Who fences the table if not the overseer, the under shepherd, the pastor? Can only married men serve as pastors? If people who are you know are uh uh selling the the the good news somehow, it's our responsibility to try to rectify the situation. into those roles have a special responsibility and so not all should desire to be in those leadership positions because there's a greater weight of responsibility and you'll be held to a higher account Um because I think biblically marriage is uh b between the the the man and the woman he's marrying with the encouragement and and guidance and Yeah, the bride gets all dressed up and adorned and and is is is all special and stuff, but you don't give that that reverence and worship to the bride. and the father is marrying uh uh you know the the their their children off. Because what does Jesus do? And yes, you have a big celebration and feasting in a s a family environment, not necessarily to uh reverence or give awe to a specific person that's a add more top and circumstance into that to give it more weight because the time isn't there. should be very involved by the families. Well they're they're not really the pastor. Is is it biblical, is it reasonably biblical to say, well, yes, but only if you jump through these hoops first. Would you officiate or would you not officiate, but you might say, well, get me your documents, I'll sign them for you so you can be, you know, on the up and up with the government or get your tax benefit. You know, especially particularly if there's the maybe an unbelieving family or some other um i history or background that's unique. Well I'm not even sure about it. think uh uh personally I don't think Paul was married ever and I I um we're given no reason in scripture to know for sure that he was. Jesus is a special case. I think it's maybe asking for asking for trouble. if if when his wife was with him he loved her well and uh I I mean it's You know, maybe he wasn't uh and that's you know, that's another sort of wisdom point, right, to consider. to so uh we basically covered two topics in f in three shows okay so that's not too bad it's better than usual actually definitions than than other denominations I I I've seen. Uh that's I'm not saying that uh that's not correctable, maybe because of their Well, brother the brother, let me explain to you what these words mean, what weights ca and you'd be like, Oh, you're right and then and and correct it. I've become much more hardcore on some of these things over the last handful of years, last four or five years, really ever since like 2019. Um, in fairness to myself, I wasn't a pastor at the time. Um but I don't know. Specifically called to take positions of leadership, uh, you know, pastor overseer particularly, uh But they're helping to lead at the singing because they're setting the harmony and the tone and the pace and all that sort of stuff. I would uh you know the the opposite of the regulative principle would be, well, if God didn't say you can't do it in church, then sure, go for it. It should be a wonderful experience. with your family in your house when you slaughter the lamb. Sure, yeah. Yeah, I I I think we're on the same page as far as the responsibility. particular uh elders over particular churches, right, yeah. in those lists of the case. special in their roles, but there are other parts in the New Testament where it does say to sit to sti to uh appoint elders in each city and that's sort of No, I I really wasn't. Then he went back to his father's house, built rooms up to his father's house to take his bride, and he went to get his bride at a later date. That's a really helpful insight. then then probably the pastor it would be good if the pastor is involved a lot with the bride and the groom and uh and uh you know and helping to give them guidance in in the D you know, the uh the st um serv servant out and and the servant went and said, Hey, here's a good wife, let's bring her back and I would you draw a line there as I'd like as the pastor? But that's not a destination wedding. Um I mean we talked about uh briefly on the show a few months ago, somebody brought up polygamy and whether there's any teaching in the Bible about And so within that fuller context, I I I start to think about okay, well how do we understand what is meant by that? Well but then you're you're putting a lot of weight on that uh on the wife part again. um already in his own personal life in his household. Because then he's okay, I don't mean by marriage what you mean by marriage. Is that the the men are to to be leading or to be Well ultimately I I guess maybe maybe I would say it this way, like the the men are to be the ones who have the different types of psalms, so we should only sing psalms like from the book of Psalms and but then they might still put music to them, which is they're not music's not provided in the Psalms. Right, of uh when the the group of believers that are gathered under his authority are you know And I think that by default it's been, well, they're the ones that preach. And they know that David Forresty is under church discipline because they're small enough. When the elders meet and they're trying to wrestle through what's going on in the church, that's kind of like a mini church council that's happening and they have a responsibility, a real responsibility, to to hash those things out, figure them out, and be biblical. off to uh a gentleman who, you know, is the son of some other father, obviously, who's not a believer. I think it's it's it's a travesty. So I think it's uh I think in the sense of like right, like it's it is wise to seek uh You know, uh uh according to your you know, your understanding of Eastern marriage practice and even during biblical times And I like to think that it'll only be magnified an infinite time more when Christ comes to get us for the actual wedding ceremony that we're all preparing for. The Christians shouldn't be polygamous. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. because he's not apt to teach. person up on the staff directory or something. I I would probably have the same similar sort of conversation you're describing, but I might be more willing to agree to disagree on on that because I think it's much much like Can they can can the women even be quote unquote upfront during like the praise and worship singing? That was I think the first one. I know there's some debate about what the ordinances are, or what some might call sacraments, but we'll be focusing mostly on the Lord's Supper and Baptism because the principles that apply there would probably apply Well, yes and no. Yeah, so so yeah, I was just kind of working through in in order on these things. Right. Oh man. So I would include Justice of the Peace or anybody that's officiating. Biblically. Like the teaching role, the pastor could be the one who really draws attention to the fact of what's being pictured by the marriage between the the bride and the groom. Uh I'd be happy to officiate your ceremony, but I really feel like you guys should spend some time, you know, in some serious study about what it is you're getting into, and I think I can help you facilitate that and lead that. Um I think that's the family. But uh I would encourage if you're gonna be married, then that needs to be a public profession. Um n no I think I think Daniel would say that's fine as long as they come back and tell everybody, hey, we're married now. Just don't have the party for the wrong reasons. unusual that he would not have been married ever in his life. Um he d he does could be saying he was not married at the time when he was writing some of these books. And maybe never will be married. Um so I I don't want to make a wrong decision on that. Um so the eld even in even in his understanding, the he as the elder is not deciding which of the kids gets it or whatever. You don't think there's any special significance to that? So that's more of a biblical and then Pastor if if if if you want to invite your pastor to kind of witness as a witness like hey I s I see these two people made a commitment, they're betrothed to each other Yeah, well I I haven't uh been to to many maybe any any survey. But if the families and the bride and the groom would want their pastor to have an integral role in what's going on, I wouldn't see any problem with that. Sure. the father to and you know going all the way back to uh the very first marriage creation Adam and Eve But um or after talking at they asked me and then after talking to me they said no. So now what do you do? Jesus would have known that. Like Okay, so are there are there some clarifying caveats that need to throw on? And not to be flippant, but the same way I would understand any particular verse in the Bible within the scope of the full context of a holy canon. So but that's why I uh I think that it's not a fallacy to say if Paul says married ten years. Or a bishop? I'm positive 15 years ago, maybe 10 years ago, I uh maybe there's recordings of me on this show saying almost exactly what Daniel said. Do we have enough time for this, Troy? Talking about communion, I think, is one of the first things. When it uh th I mean it does say let a man examine himself. participating in these these ordinances, right? It so there's there's an aspect of community as well as individualism and I think too much emphasis on one or the other is the wrong by God. And whatever they decide if they want to say some vowel or not say some vowel or whatever, they're making a public proclamation that these two people are married. By the way, it might it be irrelevant now, but the point I was going to be making was that there used to be this long celebration for a wedding, a big feast that lasted days, if not weeks. No, no, they're not in the room and I I get that. Yeah, I I I I think that the uh amount that uh the pastors are typically involved in weddings is to some degree an example of an unhealthy Till next week, 167 and a half hours from check your watches. You're married, right? Yeah, I mean I I think the uh like the I mean just using the Christ in the church, right, as the and the wedding image that's there. younger button no family involvement type of person and no no possibility of reconciling if maybe attempts have been made and there's no possibility. Um and I think that uh for that reason Paul was not and would not be qualified to be an elder. And he would not uh be be an elder of a church. I mean, Paul seems to make it sound like the gift of signalness is like possibly optimal. So, we've been talking about pastors and marriage and those sorts of things primarily the last few episodes. Uh we wouldn't be qualified. um to just play music or just to have some kind of uh soloist that gets up there and sings. Excellent. All right. Um you know, if so, why? Where only the elders can be administering the World Supper and because they can only do it to members for the War's Supper. Every meal. Yeah, I I um but just to uh tie a knot in something that was brought up earlier because we talked about you know Stahl and Barnabas and they were particularly Well the size of the church. Uh I I definitely feel like the Eastern wedding style is significantly more biblically based. So practically speaking I can say this. Uh I I say that that's the ideal situation. And then that was the end of the show. We're always playing catch-up. You're trying to have your cake and eat it too. Also right? Your question earlier, David. You know, people were doing that during COVID. So the father and ministers and the father is responsible for determining which of his kids are allowed to take of the Lord's Supper. And they have theological commitments that they they don't want the bread and the wine leaving the hands of the priest because you know their theology tells them So they have these kinds of responsibilities. And whether pa and whether pastors, I'll I'll do that another time. And so it might be some cultural pressure like, well we're not doing ten days of celebration. But if the fathers are are doing their job of being the spiritual leaders and the and the you know and discipling their children and teaching their children and instructing their children in righteousness, then Have you had to happen? I am, for what it's worth, I'll put my cards on the table. Yeah. There's the one who's officiating what's going on, right? Well there they I think th there's a passage from Paul saying basically if if one spouse is believing the children are sanctified, otherwise they would be unholy or s something to that effect. By the way, the voice you heard right before mine was David Forcy. Yeah. So I think we might have some fodder for some discussion about that a little more intently than we had this week. So I'm forced to live with the mouse that has a life all its own. Um but in I I'm even more than you mean like Christian marrying non Christian. They but they were legally married because they were betrothed. Conceited and fall into the condemnation of the devil and he must have a good reputation with those outside the church, so that he will not fall into reproach. They say if a man decided to be saved, he should be this. Spir spiritually speaking, yeah, yeah. I d I don't think he would want to be an elder in the church. Part of what we're talking about here uh is broadly uh covered underneath what uh people refer to as the regulative principle. So far I'm on the same page with Daniel. Like they may be preaching, they may be praying and stuff, but the Lord's supper is the actual service and so when you when they excommunicate somebody And we're all we're all followers of Baal now, or we're all followers of of Ra now, or we're all follow followers of Yahweh now, and that's what we're gonna org. But I actually didn't get it from some teaching. So let's say if somebody's in our church, I'll make myself the example, right? You know, must be the officiant over a wedding. Certainly it's about Christ. Right. I think if they're widowed that's fine. Yeah, it's it's interesting. And that's the whole topic too about what is meant by taking it unworthily. Yeah. If that's an important thing, somebody's got to be able to have some some reins on that. I mean I don't know if I would say exactly that I'm I think it's a bad thing for a pastor to be officiating a ceremony, but I I I would almost be in that camp. It's a trustworthy saying, if any man aspires to the office of overseer, that would be the pastor, the elder, the under-shepherd. Yeah, I was I wouldn't center my argument on women can't be pastors on this verse of saying this would be a supporting passage. But my chief concern in that sort of because I'm familiar with those sorts of situations too. That's my that's my uh concern. Yes or no? I I just I asked the question and I I don't I didn't think I got a good answer, mostly because this particular gentleman wasn't really prepared to to answer the question. Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. Um so those are the things the elders are definitely doing. Who should do the preaching? I thought I was gonna get more pushback from you too on on that on the marriage thing, chur uh um David, but I guess you've already you already also have some I mean you're obviously obviously not as extreme as I am. Yeah so go to the uh the esterballet. All right. And our arc of content this time has to do with uh what the responsibilities are for pastors and how those might be different from layman and that sort of thing. So I think I have a similar attitude about that. Are you uh And so that's if it's right back onto topic. So I think the question is where if they're ordained into something, some role, what is that role? But so what what is the work to which they've been called, do you think? Although I don't know that Jesus said his disciples constitute a household or Mary even had just a little What's the Shaq? I think it's a good thing. Are you listening to us on News Radio 930 WFMD? Uh not in America anyway, not usually. Um it'll formalize it. I mean I I think I would approach it differently now than I have in the past. So I think I don't have a problem necessarily now I I I d I don't like the just in general with megatches they get I yeah, I I think again the yeah the the the main principle at work is that uh Like, no, she probably shouldn't be doing that, or do you think that's okay? So I I don't get the impression that the church has to be doing a lot. Yeah not more than any other area exactly. And children. Now using the bringing up of the Passover meal um and pivoting that into the the primary topic for today is interesting because the Passover meal would be led by the head of the family. But having it done in the middle, like in a baptismal that's built into the sanctuary and and stuff, I'm not sure if that's necessary Um just to put it on the radar, I need to head out. Interesting. So they they do kind of put place a lot of emphasis on that. Like we it's it's not there. Uh yeah, I I mean I And because of th that point and the fact that it's uh all about leading the family and having one wife And there's different ways to organize a church, and I think the whole point of pastors, what we think of, when we think pastor usually is somebody who's leading the church. I've been uploading old shows and I listened to some of these old shows from like the early two thousands and you know the panel includes a a woman quote unquote pastor. Isn't that a nice show about the regulated principle yet? Well now we're going to get into the faith debate session. He's one of the pastors at the Church It Meets at Imran's house. Now this is definitely a rabbit trail, but uh it's on my head mind and I'm gonna if there's a quick answer. Yeah. Of course you can find this show and this radio station online at Dell WFMD. Red. Are they the only ones that can administer the Lord's Supper or baptize someone? So and I think that goes into all of this. He becomes betrothed to us on Calvary. So I don't know. You know, you're out in the business world, you're out in the you know real world, you know, rescuing trees and all that sort of stuff. Or gold. On earth on earth here he was not leading the church for the first thirty three years. So if you need to duck out a little bit early, we'll just cover for you. I I I think that um the position that Daniel has articulated in the passing in previous shows and what he brought up again uh I'm not positive that this is where they would go, but here's one of the places I think they might go. Um but you know then and that's and that's where the Paleobaptists will say, Well, I mean when you get saved your whole household gets baptized. Um remembering divorce supper specifically. William Some the author of the Shack. I think to to put uh an additional point on what I said last week, and if you didn't hear it, go listen to the podcast. They first of all prepare the room and make it all nice and and decorated and pretty and stuff and then everybody's kind of waiting uh uh out the outside uh to to And then it goes on to talking about deacons and that sort of thing. And so so that's that uh that's why I think it absolutely it's it's more optimal. So the question is, are preaching and the ordinances, you know, administering the Lord's Supper, baptizing someone, are these things reserved for only pastors Um no. Yeah, yeah. That the the pastors I think do exercise some oversight on that question, but do they need to be the ones that officiate the ceremony, I would say I think the pastors should not be exercising oversight over that I think this is a good idea. And there's a whole other topic which we didn't really get into, which kind of is on that clerk. But that's not the marriage. But I I I do think it's it would be I will be on more on your side of it's ideal if he also has children that are in subjection. That's true. Um so I I think they're not there you i it's generally should be a male led service, I think is is the implication. What do you have to add? So if if you can't make it, then please do pray for us. Yeah. Uh yeah, if I had to pick like uh Okay. I I was telling David uh Forcy earlier uh today before the show that I think I'm losing brain cells by the half by the Did you remember that author, Troy? I I feel like we need to circle back to last week actually a little bit. But yeah, I mean Or the anybody else for that matter too, right? Daniel and I kinda dominated the last you know ten or twelve minutes, so we'll get David Forcey in here. And so the question came up in between recordings here, um, because this is a good segue, I think, what do you do though, even if we accept the premise? We're we're not even on through the second show, are we? We do not have time to talk about that because we've both we've got less than ten minutes in today's show, and that's it longer than a ten minute conversation. So you're talking about preaching or now or that was one of the things, preaching and the ordinances, right? Um so that's interesting what they would be able to. And you see this especially with kids. Sure. That's a a a covenant that a man and woman enters into and there's so much cultural confusion about that question and it can have a real spiritual impact on on the local bodies I'm Troy Skinner on News Radio 930 WFMD, also online at household of faith in Christ. Well right, and that's what I'm and that that's kinda what I'm getting at. The picture of the two of them will be even in the same picture and their their bios together and stuff. Um and so normally though the radicated principle for for what it's worth it does tend to uh temper the desires by the congregation to go in more extreme directions. They're the ones that need to make sure that those who should be baptized are baptized and no one else. Like yes, they're it if the if the if the fathers involved are spiritually inept, are not spiritual leaders, are not spiritual guiders. Anyway, thanks so much for listening. Well what happens when you get a fifty year old or a sixty year old who wants to get married and maybe his parents are dead, maybe he doesn't even have a have much of a family at all, or maybe it's somebody that's the only one saved in their family and their family Um I don't have a problem with that necessarily, but 'cause I'm not seen as doing it in a church setting. An overseer then must be above reproach. I've got to go through my notes and see what we covered and didn't cover because we're way off what we originally planned to be doing here. Um nor would they mean that by pastors. She says, What do you mean she's not a pastor? You know, it it talks about the the covering and the the the symbol of authority kind of thing. I I I always assumed growing up and because of different experiences I had I I just assumed that the sacraments are what the people the what believers do, you know, the War Supper and and So that's surprising. Christ is the ultimate bridegroom, right? Like like the father presiding over over every aspect of of things seems to be the most Um so I think that's where I would fall or fall on on that category and maybe you guys can We gotta use money for other things. But I don't know. They don't understand what all the words in the Bible mean. And they'll say, well, kind of like you said, they have the title pastor, but they don't really do pastor things. Feel good about it? Yeah, yeah, that's a topic. I mean uh I when I got saved I was four years old, I remember it very, very vividly, but it it took me a few months before I wanted to get baptized, but it wasn't I really wasn't. Yeah. Just read the shack. And and I think it cannot be a woman that's teaching men specifically or the whole congregation. So that's where the difference comes, because Christians all should do that. So I'm I'm really interested to hear the the opposing arguments there now. He's pastor of a house church that uh meets in a variety of locations based on the week, not a variety of locations all at once. I mean I I I think you know, so I I look at I look in scripture and those who are Although there is a passage that says don't ask questions, ask your husband at home. So they they have at least some cursory fencing like you're saying, Troy. So I never kind of need red at all. He moves forward with anyway. And I I think it's a shame that the Protestant world kept that Catholic tradition of pastors being required to be involved in quote unquote officiating with I do think that the groom sometimes is like dragged along for the ride and it's like, Oh, you're here too? The one who I think kind of got the last salient point on this week's show, even though he didn't have very m much opportunity to share, was David Forcy. Well you are always our voice of reason if you get the last word, so Yeah, when I read this, that was the one spot I was like, oh yes, we're finally gonna get to talk about that. You know, but that I and I think there's, you know. I'm like, well, I don't know. He doesn't know what those words mean? And we may have some uh a woman give up and give s some kind of I I wouldn't have her give a teaching to the men of the connotation necessarily, but she might do some kind of uh Alright, it looks like the live stream is rolling, so you're gonna have to like flip the image later, but uh David Okay, in fairness, it's been so long since we talked about this that I actually had to uh So can somebody who's not a pastor preach? Um and that that argument's usually made by cessationists who would always say that you can't ever prophesy anymore, but I think linguistically they they do have a point with some Yeah, I mean you you said the a couple a couple words on it. But I and I think we've kind of agreed on that in the past, but I I I would maybe make an exception for a woman who has come back from the mission field and wants to give a report to I I'm kind of on my soapbox here. Right. The pastor could say, no, everybody likes in our culture likes to make it all about the the bride and her day, but you know, biblically speaking it's more about this. Um it's it's they can be really big because you're often inviting not com. He doesn't even know what an elder is. No caveats, no qualms, no hesitation in my voice. I don't think it's a requirement, but I I respect how they do that. He didn't say anything about that. Maybe maybe two for sure. They're the ones that are that are do uh doing this and the two families are inviting other witnesses to see look my uh kids are getting married But the point is, he is coming again to get his bride. Chuckful of fun. He's not a multi-campus house church. So let me turn to uh let me turn to David Forcey here. I think his children that that he does have should be should be uh um in in control. And so right, that's because now he's run the risk of of w running smack dab into the wall of a standpoint epistemology. Why? Is it twenty minutes or recording? I think the context of that is teaching others, particularly men in the congregation, um, giving an exhortation. Like a basically a solo performance, right? I forgot to get this part done, so let me get the uh the labeling of the audio file squared away. Right. A a a longstanding every reason to believe that they are the real deal, they're qualified to be an overseer. And that was looked on favorably. Yeah, I I will say so. So we didn't have to we didn't have a whole lot of debate on that one, which I think might be good because it'll set the the the stage nicely because I think we might have a little more debate as we move forward. But Passover specifically for what that means is um Passover and convenience. Well Jesus said to the woman at the well, well you're women with somebody you're not even married to. Yes. Or gold. No Da Vinci Code. So no I I don't know. I think a Christian can get those things wrong and the pastor then who's apt to teach can correct them. So we're not going to talk all about them today, but today we're going to focus on preaching and the ordinances, if we can cover both of those. Yeah, no no yeast, no lemon. Hmm. And even challenging him with, you know, Matthew eighteen. Um I don't have a problem. So I mean and yeah, and and just thinking back in all the situations that I've um yeah where I've where I've been involved like they're they're And my answer would be well look at what happened in the Bible. The Christians should be faithful to, right? What do you do in your church? It's like no no no. We get something wrong and somebody calls us on it and says, Wow, you know what? So men also who have you know demonstrated that maturity and understanding and knowledge. I just was reading scripture and and it seemed in context to really mean the Passover. At that part's not public, but um but but it is it is a very, very different experience having attended and been in a number of both types of Things like premarital counseling and so on would be very good things for pastors. Uh they only have the title. No, I'm now I waffle on that a little bit because I wonder is that biblical? Yeah. Currently currently and not to more than one woman. And so for him to set an example for him to you know, in life in the way that So I I don't I think it's just saying they they basically make sure the overseer is a mature solid rock solid Thank you so much for spending part of your day with us here. So that's a lot of stuff. Passover? Like that's it. The marriage is you telling all your family and friends we are married. And then verse 2, an overseer then must be above reproach. Right? They should greatly value that because there's protection in that. And I've never had any compunction about that. So we'll be reading through the book of Esther in between each of the pieces and it will be dance on stage, ballet uh uh company on stage for part of it. And we're going to test that theory today to see how much fun David Forcey is. Yeah. This is a meeting tool. They're all in there. You surprise me all the time, I gotta tell you. That is taking the focus away from marriage where the husband's the head. Well now he's no longer of the husband of one wife because she's dead. Why does he say that? It's possible that we won't quite be done with the episode by eight forty five. That I have much less of a problem with, honestly, because I I don't believe they mean what we take it what many people take it to mean. I mean I I understand the regulative principle to be the idea that the only thing in a official church service, a corporate worship setting, the only things that should have Troy, do you have a would you say only pastors should be doing performance And while they were ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for me Like that's the extent the pastor is involved. So you should know which of these celebrities celebrations. Right, yeah. And so I think there was understood at the time there's a difference between living together as a married couple and then just happening to be in He doesn't have a website, so if you want to reach out to him, reach out to me and I'll put you in touch. I would not do that, but I'm gonna caveat with there's a specific type of church that I've I've come across No, but there's a lot of things that a church might do or or describe in different certain ways that that is not central to the gospel. A a woman might proph prophesy, a woman might teach, um, you know, uh a woman might do Like that's the marriage ceremony. Yeah, and I would I would almost agree if I could qualify it in a way that you would not be satisfied with. I kinda dominated there, so but that's that's my view on that. Yeah, I guess that's what the qu I I guess you could include all that in that question. There there is a congregation I know of that uh takes the music um uh part and says, Look, if you're even reading a So uh but then you know some will that th then there's almost as like a an issue of like management, right? 'Cause it and it it really something I conclusion I came to very recently on the I was just when I was reading the the passage that says this do as often as ye eat it. Oh yeah. Good morning. And we need to know what that meaning is. On the on the baptism side, I am I am more confident that that does not need to be done within a church or during a church service. The fathers had agreed they're married now. Um all we see there is is you know is the two families coming together. The man you know oftentimes gets nothing that he wants. It's it's you know the way we do wedding ceremonies is the way we do, you know, youth group. I have been asked to officiate weddings in the past, and I have. And I s I w so I would counsel if I if I got asked, I I think yeah some middle aged person or But you run across different people and they find out that, oh, you're pastoring a church, you know, uh actually um I think that very much qualifies them if they you know You know, I'd be very I'd be very concerned about that. But we uh of all the things there are to know, I know less than one one millionth of one percent of what there is to know. Mr. I think it's important to do the things that are commanded to be done in in worship and also to not do things that are commanded not to be done in worship, but I I I If if not, why not? That's not even a joke. Yeah, that's a that's a separate series of shows. Well because I was I always say you can't take a supper until you're I get it. Whereas in the Protestant faith usually we're saying if you're excommunicated we're not having anything to do with you. Now whether or not you can shoehorn the Lord's Supper and baptism and preaching into that And then there are other churches it's once a month, once a quarter, every week, you know, what have you. A lot of times kids don't want to get up in front of a bunch of people and and do that. Like whether it should be. And he goes by Paul, that's what throws me, because he goes by Paul Young with his friends and so the young part and he's old, so that threw me too. That that's kind of what I'm making because people make marriage out to be that well this is something the pastor has to do. No. The highlight of the wedding is when you go and consummate the marriage. But he did. That's a little bit weird. Um it would not anyway, not not just not necessarily not at all. And there are many um churches in which ca uh that I was at one rest recently that's what they do. Right, right, right. Well we're not going to have time to dive into what I thought would end up being the dominant portion of the topic selection for today, which is I mean there's there's you know there's a million different sort of details, you know, that are that are underneath that, I guess. Um so and then you say no, now you got all these lawsuits and a lot of people are afraid of that If we did have it, so we wouldn't just get it over with. We're talking about pastors, elders, overseers, that sort of thing, and a lot of issues that are related to that. Uh follow us online at WFMD. Your your family, your friends should know. What about eloping? The loping implies that the family does not approve of this. Or if a man is saved, he will end up looking like this. Find us online at WFMD. Um but uh the the idea of pasture uh is is like a So you can really go much more extreme if you want. And uh so the website is Estherballet. com to to see the uh be reminded again of the date, the show times and how to connect with tickets and all that sort of stuff, right? Communion to baptism. And that that to me is when you remember his his death and resurrection and his body and blood Right. Maybe that'd be a very but maybe maybe they do it every time they get I think I've heard some people that do like a remembrance at each meal. So I I think, you know, just like that's the role of the father and the other. Yeah, and I think you and I are probably in agreement on that and I think you did a really nice job explaining about the I'm Troy Skinner. So my opinion on the Lord's Supper is that the Lord's Supper is a commandment to be done at Passover. Where as you know like he's it's uh it's going directly from his hands to you know to the person taking it. Um the kinds of roles you might break in half and use during the Lord's Supper? So uh you know I I think we have to look at scripture and say, okay, when when when we are told what the elders are supposed to be doing Every single one. If they're okay with sprinkling, then they can police that. And it sounds like from what you s heared so far, David, that yeah, you we weren't pushing back on that. I'm not sure about baptism. It doesn't misrepresent or it's not just spiritual. Um but there's a lot of things Jesus did not do that men do. Yeah. Forcey? And and they'll say, Oh, your wife's coming, would she mind like singing and doing what they call sometimes And Daniel's gonna tell you a little bit about this Esther Ballet. I I don't even know what we're talking about tonight. You're also uh breaking the unleavened bread and you're drinking those cups when Jesus said Yeah, then your your vetting process is more difficult. And so the the elders, the pastors, whatever you want to call them, they need to make sure the Lord's Supper is done the way that those elders And there's no idea. I mean I haven't been asked yet. Welcome to the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. That's all that's required is publicly living as a married couple is the only thing biblically that's required to be married. And that fits with the commandment to kings in the Old Testament about kings should not multiply wives or horses, I think it says to the cell And so he's the shepherd. That's a very key point, whether you're immersed or whatever, is this is a public proclamation of look I am And uh you can find me online at household of faith in Christ dot com. So those will be the primary focus of today's show. Uh but in the Bible you see these long celebrations, days long, sometimes a couple of weeks long would be a a wedding feast. I my positions have really begun to gel and solidify across the board on so many issues over the last like five years. I would I would say use it as an opportunity to explain the gospel and how marriage is and what marriage and what marriage is and what it does. And I'm going to try to dive right in so we don't get distracted with all these little rabbit trails off the bat. Yeah, I boy, I I'm I'm uh I'm gonna preface what I'm about to say by saying up front I know I'm about to just anger a lot of But maybe it does. Yeah, I mean I I I never even questioned it, right? And I think that's healthy. Sure. But the the deacons or the ushers are involved in oftentimes in distributing So starting with the preaching, and I think if the elders, hey, you know what, this guy is not ordained as a pastor, but we They're the ones that hand out the elements during the Lord's Supper. I'm Froy Skinner. Like I mean there was a pastor that that read some vows for me when I got married, but it's see, in my culture If somebody's been given the gift of singleness by God, has he now been excluded from being a pastor? He doesn't know what the responsibilities are. These words have meaning. I don't have reset yet. Yeah. Was it something Daniel said? It's like I I the pastor have no spiritual responsibility in this. Right. I could talk about this for three hours. Yes. And honestly a lot of them are now adding these restrictions that they didn't have before because they don't want to get caught in the trap of well you you said you marry anybody so what about me and my right my uh So the one telling you not to have the party for the wrong reasons is David Forcy. What is the reason that that's in there? If you have, you know, no men who are married. I think somebody can be a Christian and get that wrong. Pray that God will send the the right people to hear uh to hear the message. I think the idea there would be that they've been called to be overseers, elders. I I guess the question really is 'cause even in this other church, right, this the um this elder that I was talking to at one church, his church does that thing where they they hand out And so what are the role for the elders now? I'm wondering if you know the if what happened, possibly, trying to think about the cultural import, because that's really what it comes down to, right? But in Middle East normally the family's gonna follow them up to their room and then wait outside the door for the evidences of virginity. He's but he kinda sorta is, but not the way you think. And so we finally get into your controversial topic. Like cu currently married? Kings do not w multiply wives to yourself or whatever. So all of these are saying, you know, like he's demonstrating that he can do it. They just mean that she's because they're one flesh, if he's a pastor, that kind of makes her a pastor, a source too. And I'd and I'd say, well, you know, she can't do that. Can someone who's not a pastor baptize someone? No, I mean, biblically speaking, usually when there's well the father does something, the whole thing But I think the focus is kind of backwards and I I really think that the pastor being involved is not one of the most They don't do the things pastor or the vice the the opposite title. Yeah, I used to playfully joke with my daughter before she got married, obviously. The Christian man should be faithful to one wife. And uh in your list. But I think there is one caveat. Um that's not that w I wouldn't label her that. There's a male leadership, there's a male headship here. Uh not with uh t the current incarnation of the show. But that's uh that's a term probably. Uh so yeah, I mean I it's um Do you actually have a worship at times? And and all Christians should be doing that, but I think the elders are the ones that are more responsible for specifically within the church. Yeah. We are saved now. All Christians in all of life should have the Bible regulating what they do. Good morning. So I've taken about somewhere between six and ten different topic ideas and kind of squished them together Oh my we had him on the Faith Debate. That started as a Catholic doctrine because the um uh Catholics in uh the Middle Ages and the and the uh Um now that won't be part of the like the main celebration. So So we're done with that now. So if you want to make the argument that well he was married once, therefore he's qualified, I think that that So that's one of the key passages and it does say, right, the husband of one wife, but to David's point it also says having his children in submission with all dignity So But in he modeled the marriage relationship. Open their mouth at all. So I I don't have any problem with that, personally. If you're gonna do it by yourself in your closet, then that's that's what you're supposed to do with praying, but I think baptism needs to be public. You know. So if that's sort of a warning, some people call that fencing the table, right? The other voice you're hearing on today's show is Daniel Rasley. Um so yeah, I I I the my basic answer would be no, I don't think that pastors Yeah, and I don't think that they must be either. Well that's that's interesting 'cause and I think we should probably bring a Mend Light pastor on here and have the hear what they have to say about the subject 'cause they're gonna have a very strict I can't remember if it's a comment or a question, but Daniel said, I don't know any other way. So I think it does not repeat the gold in the horses itself. And that's gonna be the last word. It it's like twenty five minutes. And there are and you're not alone, there are a number of churches that they they have to suffer one time a year and it's usually Uh maybe. Yeah. Um sometimes translated, prophesy, sometimes preach. The marriage is negotiated by the two fathers. That is the the way they look at it in the Eastern culture. And I think when Jesus uh uh proclaims the gospel, that is a picture of a Middle Eastern wedding ceremony. And I don't know if I would go with the pastor shouldn't be an integral part of the wedding, is what I would say. If you were listening last week, you heard us talking about uh marriage questions of whether pastors should be Now the bigger of a celebration you can make, the better it is. He was called himself an apostle, he could be an evangelist, he could preach, he could do all sorts of things, he can teach and exhort and use be used mightily for the kingdom. The husband of one wife, temperate, sensible, respectable, hospitable, able to teach, not addicted to wine or And so I will go there first. At least I'm going to see if I can accomplish that for myself. I don't think the music or the singing is is uh is a problem. Of course it's only pastors and elders um that uh uh that But they're doing that under the oversight of the elder who's responsible for making sure things are done in an orderly fashion. Yeah, things have to do with marriage and pastors. Right. Yep, right about now. I mean he says, Look, you've and she said I have no husband, so clearly she's not proc per she' not professing to be married I I I I I think a lot of it is um I think uh it depends on a lot of things. He is faithful and least uh more will be given right. It's just on the agenda. Pastor Forcey? Oh, that's right. I think any believer could baptize anybody. I even though I've kind of come over the last few years to that position of well this is the Passover and I do celebrate Passover, I still don't have my kids I I don't have a firm position, but I will say I lean in the direction of being attracted to the paleo Each has a household. And it's become a there's a lot of weight packed into the ceremony. Like the families should want to involve the pastors and in their in anything that goes on in their lives in in general, really, right? Because by his own yep. Um so you know I mean, Twin makes a good point though. and Mrs. That's true. The fathers should be involved making sure that they they trust that these people are making a commitment to each other. In fact, I think it's I think it detracts I think it detracts from the biblical representation of marriage when you insist on the pastor and the church being the involved to that extent If you were to apply that same logic though, couldn't you make the same argument about Jesus? Well that's why I don't I I don't know and there's no nothing in the Bible that says Paul was for sure married. So they always have the the musicians at the back of the room and you can hear 'em but you're not looking at them. Yeah, if you want, these were the elders kind of the rundown of the topics if you want to look at that really quick. They know what's going on. No, but see see that d y you're getting it backwards. That'd that'd be a be a real weird situation. No, the word pastor has a meaning. That's not about having a bunch of self-doubt and running scared all the time. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faithinchrist. Yeah, or if there's just particular practice there. com. Right. We are legally married. He does now. I'd be very concerned. Like uh what like where does that sort of argumentation And anything else, while maybe godly to do, should not be done in that specific setting. Did your father convince you to have that domain in the future? And if there are exceptions to the rules, what are those exceptions, that kind of thing. So it's it's it's very interesting and I think um I think going back, circling back um I'm staying behind the podium in the White House first briefing room down to last week a little bit to put a finer point on things because we never got around to to So I have uh a father who's in my church and he wants to marry his believing daughter Only the people watching the video will notice. Just like uh the husband is is the head of his his wife the Um I don't think this wrong necessarily. And since that core, I don't think we've done a regular difference in the show. To separate would be a divorce, and the angel said don't do that, and he didn't, and we all know that story in the Chr the Christian story. But then why does it say if a man desires the office of bi of a bishop, he should This is the Faith Debate. They have a ministry that you can locate online at conqueredbylove. People were doing that during how about that? Now there is some implication based on some of what Paul is saying that the church was remembering it more So so that and that would blend into the other's are in accountability system. If the if the that's between the that's the families that should be that that should be uh and I mean they can go into Cas Pastor for There's a lot of celebration involved, all this and that. So in in my case, the pastor signed the marriage document to get us legally married and like we didn't actually That's when we consummate our marriage with him. You don't have to do that. Because I find it very odd that a very that such an honorable Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee from a good family and very well He did call us up the chiefest of sinners after all. And if somebody were to come up alongside them and say, hey, let's let's say it was you know David and Megan Forcy, right? Yeah, that sort of thing would be a a red flag for me. He'd call it a performance, but a solo opportunity to lead people to a place of worship Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB. So in my uh theological uh understanding that This is the Faith Debate. Sure. Bishop whatever or past uh you know Pastor Joe and Pastor Susie type of thing. And if we're confused about it, okay, but as soon as somebody would call you on it, But to but to a Catholic, the Lord's Supper is Yeah, so let's let's see if we can f uh pivot back to something Daniel asked like ten minutes ago. Oh they I did go to a church once where that's what they had. Who wrote the Shack, Daniel? We we talked pretty thoroughly about the Lord's Supper and Baptism, but I I don't feel like we actually spent much time talking about And then the family's take it from there and they have the celebration and and all of that. Well and I think it I I would I would agree that we've gotten things out of black and they're off balance What a top out that is but having been to a number of eastern and western weddings, I can tell you that even two or three hours of one of the You know, I hosted this show for a long time without being a pastor. So there is there is that idea of individual responsibility. Yeah, so they were planting churches. Are there certain roles that are reserved only for the pastors? In the Western world. That's pretty much the players. Is that an uh are they being sinful? Because if that's not one of the important factors, she could be a mature Christian too. Joined this week again by Daniel Razby. But y you've got uh I don't think somebody who's has the the responsibility of being an overseer, being a If I had to pick one or the other. We're online at WFMD. You could use you could use it for that. And how are you I mean, maybe com or Household of FaithInChrist. He doesn't know what the word means. That's a a bigger conversation that to your answer. Yeah, some of these things that we're bringing up on this week's show um Well go ahead. And we should be doing that all of the time. They know he's under discipline. No, no. And so I I do think there's a lack of balance. There will not be any family involvement. Well it's just like it's say if someone aspires to the office, they desire a good work. So what do you make of the the point that I was making about Paul? Oh okay. But I think uh someone good. And and then you are baptized. You would just rather do that than than once a year. Because I I I feel like we we pretty thoroughly talked about Wanna circle back? Right, right. What do you do with people that are getting married late in life? Exactly. Um now the a man who's a pastor is going to do a lot of different things and a lot of women might do a lot of those things. Sing under the word a new song that says that's fine so we can sing new songs and so on. And by the way, I'm a pretty I am a pretty special person. And then they fasted and prayed and laid hands on them and sent them away. Yeah. And if somebody if the gospel comes under attack to identify those wolves that are attacking the gospel So you have like a a small localized version of a church council And so I think it's it's a both and And that's kind of what I'm saying is hey you don't have to have a big, you know, buy an expensive wedding dress and And uh me with the the the voice of reason. com or me and uh the this show and the churches that we're involved with more specifically at Household of Faith in Christ No. The pastors are merely under shepherd, so the shepherd is disqualified from shepherding life. So I you know if the Apostle Paul were, you know, around Usually though the black church is usually uh much more strict about what they mean but w in those In that church they would say no, right? Like it actually becomes the body of love. Unless they're all doing that now. God bless. Um and there's a number of ways you can do that and have different formats and order of It's the ideal situation. We are plum out of time for this episode. This is part of the challenge we have in our broader culture, and I think it's affecting the church too, is this we've deconstructed our language. And that's how I understand that and I'm reminded of that by what you're just articulating, David, that Have you heard the have you heard the argument maybe made a little bit better for the other side? Um it's it's interesting. Like Acts chapter 13, early on in the chapter of So and there's a number of pastors I know that would refuse to officiate until they've they've personally done the Um he will be much better equipped for that if he is married. He should have his house in order. Then maybe. Okay. I'm Troy Skinner, uh joined this week by David Forcy and Daniel Razby. We're gonna be doing that actually for a number of weeks, as you know if you've listened to this show before, we tend to do arcs of Can someone who's not a pastor administer the Lord's Supper? So we'll see. And and uh uh yeah, I mean I I I think probably m the majority of people would agree You've been excommunicated. Not really so much the groom or the the bride necessarily, but if if either one more than the other it'd be the groom. We're only doing three hours of celebration. Yeah. Look at Isaac, he was gonna go get a wife and he didn't have his father there involved. Um so it's more like a prostitution I guess in that case. I think the list that we're given there uh th those are basically the things you should look for in a Christian Like okay Uh no, we c we the the first two are pretty much done. Presumably if you don't have a husband, find somebody else to ask, or maybe ask the pastor, but not in the church setting. So so the women in the congregation can sing reality. Yeah, or even if like I've been to churches where the choir isn't up front, they're actually in the balcony behind, so you don't see them, you only hear them And we've got a list. And I uh this is not meant to be self serving, but boy, it seems like an argument for if not house churches, at least Would you be more of the advocate for like every meal type of thing? What was that, Daniel? Anything to separate us from God, if it were even possible, would be a divorce, right? Anything anything in reaction that you want to say? Christ is you know he's the ultimate bridegroom, and so it's certainly it's all about Christ Um I have said no, by the way, as well. So clearly she wasn't making some kind of uh, you know, public profession. You could gather all your friends together and say, Hey, by the way, me and my girlfriend we got married last night I mean clearly Solomon wrote some pretty good proverbs while he had seven hundred wives. If your pastor doesn't know what biblical words mean, I've never thought about it that way. Doesn't mean I didn't write in that though. I'm gonna get you a t-shirt that says I'm David Forcy. So the elders are kind of setting up the cups at the be at the at the front of the church, but then each family breaks into groups. And you know I the but the more I I think of it the more the more it seems seems like the whole purpose of the War Supper really is a passover But if you're in a smaller setting, it's a smaller church, even if it's not a house church, let's say there's a church with like fifty or a hundred people It was Passover. But uh they need to make those res and so that gets into the w what we're talking about more specifically this week, I think. Sure. Because there's about a number of people that live together and even Jesus said that So basically, I think it's one way of understanding is the overseer must be a mature Christian And then even a passage like this then helps to undergird and support that by extension. Obviously, I didn't have a strong view on that the way I would argue I should have. By extension, should women even speak in church? Overseer Forcey? But I don't think that's I I don't subscribe to that necessarily. I mean there are Christians who advocate for that, right? So I'm Troy Skinner. There's been there's I've heard some teaching that that when it says prophesy in the New Testament it often it's just meaning the pre Um and if you need to get some legal document that says you're married too, just to compu to get It says if you want to be a bishop or an elder Okay, so what if he was widowed and neither of them were believers before that and now he has been a believer for He might be he might be wise. And calling his wife a pastor? Take a look at it. Thank you so much for listening. That's all right. Like that's the it's all built around that. Yeah, like in in that sense, like pastors Yeah. It you know, it'd be it'd be just past eight. There's there's there's helpful oversight in that. If not, I'll write it down and it'll be a separate show. And he shows up, he wants to participate in the supper. What the heck do they do? But I think that those who are ordained And basically they they would they were doing that as a as a form of Or spiritual at all. Middle Eastern weddings can be really expensive. Um I mean 'cause and and this this goes back I mean we mentioned. Um you guys had your say already, I think, but do you want to Um So I'm gonna be w wildly prepared as usual. And then he's it's funny because in Paul I'm Troy Skinner. Uh I know that I when I uh Or sometimes parents are are hesitant. There's a couple of key places people would go on this subject and and and Daniel alluded to it, but let's just read it real quick of this one anyway. Able to teach so the women aren't supposed to be teaching the men but but it's right down the line. And what they mean by that is he and his wife, like their family is is is Oh no, she never does those things. And and it's only in the contest like this where you're kind of So I hadn't really discussed the preaching. And it really irks me that the church has completely separated Easter or Resurrection Sunday as And if you've got a church with thousands of people So you have a patient, but but you do you also practice other You can um uh So let's it's like with parenting, right? Um I I'll just take you back to the scripture. Um so I I I find it very And so I think I might have said something I I'm might have Um so I'd I'd probably have to fall back on I don't think it's unbiblical. If there's if there's a widow then she gets the cup and she shares with her That that will be the part that the pastors can be policing that the you know We're so pleased that you're spending part of your And so maybe we'll try to, you know, put a bow on some of those There's a lot of ha pastors that would say, Well, I would only So this is where m my view, like um I'm not even sure that it's what what was the word you use? We have to know what the pat what the definitions are packed into these words are. They're the ones that baptize people. Here's a prayer request, here's something that I that I happened to do last week that I think is i is a reasonable thing for uh I feel like Daniel is pushing I mean a little bit beyond that, saying that The father of the bride is giving her away basically. You have no reason to think that either one in fact you have lots of reason to think neither one of them is actually a Christian Yeah, we we advertised it on the recording from a few months ago because it was actually airing now. One, them officiating marriage ceremonies, and also uh if only married men can serve Church discipline, right? I think there might be some disagreement in the room, so we'll we'll start off next week's show on that and then we might pivot into something that got brought up in last week's show Saving the environment. You know? So the same thing in the New Testament, the leaders, the elders, need to exemplify what's a godly life and one of those things is to have one Right? Yeah. No. And I and actually have it. I think that's God honoring. I don't know if he's qualified as an elder to be an elder then because he hasn't demonstrated his com or if uh if you like it's don't be And the Catholics make a really big deal out of it too. They're ordained onto something, right, to to go ordained into something right that's not just every believer But so I I can I can take out of that the point that okay, God does set apart certain people for particular Um um um by the way this is the fate debate I'm Troy Skinner. So I uh well see th that's the thing is I don't think as a castor your role is to give approval or blessing on the And that'll be in churches that are predominantly black. My chief concern with that would be that the husband in that husband-wife team isn't qualified to be an elder. Well in this particular congregation, none of the people are upfront that are singing um because the the attention is He always laughs. I mean there is elders are supposed to lead the church. And I think it's interesting about baptism, Paul has an extended period of You're under discipline. Well Steve was here, I think he probably talked about the feasts and celebrating I we did m multiple shows. Um but I think I might too actually. That's definite. So in that scenario, um I'm trying to think of practical Okay. So it can get very expensive. So we'll figure that all all out within the next 167 and a half hours. Welcome to Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. He's not apt to teach. Daniels Passover. And it's the same thing that that happens in in there. That's the the marriage is when the husband goes and takes his wife. Now I actually personally believe that Paul was married and then his wife And you're going to want to do that because as we have clearly demonstrated over the last several weeks, David Forcy is chock full of fun. There's there's incredible uh there can be if you look at it that way, incredible blessing Um I'm I And that's interesting because there's a there's a one immediately follows the other. Yeah. I can handle it. com, and you can follow me online at household of faith in Christ. I don't know what's Anyway, and uh Daniel Rasby is also on the show. His children should be And can can women be involved in that? Um I think that's a great example. I'm not kidding. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 933. So the mouse that doesn't jump all over the place has a dead bad And that the baptism should be done in an orderly way and uh in a proper way. But I think it's a little bit of a we do have in in America I think that that's that's not as as specific as How uh how what other way would you understand those words And yet that person can't be so I'm not even sure it's optimal. I see value in that, but the person who's never been married uh has a better perspective on how to give counsel to those who aren't married. And to Daniel's point before, I don't No woman's gonna have just one wife. Uh I think important it should be important for the congregation to sing together. We will uh hopefully welcome have you welcome us into your lives again next week about 167 and a half hours from right now. I think he's saying that he dislikes your position so much that even this other position that he rejects he likes better than yours Hey, congratulations on the wedding, you know. Because uh I said, you know, eloping can be very romantic. You need to duck out when there's like still, you know, five, eight minutes left or something. You know, God didn't say you can't watch a movie in church, so we're gonna watch On the Lord's Supper I have a little bit of different opinion because when I was you can take that by yourself. Exactly You can find Daniel and their ministry online at And if they're unavailable, somebody else, the families are negotiating the marriage. If a man and a woman come to you and say, Hey, we want to get married So then I would I would probably counsel them, well you you two need to make a public profession of marriage and That's David Forcey. But I don't think somebody who has the responsibilities of being a pastor can get something like that wrong. We are uh really excited. They had a big yeast roll and you just break it off pizza Uh basically I I felt uh the the the short version of what I said last week was I think that Ever been married? I would take it to mean clearly no polygamy. He's one of the pastors at the Church It Meets at Imran's house. Okay. And and If the table needs to be fenced No, no, no. It's amazing. But if they uh will sign off on somebody else preaching, that I Right. Thank you for being honest with me basically. So I I mean I'm I'm But suboptimal is okay, it's just suboptimal. So the Uh they don't have pastors don't have to know everything. Hopefully joining And in Yeah, mine's only just fake numbers on the screen. The one saying yes is Can only married men serve as pastors? Um God has Wow, I need to recondition my thinking. Look at the jailer. Are we circling forward now? And I say Right, yes. There are passages that say very specifically that women should not be uh And b and you mean like never have been married. I I compose a ballet, a full score orchestral Um so you may have a baptism service where we get together we're doing But Is that unbiblical because they're excluding the family? And sometimes the family doesn't actually know better So last week I asked the question, can only married men serve as pastors? And it's like, wow, things that I was kinda had an opinion about but I didn't really know w why I held those some of those They are considered part of the kingdom because they're I'm like, David, you can't do that. What are you doing? Um so I I I mean I to some extent I I agree I I I would say that the pastor shouldn't be required to be in his repartment. So I think that's the point. That I'd be okay with that probably. That's that's my summary. Yeah. It's about So it's fun. So They're gonna have the feast and stuff first and and then he takes home his his bride. And so Like that doesn't make sense to me. Then why do you call her a pastor? Um so that I mean that's why my It's it's several dozen items. That's an interesting thing. I it I it's that's Or maybe one of the And You have just a church full of men Or you have other people where the woman is doing pastor things, but we don't call her pastor So I wonder, do you think that And some I was about to say this a second ago and so I'll I'll I'll So who wants to get the ball rolling? It says because people haven't done this, that's why some of you died. Well I And now now I know there are plenty of other people that also have In the Western culture it's all about the bride. So either one of those. com. No. I mean you do have examples like Miriam singing before the but I I I get the impression So certainly we come together for corporate worship, the Bible should be regular We thank you so much for spending part of your day with us. We're not even gonna have you to dinner necessarily because you need to really have a wake up You know, they're the ones that marry couples, which is, you know, that's a separate topic we'll be getting to actually possibly Potentially, yeah. So I don't know if anybody has it more than once a week. Is it just the sensitivity setting on the I don't know. Yeah, but the consummating of the marriage, there's no public witness to that You know, uh so He's demonstrating that he has done it. I thought you were trying to change the subject. But you don't do either Well there's more I there's more I'm tempted to want to say, but uh David's here for a reason. Uh that is mind boggling why anybody would say com That doesn't you don't need to put it on national television or anything. He might be knowledgeable. He had his whole household baptized in one Yeah. Well well I don't I don't think that you should be necessarily getting married in a church That that takes some talent to squeeze every heresy into one novel. So we gotta Right? It's not uncommon for for people to spend six figures or more on a on a wedding And so you can The other voice you heard today is Daniel Rasby. I I think you could have a man who's not married as an elder. I guess we'll get into the uh the women aspect part because we only barely touched on that. I would never belong to that church. Right in a in a church. Okay. You know, we we we kind of reinvented the show a few years ago and so we have regular panelists now with But you know but the point, you know, the the point is it is that don't be you know worried about that. And if you drop it and step on it or something like you have totally sinned against God. Um Ever been married. But in his humanity he he didn't, right? And I think this relates to the shows we did um I was just gonna ask uh ask a question. Probably like eight forty five Uh it it's not uh like the ideal situation would be It's not just paleo baptism, but there's also paleo communion positions He just but he will he will give the cup to anybody and it's and he's he's saying look Okay. Um I'm not sure that special music It's gonna be at F. Chuck full of fun. Um I would lean more towards every meal than I would once a year. How it helps to picture uh Christ's relationship with his church and And uh he wanted to meet So I don't think that precludes them from singing. Uh So we want to take one at a time, maybe baptism and And then to pivot from that on into the ordinances Like what is distinct about being the pastor from being not the pastor? Well they wouldn't even let him in the door potentially. Or maybe Yeah. Sure, I think sure you sure you can be you you should be exhorting him and and and teaching Um but I'm I'm against the uh Right, but but even doing an officiating of it, I think, is not a good not a reason. The pastor shouldn't should not be I think that um Um if if he has children they are in subjection I think it is optimal for a couple of different reasons. Like you only have a special knowledge if you've lived that reality No woman's the he the you know, she's not the head of her of her family, the husband is If Paul were around today, he you wouldn't have him as an elder in your Are they talking about it? But if we're gonna make a tight association with the Passover meal But I I I think the relevancy is in saying Yeah, I would say the pastor should be teaching on that. I just I assume he was Um yeah that that wasn't his that wasn't his call Yeah. Uh I actually did a whole teaching series about the Shaq. So I That's fair. I know Daniel's got a lot of opinions. So this is an ordination It's just a lot more celebration. Because I said, Well, I think the most valuable thing I can bring to the table for you is the premarital counsel. But it is a very happy time. Well, it does what we do here They have the whole bunch of cups that are filled and each father goes and takes a cup and they're not a good They exhort, they they teach. Anyway. But I think it comes to then. I mean look at Joseph and Mary. I think I said this off the air uh between shows a couple of uh weeks ago. And then other churches will say, well, actually that what they meant by that is probably com Um What the but the importance of the family, particularly in the point of view that David advocates has been So it's a good thing to want to do this Um and then They're trying to play fast and loose with defining their term Is I think he disqualified himself by writing that that That's that's a lot of that's the the expert fallacy that um Well we'll I mean we'll have church conferences where we'll have a bunch of sessions Like why would anybody think that I felt like that was very relevant to this topic. I think that's the point. Miriam Miriam, Moses' sister, sang and danced before the Lord before the Scott Fitzgerial Theater in Rockville, Maryland Um but we pray before each meal, mostly most people do. And one of the things that I don't think it's a sin to ha to ask your pastor to history wedding Um Yeah, well these days also loping tends to be 'cause we don't want to spend money on a big web Yeah, I mean I I d I disagree with the practice and I I wouldn't do that in my church. Like what are some things people who would disagree with us might point to That uh that families You can find him in hit their ministry online at conquered by love dot org And in his humanity, Christ, I don't I I'm I mean I mean z but there are certain things we have to know And I I don't know that it Some marriage issues will come up as part of that conversation. org. He he wasn't expecting it. I I I do think there's a lot of Should only elders be administering baptism at Horse Supper? I think that's our our that's that's what is distinct I'm not sure I fully agree by the way with how far you go. I don't know. Yeah. There is two very clear lists of of We're all pastors. I I so it's a similar type of thing. And a lot of people would take including me would take that to mean There's a big subset of of Christians that are like, well I got saved and then they might be monster. Um We'll see if I'm good at guessing Uh the voice you heard right before mine was Daniel Rasby and the voice you're probably gonna be hearing next And I'm wondering if that possibly happened culturally because if you look at the And because Uh one I think like I want to know what Daniel m Um You say yes or no Only only once married. And if you're listening later on podcasts, well In fact I don't Right. Like this is I introduced her on the show, you know. And these are topics that kind of came up Maybe we'll start with Daniel and we'll we'll just kind of react He's standing behind uh a podium in the White House press briefing room or something? And Um now com In the eastern culture it's all about the groom. Like if they've been married and they're they're they're The third one's only been kind of a losing Do you can somebody baptize themselves? No. They have a they turn it into a big feast. So that so that that would kind of be a So uh And David Forcy is here. And by ordinances I'm specifically talking about the Lord's Supper and the I'm Troy Skinner, the host of this show and the pastor of Household of Faith and You can learn more about them at Concordby Love. We'll have um other special Joseph was going to divorce her, but they hadn't slept together. I'd say A lot of people in the church What do you mean by speak? Um Which I Now, baptism doesn't save you. Um And now it's all squeezed into like an afternoon or an evening. You can't have like a bunch of sister wives running around Till then, God bless Yeah, I mean uh yes, I I think. The the the purpose of the baptism is Next week we'll be talking about marriage. It's a very celeb I think it's op one because uh Right, but it but if you if you're gonna say well it it's not all that important Potentially. I've officiated weddings, but Yeah. William P. And if those In fact I'm For the for the Uh Uh because it says elders must I think the circum He said, I'm gonna go get a wife. Some will say, well, the we And Is what what verse what So you need to take it really seriously. Especially the Catholics will be well known for such a position But really it's the whole family that is celebrating But it In in his divinity he does. The women can also sing. Right? It's a spiritual attack, clearly. I I I guess I Young Like some people But the family is still gonna be Like how would you practically Not ideal, optimal So words can mean whatever we want them to mean. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like the pendulum may be overcorrected just And they were The family meal. Wedding ceremonies First this is from First Timothy chapter three. Dep depending on the Is it as important as The groom is taking him a wife. And then I was like He said And Daniel said, yes. So let's uh They can sing harmony He doesn't have a website, but I thought we you guys were gonna really push back With within I'll say it now on the air. That's a gift. Um In that particular congregation org. I