Newsmakers. Broadcasting live. From within the WFMD Palatial Palace, high atop Frederick's Grove Hill in the formerly free state of Maryland. I'm Troy Skinner filling in on Frederick's Forum today. If you've been a longtime listener to WFMD, you might recognize my voice I've been hosting the Faith Debate program on Sunday mornings and WFMD for coming up on sixteen years and it's uh a pleasure to come on a totally different kind of a of a show and be live so I can welcome your phone calls 301-694-WFMV. That's 301-694-93. 6-3, a little bit of a heads up if you call and I just put you on hold right away without actually talking to you first. Don't be offended. That's the way that uh we're going to have to uh do things, but that won't keep you from getting on the air. So if I say something that strikes your fancy and you'd like to comment, feel free to do so. 301-694-WFMD. We're going to talk about something, at least to start the show today. that not enough people are talking about. It's actually been in the news for a number of months, but it's been flying way under the radar. I wonder why. There hasn't been much in the way of news going on lately, causing a distraction And actually this shouldn't be a distraction. We shouldn't allow ourselves to be distracted from this because it's an issue that is right on point with everything else that's going on, believe it or not. What am I talking about? On the final day of June of this year, a resolution was offered calling on Frederick County to consider climate change when drafting legislation and policy. Now one of the sponsors, County Councilwoman Jessica Fitzwater, says, quote, this is something that's going to continue to affect Frederick County and our children and grandchildren for generations to come, end quote. That's more than a maybe. She's firing up a signal flare. Pay attention. This is gonna have huge impact for generations to come if we're not paying attention. Councilman Kai Hagen also sponsored the resolution. Now that's a surprise. The call is reportedly for the County Council to set up a, and this is what they're calling it. Climate change emergency mobilization work group. This climate change emergency mobilization work group We'll have a bunch of representatives from throughout the community involved in public meetings. Sounds pretty run-of-the-mill and boring so far, right? So why care? Well, the aim Is to affect just about every aspect of your life The measure is said to focus on four, just four main quote-unquote climate emergency concerns which are relevant to Frederick County. But in fact, it's far more than just four areas of focus when we look closer. Now the areas in the sites of the local politicians are energy, transportation and buildings, agriculture, forestry, and sequestration. Health and extreme weather adaptation and uh uh uh resilience, and public engagement and education Well right there you can see it sounds like way more than four already. Let's read the resolution. In case you haven't been paying attention, you haven't heard, here's what it is. The climate emergency resolution from the County Council of Frederick County. A resolution establishing a climate emergency mobilization work group and committing the Frederick County Council to consider policy and legislative actions through the lens of climate change. Whereas our present climate crisis poses an immediate and long-term threat to the well-being of all communities, including Frederick County, and whereas the adverse impacts of Climate change tests our infrastructure, emergency and social services, influence our access to food, water, and energy, disrupt commerce and our quality of life, and Whereas the harm already caused by climate change demonstrates the effect temperature changes have had on ecological stability and safety as attested by increased wild fire fires Floods, rising seas, climate refugees, diseases, droughts, and the ongoing mass extinction of species due to these changes and let me pause there. This is a resolution for Frederick County, right? Rising seas, wildfires, diseases. Mass extinction of species. Is that going on like right next to me and I didn't notice? Like right here in Frederick County, we we have rising seas in Frederick County? Huh. Continuing now, whereas restoring a safer and more stable climate requires an emergency mobilization to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions within a few decades. Let me say that again for emphasis. Net zero greenhouse gas emissions within a few decades to improve carbon sequestration and to implement measures to protect people and nature from the adverse consequences of abrupt climate change. And whereas Section 203 of the Frederick County Charter allows the council to appoint special ad hoc committees for inquiry and fact-finding. Now, therefore, be it resolved. By the County Council of Frederick County, Maryland, that climate change is threatening our county, state, nation, and the world as we know it. And then it goes on, be it further resolved, and we'll get into some of this stuff in a second. Well maybe I'll read a couple of them. The Frederick County County Council commits to impl uh implementing policy and legislative actions through the lens of climate change. This is the thing that you really got to pay attention to. The county council intends to implement if if things go forward the way that they're talking about, it will implement policy and law, okay, legislative actions Through the lens of climate change. If it's not, it should be sending a shiver up and down your spine It's also further resolved that the Frederick County Council commits to equitable climate emergency mobilization efforts. I'm sorry I keep laughing, but really it's an emergency. If it was an emergency, I don't think I would be Wondering why it's an emergency. None of us would be wondering why it's an emergency. If it was actually an emergency. If your house is on fire, you recognize that your house is on fire. There's no doubt about whether it's an emergency or not. Anyway, uh the county council commits the equitable climate emergency mobilization efforts to address global warming, reduce countywide greenhouse gas emissions. 50% from the 2010 levels by 2030. It's only 10 years away. And to reduce them by a hundred percent. Now it's been a while since I've taken a math class, but a hundred percent that's all, right? That's everything. That's all in, as Jeopardy James used to say last year when he went on his historic run on the game show Jeopardy. All in. We're going to reduce countywide greenhouse gases completely, no later than twenty fifty. That's only thirty years away. It's only thirty years. Go backwards in time thirty years. That's nineteen ninety. Thirty years is not that long a period of time And they're going to employ efforts to safely draw down carbon from the atmosphere. And there's more, and maybe we'll get into uh the more in a second. We need to be paying attention here. Because the the aim here is to affect every aspect of your life and to couch it in terms that make it sound like there's an emergency We're doing this for your own good, for your own safety. Does that sound at least a little bit familiar to you? Councilman Phil Dacey, he rightly noted that describing the situation as an emergency might be a bit behind the pale. But P Ty Hagen, oh no, no, no. He said, quote, it really is an emergency. It's an extraordinary crisis. It's an existential crisis in terms of the well being of human society, the ecology of the planet, end quote. Now the news story that uh I'm referencing here doesn't quote Councilman Hagen is saying the sky is falling, the sky is falling. So can't verify whether we added those words or not. Now depending on your perspective, here's the best part. The Climate Emergency Mobilization Work Group will present a status report to the Council in about six months after it's established. And then it's going to offer a full report to the council after a year. The reports will have quote-unquote recommendations. For legislative, administrative, and community action. As Councilwoman Fitzwater noted, these are recommendations, not mandates for individuals or businesses. Of course not She said that they will offer what, quote, we feel are the best practices, the best strategies, the best recommendations that we can make to help the county reach these goals. So nothing in the report is going to make anybody do anything. End quote. Well, if the report leads to no action. Why work on making a report? Absolutely they intend to act on the recommendations. Otherwise, you're just wasting everyone's time. And I'd be fine with that in this case, by the way. Right now, it's just a bunch of pseudoscience under discussion. But in a year or so, it's going to be a discussion about an official report. That really smart people worked on. And they've become experts on this stuff, you know? And we can't disagree with experts. Are you a science denier? Everyone who calls themselves a conservative in Frederick County, better wake up. Right now the frog is in the pot of water. The campfire has been lit. Better do something before your legs are cooked. The hearing on this resolution is scheduled for this Tuesday, July 14th. Now it might be fate accomplished they might approve this. Everybody's flying under the radar. Oh, it's on it's not threatening. It's just it's just a a committee of of people. Who's going to be on the committee? Well, Fitzwater and Hagen apparently, or at least people that they designate will be on the committee. Others who are going to be on the committee or at least propose to potentially be on the committee would include the uh groups like the Clean Water Action uh Climate Change Working Group, Downtown Frederick Partnership. Because they're trying to do this in combination with the city, by the way. They put this up for uh consideration a number of months ago, back in I don't know I think it was February. But they couldn't come to an uh agreement on language and and and different things with the city, so they they tabled it for a while, but here it is back again. The Electric Vehicle Association of Greater Washington, D. C. , the Food Security Network, the Frederick County Building Industry Association, the Frederick County Chamber of Commerce The Frederick County Farm Bureau, the Frederick County Food Council, Healthy Soils Frederick, Multi-Faith Alliance of Climate Stewards of Frederick County, the Sierra Club Catoctin Group. as well as representatives of public health, higher education, the scientific communities, and other recognized and relevant stakeholders in the county. You can tell from that list that this isn't going to focus on just four aspects of our life. This is to control every aspect of your life. Again, they've they say the four are basically energy, agriculture, health, and uh education. But even in saying that it's energy also includes transportation and buildings. I don't know about you. You spend any time in a building lately Have you transported yourself via a vehicle somewhere lately? Have you expended any energy? Have you flipped down a light switch in your house recently? Agriculture, forestry, and sequestration, and I don't know exactly how they're using sequestration here, because it it can have to do with uh like paying some sort of carbon tax on uh you know to offset your carbon usage or uh w whatever but Sequestration, that's the action of taking legal possession of property for the benefit of sometimes creditors, you put a lien on your house kind of thing, or the state, the government. It can be used again for for debt or other claims against the owner. So if you get fined or you have some sort of bill to pay for using uh too much energy and putting too much carbon in the atmosphere, maybe they would send you a bill and if you don't pay it they would you know they would uh confiscate your land possibly or who knows how they're intending to use that And then health, but also extreme weather adaptation and resilience. Well, I don't know how how invasive are they going to be in trying to control our health? And then public engagement and education. Well I gotta say, I hope the public gets educated. I hope there's a public engagement. So hopefully we'll pay attention to this. This sounds just like what happened with everything with coronavirus and the experts telling us what we should do and then a week later telling us exactly the opposite of what we should do. Are we awake yet? It's twelve twenty-one. If you'd like to uh call in, we're gonna take our first commercial time out and then uh if you're if you want to call in we'll take calls, otherwise you'll hear more of me. 301-694-WFMD is the number. 301-694-93. This is nine thirty WFMD's Frederick. Forum. I'm Troy Skinner filling in. Tomorrow morning I'm gonna again be hosting the Faith Debate here on News Radio nine thirty WFMD as I do every week. Jonathan Schweitzer and Von Thurman are on the panel tomorrow as we discuss what many call racism. I prefer ethnocentricity or prejudicial bias. What's the biblical Christian to do and think? We talk it through tomorrow morning, nine o'clock. Right here on the Talk of Nid Maryland 930 WFMD. But right now this is Frederick Sforman. You can call if you like at 301-694-WFMD. That's 301-694-93. six three. I read most of the resolution. We're talking about this emergency uh climate uh wh what are they calling it again? Wait a minute. Where is it? Where is it? Where is it? They're calling it the uh Oh, I gotta find it. The emergency or the the climate emergency mobilization mobilization work group, the climate emergency Mobilization work group. And they've got a resolution on the table. There's going to be a vote this coming Tuesday, uh the fourteenth, of whether or not they're going to establish this uh this committee. with a whole bunch of supposed experts or people who will become expert on these sorts of things to put together some recommendations. They'll have an update in about six months if if this goes through, and then a final report with their recommendations in about a year. And if you don't think they're going to act on those recommendations, then uh you have not been paying attention lately. But I've read most of the of the resolution uh in case you haven't uh heard about it, there's a few things that I haven't shared yet, so I'll just uh I'll just read the rest of it. So this is um The last portion, last third maybe, of the resolution, where they say, further it be resolved that Uh the six months following the first meeting, the Climate Emergency Mobilization Work Group will present a status report on the four main climate emergency concerns to the county council on progress of the workgroup to date. So that's what I was just talking about in about six weeks of the report. And then twelve months following the first meeting, the Climate Emergency Mobilization Workgroup will submit a final report to the County Council and to the public. including legislative, administrative, and community recommendations. Recommendations, mind you, to assist the county with meeting the goals of this resolution upon submission of the report, the County Council or the representatives. may submit questions uh and requests to the work group for additional information. And then the work group, they're going to have uh eight weeks to respond to any requests, after which time the work group will be dissolved. Yeah, good by that point the damage will be done. The final bullet point here, the Frederick County Council will communicate with and educate the public about the climate emergency including the efforts of the Climate Emergency Mobilization Work Group. And then it's got the yada yada yada, the state signed here, blah blah blah. I'm I'm concerned anybody who follows me on social media knows that back in February I was sounding the alarm about the direction we were headed with the reaction. or what I was fearing w would end up being the reaction about the coronavirus and the government getting a little bit uh comfortable in power grabbing. And I was a lone voice in the wilderness. I had dear friends who kind of turned on me and said that I was uh I was a danger to my neighbor that I was going to cause people to get really sick and and die because I was diminishing uh what was going on. And the fact of the matter is I was diminishing nothing I was accurately reflecting the situation. Yes, the coronavirus is real. COVID nineteen does take people's lives, but There are ways to understand how to manage and mitigate that in a way that doesn't destroy everybody having a life. But nobody listened. And so the experts told us what they thought, and then the government imposed those thoughts on the rest of us. This is the same thing. Slightly different issue, but it's the same thing. There's a climate emergency, don't you know? Grandma's gonna die if the temperatures go up any higher. Frederick will be a coastal city before you know it. We gotta do something. So we, for your own good, are gonna tell you how to live your life. And nobody seems to care. When are we going to wake up? When are we going to care? By the way, the county council, they also uh took action um last day of last month on on ballot questions, limiting the uh what's going to be on the ballot for this November to four. Uh one question is if approved would allow individual council members to request information from the county's executive branch? It sounds simple enough, which has me wondering like what's the catch? Does anybody know? Seriously, the council members are not allowed to request information from the county's executive branch now? I don't know. Seems really logical, which has me highly suspicious. Second question has to do with the uh for the ballot, has to do with the level of debt that Frederick County can take on. It would change debt limits from five percent to three percent of real property and fifteen percent down to nine percent of personal property. Now Less debt is good as a general rule. But how's it going to be achieved? That's always the question. And my concern is that we're going to have less debt by having much higher taxes. The other two questions, they have to do with calling for special elections when needing to fill in vacant seats on the county council and also to fill in the uh county executive's position if it becomes vacant. I can't help but wonder, could we have a question on the ballot about simply keeping all the seats vacant all the time? You know, smaller government and all that? Now the council um w they were asked to keep the questions no more than four because us voters, you know, we're a little too dense to handle any more than four. We can't even handle four. Who are we kidding? The way things have been going lately, I'm highly suspicious of that too So they want to have a long list of questions to be decided upon on election day. And so there were questions that were going to be dealing with fringe benefits for council members, a question about a 10% increase in the council president's salary. Uh the issuance of subpoenas by the council and an amendment to let council members add to the county executives budget, these were all rejected, and we can be thankful for that, I think. I'm not sure that it matters anymore. I I I really I'm so jaded, I don't know, but in case somehow by some s stroke of Providence. It matters. I remind you the general election is Tuesday, November third, twenty twenty. Get out and vote and let's see what happens. I don't know. It's 1230. I'm Troy Skinner. This is Frederick's Forum on Free Talk 930 WFMD and WFMD. com. You can call in if you like at 301-694-WFMD. three oh one six nine four nine three six three It's Red Rick's Forum on nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner filling in today on nine thirty WFMD's Fredericks Forum during the week. You're invited to listen to Frederick's Morning Mayor, Bob Miller, for your morning commute and then Mid-Maryland Live with Tim May and Frank Mitchell for your afternoon commute. It's every weekday on Free Talk 930 WFMD and WFMD. com This is Frederick's Forum, and you can call right now. We're live from atop Grove Hill, 301-694-WFMB 301-694. Nine three six three. Time jacket is twelve thirty-six. Set your watches. Let's let's coordinate our our clocks. We're talking about this resolution that's uh up for vote this coming Tuesday that I think everybody's sleepwalking through. I I don't understand exactly why we haven't woken up yet. Uh there are so many things going on in our world right now that we're paying no attention to. Have you noticed how we're heading towards a what feels it a cashless society? There's this weird, mysterious lack of coins and You know, money apparently is too dirty to be handled and so more and more businesses are requiring that you pay with plastic only. And I'm gonna maybe talk about that a a little bit more in a minute. And they're of course they're making the masks required and the whole and and all the the reaction to the COVID nineteen and what that means for our school system and Uh that whole fiasco. I was debating whether that would be the main issue I would tackle on today's show today or not. Um yeah, and the government, you know, mandating the companies go out of business essentially. Yeah. I mean there are people that are barely hanging on. Some didn't make it through the first shutdown wave. And if there's another shutdown, the number of businesses that will not make it through that one, it it it boggles the mind and it saddens the heart. You know delegate Dan Cox, uh he wrote, I think I saw this on social media, I can't remember exactly where, but um might have been Facebook. Delicate Dan Cox said, do you agree with extending emergencies to such things as climate change? Frederick Democrats Kai Hagen and Jessica Fitzwater want to pass another resolution viewing greenhouse gas emissions. There's a crisis such that they call for a fifty percent greenhouse gas ban in a little over nine years by the year twenty thirty, and a hundred percent ban In a little over 29 years by the year 2050, when hopefully, the Ancock says, my grandchildren are raising families. Here's what their policies would do to you. Ban cows, crops. Gardens, even though we have a right to farm by law. Well this these are ten percent of the carbon emissions. These policies, apparently, according to Dan Cox, they intend to ban any hot water showers unless they're solar or wind-powered heat. Dan adds a little smelly, but at least to third world woke. These policies would ban potentially from residential homes. No heatheness, no fire pits? Permanent burn ban? Limited gatherings Ban cars unless they're electric or foot pedaled. Dan Cox said I never liked watching the Flintstones though. But ban all electric, including entertainment devices, electric HVAC, electric lights, etc. , unless they're fully solar or maybe wind powered. And Dan Cox adds, sorry gamers. Now just sit on the couch and don't move unless you run the risk of emitting gas. Need to ban, I guess, CO two human activity. Not sure how they would do that. He suggests maybe we could all wear wet masks and that would somehow keep the uh carbon dioxide from coming out of our lungs as we breathe. And his final little bullet point from Dan Cox, it would ban businesses use of electric and fuel unless it were solar or perhaps wind powered. So goodbye, real food. Goodbye. Food. Enter government government issued MREs made in China. It's not too far from possible. And I don't disagree. Obviously there's some hyperbole in what uh Delegate Cox says there. Maybe there's been a little bit of hyperbole in what I've said here this afternoon. on Frederick's Forum. But it's really not. I distinctly recall having conversations with family members. I have a family member who owns a restaurant and we were talking earlier this year about, you know, the rumored shutdowns that would go into effect that would really affect his restaurant business. Because he w wasn't in a business that was deemed to be essential, obviously. And I distinctly remember him saying, oh, they would never do that. It'll never happen. This is a free country. That we a constitutional violation. They can't do it They wouldn't do it, even if they could, but they can't, so they won't. And guess what? They did. So all these warnings, they sound and feel pretty legitimate. They should, anyway. And it's not that I'm a climate change denier. I'm certainly not a science denier. But I am a pseudoscience denier, and I am a denier of of uh propaganda and attempts to control through fear. And the experts don't always get it right. And sometimes they get it wrong in big ways on big issues. I've been on this planet long enough to recognize some of these big swings and misses during my lifetime. I'm sure you are too. In 1967, there were headlines that there was a dire famine coming by 1975, and it was already too late to do anything about it. So by 1975 there was going to be a dire worldwide famine. Didn't happen. In nineteen sixty-nine the experts said that everyone's going to disappear in a blue, a cloud of blue steam. By 1989. If that happened, it escaped my notice. Didn't see anybody disappear in a cloud of blue theme in nineteen eighty-nine. In 1970, we were told there would be an ice age by the year 2000. Also in 1970, we were told that America would be subject to water rationing by 1974 and food rationing by 1980. There was some gas rationing going on back then, but there was no water rationing or food rationing. In nineteen seventy-one, again we were told there was a new ice age coming. Ice age, by the way. Not global warming. Nineteen seventy-eight. There was no end in sight, they said, the experts did, to a thirty year cooling trend. In 1989, New York City's West Side Highway was going to be underwater, the experts told us, by the year 2019. I think that was that was la let me check my calendar. Yep, that was last year. The West Side Highway underwater. Don't think so. In two thousand four the experts said that Britain was gonna have a Siberian climate by guess when? 2020. Now the year is still young. So maybe Britain will have a Siberian climate over the next six months. If so, the experts got that one right. In 2008, we were told by the experts that the Arctic would be ice free by 2018. And Al Gore, I don't know if you count him as an expert or not, but he said that the Arctic would be ice free by twenty thirteen. In two thousand nine Prince Charles said that we only had eight years to save the planet. That was in two thousand nine. Now You know, a couple years ago or coming up on a couple years ago, they said we had twelve years to save the planet, which now means we have about ten years to save the planet. They keep moving the goalpost on there. It seems like it's always eight to twelve years. Every year they just update it. So right now the the conventional quote unquote wisdom of the experts is that by twenty thirty, if we don't rescue the planet, it's game over. In 2014, we had experts telling us there were only 500 days before climate chaos. We've got all sorts of chaos now, but it's not climate chaos. And it's way past five hundred days since 2014. I'm not saying that experts are always wrong. What I'm saying is experts are often enough wrong that we should Use some judicious thinking for ourselves. We should question, we should ask questions, and we shouldn't call things emergencies that aren't in fact emergencies Michael Schellenberger is a noted uh climate change guy, environmentalist. And even he says that humans are not causing a mass extinction, a sixth mass extinction. He says the Amazon is not the lungs of the world. He says, this environmentalist says, climate change is not making natural disasters worse Do you know that fires have declined twenty-five percent around the world since two thousand three? Did you know that the amount of land that we use for meat which is said to be humankind's biggest use of land. I have no way of proving or disproving that, but I'll I'll trust the experts on on that one. The amount of land that we use for meat has declined by an area that's about as large as Alaska. Did you know that we produce twenty five percent more food than we need, and food surpluses will continue to rise as the world gets warmer. The build-up of wood fuel and more houses near forz forests and not climate change, that explains why there are more and more dangerous fires in Australia and California. It has to do with where we build things and also the fact that we don't allow the forests to uh uh are our are our the way we manage our forests is is causing all sorts of wildfire problems. Carbon emissions are actually declining in most of the wealthier nations, and they have been declining in Britain, Germany, France since the nineteen seventies. And did you know the Netherlands became rich? Not poor. Well, the Netherlands adapted to living life below sea level. In reality, the the the the facts when the best available scientific studies for what they're worth, um including those conducted by or accepted by the IPCC and Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and other leading scientific bodies. That's where this information I just gave you comes from. I'm not making this up. These are these are the you know pro we gotta do something about global ch climate change people and they're telling us there's really not all that much to worry about. And some of the strategies that are in place that might be in effect and on the table for Frederick could have disastrous consequences if you buy into the climate change fear and paranoia. You know the free range beef would require twenty times more land and produce three hundred percent more emissions if that's even a problem? You know, having extra CO2 out there, you know, it seems to be greening the planet. It seems to be a good thing for the environment, as far as most of us can tell. Biofuels, biomass, wind farms, there are those who are also experts that claim that that's destroying wildlife, and yet they don't produce any environmental benefits at all. And as I just said, carbon dioxide, is it really a pollutant? I mean it's necessary for our plant world and it's even it helps to remineralize the soil. Because it's slightly acidic when when the rain falls and it it takes rocks into solution and neutralizes uh things from the alkaline rock. So there's a lot of good in what we're trying to get rid of. To to think of carbon dioxide as a pollutant, it's a natural occurring part of our of our ecosystem, our atmosphere, the way that life on this planet works. It's not the enemy. And yet, despite that fact, if we're not careful, we're going to have a commission put together a report that will change the way life is lived In Frederick County, if we don't pay attention to what's happening this coming Tuesday Can you believe it? It's already time for another timeout. You can give me a call if you'd like. We've got a few about ten minutes left in the show, 301-694-WFMD, 301-694-93. I'm Troy Skinner. This is Frederick's Forum on Free Talk 930, WFMD and WFMD. com. Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMD continues. I'm Troy Spinner filling in today. Your financial editor, Chris Murray, is talking with you next about Ten minutes or so, right after the upcoming newscast for an update on world and local events, right here on News Radio 930, WFMD, and WFMD. com Number to call is 301-694 at WFMD 301-694-9363. There is a climate change emergency mobilization work group up for discussion and up for vote uh this coming Tuesday, just a few days away. Did you even know? You paying attention? If the progressive-minded folk get their way, your life will change and you won't even unders have understood the how and why it happened. We need to wake up. And as I was saying before the break, I'm not denying that, you know, that there's climate change. There has been climate change throughout the history of the world. The Earth's climate is always changing. Now, do the things that we as humans do contribute to somehow, some of that change? I think it's possible. Perhaps I could be persuaded that it's probable, but I'm not sure that all of those probable or possible things are all necessarily even negative. Some of our contributions to climate change could be good. Whatever the case, calling it an emergency totally redefines the word emergency. We have in the radio business uh these emergency announcements. Used to be called uh EBS, the emergency broadcast system. Now there's a new name for it and it's escaping me. But you've heard of those Those strange, weird like fax machine sounds and then the announcement with the like weird scratchy voice there's an em you know, uh thunderstorms a uh in the area and a tornado possibility and you've heard all those sorts of things, right? That's an emergency broadcast. Because life is in imminent danger. There's a tornado and you better take cover or you're in a lot of trouble. So if the climate thing is really an emergency, why am I talking to you right now? Why are you hearing my voice? Why aren't we hearing a series of fax machine sound effects followed by the you know grouchy old scratchy voice saying, There's a climate emergency, you need to stop breathing immediately or everyone's going to die It's not, by definition, an emergency. And to cause it call it anything else is is it's just beyond the pale even misses the point. Now I understand that there are experts who have some people with their hair on fire over the climate. I get it And I'm not even going to mock or ridicule because if that many people consistently tell you the same thing over and over and over and over again, you start to believe it. And it we've seen it with coronavirus and the masks and all that sort of stuff. Don't get me started But the experts get things wrong, and we should ask questions. Did you know that Dr. Lardner in 1830 said rail travel at high speed is not possible because passengers unable to breathe would die of asphyxia. If the train goes too fast, you won't be able to breathe and you're going to die. That's what an expert said in 1830. In 1883, the president of the Royal Society, Lord Kelvin, said that X-rays will prove to be a hoax. Now I understand that's back in the eighteen hundreds and these guys didn't know Einstein, maybe. Well, Albert Einstein in nineteen thirty-two said that there was not the slightest indication that nuclear energy will ever be obtainable, it would mean that the atom would have to be shattered at will. Einstein got it wrong. In 1954, the National Cancer Institute, if excessive smoking actually plays a role in the production of lung cancer, it seems to be a minor one. How about a little closer to our time frame? Y two K anyone? Anybody remember what was supposed to happen on Y2K? I sure do. Seems the experts got it wrong. You know, Earth Day started back in 1970, and a whole bunch of wrong predictions were were made back then. Harvard biologist George Wald. He said that civilation civilization will end within fifteen or thirty years unless immediate action is taken against the problems facing mankind. Within fifteen to thirty years, civilization will end. This was back in 1970. The Washington University biologist, Barry Commoner, he said that we're in an environmental crisis. Which threatens the survival of the nation and of the world as a suitable place for human habitation. Does that sound familiar? This is fifty years ago. Paul Erlechan, entomologist at Stanford, author of the Population Bomb, he said in the April 1970 issue of uh Madame Moswell, Madame Moswell can't I can't say that word. Madame Moz Was I can't say those you know what I'm saying. He said that there might be two hundred million people per year starving to death during the next ten years. That did not happen. He also said that between 1980 and 1989, these the the the following ten years after the two hundred million people will be starving to death, that four billion people, including sixty-five million in America Would perish in what he called the great die-off. We were told that it was already too late. To avoid mass starvation. This is back in nineteen seventy Peter Gunther, North Texas State University professor, he wrote that back in 1970, that demographers agree almost unanimously So in other words, there was a scientific consensus, you see. They we had a a nearly unanimous agreement on the following grim timetable, which said that by nineteen seventy five there would be widespread famines that would begin in India And they'll spread by nineteen ninety to include all of India, Pakistan, China and all the Near East and Africa And by the year 2000, maybe even before 2000, South and Central America will be under famine conditions. It didn't happen. They get it wrong all the time and we keep believing the experts. Why do we do it Well thanks for listening. Thanks for having me have this treat of hosting Project Swarm with you on Tree Talk 930 WFMD and WFMD. com. Chris Murray, your financial editor, is up next. Thanks for listening. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMB. com News Radio 9:30. WFMV Frederick. A connoisseur media radio station. One o'clock.