Local free talk continues on the weekend with Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMB. Conversations with and about local newsmakers. They couldn't find anybody better to fill in for the second week in a row. So here I am, Troy Skinner filling in on Frederick's forum on News Radio 930 WFMD. If my voice sounds familiar, it might be because you've Heard me on Sunday mornings for the last sixteen years, hosting the Fertic Faith Debate, each and every Sunday morning, a half-hour long show, also available on podcast, by the way. So one week ago today Not long after the conclusion of Frederick's Forum, a post hit the social media platform that we call Facebook. And the Facebook poster Frederick County Councilman Kai Hagan. Now nearly 4,000 comments later, after hundreds, I'm not kidding you, hundreds of shares, the post disappeared What happened to Kai Hagen's post? Now at first many assumed that it was deleted by Kai, but later he said that he simply made the post invisible Sounds like deleting to me. I don't know really what's the difference between deleting it and making it invisible, I don't know. Now I happened to see the post while it was up there before Mr. Hagan took it down and And I read a whole bunch of the comments. And I gotta say at first the comments, they were overwhelmingly supportive of Tai Hagen. That a boy, Kai, way to show him. You're so brave. You're my hero. I wish I was more like you. That kind of stuff. Very sycophantic actually. And then, after dozens and dozens of those sorts of comments underneath Kai's post, and if you're wondering what I'm talking about, I'm gonna get there in just a second, so hang on, bear with me. The tide turned in the comments section, and those comments became overwhelmingly critical. I mean, nasty critical. Sometimes So nasty as to be funny. And nasty shouldn't ever be funny, but the the the cleverness and the wit of the anger directed at Kai Hagen I I I you know, maybe it's the sinful side of my nature, but I did find it uh uh I couldn't help but find it amusing. I actually laughed aloud. And if he's got a sense of humor at all, I can only imagine that uh Councilman Hagan was laughing at a few of them himself, I would think. Anyway, I know there's been some chatter uh about this Kai Hagen post on WFMD on the airwaves this week, and I know there's been continuing chatter. throughout the week on social media because after Kai took his post down or made it invisible, whatever you want to call it. W when it was no longer accessible to the public The public took to jumping on other com uh posts that Kai Hagen had put up on Facebook instead of commenting there about the other post, the now invisible post They badgered him to to death they would not give it up. And that was kind of hilarious too. Like the the absolute uh commitment to a cause that was uh rather impressive. If we could only get that committed to causes that matter a little bit more, that would be uh even more helpful and more impressive. So I know it's been out there, and maybe you've seen pieces of it, but have you seen the whole thing? Have you seen the original post as originally written Now I have seen some screenshots that are now uh on Facebook of the now inaccessible Facebook posts. Before it became inaccessible, some Some enterprising people took screenshots of it and now they're posting those screenshots and I've seen those. I have yet to see a screenshot though that has the entire thing. Uh well I don't think you take a screenshot, but it was long, so you can't get the whole thing in one screenshot. You have to do multiple screenshots. And but even combining the multiple screenshots, I haven't seen anybody provide one hundred percent of the narrative. But uh one of them had maybe seventy five, eighty percent, another one had m probably more than ninety percent, not quite all, but almost all. Anyway, I I have it all. I have the entire thing, the whole thing. Not bits and pieces, the whole thing. And I'm gonna read it for you in its entirety. Like I said. It's long. I haven't timed it, but I'm guessing it could take a good, I don't know, five minutes to read this aloud. But as a sacrifice. As a very, you know, deeply felt personal sacrifice, as a public service to you, I'm going to read it. All of it. And then you can make up your mind. Is Kai Hagen a hero, exhibiting the courage of a white knight in shining armor, as many of his supporters said, or Is Kai Hagen a villain, harassing and bullying a man by being a Badinski, the likes of which we haven't seen since doing battle with hall monitors in grade school? As many of his distracted detractors said You be the judge. You'll have the chance to weigh in at 301-694-WFMD 301-694-9363. And before I get into reading it, I'll let you know some other things I'm hoping to have time to get to today. We'll see how it goes. If time allows, we'll also touch upon the uh defund police movement, which arrived in Frederick on Monday of this week. Scattershot plan for returning children to Frederick Schools this fall or not. The formerly professional sports franchise, formerly known as the Washington Redskins, and all the troubles they're having this week, holy schmoly. And uh a whole bunch of other things that are within what Rush Limbaugh likes to call the stack of stuff. But now without further ado, the incomparable words of Frederick County Councilman Kai Hagan Which, by the way, was uh the these words were accompanied by two photos, both of them of the same man and woman who were doing some grocery shopping. So there's the context. Here's the post. I took these two photos this morning at the Food Lion in Fermont. I ran into this couple in the produce section. I informed him that he should not be in the store without a mask. He did not look pleased about my comment, and then told me that he couldn't wear one for medical reasons. First of all, that's a bogus claim. Second, even if it was true, he was there with someone else who was actually doing all the shopping. I asked more forcefully after calling him on the medical claim. I also noted he did not have to be in the store at all since she was doing the actual shopping. He told me to stop harassing him. I walked over to a store employee and pointed out that he was not wearing a mask. She went to get the manager. He went to speak with the man and brought a mask to give him. I was not close enough to hear their conversation, but after a minute or two The manager walked away while the man held the mask in his hand, still choosing not to wear it. I spoke with the manager about the matter. He noted that the man told him he had a medical excuse. I said that was bogus, and that he didn't even have to be in the store. I asked the manager if he had asked the man to leave. He said no. He went on to note that he didn't want to risk employees by trying to enforce door policy and the law. I said that I understood that, but they could ask him to leave, or they could refuse to serve him them. Again, pointing out that he wasn't even doing the shopping. Not that it should matter if he was. I noted that the man and the people like him were endangering others, other customers and people in their lives. The manager noted that everyone else is wearing a mask. I didn't, but I should have asked how many customers choosing not to wear a mask would be okay? I made it clear again that I understood the concern about employees having to enforce the law. And the manager pointedly told me that it wasn't the law. Making the distinction, I guess, between an executive order and state legislation. The man and the woman kept shopping. They came down the aisles I was in twice more One of those times we had another exchange. I told him that he didn't have to be there if he didn't want to wear the mask. He repeated that I was harassing him. I told him that calmly calling him out from a distance about the fact that he was ignoring the law, ignoring store guidelines, being an irresponsible citizen, endangering others and generally behaving in a way that was associated with the resurgence of COVID nineteen in many states right now. Period. Kai didn't finish his thought there. Factic Kai's thoughts. We parted and I didn't see him again until they were in line to check out. Not sure if the earlier photo had been clear enough, I walked up, said nothing, and took another photo, and went back to shopping. A few minutes later, the manager approached me to chat about me harassing the man. I said I did take two photos, and I did express my thoughts to the man, but also noted that calm in his face comments and taking two photos was nothing compared to the man's behavior or its potential. impact. We did talk a little more about the broader situation, store policy, overall food line policy, etc. I then also mentioned to him that I had had to ask a young man working the store to wear his mask properly. It was entirely below his chin, and noted that if the store took it as seriously as it should, employees would know their ability to work there would be jeopardized by ignoring the policy. The same young employee came around the bend a short while later, saw me, pulled up his mask again as he passed me, and then twenty feet later pulled it down again. Some will say I am out of line. But in what reasonable COVID-19 universe is it okay for the man to accompany a woman shopping? without wearing a mask, ignoring the law, and stored guidelines and basic human decency while lying to defend himself and making no visible efforts at social distancing. I did tell the manager that I intended to share the photographs and describe the situation. He said that he wished I wouldn't. I said I would do so, as accurately and fairly as I could. Remember, the manager didn't even ask the man to leave and wait outside. This is just one person. One incident. But people like him are a significant part of the reason both our public health crisis and the economic crisis that has led to as so much is so I he meant typo here he meant is so much worse than they had to be. End of the Kai Hagen Post So a couple of things I want to note and then I if you have a a a comment on this, uh hang on for uh a second. I'm gonna uh We've got some people calling in and I can't screen the calls, so I'm just gonna uh grab your calls here in a second and put you on there in just a moment. So bear with me, all right? If you're a caller on hold right now, or if you call in this moment and I put you on hold Bear with me, we're doing the best we can. 301-694-WFMD. There are a couple of lines still open. 301-694-9363. A couple of things I want to say real quickly before we go on to the phones. One He mentions three times in this post, and he said it a bunch of times in a comment thread, which I don't have, but in the comment thread how it really shouldn't matter that he was with someone else who is doing the shopping. And yeah, he mentions it three times in the post and a whole bunch of times in the comment thread. If it doesn't really matter, why do you keep bringing it up? So that struck me as rather amusing. And he pointedly said in a in the comment thread, somebody said, Kai, why are you trying to get store employees fired? When the e economy is tough and it's gonna be hard for somebody to find a new job, why are you picking out a stock boy and try to get him fired? And Kai pointedly said, I never tried to get anybody fired or said anything about somebody losing their job or risking their point with the store. I never said that Well yes he does. He says, quote, he noted about this one guy, the one worker there who had the the the thing below his chin saying that the employees would know that their ability to work there at the store would be jeopardized by ignoring the policy if they would enforce the policy and trade in their employees. So he's basically saying that guy should know that he's going to get fired if he doesn't wear that that mask. Anyway, so I'm curious, what would you have done if you were the mask-wearing man, i. e. Kai Hagan with the camera. What would you have done if you were the bearded non mask wearing man in the store with his wife, girlfriend, sister, neighbor? I'm not sure what the relationship was. They were obviously there shopping together, but I don't know the nature of the relationship. What would you have done if you were one of the store employees? What would you have done if you were the store manager? What would you have done if you were one of the uh corporate uh customer service people that Kai claimed he was gonna call this past week and and dealt with this uh angry phone call or this concerned citizen phone call, what would you have done? What time is it? Do we have to ooh, I gotta take a break. I'll gonna s I'm gonna pick up the phones here in a second and find out your names and that sort of stuff and we'll start seeing phone calls. uh right after this brief timeout on news radio 930 WFMD. Glenn back I've been thinking of getting like earbuds or something 'cause I only when I do all these calls on my cell, I have it on speaker, but I'm Troy Skinner filling in today on 930 WFMB's Frederick's Forum. Remember during the week, Monday through Friday, you can listen to Frederick's Morning Mare. Bob Miller, every morning during your morning commute, and then MidMaryland Live with Tim May, Frank Mitchell. They they get you home safe during the afternoon commute. That's every weekday On Free Talk 930 WFMD and WFMD. com. I'm going to jump right into the phones. You can join them at 301-694-WFMD 301-694-9363. First up is going to be Vince. Hey Vince, where are you calling from? Well I'm over here in uh Frederick. Okay. Well you should have stopped by and said hi. You could have talked to me directly in person. There you go. So yeah, I I enjoy the fact that a local radio station provides these types of forums for discussion. And you know, and you you said you didn't have a call screen or you know, r I I won't I'll I'll be very straightforward and and above things. So, you know, I agree with you So first of all, I agree with your topic. By the way, it's our pre uh it's our privilege to provide this sort of uh content for the community. It's it's a reason we exist actually. So thank but thank you for pointing it out and appreciating it. Right, and it puts so it puts our voice to something where people hide behind Facebook and other you know, Twitter and all these other things. But but let's to to the point. You you're you're bringing up a great uh a great example of how this is an elective representative, Kai Hagan. Um one of those comments called him a Karen Hagan. And maybe that's that maybe that's his label from now on as Karen. If somebody actually respelled Karen with a with with a Kai. Like it was instead of K-A-R, it was K-A-I-R-E-N, which I thought was hilarious. Right. And that's a bumper I mean right there, that's the bumper sticker. Okay. So So just the fact that you you you did, you said, look, there was a measured response, you know, to his supporters and his detract you know, those that that oppose his view. But but you should understand, first of all, so if fifty percent of the people or however many people maybe more believe in what he did, that tells you the type peop the the type of person out there That is is number one, like like the um the per the gentleman in the grocery store stated, you're harassing me. All right. Number two. If you made the point once, Karen then walk away. Okay? His j his job he doesn't have a a role to enforce law or to enforce executive order. It's not a law, right? And he's not someone to to question someone else about where they should be or what have you. So my viewpoint is, right, that this is a hoax But this is, you know, a as a lot of people have said, that this quote pandemic has gone on too far and there's reasons there's all kinds of reasons why it could be going on. Well well with that being said, and then I'll finish like this. All right, this county commissioner should be cautious about what he asked for, alright, because If his followers, you know, if I go into sheets like I did at five A. M. this morning, I walk in, buy a coffee, I don't wear a mask. Now, if they said, you know, leave, I've drop two dollars on the counter and I leave with my coffee. Period. Right? It's not worth it. And they know by the way, you're gonna ask Kai Hagen or Karen Hagan, hey, did you wash your hands? When you took your mask off, did you question your si your siblings, your daughter, you know, or your um your wife or whomever, your kid Hey, did you wear your mask around people a day? If you didn't, I've got to quarantine you, all this. No, he didn't. So he's being inconsistent. He's he's actually being a bit um irrational uh um with this. And he has no data, no evidence to prove that any spike in what's called test results, right? are are proven from what? The protests, the mob riots, all that crap, right? So I'll stop there for you, give you time back. I appreciate it. No, I I um I agree, the one thing I I wanna w point out maybe we'll talk about this in the in the second half hour of today's show is The people that are having their hair lit on fire over this coronavirus thing, it's not about rationality. And it's the same thing. Those that that have uh gone into the have fully embraced or accidentally embraced perhaps the whole woke culture thing. It's not about rationality. Maybe we'll talk about what I mean there. Some of them wear their irrationality as a badge. You tell them, that's that's illogical. That's irrational. They'll say, yeah, baby, thank you very much. They're not trying to be rational. So that so again, I I want to get on to uh another phone call here in a second. In fact, this is somebody that I know. Uh Catherine Adelaide is uh with the Carroll County Rep Republican Central Committee. What what what freight hell had you calling in today, Katherine? Well, just based on the last conversation, what would I do? I want everybody to go to the d uh Defend Life Face the Truth tour that's coming up And uh I ran as an openly pro-life candidate, which was is rather frowned upon, and I won my seat on the Carroll County Republican Central Committee and my mission as a Republican and on the s uh central committee is to make life, not life quality of life, but life itself the top priority in the MDGOP. And so um I'd like to just point out to all your listeners that all of this is a quality of life issue and it is actually relevant to the life issue. Um I think for the first time uh people have been born alive already and have that gift of life You know, have the chance to see what it feels like to be uh chased by death or the fear of death or the specter of death or the threat of death And um all we all that born people we have choices but um the babies uh in the womb, they're facing death in daily in the womb. Innocent babies who have no choice and have no voice So we have the First Amendment to protect our voice, but the pre all the preborn has is us. Yeah, you make it. They need assurance. They need the truth Anyway, uh Yeah well you make well hold on one second for Kev, you make a an interesting connection and it's one that I've been making uh off the air to people that will listen to me long enough Uh i i life is about more than mere existence. Life is about flourishing and uh y we want to have life so that we can live. And we've got all these rules in place now that make it very difficult to live and we're re redefining the nature of what it means to have life of those who are the born. And so that's a really good connection. But I know that you're really passionate about the the pro-life issue as it has to do with the the unborn in the womb. And there's this event coming up uh not not too many days away from now call the called the Defend Life's Face the Truth Tour twenty twenty. And I think that you're gonna tell us a little more about that, right? Yes. Um that's gonna begin Monday, July 27th. It goes through Friday, July 31st, and we cover fifteen cities in Maryland. Excuse me, that's three times a day And plus they have great lunchtime speakers at lunch every day. And for a complete schedule, just your listeners need to go to defendlife. org. That's defendlife. org. But in particular, um on your show, they have a Frederick stop, which is the first day of the tour, which is Monday, July twenty-seventh That's from 4. 30 to 6 p. m. at Route 40 west of the Home Depot, about 0. 6 miles west of Route 15. So I really wanted to, you know, galvanize the listeners in your area and get them out to the tour. And basically Uh what the tour is, we we um go along the roadsides, the major highways, with six foot life size signs that show the ugly truth about abortion through first trimester, second trimester, and third trimester. And many of your listeners may not know that abortion is one hundred percent legal for any reason whatsoever until that baby's head is crowning. It's a complete abomination. And so some people don't like us showing victim images, but every year when people see the victim images, lives are saved. because when people really begin to see, you know, what's what what a late term abortion, what any abortion looks like, um, you're taking the life of a human being. So I really wanted to, you know, invite everybody to, even in the age of COVID, is, you know, stop being afraid and come out and exercise your First Amendment rights And the best way to beat this virus is to be safe and to be bold. So come out Monday, July twenty-seventh, hold a sign at the Defend Life Face the Truth tour in Frederick. at the Frederick Stop four to six thirty at Route forty west of Home Depot. Go to um www. defendlife. com for the rest of the tour schedule. People are welcome. People show up We have a core team that goes for the whole week, but then we have people show up at all the different cities. So a lot of people want to get out right now, Troy. I say get out and save babies. So this is the uh the Route 40 Home Depot. So Home Depot on the Golden Mile, uh for the locals know it as the Golden Mile. I think that's the Home Depot you're talking about. So a week from Monday, 4 o'clock in the afternoon until 6. 30. And instead of saving the best for last, you decide to kick it off with the best right here in Frederick, this whole tour, uh Monday the 27th. So thank you. Well, much success uh on your efforts. Thank you for uh calling and uh wish you guys all the best uh in in your uh attempts to uh to blot out a a horrific evil uh uh in in our nature in our cul uh nation in our culture. Um So Vince has um has called in. Catherine's called in. I've got somebody else holding on. I'm going to uh find out who that is in just a second. You can take uh the place of those who are now done calling in by calling yourself at 301-694-WFMD-301-1 694-93-63 Frederick's Forum continues in just seconds on 930 WFMD. I'm Jim Tuck. This summer Ashley home stores all across America are holding grand reopening events. Shop summer's hot appeals today on Ashley Living Road's Vening Road. Set room set and more. Right now, save 50% off. Plus, take an extra 10% off. Plus, Ashley pays all your sales tax. We make it easy to bring your dream home to life. Come celebrate Ashley Home Store's grand reopening. Exclusive. At America's number one furniture and matter store in Frederick and Hagerstown, Maryland. Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMD, a service of Hunting Creek Outfitters in downtown Frederick, and Frederick Air, Bryant's National Dealer of the Year. It's Fredericks Forum on 9 30 WFMD. Predicts Forum on 9 30 WFMD continues. I am Troy Skinner filling in this week. We're about a half hour away from your financial editor with Chris Murray kicking off. He'll be talking with you uh next after uh we're done talking with each other. That'll be right after the top of the hour news with an update on world and local events right here on News Radio 930, WFMD, and WFMD. com. You can call in at 301-694-WFMD 301-694-9363. You can also use that number to text. And a couple people have done that. One of the texts says, Kai Hagan is a typical socialist liberal. And that he insists that all others live to the stands that he thinks we should live or suffer communist consequences And another text here says no one would have to wear a mask if socialist liberals like Kai Hagen would keep their noses and opinions at a distance and out of everyone else's business. So you can join those texts. You can join the calls at 301-694-WFMD. And in fact we've got uh Farrell on the line waiting to uh to to comment uh and add to the uh the fodder of our discussion Welcome to WFMB again. I feel like I've arrived as a as a live host taking calls when you call. Like this is I've now been knighted. Like this is official. Well, I'm gonna play off of your intelligence and acumen as far as radio uh radio commentary goes. Um, I'm happy to be a participant. I saw that post And first off, who does Sam does Kai think he is as an elected representative calling out citizens? Yeah, well that's the thing that caught my attention. Our illustrious potentate Jim Gardner commented upon that post too and said, you know, you should contact the health department and and call these people in Yeah, actually here's here's what she she commented a few times in the comment thread, but the one you're referencing, she says, Kai, report them to the health department. Well it's hard to enforce these rules They should get a call or a visit from the health department. People are becoming lax, and that's a big problem. Everyone needs to do their part. Oh and their part being let's enforce the brown shirts and bring them out and shut down businesses because you're not doing as we say. Yeah, and I think it's interesting you I mean you you mentioned I think that uh Vince before the the the last break brought it up too that your Kai is an elected official and that brings with it a certain different kind of weightiness He basically a by his own admission, in his own post, he mentions that the guy pointed out to him that you're harassing me and I'm feeling harass Stop harassing me, I don't like it And precisely as an elected official as a representative of both sides of the entirety of the county because he ran at large He needs to scalm down and quit calling people off for not doing exactly as I say Yeah, I I I mean I don't think anybody should harass anybody, but if you're an elected official, imagine if it was the mayor or or Jam or or the governor Or President Trump? I mean, anybody who's an elected official shouldn't be harassing their constituents. And posting pictures of them on Facebook. Yeah, I'm not sure about the legality. County Councilman Kai decided to post. Yeah, 'cause you're talking about the woman who was bent over at the time and uh precisely. Yeah, yeah. I I don't know what the legality is of taking somebody's picture. I mean, they're out in public, but they're in a private business. I'm not sure what the legalities of that. They didn't he obviously didn't have permission um to ta to take and post those photos. So I don't know if there's liability there. And some have suggested that it's against the law to be harassing people about their medical disabilities and Whether the guy's claim to have a medical condition is true or not, we don't know whether it's true or not. And so we have to presume that his claim is true until demonstrated otherwise. So here's a guy claiming I have a medical condition and then an elected official proceeds to harass him. Is that how legal is that? Correct. I actually do have a medical condition. I have my placard that goes in my car as a disabled person. It's because of a lung condition. You can't see it. My lungs are hidden away in my chest. As they should be. What Kai is kvetching about is someone who has a condition that you can't immediately physically see. Therefore he doesn't have it. Ty being the medical professional that he is. Yeah, well Farrell, do us all a favor and keep those lungs hidden and out of sight, okay? Well thank you for giving me time, my friend. Oh my pleasure. You can you can take Farrell's place at 301-694-WF. Well nobody can take his place, but you can take his place in line on the phone. at 301-694-WFMD 301-694-9363. You can text that same number on the WFM Tech text line as well. And it's not just Kai and Jan I mean i i it wasn't a commentary specifically on Kai Hagen's post, but the governor's on board with this. The governor this week came out saying that local leaders need to step up the enforcement of mask wearing and they need to step up their enforcement of physical distancing rules. Um he said, where's the where is the quote? Governor Hogan said the va or this was a statement, I guess, an official statement from the Governor. The vast majority of bars and restaurants are in compliance, but some are flagrantly violating the law. Again, I don't want to be parsing hairs, but is it really the law, I guess, is a question that we we need to ask. Uh anyway, uh violating the law and endangering public health. You have the responsibility to enforce these laws. Violators should be warned, fined, have actions taken regarding their licenses or closed if necessary. Local Health departments, local liquor boards, and inspectors, local law enforcement agencies must work together to ensure public health is protected. Our continued economic health and recovery depend on active and aggressive compliance and enforcement of these public health measures. We cannot allow a small segment of willful violators to squander the collective efforts. of the overwhelming majority of Maryland citizens and businesses. End of self-righteous tirade. End quote from the Governor of Maryland, Larry Hogan. Or I like to call him King Larry. King Hogan, His Majesty. Uh I don't know who this is. We're gonna be we're gonna be rushing roulette on the phones here. Hello, you're on WFMD. Welcome to the show. Hi, it's Craig calling from Thurmont. Hey Craig from Thurmont. You weren't the guy shopping at the food food line, were ya? No, no, but I'm I'm headed over to the Weiss Market now. Hope hopefully I'll be okay. But but uh in any event So on this mask thing, it's something that that they that nobody really talks about that much. Uh occasionally you hear it But there's s certainly mixed data as to how effective the masks are, and there is some data that suggests that they actually cause more harm than good with people more frequently touching their their face and reusing masks over and over again. Professionals of course wash their hands before they touch the mask and then they throw the mask away and then they wash their hands before they put on a fresh mask. You know, they take a certain regiment to make sure that they're doing it properly And there's certainly very mixed data as to whether or not the masks are are protecting anyone and and whether or not they're slowing any spread Uh so it might be giving a false sense of security to people that think they're going to be safer because they wear a mask and if they're at risk folks and they go out and they're wearing a mask, they may be putting themselves more at risk than if they were to take precautions and just stay away from any possible infection. Yeah, now out of curiosity, are you are you In the habit of wearing a mascot in public or or or as little as you can't. No, uh generally speaking, if I'm just out and about, absolutely I would not be wearing a mask. There's really no reason to, but uh I I just think that You know, folks should be educated as to you know, there there's there's a there's a lot of conflicting data out there and there's also a lot of conflicting data regarding the the shutdowns as to whether or not they were effective. There are countries in Europe that didn't shut down that are faring about the same as as others, and there are states that didn't shut down that are faring about the same as those that did So there's mixed data on that. Even in New York w during the shutdown there was data showing that most people were being infected at home that the shutdowns basically weren't working. Somebody would go out and get it and take it back and basically infect everybody 'cause everybody is in closed quarters for periods of time Which is very dangerous. So there's just a lot of mixed data out there and I and I just don't think that we're hearing all the all the information Yeah, and the information we're given is definitely stilted. Thank you for the call, Craig. I appreciate it. You can take Craig's place in line at 301-694-WFMB-301-694-93 The data is mixed, and he was refereferencing there was a that that study they did in New York to try to figure out where the hospitalizations were coming from, where the cases are coming from And they reported that sixty-seven percent of the cases were people who had been self quote unquote quarantining, had been sheltering in place. Two-thirds. So sheltering in place didn't solve the problem. What's so frustrating to me is this was predictable. You could see There was enough data early on that you could pr you could you could project forward from there what the likelihood was going to be and what the risk factors truly were. And we made the wrong decision after wrong decision after wrong decision. Like every time we had a chance to make a decision we made the wrong one. And we slammed shut the economy. which causes all sorts of other medical issues and problems. And Craig talked about some of the the mixed data. One of the things in the touching your face, I've heard that one, something he didn't mention was One of the things that's the real problem right now, people are having an increased uh number of panic attacks, lots of anxiety, lots of lots of raised blus blood pressure because of all this anxiety and stress in their lives. And you're signaling fear when you're you know, when you walk into a place and everybody in there is wearing a mask like it's, you know Like it's that Dustin Hoffman movie Outbreak, I think that was Dustin Hoffman, right? Um it can't help but trigger a response and we're signaling fear and panic, and that's not healthy either. Yeah, OSHA apparently. I'm not an HR person, so I'm not an uh like an OSHA, you know, somebody who's up to speed on all the OSHA requirements and stuff, but somebody who claims to be So somebody who's certified by Facebook and their own self-promoting claims on Facebook claims to be that they are OSHA ten and thirty certified, whatever that means. I don't know what that means. But they say that the the the masks do not work the way that we think that they work, and OSHA says so themselves, apparently. And this person who's supposedly OSHA certified wonders why OSHA hasn't come forward to stop all the nonsense. What is the nonsense? Again, according to this person, the N ninety-five uh masks are designed, according to this person, which is according to OSHA. for contaminated environments, meaning they don't filter air on the way out. They only filter air on the way in so if you're sick and you're exhaling the virus, the N95 mask according to this wouldn't filter the virus as it's coming at you. From the sick person if they're wearing the mask. If you want to protect yourself from that person, I guess the N ninety-five mask could work for you. And the reasons for this, again, is it's it's in it's designed for contaminated environments. It's trying to protect from things getting into people. If you're breathing out contaminants into a contaminated environment, who cares? It's already contaminated, and that's apparently what they're designed for, according to this person. The surgical masks, which are popular. They're designed apparently for approved sterile environments. And because they're designed to be used in a sterile environment, such as a surgery setting, which is why they're called surgical masks. They they really are hyper strong filters. That sounds good, right? Well the problem is They clog more quickly because they filter so more finely. And so you shouldn't be wearing them super long. According to this person, you should change them or throw them away and get a new one every twenty to thirty minutes if you're wearing them in a non-sterile. environment. Who's doing that? And the cloth masks, you know, putting people putting a bandana around their face or, you know, something that's not a a mask mask, uh like a some sort of a medical mask. Uh according to this, there's no filtering whatsoever. Uh as you exhale, it says here, you you rid your lungs of contaminants and carbon dioxide and the cloth masks, they trap the carbon dioxide at best. So The only thing that might happen is you'll trap your own carbon dioxide. So it actually risks your health. It doesn't protect it, it puts you at greater risk. This is why we had stories about people Passing out people have been wearing masks, they go on a jog and then they have a medical condition to happen. Also, moisture gets caught in these cloth masks and that can become mildew ridden. Uh even if they sit overnight if you don't dry them out enough. And then you can have dry coughing and um you can have enhanced allergies and a sore throat. These are all symptoms. of uh a micro mold that can get started up in in your mask. So ultimately, again, recapping what this person said, the N95 masks blows the virus into the air from the contaminated person, so it's not protecting anybody but the wearer. The surgical mask, not not designed to be worn in the outside world. It's designed for a sterile environment only. And the cloth masks, according to this persons, they say that the cloth masks are worse than wearing nothing at all. You'd be better off going naked as far as your face is concerned. You should have a naked face. We're pro nate we're we're we're pro nude here when it comes to faces. Uh Frederick's forum, apparently. I'm getting a little punch drunk. I don't know. You can call in to 301-694-WFMD 301-694-9363. You can also text to those same numbers. The show continues here in just moments. This is nine thirty WSMD's Frederick. I'm on Troy Skinner filling in. Tomorrow morning I'll again be hosting the Faith Debate here on News Radio 930 WFMB, as I do every week. John Schweitzer and Vaughn Thurman are on the panel tomorrow as we discuss what Many call racism, as I've said in the past, I prefer ethnocentricity or prejudicial bias. Uh but anyway, with all that's going on in the this summer Um the question is what should biblical Christians do and think about the quote unquote race issue? We talk through that tomorrow morning, 9 o'clock right here on the Talk of In Maryland, 930, WFMD. And I teased a whole bunch of things earlier in the show about a half hour or so ago that I was hoping to get to today and uh I don't know that I'm gonna get to any um of those because the the masked question which was sparked by the post that Kai Hagen uh put up on Facebook last week where he uh admitted that the guy he was talking to was feeling harassed. That post has now been taken down, but as a public service I read that for you. If you missed it you'd like to hear it This show will be available as a podcast later on this weekend on WFMD. com and you could hear it then if you care to. But before we hear any more from me, we're going to hear from Mike in Liberty Town. Mike, welcome to the show. Thank you. Um listening to your program, I think there's no doubt that Carl Hagin was over the top uh reaction to the guy because Hagan had no idea whether man had a male condition or not Um on the other hand, uh the gentleman in the stream was accompanying the lady with the shopping would have been first murdered if he stayed in the car in the parking lot Therefore he would be uh more protective of the of his own health and also pe other people in the store. So in that sense I think both of 'em sorta made a mistake That's all I have to say. Thank you. Okay, well I appreciate the call. Thank you for your input. choices though, right? So we've got the question about whether what Kai did in response was appropriate at all, and particularly appropriate since he's an elected official. here in uh Frederick County. But the other question is, yeah, did did the guy in the store did he make the right choice by going in there and accompanying the the woman he was with? Again, I don't know if it's girlfriend, his wife, his sister, his neighbor, I have no his cousin. I have no idea how they're related, but they obviously knew each other. They were with each other throughout the store. You can tell from the pictures that Kai Higgins posted for us. So I it you could make the argument that he would have been wiser to avoid any sort of a confrontation by not going in the store. But maybe they were gonna pick up a couple of heavier items from the store, a big bag of dog food or something, and so he went in there to to help in that regard. Uh maybe the the woman has had an issue out and about recently and she's a little bit nervous being in stores uh unaccompanied because she's been harassed. You know, we got the whole Me To movement going on these days. So maybe his who knows what his motivations were. But as far as I know, it is a you know, well pff okay. As far as I know, it used to be promoted that we live in a free country. I don't know that we can really claim that that promotion is true in academy more. It's like false advertising to say that America's a free country. We haven't been free since at least March. Uh but At least theoretically, America is a free country and maybe he would have that that gentleman, whatever his name is, would have been wiser to wait outside or not go at all. Um but he's free to come and go. And if he does indeed have a medical condition, then what, are we supposed to penalize him? I don't know what the ADA would think about that. I think that the other thing is it's possible that his medical claim was bogus and that he was using that as a as a shield and uh kind of a difficult to challenge legal shield to to go and shop as he wanted to. Um you know, whether or not, you know, telling the truth in such a you know in that case would have been smart or not, who's to say? But um Maybe he's one of those who thinks this whole thing is completely overblown. He thinks that the coronavirus is real, the people actually are in fact dying from COVID-19, but You know, maybe he's seen the same data that I've seen which shows that point six percent of the population is accountable for forty eight percent of the deaths. Apparently 0. 6% of the American population resides in a nursing home. And 48% of the deaths are from that population, which means that the other half of the deaths are from the other 99. 4% of the population. And the overwhelming majority of those are people that are over 70 years old with lots of pre-existing medical issues that put them at risk anyway. Uh so this guy in the pictures doesn't look like he's over 70. It doesn't look like he's, you know, uh got any obvious things that would make him at risk for coronavirus, as far as we can tell. And so he made a judgment call for his own life of what would be good for him and his uh the the woman he was shopping with, what made sense for them. He should have the right to do that in this country. We used to have the right to do that in this country and not be assailed for it. So one has to wonder, well, I've got it uh like thirty seconds left now on the show, so I'm not going to get into any more topics. Some of the things I teased earlier in the show maybe we'll talk about on a future show. Um the schools issue, the Redskins issue, the defund the police issue, the um immigration issue in Frederick County, all that sort of stuff. Chris Murray is up next right after the news. I'm Troy Sr. Thanks so much for listening again. This show will be available as a podcast on WFMD. com either later today or later this week in something like that Till next time, God bless, thanks for listening. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com Radio 930. WFMB Frederick. A connoisseur media radio station.