And Fox Nation streaming the entertainment that celebrates America, Fox News Media, America's News, and much more. Before he lies in state at the U. S. Capitol next week, the life of former Congressman John Lewis is being remembered in Alabama. First, a church service in the city of Troy where he was born. Lewis was dubbed the boy from Troy by his inspiration and partner in the civil rights struggle, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The Alabama-based civil rights organization, Southern Poverty Law Center, issued a statement. State As he passes through Alabama one last time, we will celebrate the life of a towering figure in American history, a hero in our fight. for equality and justice and recommit ourselves to continue in his footsteps. His work is far from done, and the Southern Poverty Law Center won't stop Fox's Alicia Acunia, later in Selma, Alabama, the casket of the longtime Georgia lawmaker will be carried across the Edmund Pettus Bridge. where in nineteen sixty five during a civil rights march, Lewis was beaten by police. Some of the world's most powerful business leaders will testify before Congress next week Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, along with Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg, and others will appear virtually on Wednesday before the House Judiciary Committee. Lawmakers are investigating their dominance of digital platforms. He's not only a three-time Olympian. Former Kansas Congressman Jim Ryan can add presidential Medal of Freedom recipient to his resume Ryan was awarded the medal by President Trump who called him a true American patriot at the White House yesterday. It was such a privilege to be on three different Olympic teams to wear those colors Know that you're representing your country and wanting to do it in a way that would be honoring and you could express your pride. And so uh it was Just uh a really great opportunity to let the light shine on this fabulous country we have. The Presidential Medal of Freedom is the nation's highest civilian honor. Cancer show Fox Two From the news radio 930, Easter Day Wilson Water Services News Center, this is WFMD News The Frederick County Sheriff's Office said the 15-year-old who jumped into Lake Lingonore on Thursday afternoon has died. Authorities say the teenager passed away later that day at Frederick Health Hospital. Fire officials say the boy jumped into the lake and never came up. Emergency personnel responded and pulled the teenager out of the lake and CPR was administered. An ambulance rushed him to the hospital. An investigation is underway into a homicide in Germantown on Thursday. Montgomery County Police say officers along with fire and rescue personnel were dispatched to Duhart Court for the reports of a stabbing. They found 63-year-old Egl. Lency, suffering from trauma. He was transported to a nearby hospital where he died. His body was taken to the state medical examiner's office for an autopsy. I'm Bob Dacey on Mid Maryland's Radio News Center, 930 WFMD. 9 30 WFMD sky scan forecast for Frederick and the surrounding counties for this afternoon and sitting mostly sunny too. Have about a thirty percent chance of some afternoon showers and thunderstorms and high at 92. Tonight a chance of showers and thunderstorms before eight p. m. partly cloud Low 72. Turning on the heat on Sunday. It'll be sunny day tomorrow with a high of 96. Mostly clear on Sunday night, low 72. Sunny, hot Monday, high 97. And for Monday night, Mossy Clear, Low 74. That's your forecast. Have a good weekend. I'm Jim Tice. Local free talk continues on the weekend with Frederick's Forum. On 930 WFMB, conversations with and about local newsmakers. Broadcasting live from the Falacial Palace Sitting atop Frederick's Grove Hill in the formerly Free State of Maryland. I'm Troy Skinner, hosting this week's edition of Frederick's Forum. It's your chance to weigh in for all your neighbors to hear. On the most important things happening in and around Frederick, the number for doing that is 301-694-WFMD. 301-694-9363. You can use that same number for the WFMD. Text line. My voice sounds familiar to you. Might be because you've heard me hosting the Face Debate program on this radio station for the last 16 years on Sunday mornings. Been my pleasure these last three Saturdays now to talk with you in a different kind of a format and welcome your phone calls and talk directly to you live because the Faith Debate is um is a recorded program. And we're going to talk today about the leftist takeover in Frederick City and Frederick County. There is so much going on in the local news scene these days. So much. So so much. Where to begin? The Climate Change Emergency Mobilization Work Group is now a thing in Frederick County I warned against this resolution two weeks ago, but it passed, as we all knew that it would. About this time next year, we're going to be reaping the authoritarian anti-liberty fruit of this effort. In a vain attempt to control the climate, the climate for doing business and simply living a free life in Ferder County will become disastrous. Let's stop voting for leftists, okay? Speaking of leftists, On last week's show, we talked about the social media post from Kai Hagen, which provided a blow-by-blow description of how he hassled a man in a store for not wearing a mask. The Frederick County Councilman has since removed the post from public view, and I mentioned that no one had a full screenshot of that post, and so I read the entire post on the air as a public service. Well, I owe a shout-out to the tentacle. Cindy Rose wrote an article with the headline, Blue Masks A Resurgence of Brown Shirts. The article features a full screenshot of the now infamous Kai Hagen Post, so you can see it there on the tentacle if you like. It's too bad the comments aren't still visible because those were quite entertaining. Well, Councilman Ty Hagen might not have thought they were very entertaining. Seems he might have seen them as rather harassing, I guess, which is pretty ironic. It occurs to me, WFMD, they could maybe have a weekly show dedicated exclusively to the antics and policy positions of Kai Hagen and his socialist buddies in local government Or do they prefer democratic socialists these days? I don't know. The latest example is the bill being drafted that reports say is designed to, quote, promote racial equity and social justice in Frederick County. Kai Hagen apparently hopes to introduce the bill in September. It's just around the corner. He says legislation is necessary. To address systemic racism, quote unquote, that still exists. Okay, I'm game. What are the examples? What specific laws, what specific policies, right now have prejudicial bias against people based upon their skin tone? If there are any, then let's change those specific laws Instead, Councilman Hagin says he's looking to, quote, establish a structure that compels the county in all sorts of different ways to look at what it does through the lens of racial equity and social justice. End quote. So instead of having a county government that is no respecter of persons, as the Bible would put it, we'll have a government that aims to do the opposite. Not looking at the content of character, but instead looking at the content of melanin. Maybe Frederick County should just surrender its sovereignty right now to Montgomery County. Our friends to the South, they have screwed up their county. And so they moved north and now they're voting for people who are gonna screw up Frederick County in the very same ways. You know, we can laugh at the balloon ban All any of us might want. Plenty of people have been laughing at these kinds of things in recent months. This stuff really isn't funny. And now County Executive Jim Gardner. She's going to hire a Chief Equity and Inclusion Officer. Hello. This stuff is coming fast and furious, like a downhill locomotive. How does one stop that? And it's not just the county. It's the city too. Frederick Alderman have approved a resolution that declares racism a public health crisis. Are you kidding? And the vote was unanimous. Talk about pandering to the moment. This is basically the same thing Kai Hagen wants to do countywide. Alderman Derek Shackelford says he was motivated to sponsor the measure because, quote, our minority communities For years and centuries, have been adversely affected by racism in our city Centuries. We have people in our city who have been alive for centuries. Now if the city is right now discriminating against people based on ethnicity, I want to know. Don't you want to know? What bad stuff is the city doing to people now? And what specifically have the sitting aldermen done to these people? And what are they now doing to try to correct it? Other than passing a resolution that encourages, quote, frank and open discussions, so that we can have uncomfortable conversations. We don't need a resolution for that. We already have this show for things like that You want frank and open discussion? You want uncomfortable conversations? Turn on the radio and dial in to WFMD. This sort of resolution is whacked out cultural Marxism. And if you don't know what that is, you need to look it up and learn what's going on. You want to understand the world in 2020? Then you need to understand cultural Marxism. It's no surprise that the Board of Aldermen voted unanimously for this garbage. They're all quote-unquote progressives, all part of the modern left. They're all cultural Marxists. And they're evidence that elections have consequences The one holdout for conservatives in Frederick County would appear to be the sheriff's office. Sheriff Chuck Jenkins, he fought for his political life in the last election. And he still faces very high level of scrutiny from the Democrats. The 287G audit, that's a good example. County Executive Jan Gardner thought it would be a good idea to spend twenty thousand taxpayer dollars to audit the program, a program that the sheriff highly values, and so do his constituents. Turns out we spent more of our taxpaying money on the audit this year than we did on the two eighty seven G program itself. Maybe we should audit the audit. Maybe we should have the sheriff do an investigation. A critics of the sheriff, they were surely hoping for some sort of a smoking gun that didn't materialize. Guess what? Didn't materialize because apparently one doesn't exist. The sheriff's doing everything above board. Squeaky clean. At least when it comes to the 287G program. So for now, the audit, you know, he passed the audit with flying colors, or the program passed the audit with flying colors, and so for now the sheriff's office is still free to fight crime. Using the 287 G program as a tool to this end and removing from our midst dangerous cri criminals who have no legal standing to be in the country, much less the county, in the first place. Yeah, we better hope Sheriff Jenkins doesn't retire anytime soon. He won his election last time, in my opinion, on the strength of name recognition and a strong record of performance. Any conservative running as a newbie will not have those advantages You know what that means? It means a liberal sheriff would be likely to be his replacement. Unless. Unless. Can locals who care possibly make a difference at the ballot box? Not simply by voting themselves, but by being persuasive voices for right thinking and truth. We have to admit we haven't been quite up to the task in recent years. Think about it, the good old boys getting older. Sadly, in many ways, the good old boy network. Kind of fading away. Where are the young bucks? Are we nurturing a new generation? A generation of truth-tellers and liberty defenders and friends of a free market and believers in traditional values? Are we? Maybe, actually. When there was the protest against the sheriff and the two hundred eighty seven G program last week. There was a counter protest organized that supported the sheriff and the program, so that's that's good. We're gonna need A lot more of that. That's for sure. If you'd like to come on any or all of this or bring something else up to our attention that we should know about, you are more than welcome. You're encouraged, invited. Cajoled and Chipolin. 301-694-WFMD 301-694-93 Six three. I'm Troy Skinner. This is Frederick's Forum on News Radio nine thirty WFMD and WFMD dot com. As heard on WFMB's Mid Maryland Live. Racist anti Semitic graffiti found uh throughout Frederick City and Frank, you can't stand out and have a conversation two hundred years ago we've had the same conversation and Done a damn bit of good. Let's have another guest guess. All you do is pacify yourself and think you're doing something. Mid-Maryland Live with Tim May and Frank Mitchell. Afternoons 3 till 6 on 930 WFMB. Hey, it's Murray from Hunting Creek Outfitters. A lot has changed recently, but one thing that stays the same is outdoor fun. And now more than ever, it's important to get outside. At Hunting Creek Capitol, we're all about the outdoors. From fly fishing to hiking to backyard barbecues. We have everything you need with brands like Orvis, Patagonia, and more. And of course, everything getting We're in Downtown Frederick and open regular hours. We are Hunting Creek Openers, Summertime Specialists, and so much more The biggest sale of the year, Regency Furniture's gigantic Super Saturday. When Regency cuts furniture prices this low, you save 50% off. Plus an extra 20% off too. Save on Regency sofas, sectionals, and reclining furniture, Regency dining sets, bedrooms. And top name mattresses. Plus, during Super Saturday, get free delivery and no interest financing. Don't miss Regency's gigantic Super Saturday event. Save 50%, plus an extra 20% off, and free delivery this Saturday at Regency Furniture in the Frederick Crossing Center. Nothing tastes as good as fresh fruit from Cataka Mountain Orchard. With all the abundant sunshine, it makes the fruit sweeter and more flavorable. Curry in for your favorites including peaches, blueberries, cherries, and blackberries. The garden is in full swing with squash, tomatoes, cucumbers, and kale. You can even Cut your own flowers, I could talk about an orchard. 15 minutes from Frederick in Durham, just off of Route 15, you can't miss it. Fresh fruit for better health. I could talk about an orchard. Kids up in an orchard. Farm fresh for your family. Online, on our app, on HD Radios and Alexa. Okay. You're always on 930 WFMD. Frederick's Forum on 9 30. WFMD continues. I'm Troy Skinner sitting in the Frederick's Forum big chair today. Your financial editor, Chris Moore, will be sitting in the Your Financial Editor big chair next hour. Coming up next. About I don't know what how many minutes do the math, forty-ish minutes from now Right after the top of the hour newscast for your update on local and world events. We'll have one of those coming up in a few minutes here as well. Here on News Radio 930 WFMD and WFMD. com If you haven't been paying attention, you need to start paying attention. There's a leftist takeover underway right now. Revolutionary, actually. Fortunately, no shots have been fired, but it's happening on our watch, right under our nose. Are you paying attention? Are you gonna do anything at all about it? Well we're gonna find out what Lisa has to say uh about it. Lisa, I understand there's some rallies scheduled coming up. What can you tell us about that Hey Troy. Um yeah, well actually there's um a kind of a counter rally going on today, uh which is the twenty-fifth Saturday at the Urbana Library. Um there's people that are um coming out I guess from um another organization, I believe it's a youth organization, with um Frederick United. And um so they're gonna have some of the young uh Republican people out there to counter them at five o'clock today. Actually it's not just young people, it's for anybody that wants to to go out there and um show their support for Blue Lives and against all this other stuff that's going on that you mentioned with Kai Hagen and all the um other members of our county commissioners or I guess they're c county council now. Right. But um there's a really big one calling. Unfortunately that was a mistake, right? In in retrospect Uh going with charter government has proven to be a mistake in my opinion. I agree. I was against that from the beginning. Jan wanted it. It needs to go to vote and it needs to be repealed. It needs to be voted on again. 'Cause it was a it was a big mistake. And I gotta ask I agree. Let me ask you real quick 'cause you're you you know you're connected to some movers and shakers, right? You're on the Republican Central Committee or were, right? I don't know if you still are. Mm-hmm. Yeah, I've been around a long time. Yeah, so if it were put up for a vote again. Don't you think it was just pass again? Do you think I I I feel like our best shot at defeating it was out of the blocks. Now people are kind of used to it and they're gonna be resistant to change, aren't they? I don't know. I think people were ri were really ignorant when they went out but you know, a lot of people have moved up here from from Montgomery County and they went, Oh well they have, you know, chartered government, so why don't we have that, you know And um it's been terrible, it's been expensive. Um we've got a county um executive who's out of control. She wants to ha um put somebody as the race police chief Making up to a hundred and twenty one thousand dollars a year. Yeah. Really? That's a good title for it. The race police chief. I hadn't heard that before. Yeah, yeah. So, um and then, you know, uh when people go out to to counter protests like they will today at Urbana Library at five o'clock, um, the things are always reported incorrectly. with with lies and made up things and and it's really funny because they always wanna make the people that are there to back the police and um to be against this Marxist organization. It should be black slides Marxist because that's exactly what their agenda is. But people don't realize that unless they actually research it. But um I want to get this out real quick to you. August first from eleven to two PM there's going to be a rally. And um it's going to be a big one, it's going to be to back the blue. And um if somebody is interested in attending the best thing for them to do is to contact somebody um on the uh Republican s um Frederick County Republican Club or the Frederick County Conservative Club. But um that will be coming out and people are going to be definitely coming out in a big way on the first. So And I think there's going to be a counter rally um at Baker Park um where we'll have conservatives show up at six o'clock, six thirty. I think they're doing one in Baker Park, which is s still promoting the Black Lives Matter movement, so we're gonna probably be at that one as well And I think all the the counterprocessing is good, it's important. We need we need to provide the context and the information for those who haven't done the digging and haven't been alerted to, oh, there's there's more to this than a clever slogan. So we have to do that But I'm concerned that we're only right now it feels like trying to play defense. And we need to play defense. I'm not diminishing that. But Instead of merely having protest rallies, counter rallies, counter demonstrations, when d you know, the Tea Party movement from how many years ago was that now? Fifteen years ago probably But the the T Mart Party movement was was kind of going on the offense. It was it was hopeful and positive and here's what here's what we want for the future as opposed to just trying to fend off these leftist attacks Is there anything that you know about that's going on locally? Hopefully, this is the big rally that's gonna be happening August first Yeah, that's gonna be the big one, and that's on the offense. Okay. Well then um people pay attention Yeah, more will come out on that and um I can give you my phone number or maybe you might have it there. Frank Mitchell knows me too. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I I mean I don't have it, but I can get it from Frank. So Uh all right. Well I'll I'll I'll give you a a call back later on when you're on the break. Okay. But we need to we need all hands on deck for this. Um everything coming up. We need people to work at the polls Meet judges. They can call the Board of Elections and um talk to Stuart Harvey Okay. Yeah and we need some and we need some real uh conservative, you know, traditional classical uh uh liberal kind of thinkers uh in the mix now. uh instead of you know the rhinos that we've been having lately in our area. Anyway. Yeah. Well thank you. Hey listen, do one thing. Do a shout out to our elected officials, Michael Huff, Neil Parrot, uh Phil Daisy, Cox, they need to come up and stand up too. I mean that that's why they're there and they're not they're not saying anything. You know, Dan Cox has been my opinion. Yeah, well I mean Dan Cox is trying to do the lawsuit route and uh Michael Huff has been trying to and he's you know, uh this past week there was something in the news about Michael Huff trying to do something, but I felt like it wasn't uh it didn't go anywhere near. far enough. So I think they're trying, but maybe not uh to your or my satisfaction, that's for sure. Well, you just you just gave them a shout out. So if if any of you folks that uh Lisa just called out Call in. Thanks, Lisa, for calling. I appreciate it. Thank you. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. You can take Lisa's place at 301-693-WFMB. 301-694-93. six three. And I'm just gonna go uh uh blind right here and see who the heck this is. Hello, you're on WFMD. Hey, how you doing? I'm doing good. How you doing? I'm good. Alright, um what's your what's her name by the way? What's your name? Paul, my name J. Pandy. Are you the guy that uh said Um Tim May always says, Andy walks with me, Andy talks with me. One of 'em. There's two of us. I called in and then he called in. The other Andy, okay So I wanted to talk about the uh county council person. I want to say it's Jessica Fitzwater who made the statement that she is a racist. Well isn't isn't she currently a school teacher? Yeah, I wouldn't be surprised I didn't hear her say that or read about her saying that, but it wouldn't surprised me because of are you familiar with the uh uh uh a pr a best selling book was called White Fragility. Well if you listen to some of your news clips she she said she is a racist And anybody of any position of authority is a racist. Absolutely. That's what I'm talking about. That's cultural Marxism lived out. That's that this book, White Fragility, is all about this and it basically If you're in a position of power, you're a racist, and if you don't acknowledge your racism, you're just blind to it, and that makes you even worse. So you had you need to admit your racism. And then here's the worst part for Jessica and people like her though. The problem is she's gonna admit and try to quote unquote repent for her racism and come clean, but she's still a racist by definition because she's in power. It's it's an unworkable system. That's what I want to get to. Isn't she currently a school teacher? To be honest, I don't know. If she is, I am calling for the school board to investigate as to why they have an admitted racist as a school teacher or working for the the Department of Education, period. For a working position, that's one thing. You know, that's That that'll be handled at the polls. If people want want to have an admitted racist on their county council, okay, she'll be reelected. But her working for the school board As a teacher, she molds young people's minds. If she isn't admitted racist, she is, by definition, going to mold people, young children, into being racist And I don't think that's something that the county wants, the school board should allow, and I think they should investigate it, and if that is the case She should be terminated from her paid position as a school teacher. Yeah, well Andy, uh philosophically and worldview wide uh wise, I a hundred percent agree with you. However I'm ca and I hope I'm wrong, and I'm not meeting this as a slight at all, but I'm concerned that you and I holding that kind of a view are naive. Because the school board is also to the left and the teachers union is also to the left. The entire Proto County Public Schools uh uh administrative body is to the left. They're all her. There's only so much they can do in the dark when it's called when when she admits it and it's called out and if enough people demand an investigation They you you almost you're holding their feet to a fire and they have no other choice if they decide that they're not going to terminate her for such action That leaves them open to lawsuits for m multiple reasons. Well maybe that would be and not only with here, but in the future Yeah, well maybe that would be an on the offense kind of uh of a rally to have. And to to to have a rally against racist teachers and racist uh leaders in our c in our county government. That would be That could that's a rally I think a lot of us could get behind and it have a it would have a positive thrust as opposed to merely a defensive thrust. So I kinda I kind of like that. I like the way the other Andy thinks. Thanks for calling, Andy. You can take Andy's place if you like at 301-694-WFMD 301-694-9363. It's time for a news update. So we're going to do that and come back and hopefully take more of your calls and have more commentary on the It's not even an impending leftist takeover. It is a leftist takeover. It it is happening, it has happened, and now we've got to figure out how we beat it back. That's what we're talking about here on Fr Free Talk 930 WFMD. Also on online at WFMB. com. This is 930 WFMD and WFMD. com. Now WFM. UFMD News. The Frederick County Grand Jury returned eleven indictments on Friday. The panel charged 40-year-old Elvin Addison of Frederick with attempted first and second degree murder, use of a firearm, and a crime of violence First and second degree assault and other offenses. State's attorney Charlie Smith said Addison was arrested in May for assaulting another man The incident occurred on Winchester Street in Frederick. They did apprehend him. He resisted arrest, wound up biting one of the other, one of the officers involved and attempting to disarm that officer. So he faces uh over a dozen charges in relation to that offense. Smith said police were able to locate Addison and pulled him over in the five hundred block of West Patrick Street He said officers tried to take him into custody, but Addison resisted, biting one of the officers and trying to pull the officer's gun out of his holster. The indictments moved these cases to circuit court, where trial dates will be scheduled The President of the Maryland Association of Election Officials has told the State Elections Board that it is becoming impossible to fill vacancies for nearly 14,000 election judges before November the 3rd. The Baltimore Sun reported Thursday that local election boards are struggling to compl the Baltimore Sun reported Thursday that local election boards are struggling to comply with Governor Larry Hogan's order that every polling place be open for the general election. David Garrisis, the president of the association, said there's a thirty-five percent vacancy rate for election judges He described it as an emergency because local boards are expected to handle substantial turnout. Election judges operate polling places. They tend to be older and therefore at a higher risk for coronavirus complications. I'm Bob Dacey of Mid-Maryllands Radio News Center, 930 WFMD. Fox Fews, I'm Kara McHugh. Despite serious injuries inflicted on federal officers and Portland, Oregon. The mayor is demanding that they leave. Three officers who may lose their sight, federal officers permanently, after protesters appointed laser in the eyes of those officers. The White House says another agent uh was impaled his hand by nails on Wednesday, President Trump and Attorney General Bill Barr announced the expansion of Operation Legend. Operation Legend sends federal agents to unrest hotspots across the country to protect federal property. Police have arrested more than 18 demonstrators this week for arson and looting. Two hurricanes and two oceans highing landfall later in the U. S. In the Gulf, Hannah, a Category 1 storm's aiming for Texas later today. In the Pacific, Douglas, a cat too, is headed for Hawaii later tonight into tomorrow. America is listening to Fox News. 9 30 WFMD skyscan forecast for Frederick and the surrounding counties for this afternoon. It's gonna be mostly sunny. If you have about a 30% chance of some afternoon showers and thunderstorms And high of 92. Tonight a chance to showers and thunderstorms before 8 p. m. Partly cloudy low 72. Turning on the heat on Sunday. It's going to be sunny day tomorrow with a high of 96. Mostly clear on Sunday night, low 72 Sunny, hot Monday, high ninety-seven. And for Monday night, Mulcy Clear, low 74. That's your forecast. Have a good weekend. I'm Jim Tikes. This summer, Ashley Home Stores all across America are holding grand reopening events with the hottest deals. Take 50% off. Plus, take an extra 10% off. Plus, Ashley pays all your sales tax. Save now at Ashley Home Store in Maryland and Virginia. At Voilah and Frederick Special Teas and Other Goodness, we want to thank you for your continued love and support for our quality loose leaf tea. From Mike, Mary Jean, and the entire Voila special tea family. We thank you for shopping small and look forward to seeing you in downtown Frederick soon. When we shop local, we help the whole community. Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMD, a service of Hunting Creek Outfitters in downtown Frederick, and Frederick Ayer, Bryant's National Dealer of the Year. It's Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMD. It's 1237. Thank you for spending your Saturday lunch hour with me, Troy Skinner, on News Radio 930 WFMD and WFMD. com. Tomorrow morning I'm going to be hosting the Faith Debate Show once again here on WFMB, as I do every week. John Schweitzer, Von Thurman, again on the panel as we discuss what Many are calling racism, as I've said before. I don't really like the word racism because there's one race, the human race. I prefer ethnocentricity or prejudicial bias. But anyway We uh continue uh we've had a multi-week uh discussion with that panel on that very uh hot and important topic, and you can hear that tomorrow morning, nine o'clock here. on the Talk within Maryland 930 WFMD. And you can talk to me right now at 301-694-WFMD. 301-694-9363. You can also send a text to that Very same number. So I did look it up, uh I should know these things, I suppose, but I don't tend to pay a whole lot of attention to our elected officials' personal lives Uh but I did look and apparently Jessica Fitzwater is a elementary school music teacher in the county. So um Andy, the other Andy, was right uh about that. So But the thing I'm I I guess I'm I'm getting increasingly frustrated We need to stop thinking in terms of these politicians and these leftists are trying to sneak one past us. And that they're doing things under the cover of darkness, and they're afraid that we're going to find them out. That is not what's going on. They see themselves as the hero. They're proud of this. They put out statements about it. They're bragging about it. And I'm not sure what percentage of the Frederick City and Frederick County population agrees with them, but it's a healthy enough percentage that they keep getting elected and they're really bold lately. And they're so bold now that those that might have been sitting on the fence and had reason not to be sure have less reason not to be sure, and maybe they'll change their vote next time. That's something we can all hope for. But they're bragging about it. You know, when Jessica Fitzwater and uh Kai Hagan put forward the resolution for the Climate Change Emergency Mobilization Work Group. They didn't do that under the cover of darkness. They're proud of it. They're defending it. They're bragging it. And they've got their cheerleading section rooting them on. Everybody's been brainwashed to think that this cultural Marxist-leftist authoritarian government stuff is good for us. And we sleepwalk through it. At the risk of beating a dead horse. You know how those on the on the right, on the political right, the conservatives, were still concerned about Obamacare. And really concerned about the prospect of single payer health care. Why are we so concerned? Because the government controls that much of the economy and controls that much of your life. Because if they control your health, if they control your life, that can't end well. The government shouldn't be controlling those things. Well, what do you think this climate change emergency mobilization work group's recommendations are going to be when they come out probably next summer? They're going to be making recommendations that the leftist council members are going to vote for. We're kidding ourselves that we think that's not going to happen. And they're going to control the economy and they're going to control our lives. If you use electricity, they will control your life. If you drive an automobile, they will control your life. If you breathe out merely then uh rather than just merely breathing in, they will control your life. The goal of that resolution is to have Zero to cut by one hundred percent the carbon emissions within thirty years. Obviously it's impossible, so it's probably gonna have a whole bunch of carbon offsets that they'll tax you to death. Like you want to drive a car? That's fine, it's gonna cost you a billion dollars a year to have to have the privilege of driving your car Oh, you're tired of merely inhaling? You'd like to exhale once in a while? Okay, well we're going to have to charge you to to offset your carbon footprint as though cash in the coffers of the county government is going to improve the climate anywhere. At all. And yet, we sleepwalk through it, they got their little uh work groups that they're going to put together. They're going to make a uh halfway point re um recommendation or or update, I guess, uh probably somewhere around Christmas time. And then next summer they're going to say, here's what we recommend, and then if you disagree with the recommendations, you're going to be a science denier and a hater and Basically, just a Neanderthal caveman. You're a science denier. You hate people. You hate the planet. It's unbelievable. And that's just one example. And if you think that they're embarrassed about that, they're not. And even in their personal lives As we talked about at length last week when Kai Hagen had his now infamous post on Facebook where he was Hassling a guy who told him at least twice, according to Kai Hagen's own self reporting, the guy was saying, Hey, you're hassling me. You're harassing me. Stop harassing me. I've got a medical reason that I can't be wearing a mask in this store. Leave me alone. And he wouldn't leave him alone. And that wasn't found out. That wasn't a Project Veritas video that spied on Kai Hagen and found him out as he was doing this You know, under the cloak of secrecy. He bragged about it. And yeah, he caught all sorts of grief in the comments section under that post eventually, but at first He got overwhelming support as people cheered him on, literally saying things, boy, I wish I were more like you, guy They're not hiding it. They're emboldened. It's brazen. Jan Gardner came out of the woodwork on the comment section of that post to cheer Kai Hagen on. They all think this is a good thing. So when Jessica Fitzwater says, Well, I'm a racist, and I didn't see that or hear that that quote, so I'm going on the uh on the reporting of the caller, Andy, right before our our last time out. But let's just say for the sake of argument she did 'cause it seems very believable to me because The cultural Marxists, and I'm telling you, if you don't know what that means, when this show is over, go online and look up cultural Marxism and find out what it is because that's what's happening to us right now. And if you want to really understand kind of how the heartbeat and and the m the the mental tick tock of these people, then you need to read books like um Uh white fragility, woke church. You need to understand what this movement is all about When somebody who's all the way over into the radical left, which is what this is, this is a this is uh this is not anything, you understand, our terms keep changing so fast. Once upon a time, to be a liberal would describe me and probably you. Now we have to put a uh a descriptor in front of it and say, well, it's it's classical liberalism. Classical liberalism is now what passes pretty much for traditional conservatism. But they co-opted the language So liberalism became so what we now call classical liberal liberalism became what we think what uh we historically have thought about as left the left. It became pro well really it became progressivism first. Teddy Roosevelt and then FDR, a big progressive movement. And then the progressive movement was replaced by the the left. What we would now, I think, have been calling the left. But now it's a step beyond the left. Now it's collectivism. And if these words don't mean anything, okay, that's fine. Just understand it's big, scary, bad stuff. It's unsustainable. It is destructive to societies. Societies cannot weather the storm. So the good news is it will not ultimately win the day. The bad news is it might destroy everybody's life before it burns itself out, and then we have to restart and rebuild like a phoenix from the ashes. And anybody who hopes to avoid such a prospect needs to get up to speed with what this cultural Marxist movement is. And so when somebody from that point of view says, look, I'm a racist. That's them being woke. That's them saying, yep, I understand. I'm an oppressor. And it's not anything that I Nothing I can do about it, not anything particular that I've even done. I'm not even guilty of a particular offense or sin. Just the fact that I have authority and power in my universe of influence means that I'm a racist by definition. And there's no way I can escape it. And so I might as well just admit it And come clean and then there's you f then there's this temporary feeling of absolution, like, oh, I feel so much better. Oh, so now you're not a racist anymore because no, I'm still a racist. What do you mean? You you you're saying that you're you're renouncing a racism. Well I am, I'm renouncing it, but I'm still one because I can't there's nothing I can do about it. And they're proud of that claim. How destructive is that to the individual? You've been listening to me faith uh host the faith debate all these years, you know that I come at things from a Christian biblical worldview. And a Christian biblical worldview is, yeah, you you own your sin, you renounce your sin, you repent your sin, which means you turn from your sin and you change, and you have redemption in Christianity. So you can say, I once was a racist, but now I am no more. But this new wokism doesn't allow for that So even if you admit, it's not even if, you have to admit. And if you don't admit it, you're just blind. Like I said before, you're just a Neanderthal. And so this is the kind of stuff that stands behind everything that's been happening in the local news lately. I mean, why is there a bill being drafted to promote racial equity and social justice in Frederick County? Why are we worried about social justice? Why don't we just have good old-fashioned justice equally applied to everyone in all circumstances? We don't know if it needs an adjective in front of it. Justice is justice. What's this social justice nonsense? And racial equity? Again, how many races are there? Biologically speaking, throughout human history, how many races have there been? Got good news for you, you can count that high. One. That's it. Just one. Different people have different skin tones. Their heritage emerged from different parts of the planet. They have different culture that's part of their life experience and and and their ancestors' experience. All that's true. There are differences There are differences within the one race. So even when we use the language of racial equity, We're using their language. Why are we using their language? We're seeding the point before the argument starts. And Jan Gardner wants to have the uh equity and inclusion officer. Rumors are it's gonna be like a hundred, hundred and fifty thousand dollar a year job. Maybe I should apply. Equity and inclusion. Now apparently the motivation is a good one, right? We want to make sure that we don't discriminate against people based on the tone of their skin, right? Okay, that's fine. But is this equity and inclusion officer going to end up being forced to do just that by discriminating against people who have light skin tones? in order to give the appearance of being fair. I mean it's ridiculous. You've been a major league baseball started up this weekend and There's all this talk about, you know, the the number of black players in Major League Baseball uh has reduced uh over the last several decades. And I think there's seven percent of major league baseball rosters are now black players and it used to be I don't know, ten, fifteen, twenty percent, whatever. Yeah, I'm sure that's because everybody who owns a major league baseball team is prejudiced against people with darker skin tone. They don't want to win baseball games or anything like that. Look what uh it seems to me what happened is people with you know, from the f fr from certain communities within uh the the fabric of our nation have gravitated more towards sports like basketball and football, which are overwhelmingly black athletes populating those rosters. And they're not quite so interested in baseball. So what are we gonna do now? We're gonna are we gonna force people with black skin who wanna play basketball and say, no, sorry, we need more black people playing baseball, so we're gonna pass the law so that there's more equity. And quote unquote racial inclusion in the sport of baseball. But of course, this equity and inclusion officers, they're gonna get hired. What's gonna stop it? There's nothing to stop it. And then next month, or well a little over next month, this is September, about a month and a half from now, I guess, uh, you know, we're gonna have this bill for the county for racial equity and social justice in Frederick County. This isn't stopping. It keeps coming at us. And like I said at the start of this show, it's not just the county. Of course it's the city. Frederick Alderman, they approved the resolution declaring racism a public health crisis. How is quote unquote racism a public health crisis? What does that even mean? Can someone explain that to me? I mean I know what this what it's going to end up meaning in practice because they told us that you know the the planning commission and the Board of Aldermen They're going to consider and incorporate quote unquote racial equity and social justice whenever they prepare and adopt their comprehensive plan. So everything, every decision That the city makes, and apparently now the county wants to go this track too, everything's gonna be run through that grid It's not going to be about what's right and wrong per se. It's going to be about what's more advantageous to dark skinned people That is no way to make decisions. Now if we've got policies and things in place right now that are discriminating and are prejudiced and are biased against people who look different than other people and have a different cultural background. You know what? We need to change that. But we don't need to run the entire system of our local government. through that grid, looking at it primarily and almost exclusively through that lens. And what are we gonna do when somebody says who somebody who looks like me and has my background says You're discriminating against me, City of Frederick. You're discriminating against me, County of Frederick, because and the only reason you're discriminating against me is because I'm a black lesbian. You're not a black lesbian. I'm going to say, yes, I am. I identify as one. I identify as a black lesbian and you're discriminating against me. What are they going to do then? This is a road to nowhere other than a brick wall traveling 110 miles an hour. That doesn't end well. And that's where we are right now. Oh, here we go. Flying blind again. Let's find out who this is. Hello, you're on 930 WFMB. Who am I talking to? Yeah, my name is Roland. Roland. Hey, how you doing? I'm doing pretty good. Troy, how's you? You know, I I'm better now that you've called. Ver very nice. I'm always better when you call. Yeah. I'm I'm trying to be intellectually honest about uh a statement that that's being made And it says that if I put a sign up that says Black Lives Pattern in front of my business, um, I'm not making a racist statement But if I change that sign to say White Lives Matter, all of a sudden the same sign is has a racist connotation Yeah, you're absolutely right. Those are the rules that we're forced to play by. And you know there's uh some studies that have come out, they've done some research on this, and it's in it was actually surprising to me But there are people who are boycotting businesses based on their Black Lives Matter position as a business and the numbers are I pretty much identical. Identical. There are people that are boycotting businesses because they won't support the Black Lives Matter movement publicly, and an equal number of people are boycotting businesses because they do Support the Black Lives Matter movement. So you're kinda damned if you do and damned if you don't. Yeah, I understand. I I just don't know how intellectual honesty can't take one word out of the statement and change it one way it's racist and one way it's not. That's all I have to say. Yeah. Thank you, Rowland. Thank you. Yeah, I I'll I'll say this. They're not aiming at intellectual honesty, okay? Because you know you know y I don't want to get all philosophical and deep on you, but it's important that we begin to understand these things, okay? You know what's going on. I keep talking about cultural Marxism and if you don't know what that is, please, please, please, please do me, yourself, your neighbors A favor and Google it. Look up cultural Marxism and find out what it is And you will all of a sudden the world will become crystal clear to you. You'll understand. And the cultural Marxism is connected to the postmodernist movement. Okay, now I know we're getting all these labels and stuff. So let me make this simple for you. Postmodernism, they don't care about intellectual integrity and honesty because everything is subjective and relative and it can change at a whim. That's why somebody can identify as an eight-year-old girl at eight o'clock in the morning and then change their mind and identify as a seventy-five year old man at ten o'clock in the evening And they're not in disagreement with themselves. That's totally fine. And sometimes the people that are really serious about this, you can wag your finger at them and say, that's completely irrational. And they're going to basically say, thank you very much. Because in their view, everything's irrational. So they're gonna feel like, oh, you're finally getting it. Yes, I'm irrational. And I'm inviting you to be irrational with me. Of course I'm intellectually dishonest Because that's the way things are, and I'm encouraging you to be intellectually dishonest along with me. That's what we're fighting against. Hi, I'm Sean Kirby with Ren Kirby Mitsubishi. Ren Kirby Mitsubishi evolved from Ren Kirby Pontiac, of which Albie Wren started in 1938. For years, Ren Kirby was located on the corners of Sixton Market in downtown Frederick. In fact, go see my friends at Old Mother Brewery to see how the old shop and showroom were repurposed. As you know, there's a lot that's happened in Frederick over the years. And as a local business owner I encourage you to help your neighbors during these times. Keep Frederick's economy strong, growing, and moving forward by keeping your money and buying power local. I hope that the next time your vehicle needs service or in the market for a new car, you'll shop Ren Kirby Mitsubishi. We're here for you and your vehicle needs. We have dozens of them 2019 leftover new Mitsubishi's. We have drastically reduced the prices to move them out. Both the Outlander Sport and the Outlander CUDs have zero percent for 72 months. If you take the time to come to Ren Kirby, we'll make it worth your while. 0% financing for qualified customers. See dealer for details. Nothing tastes as good as fresh fruit from Kataka Mountain Orchard. With all the abundant sunshine, it makes the fruit sweeter and more flavorable. Hurry in for your favorites, including peaches, blueberries, cherries, and blackberries. The garden is in full swing with squash, tomatoes, cucumbers, and kale. You can eat Even cut your own flowers at Katauka Mountain Orchard. 15 minutes from Frederick in Durham, just off of Route 15, you can't miss it. Fresh fruit for better health at Kataka Mountain Orchard. Katockin Mountain Orchard. Farm fresh for your family. The biggest sale of the year. Regency furniture's gigantic Silver Saturday. When Regency cuts furniture prices this low, you save 50% off. Plus an extra 20% off too. Save on Regency sofas, sectionals, and reclining furniture, Regency dining sets, bedrooms, and Top name mattresses. Plus, during Super Saturday, get free delivery and no interest financing. Don't miss Regency's gigantic Super Saturday event. Save 50% plus an extra 20% off and free delivery this Saturday at Regency Furniture in the Frederick Crossing Center. Mid-Maryland is on the rebound, and we'll keep telling you what you need to know. On news radio 930-WFMD.