Free talk continues on the weekend with Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMB. Conversations with and about local newsmakers. Broadcast Hosting live from the Palatial Palace sitting atop Frederick's Grove Hill in the formerly free state of Maryland. I'm Troy Skinner, hosting this week's edition of Frederick's Forum. It's your chance to weigh in for all your neighbors to hear on the most important things happening in and around Frederick. The number for doing so is 301-694-WFMD 301-694-9363. You can use that same number for the WFMD text line. Frederick Sworn is going to do some house cleaning today. There have been so many big local stories over the past month that this one-hour show simply can't cover everything in a weekly basis. We have the emergency climate change resolution from the Frederick County Council. We had Councilman Kai Hagan harassing a citizen in a local grocery store. We have Resolutions at the city and county level in Frederick for racial equity and social justice. We have taxpayer money. uh some would argue wasted on an attempted uh some would argue political hit job on the County Sheriff Chuck Jenkins over what critics call the controversial two eighty seven G program that addresses illegal immigration. These are the things we've covered on the show in recent weeks, and if you still want to weigh in on any of those, you certainly can. The number for doing so is 301-694-WFMD-301-6 694-9363. And my understanding is that there is a uh We Back Blue rally taking place somewhere in Frederick County right now. I was uh it was suggested to me that I should be on the lookout for an invite to that. If it was sent to me, it escaped my notice. So I don't know where The rallies taking place. It was one of those things that they didn't want to get the word out too early about where it was taking place because of concerns about, you know, I guess counter protesters or or being asked that to not hold the rally or who who even knows. So if you're at that rally right now, hearing my voice, why don't you give me a call, 301-694-WFMD, 301-694-9363. So that we can find out where you are. So I think it started about an hour ago and it's supposed to still go for like a couple more hours, if I understand correctly. So If you want to learn about uh that, then hold hold tight. I'm sure somebody's gonna call and let us know what's going on. But in the meantime, additionally today, we have lots of other stuff to talk about. As a quick aside, by the way, before getting into most of the uh the meat of our subject matter for today, have you noticed The stories lately that have involved very young people doing very bad things A couple weeks ago, there were three teens who spray painted a bunch of graffiti at the villages of Urbana Community Pool. They sprayed the letters B-L-M, an obvious reference to Black Lives Matter. Reportedly also spray paintings and derogatory references to police, those charged in this case with burglary and theft. Include a sixteen-year-old, a fifteen-year-old, a thirteen-year-old, with the thirteen-year-old being a girl? And if that's not enough to make you say, what's wrong with these kids today? There's also the story of the 17-year-old young woman from Hagerstown who horrifyingly was murdered. By allegedly two teens from Frederick. Charged with first-degree murder is a 16-year-old boy and a 14-year-old girl A fourteen-year-old girl, first degree murder. Someone was shot to death in Frederick. And one of the people charged is a 14-year-old girl. What in the world is going on? There have been a number of other stories recently about young people doing bad things, but this one really captures one's attention. If we're not careful. Frederick isn't going to be sleepy little old Fredneck much longer, if it even still is. I don't know I can't help but remember about eleven months ago now, I guess, or coming up on eleven months ago at the fair, we had a a teen who uh cold talked a guy uh causing his death during the fair in Frederick. I don't know. What do you think should be done about it? 301-694-WFMD. 301-694-93-63. Of course, the mask hysteria, that continues. Hyped up news coverage of new coronavirus cases and COVID-19 deaths continues. The economy, forced to limp through aristocratic decisions made unilaterally by people such as His Majesty the King, Larry Hogan, the economy continues to struggle. Delegate Dan Cox continues to bring legal challenges to the powers that be. First lawsuit that went nowhere fast, as was sadly anticipated. Now delegate Cox has submitted an amended lawsuit that challenges King Hogan's magisterial orders. The first lawsuit said that the king's order to slam shut the economy and to put people out of work and out of business and out of hope were unconstitutional, which they were. But that didn't matter, said the court. The amended lawsuit says that the king has overreached, which he has, but will that matter to the district court? Now there are some critics, believe it or not, of these legal maneuvers. The delegate cox is orchestrating, saying that it's nothing more than grandstanding or kissing the derriere of President Donald Trump. I disagree, but what do you think? 301-694-WFMD 301-694-93-63. Hey, did you uh happen to see the story about retail boycotts? Caught my attention the other day. Boycotting business is a practice that is on the rise, targeting specific businesses to boycott. And most of the news lately is focused on the BLM boycotts. And even businesses doing a reverse boycott, refusing to serve uniformed police officers. Well, according to a news survey from Compare Cards by LendingTree, 38% of Americans are withholding money from at least one business right now. Two out of five boycotting somebody right now. Now get this. 18% or one in five of customers are boycotting organizations that do not support Black Lives Matter. And nineteen percent of customers are boycotting organizations that do support Black Lives Matter. It is a statistical dead heat with more people offended by the BLM movement than are offended by those not supporting the movement. And that is really interesting given the overwhelming support that BLM gets from the Marxist media. I mean the uh leftist controls mainstream media. Uh I mean the uh major media outlets I threw those last couple lines in there to the delight of uh my social media detractors. That was just for you. You're welcome. Just as uh interesting as those stats, sixteen percent sixteen percent of people say they're boycotting businesses. That don't require shoppers to wear a mask. Look at this. 15% are boycotting businesses that do require masks. So the numbers again are even, like even Steven. But consider the mainline cultural narrative. Complete with public shaming and coercive signage and fabricated data, is all supporting the quote-unquote importance of masks. Imagine if the propaganda went away. No more lies, no more guilt trips, no more authoritarianism from the oligarchy. Imagine how the numbers would look then, even with the powers of Big Brother pounding on us every day for months. There are just as many people firmly opposed to the mask nonsense as there are people who firmly support the mask nonsense. Wow! I never would have guessed that. Guess it gives me reason to have hope in the future of this nation after all. If you're interested, the age group most likely to boycott is uh Generation Z. Half of these young whippersnappers are boycotting someone somewhere right now. Half of millennials saying the same thing, so the under-40 crowd is boycott happy. Less than 40% of Gen X folks are boycotting anyone at the moment. A tad over 20% of baby boomers are boycotting and only 16% of the silent generation. So basically, essentially, the older you are, the less likely you are to use your wallet as a weapon. Also in the news lately, in person voting versus mail-in voting for elections. Maryland King, Larry Hogan, is strongly encouraging mail-in voting, but he's going to allow in-person voting during the November elections. Isn't that so nice of him? Thank you, King Hogan. May I kiss your ring. Listen, the mail in voting for the primaries. That was a mess. People didn't get their ballots, or they got them late, or they were for the wrong district, or they were in the wrong language. Or extra ballots were mailed that never should have been sent. I mean, for example, I received a ballot at my house for my daughter. She doesn't live in Maryland anymore. She hasn't lived in Maryland for two years. I could have filled that out and nailed it in. I didn't. But I could have. And now this coming Tuesday, August 4th, Brunswick is conducting its first ever election conducted entirely by mailed-in votes. Brunswick selecting a mayor, three city council members, by postal delivery. I mean this election cycle, they're literally mailing it in. Maybe next time they'll just simply phone it in. It's interesting, you know, Middletown, they did the same thing in in April of this year for the primaries. Voter turnout way up. Well, yeah, I'll bet You know, just wait until the election comes around when there's more ballots that come in than there are people who are live in a particular town. That'll really be something to celebrate. Oh, the voter turnout exceeded the population. Yay See, I grew up in Chicago where the mantra is vote early, vote often. And the most important voting block are those dead and buried in the Chicago cemeteries. After all these years, I guess I still haven't escaped Chicago style politics. I've got to take a break. I see a call's coming in. If you can hang on for just a second for me so I can find out who you are and then we'll start going to the phone lines. You can join. The phone line conversation at 301-694-WFMD, 301-694-9363. This is Frederick's Forum on the Talk of Mid-Maryland, 930-WFMD. This week at WFMD. com. Hi, this is Steve Nibbs, host of Frederick County Sports Weekend, Saturday mornings at 1130 on 930 WFMD. You can listen anytime to our interviews with the coaches and players From Lingodore Girls Lacrosse, Middletown Football, Urbana Girls Soccer, Catoctic Football, Tuscarora Girls Lacrosse, Urbana Indoor Girls Track And much, much more. You can listen to them anytime in the audio vault. This week at WFMD. com. Hey, it's Murray from Hunting Creek Outfitters. Crazy Times call for crazy measures. And it's time for our crazy summer sale. We want to thank you for your business by offering 40 to 50% off our men's and women's clothing, Horbis, Barber, Patagonia, Sims, and more. Shirts Shorts, pants are on sale. We've never done this before. We also have deals on rods, reels, waiters, boots, and flies. Come see it all. We're in downtown Frederick. We are Hunting Creek Outfitters, Summer Sale Madness, and so much more. Ashley Home Store's end-of-season clearance is the best time to buy. You'll find incredible price reductions on all Ashley furniture and Shop made mattresses. See the 75% off store wide on hundreds of Ashley living rooms, bedrooms, and dining rooms. Furnish one room for your entire home. Find the Ashley Styles New Love and clearance prices. Leave up the 75% off. Today at America's number one name in furniture, Ashley Home Store in Frederick and Hagerstown, Maryland. Nothing tastes as good as fresh fruit from Kataka Mountain Orchard. With all the abundant sunshine, it makes the fruit sweeter and more flavorable. Curry in for your favorites, including peanut. Peaches, sugar cube, cantaloupes, cherries, nectarines, and blackberries. The garden is in full swing with squash, tomatoes, cucumbers, and kale. You can even cut your own flowers at Kataka Mountain Orchard, fifteen minutes from Frederick in Thermont, just off of Route 15. You can't miss it. Fresh fruit for better health. I can talk about an orchard. Get up in Mountain Orchard. Farm fresh for your family. How long is it gonna go on like this? Stay tuned for the latest on reopening Mid-Maryland on News Radio 930 WFMD. This is nine thirty WFMB's Frederick's Forum. I'm Troy Skinner. I Keep saying filling in or at least in my mind I feel like I'm filling in, but after four weeks I don't know if I'm still filling in or if I'm like the uh temporary permanent replacement for now. I don't know. Anyway. Tomorrow morning I'm again going to be hosting the Faith Debate here on News Radio 930 WFMD as I do every week. It airs Sunday mornings at nine o'clock. John Schweitzer and I uh always have uh a guest on the show and uh we're gonna be We we talking about um what's going on with the quote unquote racist uh discussion and debate, particularly as it relates to within the church and what what pastors are what discussions they're having and how they're they're hoping to grapple with that issue. We talk about it um right here tomorrow morning, nine o'clock on the talk of Mid Maryland, nine thirty WFMD. And if you should end up I'm missing the show live and you'd like to capture it, all of the shows have been archived as a podcast at WFMD. com. Well, I had uh Hal called in, but Hal couldn't hold on, but uh he had encouraging news for us. All his message to to anybody who cares is it's only gonna get worse. It's only getting worse, it's not gonna get better. And you know, there could be a level of of truth to that, that it's only gonna get worse before it gets better. They sometimes say that it's darkest before the dawn. I'm hoping there's a dawn. Seriously, that things have gone so off the rails so quickly and so radically Uh and so easily uh it one it one wonders can this turn itself around And I've heard a number of people and I've seen it on social media and uh people are uh hanging on hanging their head on the hope that well the silent majority is gonna rise up. Silent majority is gonna roar back and in November the silent majority is gonna send a message and well first of all, I guess I hope that's true. But the other thing is, why is the majority so silent? Why are they taking this lying down the way that they are? If you're part of that silent majority, I invite you to not be quite so silent. You can call in at 301-694-WFMD. 301-694-9363. And as I mentioned at the start of the show, my understanding there is a we back the blue rally going on, and I've had some people trying to contact me on social media. Um but that's not going to help us on this show. So if you would like to let everybody know where you are, so others might want to join you and show their support for the thin blue line. Then give me a call so I can put you on the air and you can tell me where is the rally. Unless the rally's not happening. Was the rally canceled and I and I don't know about that? I don't know. I was told there was a rally. Uh I was given reason to believe that it was actually taking place right now from like eleven o'clock this morning until two o'clock this afternoon. So uh if you're trying to reach me on social media, that's not That's not helping me. It's not helping me get the word out for you. It's not helping you and your cause. So 301-694-9363 is the number you want to call. Maybe hear somebody hearkening that beckon call right now. Let's see who this is. Hi, you're on Frederick Sforman, WFMD. How you doing? My name is Jack. I want to call in tell you about the solid majority. The solid majority. Oh the silent majority. Okay, tell me about it. The silent majority, you don't want the silent majority to become vocal because once we go off, you're not gonna like it. Well, okay. I I We're gonna we'll make Antifa look like a choir boy if you know what I mean. Yeah, see now that I and I hear ya and I get it and I've an And that's why we're not coming out. When we come out They're not gonna like it because it's gonna be ten times of what they think that they got. Now I um I've had this conversation off air with people that are close to me and I've actually expressed that at some point I'm uh Uh concerned could be the right word. Concerned that there's gonna be this breaking point where the violence that's seen from the rioters now who are on the left end of the spectrum will be joined and then perhaps even overwhelmed if you're right by violence from the right. But I'm wondering if the silent majority weren't so silent we could achieve those same ends without having to experience some sort of a violent in the streets, you know, civil war. Yeah, I mean you really think it you think that's gonna end up what I'm saying is they keep pushing, they're gonna get just what they asked for. And when it goes off, baby, when it's off the hook, it's gonna be off the hook. And it's not gonna be pretty, it's gonna be quite ugly. Now you're fired up. How how many people that you relate with are also fired up in similar ways? Well, you talk about motorcycle gangs watching Gettysburg waiting for Antifa to go up there to destroy some monuments up there Let me tell you something. You ain't seen nothing, pal. When it goes off the hook, I'm telling ya, the police are just gonna stand by because if the law ain't gonna work for us It ain't gonna work for i if no ought to work for them, it ain't gonna work for us either. What would you say is the f the the thing that would have to happen between now and it going off the hook To make it go off the hook. What hasn't happened? Gettysburg would have been one if they'd have showed their face up there. Gettysburg would have been the kiss off of all of it So you're talking about so you're talking about the the the protesters themselves and they're being like a counter reaction to that. You're not talking about the government um mandates and overreaches and and that sort of stuff. That's not what is gonna get it off the hook. It's gonna be the protesters. Well it's gonna be a combination of both Gotcha. People are just gonna get tired of it. Okay? I've worked and I've paid taxes and I've did my time thirty-three plus years in an organization, local government that is And I'm telling you, you keep pushing the cops, you keep pushing the uh solid majority, and you're gonna get exactly what You're asking for. No telling 'em. Are you at or are you on your way to the uh we back blue rally today? No. No I'm not. Do you happen to know where it is? I'm part of the signal majority that's had enough. And I'm telling you there's a lot of us out there like me that don't say nothing, keep our mouth shut Do her mind her own business, but I'll tell you when we go off it's gonna be ugly. Wow. And that's that's all I gotta say, bud. Well I appreciate that. Thanks for your time. I like your show and uh I hope that message gets out gets out to some of these people that uh they just don't understand what they're asking for. They have no idea what they're messing with and once it once it breaks, it snaps, it's going. Yeah, well, message loud and clear. Thank you for the call. You can take his place at 301-694-WFMD-301-694-93-63. Even if you're I mean, I I'm not sure how many people are listening to this show that have a very different worldview than mine. You know, this is the kind of show that uh uh might not be enjoyable listening for those that have a worldview very different than mine. But if you are Doesn't a call like that concern you? It concerns me. I I I I feel like, you know, the caller and I have basically the same kind of a worldview. We're both frustrated about very many of the same things I'm guessing. And the fact that even the caller is saying it we haven't gotten there yet. But i if we're not careful it's gonna come off the hook. Anyway, what doesn't it worry you? She worry you we've created a tinder on 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner filling in today again for the fourth week in a row on 930 WFMD's Fredericks Forum. During the week, of course, you were invited to listen to Frederick's morning mayor, Bob Miller, for your morning commute. And then there's a show in the afternoon uh called Mid Maryland Live with um oh what's that guy's name? He does the show with Frank Mitchell. Uh for your afternoon commute oh what's his name? You know, the guy, uh the judge, uh, you know. Oh my gosh, his name will come to me in a minute. That's uh every weekday on Free Talk 930 WFMD and WFMD. com. Hmm. Hey, do you happen to know the name of that guy that does that show in the afternoon? I think it's Gomer or Goober. I can't s remember which. That's right. Gober Gober and Frank Mitchell for your afternoon commute. I knew it was something like that. I can do it. Yeah. So Tim, you were you you I guess you were at the the back we back I was at the back the blue, yes, we back the blue. I was uh there. It's gonna go until two o'clock and it's uh Troy South the uh uh the law mall, the elect law enforcement center out off the airport road, you know, behind the D M V or MVA. Um, when I left a couple hundred people there and uh a a good time was being had ball. When you go to uh these type of um rallies. Everybody's in a good mood. There's no you know, there's no screaming or nastiness and uh I really you know, I I certainly wouldn't go if it was anything but that and was I was very impressed and uh uh it'll go once about two o'clock and Good crowd, a lot of uh a lot of positive comments, you know. It's not a political thing. People don't realize twice this was not a oh we are against this or we're no, it was one one purpose The black is to back law enforcement, period, end the sentence. So that was good. So now the word it's been going on for an hour and a half and the words Yes. Well and they say it across the you know they say the distance away, one I didn't appreciate, and you know They're childish immature uh whack biscuits. But the part I didn't when certain people were trying to speak, they had a siren that they blew uh and you know, the drowned out the speakers And I thought that was th that that was just childish, but I I didn't expect anything more because some of their signs were very uh uh you know, very child he's pornographic or whatever you want to say. It was just it was ridiculous. But everyone has a right to be heard. It's just when you hear those words versus what I heard at the We Back Blue Rally Sh there's no question who I support. Okay, so and still going on for another hour and a half, right? So people can still head out. Uh but it when I left it was going full strength. Okay. Well I appreciate uh you calling uh what's your name? Uh Tim. Thanks for calling. Thank you, and uh tell you, uh Frank, you sound very good in the afternoon. I Keep up the good work, Frank. I'm in Troy. God bless my friend. Uh thank you. You too. God bless. Alright, you can uh take uh oh how do I how do I do that? Oh I hit the wrong button. There we go. Still getting used to the technology here. You know, technology. It's the world we live in. You can take Tim May's place on the phone line at 301-694 WFMD 301-694 9363. And we've got Gene here uh that's joining us uh on the phone. I'm not sure exactly what's on Jean's mind, but I guess we'll find out. Gene, what's on your mind? Welcome to WFMD in Frederick's Forum. Thank you. Troy, uh um I feel like A lot of the silent majority were being silent because of the point we seen what happened when the protesters went out to the law mall and um after Chuck Jenkins and he they screamed and hollered over top of him. He couldn't be heard. They don't want to be reasoned with. He even offered to have one of 'em come in and sit down with him quietly and discuss whatever he wanted to discuss. No, he wouldn't do that. And and yeah, we're afraid. We're afraid for our lives and our properties if we come out now and say that we're for Trump So there's There's no need to argue with somebody that refuses to engage in debate and and is willing to at least consider somebody else's point of view. So that's the intellectual argument that you're making. There's also is there is there a sense of Uh I don't want to use the word fear, but is there a sense of concern about backlash that you mightn't be unsafe if you were to try to be more open about what you believe and and why you believe it? Absolutely and positively. That's why I don't think we've seen as many Trump signs as before because people were, and I think it's even worse now. And uh we'll be there in November Yeah, and well and and and good for you that you're gonna still, you know, go well, you know, if you're allowed to go there, you might have to mail it in. Who sees if they'll change the rules on this as it goes? Uh would you agree with me? I was making this point last week that uh it's bigger than just the White House. The elections You know, the president, leader of the free world and all that, hugely important. But our lives are being dramatically impacted by decisions being made by city councils and county government and uh state houses, uh for example King Hogan. Uh all of these elections and the school board, oh don't get me started, we're probably gonna do a whole uh a whole focus on the school system maybe in coming in coming weeks if I continue to do this show. But don't you think all those things matter too? Well it's shocking to me that so many people are pushing us towards socialism and that's what they're doing. And it will eventually come to communism and I just can't understand. I have no idea why so many people don't see it. Yeah. Well I I I I have a theory on that and it speaks to the school system and all of that. But I agree with that. I I appreciate you calling in. Thank you, Gene. Uh-huh. You can take Gene's place at 301-694. WFMD 301-694-9363. Yeah, I echoed uh, you know, Jean's general attitude and and concern about things and one of the things that I had somebody a couple of weeks ago who contacted me after I did this show and said, Wow, you know, good for you, way to be brave, you know and I'm like, Brave, I'm just giving my opinion. But you know, we live in a cancel culture. And sometimes they want to cancel you in ways that are, you know, dramatic and perhaps even violent. And so I guess There is a bravery? I I mean I don't know. And those you would expect if if there is a bravery, or at least uh intestinal fortitude to do uh what in your conscience tells you is right and to stand up and and and make a statement for what you believe, if anybody is gonna do that, one would expect that it would be the Christian church. But that hasn't happened and that's been a huge disappointment. I'm I'm sure I'm sure you might have heard something about it. The relatively famous pastor in California, his name is John MacArthur. He put out a statement uh What's it no, a week and a half ago, something like that I think. Um saying that well, here I read part of it. He says therefore in response He's um here's what's the title on this? Tom MacArthur's Grace Community Church announces that it will not obey California's ban on indoor worship services. And here's a portion of what he said. He said, in response to the recent state order requiring churches in California to limit or suspend all meetings indefinitely, We, the pastors and elders of Grace Community Church, respectfully inform our civic leaders that they have exceeded their legitimate jurisdiction and faithfulness to Christ prohibits us from observing the restrictions they want to impose on our corporate worship services. Then he goes on to say that the biblical order is clear. Christ is Lord uh is is Lord over Caesar, not vice versa. Christ, not Caesar, as head of the church. And so they're meeting. And apparently some people in government in California have said, Well, if you guys are going to continue to meet against our rules, we might just turn the power off to your building and maybe they will. I don't know if it's going to come to that or not. But that's a bold move. Now you can disagree that they should be open or not. That's fine. But their conviction they should be open. And it's my conviction that there are leaders and churchgoers who have a similar conviction and yet they're not meeting. Right here in Frederick County. And you know, if you're in a church, leading a church, part of a church in Frederick City, I don't know if you've caught this or not, but on the Morning News Express, normally hosted by Bob Miller, but this past week uh Frank Mitchell was filling in and he did an interview. Frank did, he conducted an interview with with the mayor of of Frederick. And Michael O'Connor said that um he was he was asked a question by by one of the callers. He was asked a question About the protests and the fact that they didn't get permits and that they went in the middle of streets, even went on to Interstate seventy, they blocked traffic, all sorts of problems and issues and The questioner said, Mayor, why, you know, why was that allowed to happen and aren't we going to enforce the laws and you know what's your answer? And the mayor's response was, well, you know, now you're getting into constitutional protected uh rights and freedom of speech and and these people have a right to protest and to assemble together and and it's a freedom of speech issue. And so we're gonna You know, we're we're we're gonna refrain from really enforcing quote unquote laws that would be in competition with and go against the Constitution. Well good for him. That's the right attitude. It's A constitutional conservative position right there. Good for you, Bear. But if you're listening closely to that argument, if you're in a church, if you're leading a church That's a constitutional thing too. If you have a constitutionally guaranteed right Or guaranteed. It's guaranteed from God is what the Constitution said. But yeah, a a constantly protected right. Guarant uh guaranteeing the protection of rights that have been granted to you by your maker. And that constitution says, yeah, you have the right to assemble, you have the right to your own expression of religion and the exercise thereof. And if you feel like as a church you're meeting in a building, which is the big controversy, right? Oh, you can meet outside all you want, even if it's raining or it's you know, nine hundred degrees out, but you can't meet in a building. But if you feel like meeting in a building would be an expression of your constitutional rights, would be an ex would be a freedom of speech uh speech issue. would be a a a statement, a not just a religious statement, but also a political statement and a cultural statement that you are standing in protest that you are meeting together to protest government overreach, to protest against fear, against tyranny. Against restrictions of freedom, against the kinds of things that are limiting human flourishing. If you stand against that and you protest against that while you gather together to worship your God, the one who made you. And rules everything in your life, or should if you're a Christian, the mayor just gave you permission. If the protesters can gather in our community and block traffic and not get permits and ignore any sort of edicts that come from the oligarchy Then so can you, as the church, according to the mayor's own argument. So what this tells me, and this is a concern of mine, what this tells me, The protesters of our current society and culture, those who are angry with our systems of justice and policing and law and Well, everything that's th that America has come to stand for. Those who are protesting those things are more committed to their cause than Christians are to theirs. That's a concern of mine Now I understand not all Christians agree. Some Christians feel like, no, no, no, we we have all these different reasons, blah, blah, blah. But I know that there are Christians. in this community. I host the Frederick Faith Debate for Crying Out Loud and have for 16 years. I know a lot of high-profile Christians in Frederick County. And I know there are those. Who think they should be meeting. But they're not. Because they don't want to make waves. They don't want to push back. They don't want to They don't want to stand up for Christ could be one way of positioning that, right? I'm telling you, if it's on podcast, go to WFMD. com Find the interview that Frank did with the mayor this week. I'm not sure when he did it. Thursday, Friday? I'm not sure. I think I saw it on Friday, but he might have conducted the interview on Thursday. Listen to the interview. And towards the back end of that, it's like a 15-minute thing. Towards the back end of that, maybe uh with five minutes or so left is when the caller comes in and asks that question. Why would the same rules not apply to churches that apply to the protesters? Something to think about. 301-694, WFMD is the number, 301-694-93. Frederick's form continues in just a moment. More than 100,000 Americans have died of the coronavirus. But you don't have to be a victim. Now, New York Times best-selling author and renowned medical doctor Chauncey Crandall reveals how you can prevent and beat the virus. In Dr. Crandall's new book, Fight Back, you can find your real risk from conditions like obesity, high blood pressure, diabetes, asthma, and more. Fight Back also reveals the three most important things you can do to prevent the virus. Dr. Crandall shares the natural immunity boosters that fight any virus, and he details the drugs that help. and the latest on a vaccine. If you have obesity, high blood pressure, diabetes, or other conditions, you need to get Dr. Crandall's Fight Back. Newsmax calls it the best book on the coronavirus. It's already a number one Amazon bestseller. Get fight back in bookstores or see the free offer and save $20. Just call 800 821-3000. That's 800-821-3000. 821-3000. Or go online to fightback411. com today. Nothing tastes as good as fresh fruit from Kataka Mountain Orchard. With all the abundant sunshine, it makes the fruit sweeter and more flavorful. Curry in for your favorites, including peaches, sugar cube, cantaloupes, cherries, nectarines, and blackberries. The garden is in full swing with squash, tomatoes, cucumbers, and kale. You can even cut your own flowers at Katocta Mountain Orchard, fifteen minutes from Frederick and Thurmont, just off of Route 15. You can't miss it. Fresh fruit for better health I could talk about Mountain Orchard. Katock's in Mountain Orchard. Farm fresh for your family. Ashley Home Store's end-ed season clearance is the best time to buy. You'll find incredible price reductions on all Ashley furniture and top-made. Mattresses. Keep up to 75% off storewide. On hundreds of Ashley living rooms, bedrooms, and dining rooms. Furnish one room for your entire home. Find the Ashley Styles you love at clearance braces. Keep up to 75% off today. At America's number one Maine in furniture, Ashley Home Store, in Frederick and Hagerstown, Maryland. But talk-up mid, Maryland! Nine thirty W F M D. Frederick's forum on nine thirty WFMD continues. I'm Troy Skinner. Your financial editor, Chris Murray, talking with you next, about ten minutes or so from now, right after the upcoming newscast for an update on world and local events here on News Radio 930, WFMD and WFMD. Our phone number is 301-694-WFMD 301-694-9363. That will give you a chance to go on the air. You can also use that same number to Text us and I'll read your text on the air assuming you use appropriate language and all that. Uh I think this is Lisa. Is this Lisa? Yes, it is. Are you at the rally right now? Yes. Okay, so you're in the back to blue or is it called back to blue or we back the blue? What's it called? It's uh we back blue. Okay, so that's um, you know, nothing about any race or anything like that You know, not like Blue Lives Matter or Black Lives Matter. It's just we back blue. Alright, well I've been to the Blue Man show and so I don't know. That that could be yet another quote unquote race out there. I've seen those blue men. Yeah. Excuse me, was it a little bit more? Wow, she's there. This is happening. Yeah. So well um well what's been the the the the tone and the and the mood out there. The the mood is on very patriotic, very supportive of the uh police. We had several um stations set up where you could purchase um t-shirts, signs, um masks you know, all kinds of things. A food truck. Um, everybody was just just happy to be there to show their support for the police. and their patriotism. Now I'm curious, uh I mean it's hard to gauge sometimes just by looking at somebody, but generally speaking, what will be the age range or the or the predominance of the ages represented? Any younger people there is really what I'm asking Uh a I'm sorry, any younger people were I mean were people who were there, were they all pretty much like, you know, in their forties and fifties and older or were there some people in their twenties and thirties there? Uh I would say the age group uh maybe average like uh thirty and up. Okay, as young as thirty. All right. All right, so not quite anybody bring their kids? No, I don't think people are feel safe any longer in this country to bring their children to a peaceful s a peaceful just a peaceful thing that was done to just show the support for the police because they're being brutalized and uh none of our politicians are standing up for them. Yeah. Now Tim May called in earlier to s to say that when people were trying to speak, that others, the pro counter protesters I guess, were trying to use horns and things like that. But who were some of those that were speaking and what are some of the kinds of things they were saying? Um well the people who uh uh got up to speak were um the last one was delegate Neil Parrott, who's running for uh Congress in our district here And he reminded people of the constitution and of our rights and uh why we have the laws that we have and why they need to be enforced And um our sheriff got up and spoke and also um he is totally one hundred per hundred percent um not profiling and never has been and never will and neither do his officers. He did suggest that perhaps if you're pulled over by the police rather than resisting arrest that you cooperate and let let things play out in a court of law. Now I'm curious, did anybody there uh have any sort I mean, I know it's a different county, but it's right next door. It was in the news this week in Montgomery County apparently. The police there are now being told that they can't stop someone for questioning that fits the description of a a you know somebody who's committed a crime. So they put out a profile and say, there's somebody they look like this, they're wearing this color shirt, these color shoes, driving that kind of car And s a police officer sees somebody that fits that exact profile, they're not allowed to stop them without having some other cause for stopping them, which is crazy, in my opinion. Was there any talk about that in today? Uh no there there wasn't and um just the thought of that that's just one more action of trying the the hands of the police And, you know, even if they're not defunding that it's just another way of keeping the public um in in harm's way If they can't go after a criminal with with this uh um what they've been told, how how are they supposed to protect us? Yeah, so if you can't defund them, I guess you can try to defang them. I mean it's it's it's unbelievable. All right. They're the losers. Yeah. Well I appreciate the call, Lisa. Thanks for uh for for for checking in and letting us know what's going on. And it's still going on for like another hour, I think, right? Yeah, it's still ha it's still going on. All right, super. Thanks, Lisa. Okay. We have time. If you ha if you want to call real quickly, we could probably squeeze in one more call maybe at 301-694-WFMD, 301-694-9363. That story out of uh Montgomery County this week was nuts. Isn't that nuts? You're basically telling the police you can't do police work. That's so nuts. And it's right next door. And you know, Montgomery County I feel has a bit of a wrap from not always being the safest place. You know you go to their malls or some of their stores and Sometimes you feel like, hmm, is this the safest thing? And now something like this just reinforces that whole image, it seems to me, doesn't it? And speaking of things down south of us in other counties, do you hear I think it was the somebody in the health department in it was either Prince George's or Andorondo County, I forget ch w which one, but uh was was I got questioned by somebody in the media or something, and said that They could foresee the whole mask requirement and the the lockdowns and the shutdowns and restrictions on certain businesses and all that being in place for two more years Two more years. I can't believe it's gone on as many months as it has. How many is it? March, April, May, June, July. We're coming up on five months. Who would have thought that? So two year yeah, why not? If you can go five months, you can go you can go two years, right? It's crazy. And I could you know I'm being playful here uh with this last thing I'm gonna mention before we wrap up the show, but There's uh registration going on right now for She Week with the Frederick County Chamber of Commerce, the end of August. And that's fine. I I'm I have no issue with with this other than All right, so this is something that's gonna celebrate women in business and um you know encouraging resilience in women. I'm all for resilient women and they're they're calling twenty twenty the year of the woman. Okay, that's fine. I love women. My daughter's a woman. My wife's a woman. My mother's a woman. My sister's a woman. I have other f relatives and friends and neighbors that are women. I love women. Love it. Love it. Love it. And if they're resilient and they're successful in business, love it, love it, love it, love it. But some of the programs they're offering, and again, have no problem with any of these other than which I'll get to in a second They've got um Women's Equality Day and Women of Color, Stories of Resilience. And Here okay, here's here I'm gonna find I'm running out of time. So here's the deal. If we had a you're the man, would people be okay with that? If we had a uh women who are white, stories of resilience? Or how about men who are white, stories of resilience? Would that be celebrated? Is it okay to celebr is it okay to have a program like that? If if the Chamber of Commerce were to have a program like that and were to make the year of twenty twenty one the year of the man Could we all celebrate that? I would. I like men too. I like women. I like men. I want women to be successful in business. I want men to be successful in business I want women who have darker skin tones to be successful. I want men with darker skin tones to be successful. But I also want women with lighter skin tones to be successful and men with lighter skin tones to be Exeth So can we do it all? Can we celebrate it all? Or are we confined to only celebrating the the lives of these uh so-called minorities? And I say so-called because women are in the majority and they're not in the minority. So I understand there's a history of they couldn't vote and they they maybe had some disadvantages at some point in business. I'm not so sure that that's true anymore. I mean the percentage of women that go to college get a four year degree, start businesses, uh have success um is very high now. So anyway, I'm I'm kind of throwing that out there playfully, but to encourage some thoughtfulness and and thoughts about it as well. Well, I want to thank you for spending your lunch hour with me here on Frederick's Forum on WFMD. I think I might be back next week. We'll see if Frank lets me. Uh it's been my pleasure. Thanks so much for uh your calls today and get ready to call me next week at 301-694-WFND. Write down that number so you have it at the ready next week and visit us online as well. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com. News Radio 930. WFMD Frederick. A connoisseur media radio station.