Well good evening. Well president accounted for. For those who might not know, I'm Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ in Frederick and also They haven't kicked me off the air yet, so I'm still hosting the Faith Debate Radio program on News Radio 930 WFMD that airs on Sunday mornings. And I didn't think to look and see, but this is somewhere in the ballpark of 20 plus times now over the last ten, twelve years that I've had opportunity to come and lead the worship and share God's Word, people here at Fairview Chapel. So it's always a an honor and a privilege to do so and I would remind us that w when we come here, many of us probably had worship services we went to this morning. So this is ancillary and maybe secondary to that, and still we come to worship God. He calls us to worship Him with all of our lives in every moment of our life and this is a particular kind of a moment of us doing that corporately expressing that. So with an attitude of heartfelt felt worship for God. I will invite those who are able to stand as we sing our opening hymn. And I had initially had mentioned to folks it would be 469, but we're altering the tune. It's going to be hymn number 470, 470, stand up, stand up for Jesus. And the last year soldiers are going to be. And welcome for Justin Hall. We are first new. Oh may be seated. So usually somebody has been designated to share announcements or somebody on the spot realizes someone needs to and then they share some announcements. So either way, which person is going to do that today? I'm gonna give it a shot. Okay. I'm just looking over my camera a little bit. Appreciate you coming out and see. My time share with us. Uh next Sunday Gary White. bringing the word and the Sunday after that uh uh pastor Bray Pentrell will be here and I believe I was good right So yeah, that will be uh a panic solid again. Okay, very good. Yeah, you're going to be back toward the end of the format week. Yeah, so that and so that's unusual for me to actually have signed up on the uh online sign-up thing that far in advance, but Um, you know, for those who want to get their Bibles ready, the the message later on is going to be in from Ephesians chapter six. And earlier this year I was in invited to kind of kick off the weekend teaching at a spiritual warfare conference. You know, those conferences start on Friday night, they run all day Saturday and they end up on Sunday. And uh I was invited to participate in that and to have the opening teaching on that Friday night, and I was assigned Ephesians chapter six, verses ten through twenty, and they said you can go as long as you want, as long as you keep it under an hour And so I did, but we don't have that much time today, so you're going to get a bit of a truncated version of that. And to be honest, I can't It was a lot of work to try to squeeze everything that can be covered there. Each verse in Ephesians chapter 6, verses 10 through 20 could be its own sermon. So I had to work really fast to squeeze it into time allotted at the at the spiritual warfare conference. So I didn't want to do short shrifts. So I thought, well, I'm gonna have to break it maybe into two pieces. and to try to have those two pieces be somewhat within context, you know, s some close proximity, I thought, well, if I'm gonna be Sharing God's Word this week, when's the next earliest opportunity? It turns out it's a few weeks from now. I think four weeks maybe from now, something like that. I thought, okay, well let's do that. So um And boy, I don't know if it's a sign of spiritual warfare or not, but this is our third go at this. The first time I was supposed to share what I'm going to be sharing today, we got heated out The temperature was like 100 degrees, the feels like temperature was at 110, and um If you're going to die once you're dying on the battle of spiritual warfare, don't you dying of heath stroke in Fairview Chapel. So that got canceled. So Few weeks later, let's try again. I'll be darn, same thing happened again. And I was wondering if it might happen again today because it did get rather warm the middle of the afternoon today But it seems like it cooled off a bit, got a little bit of a gentle breeze coming through, so I think we can weather this heat storm as it were. So here we are. Well without further ado, let's let's uh let's have the the collection taken up to support the the ministry here at Fairview Chapel. I'm not sure who's ushering and handling that During this time, I also remember that everything that we're doing here collectively is an act of worship. Even our giving is an act of worship and obedience and faith. So like us to kind of meditate on that truth during this time. And uh after the flexion's taken up, we'll all stand the same the doxology. God knows whom all blessings blow. Praise him all creatures in the hold. Is him above the heavenly roads, with all the sun and holy coast. Father, we are humbled by how good you are to us So good that you give us opportunities like this to share back with you and the work of your kingdom. Just a small portion, a token really of what you bestowed upon us. We ask that you would bless those who are charged with handling these monies, that you would give them wisdom and discipline, that uh everything would be done to your honor and to your glory, and that uh the people here would feel the blessing of participating in the sharing of the work of the kingdom. Help us to clear our mind of clutter and distraction as we continue now to press forward in this time of corporate worship. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. All may be seated. So as is my habit in a gathering that's as intimate as this, I like the prayers of the people. That's what this portion of the worship gathering is called to more literally be the prayers of the people in a larger uh church setting, oftentimes one of the elders or somebody who's uh in leadership at the church has to representatively present the prayers of the people uh to God. But in a case like this, you know, we've got fewer than maybe twenty people or so. Everybody could pray in turn if they want. There's no pressure, there's no expectation that everybody will pray, but I will encourage you that if you're on the fence, understand there is a tremendous amount of blessing for others who hear the voice of God's people praying. So if you're not sure, think about maybe making yourself sure. If not, there's no judgment whatever. You can certainly pray silently and all that sort of thing. In this context, it's only a habit to ask Teresa if she wouldn't mind opening us. I know she's comfortable doing so, so I don't feel any undue pressure placed upon her to do that. And then after it feels to me like everybody who's going to pray aloud has, I will close us in prayer. Holy Spirit come. We are here in your presence, Lord. We just come to give you our adoration and praise. Because you are the king of the universe and we are your subject. So thank you for the privilege of coming into your presence. Lord, we uh we lift up all those who aren't here that um that we care for and love. So just be with them. Um I thank you for that wonderful celebration of Pastor Paul Letterman yesterday. He is here to share the chapel and he was adequately surprised for his birthday by him soon. Lord, and that's it's a beautiful afternoon. We just give you all the praise and glory Thank you, Holy Father, for being with us, Lord. Or gathering with us, Lord. I just ask you. to be with the shell that she's really having a hard time missing her husband pie. Um difficulty success And that she will see him again. And uh he was a son also just I eat the screen and you just follow. You're so young. As I know, Lord, and you just hold my father and I thank you for that, Lord. People please comfort you and little friends gather and any little issues gather around her and the home of that news for her I just I thank you for everything you do for me. Also I thank you Israel to War is going on as far as who wants to support and who doesn't want to support us all the place. That you are chosen people. Lord, I just ask you to protect them and be with them, Lord. And do what you know you're gonna do, and it's certainly in your work in order to just take it for your choice, for the promises. Just patient Thank you all for your prudence and mercy and for remaining We ask that you guys took the spirit for us. And we thank you, Lord Jesus, and thank you all in the spirit. And thank you, Heavenly Father. You give me praise, thanks, and acts, all in Jesus' most blessed name. Amen. Lord, I pray we pray that you will help us take care of this earth that you've given us. Please help us care for it and nurture it. Thank you for the abundance of crops that are here and please. Those places where they could use some more rain. It would be nice if we could help those crops grow and those people support them, their farms, and so forth. Pray for peace throughout the world, uh in all places. And uh we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Father, we humbly come before you in your throne Doing so with humility and yet with boldness that comes from knowing that we are welcome to seek your face in prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. That's what we do here now. Many of your people, those present, those scattered across the globe are are hurting. We pray that you by your spirit would bring them comfort. So many of us who bow the knee to Christ as our Lord and King still find so many things in this world that distract and confuse us We ask that you would clarify our thinking. Give us wisdom to navigate the difficult terrain that we find ourselves in this broken, fallen world. We ask that you would give us a boldness to proclaim the gospel to a lost and hurting world that needs to hear the truth. We ask that you would Convert the hearts of those in leadership, whether it be business interests or government interests, leaders in family, leaders in the church even. We have reason to be suspect that there are people with titles within your church that actually do not know Jesus Christ. We pray that we would change this, that we be witness to this, that we would gain great encouragement from this. And that we would make ourselves available to you to do good work in this Thank you, Lord, for loving us. Help us to love you back and to express your love for everyone in the world, all of our neighbors. And especially all of our brothers and sisters in Christ. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. Again, all who are able, if you would stand, we're going to sing our next hymn, which is 467, 467. True hearted, wholeheartedly. My grace will give you a being such to her two parties all the time. Well maybe see it in the pardon yeah Hung in there with the tie as long as I could. I don't know if I'll survive the sermon if I'm wearing my tie. And I'm heartened by the fact you didn't cheer at that. So again, today's message is in Ephesians chapter 6. So if you haven't already marked your Bibles, you might want to open it there so you can follow along. We'll be spending almost all of our time there. I'll be alluding to some other passages, but It'll be hopeful to you, I think, to be able to pay attention to some of the words I'm drawing special attention to in this passage in Ephesians chapter 6. To set the context of I mentioned I was invited to speak at a spiritual warfare conference, and the reason they felt motivated to have such a conference are the kinds of things I think that all of us kind of pick up on innately or intuitively as you watch what's going on in the world. Tyranny runs rampant. Certainly it runs rampant in places like China and North Korea and Iran. But other places too, even places in the West, even in this country, people could argue that there have been uh aspects and pockets of tyrannical behavior The economy is hard, and if you don't play by certain rules, you're not allowed to buy or sell, to use a biblical term of phrase. Some people feel that that's of a spiritual warfare thing that's going on. And the church has been anemic in its response to some of these sorts of things, particularly in this country, I've got to say, particularly in the Western world anyway, including our country, we have too many woke wolves who are leading our people. And by woke wolves I mean those who have embraced a what is called liberal theology, a liberation theology, an unbiblical theology. When I say liberal theology, that doesn't mean liberal politically, although there can sometimes be overlap. But the point is they're not taking the God, uh God's word as the truth. And so they inject their own ideas, their own opinions, and they run with those. There are too many people like that who are running the show in too many places. And so we have people in our churches who are confused. We have individuals in our churches who are confused. We have people so confused that they don't know if they're a man or a woman We have people so confused that they join in with the celebrations of things that God calls an abomination. We have lots of confusion that finds its root in spiritual warfare. Because the truth is under attack. God's people are under attack. God's word is under attack. And when we're not careful, we can fall prey to depression. It feels like it's impossible. We're never going to get anywhere in this. Maybe we should just quit, curl up in a ball, and call it a day And so many people, they they decide to self-medicate their depression in a variety of ways. Sometimes it's alcohol or drugs or things like that. Sometimes it's just trying to exit reality, entering into virtual reality, losing themselves in their phones, losing their themselves in their favorite movie series or television series, losing their themselves in things that just aren't real. We see this in a big way in in uh contemporary times with artificial intelligence, which by the way, in my opinion, isn't artificial because it's a man-made algorithm, it's computer programming, so it's not artificial. Nor is it intelligent. It's just an algorithm. It's a computer program that's running. So even that's not a real name for the virtual reality that we all are imbibing and and s too often surrendering to It's very confusing, isn't it? Now some people don't want to embrace all of that that I've talked about, so they decide to distract themselves with all the various bread and circuses that we have in the world today You see this a lot with the men in our culture who are all wrapped up in their brackets in March of March Madness or with their fantasy baseball teams during the summer or their football pools during the winter or who their favorite basketball team is going to set themselves up to draft. As the winter sports season comes to an end, we're living virtual lives. A team wins and we say, we won. We don't draw a paycheck from that team. We don't play for that team. We pay to wear their garb We live these virtual reality lives. And I've mentioned already when I mentioned liberal theology, it's not an overtly political thing. Politics plays in Cultural concerns play in, but I'm here tonight to talk with you about spiritual reality, spiritual warfare. So I'm talking about the demonic leftists and the pagans on the right. All of them. Maybe some of us. And if so, maybe my words will Brighten your eyes and you will repent and you will turn. At the very least, you'll have a better understanding and a clarity of what's happening around you, what's happening to your friends and neighbors, your your family members, your fellow churchgoers. How have they lost their way? Well, we have collectively, generally speaking, kind of lost our way because we're under attack and we have been ill-equipped to fight the battle. And that's what Ephesians chapter 6 is all about. Ephesians is a letter that was written by the Apostle Paul as a letter of encouragement to people like us, believe it or not. It was written almost 2,000 years ago and it was written to people like us It was specifically written to the congregation in the city of Ephesus, but it was originally intended to be a circular letter, so it was shared with the churches surrounding Ephesus. And by God's providence that has been preserved and it is shared with God's people to this day in our Holy Canon. So this is a message that was relevant way back then, and it's a message that is relevant to us right here and now. I said it's a letter that was written to people, a letter of encouragement to people like us How can I say that? 2,000 years ago they didn't have smartphones. They didn't have all the distractions I just talked about. There was no NFL or Major League Baseball or March Madness. None of that existed. So how are the people like us? Well In the way that matters most, there are people like us. They were people that were hated by the religious establishment. Remember the stories in the Bible about the Pharisees, the Sadducees, that sort of thing. These converts to following Christ were hated by these people. Paul was one of those people who hated them actually before his conversion. And then going on to write this letter. Back then, the church was infiltrated by false teachers. We know these stories about the Judaizers and others, for example, just like we have false teachers in our midst today. Back then the church was persecuted. Remember, Paul wrote this letter from prison, intimately acquainted with persecution. We have people persecuted in the world today. Even in America there's some pockets of persecution, but boy. Are you paying attention to what's going on in Nigeria? Have you heard the stories about Nigeria I am sad to report to you that probably right now, as these words are leaving my mouth, we have brothers and sisters in Christ in Nigeria that are watching their houses and businesses being burned down, their children being raped and mutilated. Their wives and husbands slaughtered before their eyes before they themselves are then beheaded. That's happening in Nigeria in droves right now. So if we want to think, oh persecution, that was back then, that doesn't happen today. Are you kidding me? It's worse today. You can make an argument that it's worse today. There's more people, so there's more people who do bad things to to other people than there were back then. But as we learn in uh Ecclesiastes, there's nothing new under the sun. What's old is what's new. It's like the old commercial for Jamaica back in the day. Remember? What's old is what's new? Anybody old enough to remember that commercial? And there was a society back then that was given over to sorcery of various kinds. You know this for a fact from Acts 19, verse 19. Just like today, too many of us are given over to sorcery, even those who would profess to be part of the church. How many of us in the church are doing particular yoga poses or checking our horoscope, all into astrology, or having our palms read, or playing with Ouija boards, or things like that. How many people who identify as Christians are doing those things We're given over to sorcery like they were given over to sorcery. Again, there's nothing new under the sun. Now the first half of this letter to Paul writes, you can kind of break it up into two halves. In the first half, Paul is mostly describing what is true for believers. And so one of those key points, the things that are true, is that God's people are chosen by God. That is true. And these chosen people of God are filled by the Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit indwells believers. That is true. And so we have a nearness to God. The Father calls his people near to him. He does this, accomplishes this through the Son, who willingly offers himself up and frees us of the curse of sin and death. These things are true. And Paul hammers these sorts of truths home in various ways through the first half of this letter. And then he transitions into the implications of what it is to live a spirit-controlled life in light of these truths. And what are some of these implications that Paul highlights for us? Well, he highlights for us that we have unity with Christ. So act like it. We don't have to try to get unity, we have it. We just have to walk in it. And we are to be committed not to our own ideas of what's right and wrong, not to have situational ethics Not, well, you do you, I'll do me. Not you have your truth, I have my truth. No, we are to be committed to the Lord's moral standards Paul really emphasizes this in the last half of the book of Ephesians. And as we live out this sort of spirit-controlled life, we are to make use of the various talents and gifts that God has given us. All of us have given different kinds of gifts and different scales. Some of us more gifted in one area than another, but all of us have a gift somewhere. Multiple gifts, actually. We're to putting them to use. And as we put them to use, we are to reject paganism in all its forms, and we are to embrace love, particularly in our families. Paul makes it a special point in Ephesians to talk about love for families. And I don't think if he were here today that Paul would disagree with me making this kind of an application. But just think about this we know unity in Christ that Paul emphasizes. Paul uses the phrase or phrases, in Christ, in Jesus Christ, in Christ Jesus, in him. Phrases like that, I forget the exact number. I used to know it off off the top of my head. It's well over a hundred times. I think it's close to two hundred times That is a major foundational piece of Paul's theology, which means it's a major foundational piece of our theology. It's a major foundational piece of the Bible, the New Testament message. And so if we're in union in union with Christ, well by extension we're in union with one another. We are born again. We're born into a new family. We're brothers and sisters. We are family. There's another dated reference for those who remember of the late 1970s. We are family. We are family, and Paul tells us we are to love our families. So we'd be busy about the work of loving one another. How are we doing on that? So we don't do so well because there's spiritual war that makes it hard. And that brings us now to chapter 6, verse 10. And I'm going to read each verse in turn. So I'm not going to read the entire passage that I'm covering today. I will, but one verse at a time. So verse 10, it says Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Be strong. It says in this translation. I'm reading the King James, by the way, today, but almost uh any translation you're reading is fine. That's going to say similar things Be strong, the King James says. Now, a more exacting translation of the Greek actually would probably be be strengthened. They mean kind of the same thing, right? But here's the reason I'm drawing attention to this. But if somebody tells you to be strong, you could misunderstand and think, oh, I need to be strong. I need to hit the weights. I need to go become a gym rat somewhere, become strong. If it is to be, it's up to me I need to do it by the force of my will, my inner strength, that spark with the divine I have within me, that horrible lie that we've all been said over the years. That's not what Paul's saying. We are to be strengthened. That's a better translation of the Greek in English. Be strengthened. Be strengthened how? Well it says be strengthened in the Lord You don't draw from your own strength, you don't have enough. You draw from his strength. Be strengthened in his might. And you do this, it says in the next verse, by putting on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. That wily devil, he's a tricky one He's a liar, he's an accuser. He's been around for a long time. You know what? It's sad that we would have to say this. We have to admit to ourselves. He knows God's word better than we do So he knows where our misapplications are, he knows where our misunderstandings are, he knows where our Achilles' heel is Most people probably know what I mean by Achilles' heel. Just in case, in the uh Greek pantheon of heroes and false gods. One of them was Achilles. He was a great warrior. He was indefeatable. Could not be beaten except he had this one little weakness. The back of one of his feet and his heel, and that ended up being his demise. If we only had one, we'd probably have multiple weaknesses. And Satan knows where each and every one is And he will target his attacks there. And so what do we do about this? Well, Paul tells us, put on the whole armor of God. The whole armor. Don't leave your keel exposed. Put on the whole armor. And as we're going to see, the armor is Christ. Every image, every aspect that Paul's going to talk about in this passage that describes what this armor is, is a picture of Jesus Christ. Put on Christ. He has taken your sin, your guilt, and put it on himself and has given you his record of righteousness. Put it on. That's your armor. That's your defense. Now, Paul here is drawing a metaphor. A bit of a mixed metaphor almost in some ways, but he's drawing a metaphor here largely from the garb that would have been seen worn by the Roman soldiers of the day And Paul is seeing it every day, right? He's under house arrest at the time. He's seeing Roman soldiers guarding him wearing armor, so it's top of mind. The people in Ephesus and the surrounding uh churches around Ephesus, they wouldn't be familiar with the Roman soldiers walking the streets and Telling of mind of fees and cues and that sort of thing. And so it was a familiar thing for him to talk about, so it's a relevant way for him to speak That's not the only way that he's drawn a metaphor, though. Some have it suggested that Paul is actually drawing part of his imagery here from the garb that was worn by the Levitical priesthood, particularly the high priest in serving the tabernacle. And you know, I think there is some uh truth to that. It's not an exact one-to-one correlation, so we can't press it too far. And the reason it's not an exact correlation is because there's different purposes The garb that was worn by the priest in the Old Testament is pointing to Jesus Christ as our high priest. What Paul's talking about here isn't Christ as our high priest, but Christ as our mighty warrior king. Who was leading us on the field of battle in the spiritual war? So he's making a different point, but he might be, I mean he's a student of the Old Testament, the Hebrew text. Paul knew them probably better than anybody back then. He was a great scholar maybe the greatest scholar on the planet, then and perhaps ever other than Christ. And so I think he might be borrowing something there. But I think if we want to look to the Old Testament, I think he's mostly drawing inspiration for this metaphor from the book of Isaiah. Particularly where we see in Isaiah chapter 11, verse 5, and also in chapter 59, verse 11, you don't have to turn it, you can turn there later if you want, but Those verses say, and righteousness shall be the girdle or the belt of his loins, and faithfulness the girdle or the belt of his reins. That's in Isaiah We put on righteousness as a breastplate and a helmet of salvation upon his head. And he put on the garments of vengeance for clothing and was clad with zeal and quote. I think this is probably the primary inspiration for this metaphor for Paul, and then he's playing upon the relevance of the Roman soldiers wearing the armor in their proximity. And then tying to the priesthood and their sort of thing. And I think he's also, you know, we there are there are cultural legends and folklore. We have them in our I don't know if they talked about that much. When I was a kid, it certainly was talked about, like Paul Bunyan and his big blue ox, things like that, right? They're mythical characters, but they're part of our folklore, they're part of our legends, they're part of our you know, our the the fabric of our society were the heroes. Well the Ephesians they had heroes kind of like that and they had stories and their stories were about these great mythical figures, these great warriors who were given these gifts of armor to put on. So I think Paul maybe is even alluding to that in a way to be hyper-relevant to everybody who would hear this letter read aloud or would read this letter themselves. uh or later on. Welcome to our uh later arrivals. It's a pleasure to have you join us. No, no, no. It's always it's always a pleasure. Um so he's being relevant. I don't want us to lose that point. I'm emphasizing this because a lot of times that's where it begins and ends. We have people who will teach the word and say, well, this is you talk about the Roman soldiers and their armor, and that armor is it's just it's just him being relevant And they use that as a way to tell preachers and teachers of the Bible that I think it's easy for it to be relevant. And we do. But that's not all. He's being relevant to a purpose. There's a reason he's being relevant. He's not being relevant just to be relevant. He's being relevant so that he can drive home this biblically informed spiritual lesson. That's what Paul is doing here. And uh and I and I want to Take just a quick aside here and I'm I've used the word metaphor a couple of times and I'm talking about these analogies, analogous relations to these folklore stories and the garb of the Romans and stuff I don't want you to misunderstand or somehow walk away confused. What we're reading here is literally true. Doesn't mean we read it woodenly. We don't take it woodenly true. We don't take it to be literalistically true. In other words, when we leave here tonight we shouldn't go find a second-hand store somewhere and all fight each other to get our hands on a uh a helmet. And a breastplate and walk around the city streets with a shield in one hand and a sword in another. Right? We we don't want to take it literalistically true. But there are spiritual truths we draw from this metaphor, and those spiritual truths are literally true. This is not mythology, this is God's word. It is true. And as I've emphasized, it is relevant to people in Ephesus all those years ago, and to us sitting in Bearview Chapel tonight. It is relevant to you Now this I keep talking about the soldiers because that is one of the key aspects that Paul's drawing from. And the Roman soldiers, they basically had six pieces to their armor And interestingly, Paul talks about six pieces to the armor. So I think he's making that kind of a correlation. And I think there's a lesson for us to learn from this because three of those six pieces of armor, the Roman soldiers, it was just part of their daily attire. It's just what they wore all the time. It was their going-to-work clothes. And then when a battle broke out or they had to go put down a rebellion of some sort or whatever, then they would take up and put on the other three pieces of armor. So think about that. In their day-to-day lives, they were wearing half of the armor, but when they were engaged in battle, they were wearing all of the armor. Which situation describes the Christian life? We are engaged in spiritual battle for every micro moment of our lives. So we're to have the whole armor of God on the whole time. We can't just have half of it on. We have to have all of it on None of us does this perfectly well, but this is what she aspire to do. Why? Well, because it tells us in verse 12, for we wrestle. Not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. So here we have Paul, he's describing the enemy. And we can note right away that these are powers that we cannot beat in our own strength. Right? I mean, seriously, get over yourself if you think you can. Because these are hosts, another way of saying that, hordes of wickedness. You are outnumbered. These are spiritual principalities and powers. They're invisible to the naked eye. You're bound by the things of the physical universe. They are not There are forces ruling this world's darkness, and they are ruling wicked heavenly realms. You and your own strength, your own mundane strength, they're no match for that. I've mentioned a couple of things about the Greek already. Here's another interesting point. Almost every single English translation, not just the King James, almost every single, I mean in fact I don't other than Bible translations that are so bad I would even call them translations. pretty much say the darkness of this world in this verse. And that stands out to me because when I prepare a message, I start in the Greek just to kind of see what it says. And the word world isn't there So what does that mean? Did the King James translators and all the other translators get it wrong? Oh no, I don't think so They made a choice, and I think it's a good choice, to make sure that English readers would understand the point that Paul is making. He Paul wants us to understand that this is a spiritual darkness that affects this world. It's not a somewhere out there thing. It is out there, but it's also here. It's affecting us in visceral kinds of ways. And he wants us to understand this. And why why can I say this by the way in case you're wondering, what what what would the translation be if you took out the world? It would simply say against the rulers of this present darkness. That would be a more exact translation of the Greek, by the way. But putting the word world in there drives home the point of what Paul's doing. How do I why do I think Paul's doing this? Let's read this again. We wrestle not against flesh and blood. That's who we're not wrestling against, right? Who are we wrestling against? We are wrestling against principalities, that's one. Against powers, that's two Against the rulers of the darkness of this world, that's three, and against spiritual wickedness in high places, that's four. There is a four-fold description of the enemy. Now it's not always the case, so don't get carried away with this. But look for these clues when you're reading the Bible. Very often, numbers or the number of times things are said Tells us something important. And the number four in the Bible, biblically speaking, is a number for the world. It draws our attention to the four directions. North, south, east, west, the four winds as they're called, the four corners of the world. So when you see fourfold descriptions or things that seem to be coming in fours Very often what's happening in God's words is driving home the point that this is a truth, this is a reality, this is something that's important for the world to understand. So I think that's Paul's point. And I think the English translators want to make sure we didn't miss it, so they put the word world in here to help us. Verse 13, wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and have done all So here we're reminded, like we were told in verse 11, to put on the whole armor of God. Again, here we're told, put on the whole armor of God. And note it says that take off the armor I think that's interesting. Right? Take it up. Because we don't supply our own armor. We don't already have it. We have to go get it. Go take it up. It belongs to somebody else. Go get the armor that they've given you So again, we don't pull ourselves up by our own bootstraps. If it is to be, it's up to me as garbage, spiritually speaking. Because we can't do it on ourselves. We need God to do it for us. We live in a world that for years, in this country particularly, that was defined by rugged individualism. Right, this strong silent type men. If you want it done right, do it yourself. Leave me alone, I got this. Right, that kind of an attitude That's begun to give way in in more recent years to a collective popul uh politicism, of collective populism, uh not just in America, but throughout the West. You saw it with the uh the election of Boris Johnson in the UK and the Brexit vote. That was a populist kind of a thing. And we see it in both political parties. The whole Bernie Sanders phenomenon is a populist political movement. The whole Donald Trump phenomenon on the right is a populist political movement. So collective populism has begun to replace and some would argue maybe it has already replaced the rugged individualism. But whether it's individualism or collectivism It's still about people. It's about me as an individual person. It's about us as a collective group of people. And if we think that we the people are going to do it, we are kidding ourselves. Now when it comes to spiritual matters, are you kidding? Have we been paying attention to what Paul's written already? So we need to take up the armor that's supplied to us because all of our strength, all of it, comes from God. Any strength that we think we have, we got from him. And why is that we take up this armor? Other than the need. But why do we have this need? What happens when we meet this need? We are able to withstand the evil day. And stand, it says again, for emphasis. It actually says stand one more time in verse 14. Whenever the Bible says things three times, that gets my attention. In fact, let's go there. Start of verse 14. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth and having on the breastplate of righteousness. So the the girt that's talking about the girdle or the belt It's equated with truth. Well, what's the truth? Here's a better question, actually. Who is the truth? Christ is the truth. He says I am the way, the truth, and the life. Christ is the truth. So we're going to put on The truth, we're to put on Christ. We're to gird up our loins in truth, we're to gird up our loins in Christ. And this is such an important thing. We need to understand. When we're girding ourselves up The truth is holding us. It's cinching us tight. It's cradling us. We're cradled in the truth. That's what protects us. You know, back in the day, what 2,000 years ago, it was common for men to wear long flowing robes So when they had to get placed in a hurry, if they had to run off a battle, something like that, they had to pull up their garments, they had to cinch it up, they had to girt up their loins. That's what the phrase means, so they wouldn't trip Satan, that wily devil that we've talked about, he's trying to trip us up. He's doing it with his lies. He's trying to confuse us. He's trying to make us lose sight of the way we're supposed to go. He's trying to get us to fall. And Paul is trying to get us to stand. And we do that by wrapping ourselves in the truth. Who again is Christ. The truth holds us. We wrap him as we stir ourselves in him. The breastplate is mentioned here in this verse. It of course is equated with righteousness. Well, this is like a really easy Sunday school answer. Who is our righteousness? Jesus Christ is our righteousness. So who's our breastplate? What's our breastplate? Jesus Christ. The whole armor is Christ. The Word. He's our righteousness in distinction from Satan, who is unrighteous in every way. He is completely unholy. Christ is holy. And you know what? We're a lot more like Satan, we'd like to admit We're made holy in Christ, but we still sin. We're mired in sins. Right? We're still working out our faith in fear and trembling. We stumble and fall too often because we're not girding ourselves up in the truth. We don't have our breastplate of righteousness. We have Christ out there fighting the fight for us. So this is a reminder of this verse that we must have truth in our words and we must have righteousness in our works. And if we do that, we're walking the light that follows after Christ. And your feet are to be shod with the preparation of the Gospel of Peace, it says, shod, that's talking about your shoes, putting on your shoes. So having your shoes on, that speaks to a readiness, a readiness to go, to be on the march, to share the gospel of peace. Well, who's the Prince of Peace? Christ. Jesus Christ. So we are to go, be ready, prepared at all times to go and share the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's what Paul is driving at. And those Roman soldiers, they wore shoes that were always having them ready for battle. A lot of the soldiers actually put nails through the in pro inner parts of their shoes they would stick out through the bottom to give them better grip on the rough terrain when they had to run off to battle or to give them a firmer foundation when they were engaged in battle so they they wouldn't lose their footing and and meet their untimely demise Right? They were always wearing these kinds of shoes. They were always ready for battle. Are we? Are your feet shod? Are you wearing the shoes that have you prepared to go share the truth of Christ? Well the world is in desperate need of it, are we? Do we go and share the good news? And some of us do. I try my darndest, but when I'm I honestly reflect upon my own life, I realize They don't do it as often I should. I don't know. I can't tell you how many times I'll walk out of a store or walk out of an interaction with somebody. I'm kicking myself, I have such an opportunity And I let it go. And it's not just about identifying the opportunity, but it's about creating the opportunity. Sometimes there was no obvious opportunity. I'm kicking myself that, man, I should have worked to create an opportunity And too often you get busy, distracted. Again, the devil, he's a tricky one. The last verse we're going to look at here is verse 16. Above all, taking the shield of faith wherewith ye shall Be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. So here the shield is equated with faith. Keep the faith. That's a common phrase you hear. Well, faith in what? Faith in faith? Right? No, it's faith in Christ. So our faith in Christ is our shield. And this is important. Faithful obedience isn't a live faith. A disobedient faith is a dead faith, which is no faith at all. So you demonstrate your faith by your obedience to God and His Word, remembering always that we don't, again, we don't Muster this up in our own strength. We don't create our own faith. It's a gift from God. God gives us the faith. We don't provide it, but we accept it. In other words, we we take it up And we put it on. We put on this godly armor of faith in Christ. And this is the last little tip word picture I'm going to give you. The shield, the word choice in the Greek, there's different words for different kinds of shields, and the word here is talking about a particular kind of a shield. It wasn't the little round one that might just be covering your forearm. This is the kind of shield that was like man-sized. It was many feet tall, like oblong, oval kind of shaped, was kind of heavy, and they would make it even heavier by dipping it in water And take it out of the battlefield. And they dipped it in water because when the enemy was firing all their fiery arrows at them, the man could duck down behind, his full body would be protected from the The onslaught of arrows, and when those arrows would hit the shield, the waterlogged wood would douse the flames. And that's what Christ does for us. He absorbs the blow that we deserve. He puts out the flamy darts that come our way from the enemy. It's a shame we have to kind of stop here, but you're getting the point. But hopefully this little cliffhanger will keep you wanting to come back for more in a few weeks and we'll finish up a look at this passage because there's more Just golden nuggets, great gems here. As I said earlier tonight, every verse could be a half hour sermon of its own. Really, really could. So let me close with a word of prayer. Father, we thank you for this truth and for preserving it for us all these years. We ask you would help us to apply it to our lives, that we would always be ready, that we would Depend not on our own strength, but depend on your strength alone. You are our sustenance, you are our strong tower, you are our all-in-all. Help us to live lives that exemplify this truth. Thank you for helping us to understand these truths better. Thank you for convicting those of us who needed a pricking of the heart to do better in these areas. You call us to great things, God, things we cannot do on our own. But you equip us to do those great things in your name. And we praise you for it in the name of our Lord, Savior, and Warrior, King Jesus Christ. Amen. All right, if you would, let's stand and sing once more. This time it's Hymn 109, Standing on the Promises. Four seventy four was requested, we'll do that one instead. Just listen to an old radio show and he would take requests and as he was playing the request he would He would play this recorded announcement where the recorded announcer galaxy presto requesto. So here we have a presto requesto. I go mighty already do so much of me or We are not gonna write. All in order, on the Christian school. God is willing, make no problem, I'm gonna permit We have runs so I just can't hold. Marching has been more home with a before. Oh, maybe seen it. Another letter written by the Apostle Paul is 1 Corinthians, and in the eleventh chapter of that book of the Bible we find these words. I received from the Lord what I also passed on to you. The Lord Jesus on the night he was betrayed took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same way, after supper he took the cup, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this whenever you drink it in remembrance. Of me. For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until He comes. Therefore, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of sinning against the body and blood of the Lord. A man ought to examine himself before he eats of the bread and drinks of the cup, for anyone who eats and drinks without recognizing the body of the Lord eats and drinks judgment on him. That is why many among you are weak and sick, and a number of you have fallen asleep. But if we judged ourselves we would not come under judgment When we are judged by the Lord, we are being disciplined so that we will not be condemned with the world. So a few things we said about what's happening now as we enter into our time of fellowship in a particular way, the Lord's Supper. This is a family meal. This is a meal for those who are followers of Christ. So if you have been baptized and are a faithful member of a church, then and you're You know, living a life that is becoming for a Christian and this is a a meal for you. But none of us does that perfectly. So what does that mean when Paul writes here about examining ourselves What is he saying? Because if we were to be honest with ourselves and we think about all our foibles, all our failings, none of us would be counted worthy to come forward. That's the whole point. That's the whole point of the sermon today. We don't come in our own strength. We don't come in our own ability. We don't come on the basis of our own record. become in Christ. That's what it means. Those who eat and drink without recognizing the body of the Lord eats and drinks judgment on himself. Are you dependent on Christ, the sacrifice of his body? Is that what merits your participation in this meal? If you recognize that truth, and again, if you have been baptized into that truth, if you are a member of a church that proclaims that truth, teaches that truth, holds accountable its members unto that truth. This meal is for you. Now, if there should happen to be somebody here this evening that is not a Christian, this meal is not for you, at least not today. Hopefully it will be someday. There are many interpretations and understandings of what this meal represents, but I think we can, all understandings would say at least this. What we are participating in together here and now is something particularly special. At the very least, there is a heightened spiritual reality to what's going on here. This is a serious moment, and we do this in remembrance, not just Tritely, oh, remember Jesus, remembering who Christ is, what Christ has done. So I want us to have that mindset, enter into that place and think about what's really happening here and now as those who are going to come forward do so. So I'm going to step around to the front here, I guess. I've done it the the words separate here differently every single time. I'm not sure what you guys are used to. But we are told that Christ said a prayer and then he asked them to take of the cup and the bread. So if you want to hold the cup for a moment So I'm going to do that and then those who are coming forward will come and take off a piece of the bread and uh I know the tension is the uh the the the mode of the supper here, so you'll take the bread and then dip it into the the line and go back to your seats and I would encourage you to pray or at least meditate upon the profundity of this moment. So problem here you get to Christ, let's pray Father Almighty, you love us so much. that you sent your son. To really life as a feeling of what a humbling thing that is. In that humble B and that's a number of conditions. Sentence to death. That button is like To those who are yours, my Lord we praise you and thank you that this truth applies to those who are the body of Christ as we partake By Christ. A reminder that we are in Christ. And Christ says in us. It's a beautiful picture you've given us. It's a beautiful reminder. It's a wonderful. Remembrance. We ask that you would help us to call these truths to mind and that those who recognize that we are not sufficient in ourselves but are only sufficient because we have Christ as our intercessors. saying that we are, with that on our hearts, that in our minds, that we bless those and participate in this same meal, in this special time of fellowship. That's the blessing upon representing body of Christ. Pass your blessing upon the cup representing the new covenant. Thank you, Lord. We praise you. If I see it this way. I don't know if you have memory. Uh we will leave over. Oh yeah, for that you I'm sorry, but you can say all these In the interest of time, because we're a little bit past schedule, we are going to have the Alleluia be our final song. So let me just give you a Word of encouragement as we're about to depart. These will be my final words in a formal setting. Do not talk to me afterwards, I certainly will talk more if you want. But I want to remind you, as I often do in a gathering like this, that When we exit that door over there, we are entering a mission field. Missions aren't always foreign missions. There's a mission field out there So be blessed as you go and share the good news with a broken, meaty, lost generation. May God bless you as well depart. If all who are able to stand, then we'll sing the closing aloe. Alleen Alléluia. Alleen Libya. Praise the Lord. It's the culture. We will start down on that