Good evening. For those who might not know, I'm Froy Skinner. I host a radio program called The Faith Debate that airs on WFMD on Sunday mornings. And I also bring to you greetings from Household of Faith in Christ, the church that I pastor. And Frederick, and it's my pleasure to be back for let's be part two of a message that started last time. If you weren't here a month ago when I did the first half We're going to do a very, very quick review of what we covered last time, so you'll be able to catch up pretty quickly. And it might be a good refresher for us anyway, because it's been a number of weeks. And if you want to bookmark your Bible down, be ready. When we get there, we're going to be looking at Ephesians chapter 6 particularly verses 10 through 20. And um we're gonna do the I'm gonna handle some announcement kind of things right now uh so I can save us we can keep more pace going uh later on uh as we uh work our way through the evening. Um we're gonna have our prayers of the people be the prayers of the people later. So uh the idea is for everybody who's comfortable praying aloud to do so. It's a real encouragement to hear the voices of others so when that time comes I'm going to ask Teresa if she would open this as my habit. And then I will close after it seems everybody who's going to pray aloud has. And we're going to be singing three hymns at least, I think. And Um I didn't clear these at first, so I'm not sure if everybody here is familiar with them. So we're gonna do our darnedest and we're gonna do it with a With a smile on our face and with gusto, right? And we're going to worship God whether we know what we're singing or not. We're going to make a joyful noise if that's what it comes to. The very first uh episode of Joyful Noise is going to be hymn number four five eight, four fifty-eight, in the uh Blue Hymnals in the Pews. Soldiers of Christ arise. And Mortal North you go, oh I'm going to Thank you for the brand. We know our name, no wages not control, and every worship every great bird. Amen. All may be Seated, thank you for helping us to uh open our time of worship. And I'm emphasizing we're opening our time of worship. The singing is part of the worship. But the singing isn't merely by itself the worship. Everything that we're doing during this time together is an act of worship. The report from whoever's handling the report on what's happening in the uh the Life of Fellowship Chapel. I'm not sure who's been designated with the announcements to talk about what's upcoming or important things for us to know and and things for us to keep in prayer perhaps. Hi everyone, thank you so much for coming forward. Appreciate it. Sorry to move the way to me. but that's it. Um I can tell you that next week is Ashley Darwin. Yeah. And she has given a For one of my Canada vocal students to present special music that night. So we're gonna have Lee Hamilton, who's a little 10-year-old who sings like an angel. Singing a couple great songs. Yeah. Soy and then we have Sasha The following week on the first week is going to be Patrick Sullivan. And on Sonia, it's going to be Gary Waits. And then Sarah Doris on October 27th. That's all I have. Okay. Well I know that uh what happens here at Fairview Chapel is mostly uh organized and and coordinated by, you know, uh a number of dedicated volunteers who make that happen, but there are hard costs to keeping uh this thing alive and going. And so at this point we're going to take up a a love offering. And again, everything we do here is an act of worship. So if you are able to contribute to what's going on here, you're doing so Um not so much for Fairview Chapel as you're doing it for God in the advance of the kingdom and as an act of worship to him. So whoever's gonna be in in charge of handling the usher responsibilities for that. Take that up when the when the uh offering is done being collected, we will then all who are able will we will stand and we will sing the doxology together. Praise God from whom all blessings go. Praise him all creatures. Hear me low. Praise him all. Father, we are humbled by how good you are to us. While you provide for us the means that far surpass what we need on a daily basis, even when we feel the struggle and the hurt, when prices go up and we wonder how we're going to make ends meet Uh help us be reminded that we have it so good compared to so many others in church history and so many others within your church Around the world. You are so good and we thank you for for moving in the lives and hearts of those who are contributing to the ministry here the Fairview Chapel, we ask that those who are in charge of stewarding these monies that they would do so with with wisdom and diligence and integrity and that um every single penny would be used to advance Advance the proclamation of the gospel and to bring glory to your name. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Well, if you uh all may be seated, this is the time for the prayers of the people that I alluded to not too many minutes ago. So if Teresa can get us started, and this is a chance not just to put prayer requests forward, although you can do that. It's also an opportunity to put forward praises to God as well. Come on, the spirit. We enjoy coming into this happening, being in your lips. And Lord, we know that when we invite you, you're always here, even before we ask. So thank you for being with us. Thank you for the privilege of sitting at your feet. And worshiping. Lord, we know that all through eternity we're going to be worshiping you. So pray that hallelujah. Yes, hallelujah. But I give you thanks for um what you're doing in the life of my youngest sister who was handicapped. Um we didn't think she would be coming home from the hospital. Well she's going to a nursing facility that she loaded onto her phone and added the blood and succeeding grace and just trust you um remain or what I do saying for like uh um And I understand that the adage along the body is just fading away. So Lord, I just pray that uh Um day here in the name to be blessed and thankful that he has chosen to be born again and let us know when he comes home and comes I'm here and great for that knowledge and teachers. Oh, you've written about it so many years, thousands of years ago To be at this time. It's just amazing that we chose us to be in this time. We're not status for protection There's the real life and same there, the Lord Jesus, attachment towards civilians, and all the way above the Lord Jesus. What a great, awesome sight they are in the eyes, and how difficult they are for these times. It's actually protection over the political things going on in this world right now, Florida, protection over Donald Trump and his life being threatened. Lord Jesus, and I just ask you to calm the rubber down, Lord. And we could just be a nation that has a choice, Lord. What we want down Jesus and that will control us. I just thank you, Lord Jesus, that you will choose the one that you Um great. Um space crawl bitter you want to show it to this study. Let's be strong and volume and correct and let other people know about you too and you Salvation that you have to actually discuss the chief thing, you know. Thanks for your third We ask Lord to spirit upon us. God is put the spirit with us. We pray, hold on those that were sick and infirm. We pray for our nation, Lord. But if you could turn your people around, you'd be here all the way up. Oh hey there's Stacey where you want to write it to Delta cushions Take care of Moses and the girls and real fuzzy person. Take care of Linda Best Miller and her husband and the disaster sheets. I actually have her watch over our children. Our grandchildren. And now We have a great band offer. And I think that's if I live long enough to be like Great grand. Well also Laura be with all the people that want to give them places to stay and food to eat and The holds that together, Lord Jesus. Bless the ones that were lost, Lord Jesus. Sorry. Father, we come before you seat you under your throne, acknowledging your greatness. We are humbled that you as our Creator would endeavor to hear our prayers. And we know that this is possible because we have our Savior and King Jesus Christ right now intercessing with and for us. And by His Spirit, even praying through us. We thank you that you conform and shape our lives by the prayers and that we can speak to you and then hear you speak back in your word. We thank you for the illumination that you give us as your people. We thank you for the confidence and assurance that the truth of your word can fill us with, and we ask your forgiveness for those Besetting sins of doubt and distrust. Help us, God, be reminded that you are sovereign, you are Almighty There is nothing that happens outside of your purview. You see all. There is no such thing as a secret sin. You see all When your people stand up and bravely do righteous good things It's far too rare that we do this at great risk for ourselves, but there are times when we do and we feel that no one even notices, but we know that you, God, are all seeing. You notice And you love us and you encourage us and you chastise us as your people, helping day by day to conform us to the image of Christ. And we praise you for it We pray for this confused, mixed-up, evil world. We pray for leaders and great positions of authority and worldly power. In our country at the federal, state, county, local levels, also world leaders, world business leaders, captains of industry So many of them shake their fists at you, God. We ask that you would do what only you can do, and that is to take the heart of stone and replace it with a heart of flesh. Convert them so they bow the knee to Christ. And they'll be part of us witnessing a fantastic revival all across the world. And help us be patient to trust in your timetable and your provision until that day arrives, according to your perfect plan, that your son returns. And all will be forever glorious for those that you call yours. Thank you, God. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Those who are able, let's stand and sing our next hymn of praise and worship. It's 455 this time, 455. So if you are still open to 458, it's only a couple of pages away. Uh faith is the victory. We're not in love, it's more the world, and we have the world like. Oh every hand of those reply, for rain, and the wee we left behind. And on the two days and devils and on each head with a little Maybe we'll not be over the cross over. Wait with the read, the whole thing is great not known and wrong. So as I mentioned at the outset, our The message today is in Ephesians chapter 6, verses 10 through 20 of what we're looking at. And I mentioned it uh last month when I was here. The occasion for me to pull my thoughts together to preach on this passage. uh came about because earlier this year uh there was a um a uh church conference, one of those three day things that starts on a Friday and goes through uh Sunday morning, early afternoon, that kind of a thing. And they have number of speakers that that share messages on a particular theme of the spiritual warfare conference. And I was asked actually to kick off the uh the teaching for that weekend uh with the Friday uh evening message and I was assigned the task of preaching on Ephesians chapter six verses ten through twenty and I'm so glad that I was because I've read it a million times, I've studied it through, but I've never actually taught it before. It forced me to to dive down deeper than I ever had before and I'm I'm uh I'm excited to share with you the fruits of of those studious labors I'm going to review what we covered last time because when I was invited to speak at the conference it said, you know, you can go as long as you want, but we're expecting you to go at least 45 minutes. You know, if you want to go longer, that's fine, but we're expecting you to go at least 45 minutes Well here you can't go at least 45 minutes unless we're going to go much later than everybody expects for us to be dismissed. So um I opened last time by pointing out how we all feel it in our bones that we live in uh a climate of spiritual war. The truth is under attack. God's people are under attack. People are shaking their fist at God in so many ways. We see it with uh with government policies, we see it with business practices, and sadly we see it even within the confines of the visible church. Uh it's it's uh it could be rather discouraging. And so Paul he writes a letter to people in a very similar situation, to people in the city of Ephesus and the surrounding area They knew what it was to be discouraged, to have evil surrounding them. And so this letter is to them, but by extension it's also to us. It's a letter that's been preserved for God's people. This is the inspired, inerrant, infallible word of God. And uh so we look at it and examine it and study it and press into it as an authoritative guide, not just for our faith and what we're to believe, but also practically how we are to live our lives. You're be obedient to what God's word says. And so here we are looking at this life of war and how to deal with it as explained in Ephesians chapter 6, verses 10 through 20. So the verses uh that we covered last time, I think we covered uh ten through maybe I don't know, sixteen, something like that, I can't remember fifteen, somewhere around there. Uh when we get there, I'll know So verse ten is finally my brethren be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. So here we're told to be strong, but not in of ourselves, be strong in the Lord in his might. And we do this by putting on the whole armor of God. And as we're going to see as we progress through this, that armor, it has different metaphors, different word pictures that Paul is drawing our attention to, but that armor is Christ. The whole point of this passage is Paul is reminding us that we are to clothe ourselves in Christ. We are to put on Christ. Remember, Christ, He took on our sin. He clothed himself in our sin and paid the penalty that's due to us at the cross, and in exchange he gives us his raiment He gives us his glorious perfect record, and we are to trust in that, not in anything that we do. And we do this so that we put on the whole armor of God, it says in verse 11, that we ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Our flesh is bad enough, right? Our our own sinful nature trips us up all too often. But it's not as simple as that. We've got an enemy who's on the march against us We're at war. He loves nothing more than to see us fall, at least temporarily. He loves to see us lose our assurance in God and his provision Verse 12, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness. in high places. So here Paul specifically is identifying who the enemy is and describing it uh who our enemy is and describing in a way that we can see that it's a it's an enemy that's active in the world I took a little aside last time to explain how we can know the Paul is telling us this isn't just a spiritual reality It's a mundane reality, it's an earthbound reality as well. These spiritual warfare things impact us in our real lives. This isn't just some sort of esoteric psychology kind of a thing. This is spiritual, but it's also physical. It's also terrestrial. It's very real, it's visceral. And he reminds us here in verse 13 or 12 rather just how true that is. Now verse 13, wherefore, because of this reality Take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all To stand. So we are to stand strong. We are to stand upon the firm foundation that is Christ. We're to put on the whole armor of God. We are not to expose our Achilles heel. We are to put on Christ completely and fully in all aspects, all areas of our life, every moment of our life. None of us does this perfectly, but we're being called to this, and the better we are at doing this The more success we have in progressing in our sanctification, that's a fancy way of saying we progress in our life of holiness out of gratitude for what Christ has done for us. Verse 14, stand there, and now we start to get into the uh the the metaphors, the images. Therefore having girt your loins About with the truth and having on the breastplate of righteousness. So GERT, that's not a word we use a whole lot in today's American uh lingo, but uh we do use the word still, I think, girdle Right? Well I think we can try to replace that with Spanx or something. But uh well so GERT, that's saying you you you put on your girdle, you girt yourself, you you cinch things up Right? What's the girdle do? The girdle holds you secure, it holds you tight, right? It keeps everything where it's supposed to be, kind of thing, right? Or where is at least where you want it to be, right? So we are to cinch things up, to girt ourselves about, and we are to do this with the truth. Well, who is the truth? Christ is the truth. So we are to be held in Christ And the breastplate of righteousness, again, who's our righteousness? Christ is our righteousness. Every single one of these metaphors is pointing us to the necessity of trusting in Jesus Christ. And then the next verse, and your feet are to be shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. This is about putting on your shoes, being ready. I don't know how many times my wife says, uh, oh, we're going to go to the store, are you ready? Oh wait, I've got to put on my shoes. If I wasn't ready. I want to put on my shoes, then I'm ready. Well as Christ's bride, we ought to have our shoes on all the time. We ought to be ready. What? For the preparation of the gospel of peace. We're to be ready to share the gospel. We are to be ready to live out the gospel. We're to be a light shining on a hill. We are not to hide our light under a basket. We are to be ready to give an answer to those who ask us for the reason we have hope. And we should live lives in such a way that they ask us that question I can't help but noticing you seem to have a lot of hope. In spite of everything that's going on. How is that possible? And when they ask you that question, you'd be ready to share the truth about the gospel of peace. And of course Jesus Christ is the Prince of Peace. He's the one who gives us peace. He's the one through whom we have peace with God. The next verse, verse sixteen. Above all taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts. of the wicked. And this was the last verse we looked at last time. The shield of faith. Faith in what? Faith in faith? I mean how many times keep the faith How vacuous? Keep the faith. Like in what? Some, if you ask them that, would say, well, you know, keep the faith in the universe. Keep the faith in that spark in the divine you have within you. To keep the faith that things the faith will just have everything work out the way they're supposed to. No no no we are to keep the faith, the faith that is in Christ. He is the Lord of our faith. He's the foundation of our faith. And so here, this shield of faith, Christ is our shield. We're going to take on now, this is the first new verse as far as me expositing it for you. Verse 17. And take the helmet of salvation. And the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. So here we see the helmet is equipped is e um the equivalent of salvation. At the risk of sounding like I'm leading a children's Sunday school class because every answer is always Christ. It's always Jesus. Whenever in doubt, somebody points to you in a Sunday school class or a Bible study When in doubt, say Jesus, you're probably gonna be right. So the helmet uh it equals salvation and the salvation is what who provides the salvation? Jesus Right? Christ, our salvation is Christ. As it's written in Psalm 140, verse 7, and also in 1 Thessalonians verse 5, verse 8. You have to turn there, so I'm just going to touch on them really quick. Those two verses say, O God the Lord, the strength of my salvation, thou hast covered my head in the day of battle. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. So Paul's not making up these images. He's borrowing images from all over the Bible. Lots of borrowing from ideas that we see throughout the Old Testament. And we see here specifically we were to guard our mind with this helmet of salvation, right? Just as the breastplate symbolized guarding our heart, we talked about that last month And the shield symbolized the guarding of our entire soul. We talked about that last month. Now, here this month, we see that this helmet is talking about guarding our mind. So let me ask you, what are you allowing to enter into your mind? How many perverse things are entering your mind? How many unhelpful things? Wasteful things, waste of time things that clutter your mind. They might not be overtly evil, but they're subversively evil. They're unhelpful They cause us to be more easily confused, more readily beguiled by the enemy. He's looking for every opportunity to trick you. Walking around like a lion, seeking to devour you when the opportunity presents itself. And we can be more alert. We can be More ready to deal with these assaults if we're ready in our mind if we protect our mind. It's not just protecting our mind by keeping the bad stuff out, but it's protecting our mind and building up our mind by letting the good stuff in, bringing the good stuff and actively pursuing the good stuff. And the good stuff is the Bible, which Jesus teaches us about. Who? Jesus. Jesus is the good stuff. Romans twelve two, it says, Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your bank account. By the renewing of your confidence in yourself, by the renewing of your trust in your fellow man, by the renewing of your faith that the government's going to get you out of this mess they created for you Oh I'm sorry. That's not what it says. By the renewing of your mind, which is done by the sword of the Spirit, the Word, right? The Word is the sword. And the Spirit is the Spirit of Christ. So again, it's about Christ. And Christ is the Word. So again, it's about Christ. This whole passage is about our dependence upon Jesus Christ. So don't get hyper-analytical about What does every little nuance mean? It can be helpful to help drive home the point in the various ways, in the various aspects of how Christ moves in our lives. But don't overcomplicate it Don't lose the force for the trees. Everything here is about Jesus and what he's doing in and for and through you The sword. Yes, it's the word, but it's interesting. You can't always see this. This is, you know I wish that we had a variety of words in English, like there are a variety of words in Greek for different nouns. Maybe you've heard I forget the exact number, but I heard years ago that Eskimos have like 170 words for snow or ice or something like that. I mean it's like an insane number We've got like may maybe half a dozen. I hope there's snow, there's slush, there's flurries, or I mean I could come up with a few more probably. But the Eskimos have dozens and dozens and dozens So sometimes you try to translate and there's only so far you can go because the English just doesn't have a equivalent for all those Eskimo words. Well in this case, English doesn't really have a really good translation for all the various Greek words for different kinds of swords, because there's different Greek words for different kinds of swords, and in this case it's a sword that's more like a machete. Uh in fact maybe English translators could go with machete here. I don't know, maybe that would be helpful. So this isn't one of those big long broad swords, you know, like the four, five, six long swords where they're fighting at a distance and they're big and heavy and they're So now these are short swords. Sometimes they almost look more like a knife. Like they might only be they might be six inches long. I've got cutting knives and my chopping knives in my kitchen longer than six inches And these kinds of knives that are described by this particular Greek word, they're really never longer than 12, 18 inches max. These are short kind of swords. Well I'm emphasizing this. Why does Paul use that word here? Is a better question. Because this kind of sword is designed for hand-to-hand combat It's when it's up close and personal, when you can feel the body heat of your opponent, when their spittle and their sweat spraze you as they swing their swords you. When you wound them, their blood gushes onto you. This is raw stuff. It's brutal kind of stuff. That's what spiritual war is. It's raw stuff very often. If you're really engaged in the fight, boy, you just you know just how true that is I knew somebody uh used to go to church with a in a former life almost it seems and uh I was leading a Bible study and uh we were going on talking about struggles Not just struggles that we're having now, but the big keystone struggles we had in our life. And this this uh woman, she was you know older. Uh at that point in her life, she was probably in her seventies, so she had lived some life And she couldn't identify a single struggle. And she claimed to be a Christian her whole life. And I'm like, you've been a Christian for over 70 years and you've never had a struggle one time ever I mean that's just some sort of you know odd God provision thing in her life specifically, although that doesn't seem to be what we would expect based on the teaching of Scripture Because we're to be in this hand-to-hand combat, up close and personal, fighting for the truth, fighting to defend God's honor. Fighting to work out our own salvation with fear and trembling. So we ask, are you in the fight? Yeah. Are you? Are you grappling up close and personal? Getting your hands dirty, willing to have your nose bloody, willing to have your heart ripped out of your chest? We are addicted to comfort in our culture. We like to fancy ourselves as those who are engaged in the fight, and we'll take the risk, but How many people do you know that will post on social media a really hot take, an important take, an important point to be made? A rather penetrating, insightful way of phrasing something that's memorable, that's wow That was a bold stroke, and it's an anonymous account. They're not going to take the risk that their reputation could be damaged, that they might lose their job. We do so many things. I'm not saying we want to be brazen and and reckless, but we are very addicted to our comfort. I know some people, and I'm guessing you do too, that do not gather together with the faithful on a regular basis, as God's word tells us we should Because it's an inconvenience and it interrupts their tailgating and their football viewing and their beer consuming, hanging out with the guys, or what have you Remember those old TV commercials from I don't know how many years ago it is now, thirty years ago probably, it was a beer commercial and they're sitting on the beach drinking this particular brand of beer saying This is as you know, this is as good as life gets or what was the slogan something? This you know this is this is this is the best life has to offer. This is as good as it gets. I think that was the line. This is as good as it gets And for them it is. It's as good as it gets. If that's the life we live, we're not Christians. If we're not taking a chance in hand-to-hand combat, we're hiding out at a safe distance, unwilling to take chances, then this life and those beers is as good as it gets. And that eternal future glory that awaits those who are faithful is something that will be foreign to people who make a God of their comfort. The next verse says, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. So here we're told to pray always. with all supplication. And we do this in the spirit of Christ. We do it with all perseverance. And we do this for all of the holy ones. We're all the saints, all the hagios. That's the Greek word there. It means holy ones. If you're a Christian, you're a saint Bible says so. I know different Christian faith traditions would quibble over that, but I'm a slave to the text. So the text says if you're a follower of Christ. If you're a member of his bride, you are, according to scripture, according to his word, you are a hagios, you are a saint, you're a holy one. And we already be praying. It says here, always, all supplication, all perseverance for all the holy ones, right? Which we do this in all situations. Boy, I'm guilty. I don't view this in all situations consistently. We are to be doing this in public And in private. Were we doing this in formal settings and in casual settings? Were we doing this when somebody invites us to pray and when it might cause an offense to pray? We're going to be doing this in the quiet times of our life. We're going to do this in the intense times of our life. We're going to be praying without ceasing. We're going to be in communion with God all of the time. We are to meet our fleshly foes with unceasing prayer. We have fleshly foes. Sometimes those fleshly foes are disease. Sometimes those fleshly foes are actual like adversaries, like other people who have it out for you. And we're to meet them with unceasing prayer. Because remember these earthbound foes They're mere tools in the hands of our spiritual foe. If your neighbor's mean to you, yeah your neighbor was mean to you and that's on them, but That neighbor was mean to you out of their own flesh and perhaps at the instigation of some sort of demonic influence. At the very least, perhaps under the influence of the world Leading them to think that it's okay to mistreat their neighbors because they, you know, trimmed the bush one inch over onto the wrong side of the property line or something. Who knows? To understand that the the spiritual is how is how it is heed this. That's what it would be in prayer. Even for the earthbound things, the terrestrial things everything that's happening in our life, you know um sometimes people say, oh that's not a theological question, that's a political question. That's a sociological question. That's a science question. I got news for you. Yes, there are science questions, but and there are technological questions and political questions and all that, but all of those different kinds of questions are subsumed under theology. Every question is a theological question. Everything, all of life is informed by our understanding of who God is and who God made us to be and what that means in our life. So we understand that the spiritual is in kind of an ultimate sense what is real. Tempted to say most real, but I'm I want to be careful because I don't want to say that it supersedes the material in a s in the sense that the material is then diminished somehow. Some false religions will tell you that the spiritual is all that matters and this life doesn't matter at all. And so you can be hedonistic. You can Get all the physical pleasure you want because this life doesn't matter. That's not what I'm saying. This life does matter. Emphatically, I want to emphasize that. But it's not merely that. I think that we're more prone in our culture today to focus on the physical and forget the spiritual. So that's why I'm emphasizing that point. The next verse says, Paul writes, And for me, talking about prayer here, can we pray for him that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel. So We notice here, by the way, in this section, verses 18 through 20, that the analogy of the armor kind of ended. He's not using these word pictures and these metaphors anymore But the same lesson continues, so it is part of the same passage, or as theologians would call it the same pericope. There's your uh there's your word of the day. You can look that up later. Um it's just a fancy word for a section, a standalone section uh of scripture that you that you can teach on It has a beginning and an end. It's it's it's a whole, uh it's a unit. Uh again, a fancy word for that is pericopy. It's fun to say. Um So there's the emphasis in this section now on this on this higher plane of of uh of God's war. And as I mentioned earlier, we don't get lost in the the six practical physical items that he mentions because the the this war is most tangibly spiritual, at least that's the point that Paul is making sure we understand anyway. And in spiritual terms, what's the most important thing? Even in worldly terms, but in a spiritual Yeah, Jesus and what Jesus brings. It's a spiritual war. Well, what's going on with this war? Because it's a clash of kingdoms. There's the gospel of the kingdom of God, the kingdom of heaven, and the kingdoms of this world. There's a clash. It's a clash of the gospel. Jesus promised to be a clash. He said that this message of the gospel would step brother against brother, sister against sister, father against son, right? It divides families. I've experienced this. Maybe you have too. And again, Paul is drawing a picture here of this armor that covers the entire person. And the armor, of course, again is Christ, so we clothe ourselves in him, as it says in Romans chapter 13, verse 14. Put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ. Put him on. And make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lusts thereof. Now some commentators on this passage, they will refer to the prayer that Paul is talking about here as the spear in the hands of Christians because they just want that analogy, that metaphor to continue. You know, we got the helmet, we got the shield, we got the sword. We need we need something for the prayer. I know. The prayer is the spear. And that's fine, I guess, as far as it goes, but Paul doesn't say it's the sphere, so we're going a little bit beyond what he's written here. I do think though that we can understand what he's doing here as he's pulling the whole argument together in this percope. That the prayer is kind of the all-in-all, the all-encompassing thing that pulls the rest of the outfit together. Right? Christ is the armor and we access Christ in prayer. We communicate with him in prayer and we listen back to him in his word. So prayer is kind of what holds this whole outfit together. There's a famous theologian from A couple hundred years back, he's quoted a lot, Matthew Henry, maybe you've heard the name. He said that prayer is what buckles on all of the other parts of the armor, and it does so in the name of Christ So that's an interesting uh word play there. And I want us to understand by the way, when we're talking about prayer, this isn't a now I laid me down to sleep or rubba dubdub, here comes the grub. Right? This this is militant prayer. 'Cause it's spiritual war. It's not a spiritual military exercise for practice. It's a lot of ammunition that's flying around. It's a spiritual war. And Christ, remember, I've emphasized this in some previous messages here. I don't know if you've been here for all of my messages, but there were several actually in a row where the theme was Jesus Christ is a warrior. He's a warrior king. And we're in Christ. So what is that and he's in us. So what does that mean? If he's a warrior, we're warriors. We're to be warriors. We're called to be warriors in Christ. And we can fight the fight with confidence, knowing that he is continually interceding for us. And then Paul continues here in the next verse. For which I am an ambassador in bonds, that therein I may speak boldly as I ought to speak. So again, he's still talking about the prayer here, and he's praying for s for himself. He's praying for something specific here. Note what he he does here. Paul is asking believers To pray for him. He's the Apostle Paul. He's the author of like half the New Testament. He needs our prayers? Yes, he does. And there are some things, some lessons that we can glean from this I don't care how high and mighty and lofty you you view somebody in your life, the pastor of your church or some minister or some godly person that's had a huge influence on you and you think they're I know we're all saints, but that person's they're a saint. They're truly saintly, like they're a saintly person. They need your prayers too. Are you praying for the leaders in your church? Yes. You're praying for your elders, deacons, or whatever uh bishop or whatever title your faith tradition uh assigns to to those and leaders. Are you praying for them? And like Paul, are we praying that God would call up some prayer warriors on our behalf? And are we going to other people and asking them to pray for us? Paul wasn't too proud to ask for prayer. If Paul wasn't too proud, we have no excuse to be too proud. Despite the fact that you're an ambassador. Right? You've got a mighty author. You're an ambassador for Christ's kingdom. You're an ambassador who is bound to Christ. We're a slave to Christ. And we have received the spirit of adoption. And in the Spirit, he enables us to pray. And I'm emphasizing the prayer thing here because prayer is hard. Yeah, I've been a pastor for a while now and I'm one of those involved pastors. I do a lot of pastoral counseling. and household visits and really pressed in to try to help people to to grow in their faith and their spiritual disciplines and You know, you develop a rapport with somebody and be comfortable being honest with you and at that moment you say, so now that we're being honest, where are your struggles? Where can I be of most help to you? How can I help you in your walk? And I'm hard pressed to think of a time that the first thing out of the mouth was, I struggled to pray. I wish I prayed more. I wish I prayed longer. I wish I prayed better. I'm praying and I'm falling asleep in the middle of my prayer. I'm I'm I'm praying and before I know it I'm like thirty eight seconds in and something enters my mind and I'm distracted and twenty minutes later I realize, wait a minute, how did I get off doing this? I was praying twenty minutes ago, what happened Prayer is hard. It is so so hard because we're under relentless attack in the spiritual war. And if you want to pray better, I don't know if anybody here who ever played sports or something, but if you want to get good out of it, you practice. Right? If you want to be good at anything, if you play an instrument, you practice it, if you want to be buff and have big muscles, you work out, you exercise, you're not going to get better at praying if you don't pray. We've got to have the discipline to work on praying, and we will get better and more competent and confident in doing so. as we do it more and more. And when we're praying, we're asking for prayer. I want to again remind us we need to focus where Paul focuses. Focus on prayers that you're saying to God and you're asking others to pray for you and say, would you please pray for me, that I would speak the truth. Have you ever asked anybody to pray that for you? My knees kind of bothered me. Could you pray that my knee would stop bothering me I'm afraid I'm gonna lose my job and you pray for my financial security. We pray for those sorts of things. Do you ever have you ever in your life prayed that somebody would please Please be on your knees, beseeching God on my behalf that I would boldly announce the truth of the kingdom of God. Calling the lost your repentance. I want to be better at that. So would you pray for me? So I can get better at that. And if they're praying for you, and they really are praying for you, they're probably going to check in with you. Hey I've been praying, how's it going? And then you have an accountability partner, and you can be iron sharpening iron. Because we're gonna be busy about the business of sharing the mystery of the gospel. Paul uses that phrase here, mystery, the the Greek word, very much like the English word, but it's so much more fun to say in the Greek. Mysterion. Isn't that fun? Mysterion. And what mysterion means, what mystery here means is it's something hear me on this, because there's a hopefully kind of a profound point on the tail end of this in about 45 seconds. Mysterion is a word for something that is impossible. Underline that four or five times. Impossible to work out. On your own. It's imp it's a mystery. It's impossible for you until God discloses it. And I am emphasizing that because I am emphatically calling us to share the good news, to preach to a lost generation. To teach them about who God is, who he made them to be, their need for him. If they're lost, don't beat them over the head with their sin. Talk to them about their Savior. If they've been found and they're in sin, beat them over the head with it. Grab them. Grab them by the neck of their baptism and pull them back to the faith that they have been immersed into But if they haven't been there yet, they're lost. They need a rescue operation. They don't need an accountability partner. They don't know what you're talking about. Why? Because it's a mystery to them. How many times have you been frustrated with somebody? I've shared the gospel with this person like 75 times. When is the penny going to drop? Why can't they get it? Why are they so stubborn? Why can't they see what I see? Because they can't. It's impossible until and unless God does a move in their life to disclose it to them. So don't be discouraged. You be obedient. You proclaim the truth. The results are up to God. We don't convert people. He does. We don't replace their stony hearts. With hearts that have the law of God written on them? God does that. But we do proclaim the truth. We do give an apology, a defense, in other words, for the faith. We do that. We don't back down in the public swear from opportunities to share this truth, but the results are up to God. I wanted to kind of, as we're beginning to approach the end here, to emphasize that so you don't lose your gumption, like, oh my gosh, I'm doing this and I'm seeing no fruit. There might be fruit you'll never see, and it's there. Yeah. You might share the truth with somebody and you'll never see them again and two weeks later they've been pondering on what you said and somebody else shares the truth and because you prepared the field, bang, they respond, you'll never know that they became a Christian and you were A huge part of the infinite of why that happens. So don't be discouraged. So here's some ending thoughts. I want us to remember and notice some of these things. I some of these are things we remember from a month ago, so you might not remember Satan's weapons are generally the opposite of what we have been given. We have these weapons in Ephesians 6 described for us, and Satan's weapons are diff are almost the polar opposite of this. Every way down the line. What Christ gives us, the Antichrist is the opposite of. But we should understand though that this enemy, he is uh he's stronger than us. That's why our armor is so important, because he's not stronger than Christ. We can't fight in our own strength. We will lose every single time. It's like those old uh uh eight nineteen eighties, nineteen nineties movies. They were kind of a thing back in the day. I don't know if they still make them really watching some movies anymore. Maybe they still make them But the theme with these movies was some some poor schmuck, you know, he's he's uh he he's gonna be in a situation where bad guys are gonna try to beat him up. And so he goes through some training to to be equipped to take on the challenge and then he feels good about it. But then somehow he ends up being blinded, right? They they they splash some sort of you know, soapy substance in his eyes and he can't see or he's been tied up, he's blindfolded and so he can't see. And now he's surrounded by like six bad guys, twelve bad guys, something like that. And at the climax of the movie, despite him not being able to see He's able through his training, all the you know, hundred minutes of the movie up until this point, the training has prepared him and now he he takes out all dozen guys. Right? Almost like intuitively he knows where they are. Bam, boom, bop! It's kind of like that with what Jesus does for us. He gives us the skills. And sometimes we don't realize we have them until we're in that moment. And we need to reach for that boom bop thing that I just did. And you don't know that it's there until you're in that moment. But if you're not careful, you're facing off against Satan blindfolded if you're not putting on the armor. And you haven't been prepared. You're not doing the exercise, right? You're not praying. So make sure you put on the entire armor of God, you need to wear Christ completely. So in other words, you need to take, you need to receive, you need to accept whatever word you like. You need to take all of this, what he gives us, and be trained up in using the armor. Remember when uh I was in the hospital a number of years back and I was only there for like a week, but during that week I was pretty sick and I was dead ridden the whole time. It was only a week Wow. And I was, you know, a young guy. I was relatively fit, you know. Wasn't like gonna win a Mr. Olympia contest or anything like that, but I was active. I did a lot of athletic endeavors and things and so I was, you know, I had some muscle mass. Again, I wasn't gonna like wow you with my biceps, but I was a strong physical specimen. And after a week of no exercise, being bedridden I finally had the strength after a week to get up and go to the bathroom and I looked at myself in the mirror and I was like, oh no, who is that? I looked emaciated. I got on the scale when I got home and I had lost like 20 pounds in a week. Wow. And I'm telling you, it was all muscle mass. So if you're not exercising the armor, you're not putting it on and wearing it daily, you will grow weak. And you'll reach for it, you'll think you've got it, and it's not there. You're in the battle every day. So be prepared every day. And the largest section of this passage that we're preaching on here, verses 10 through 20, the largest section is the section on prayer. That's on purpose. That's the most important thing. That's what makes everything else work, really. Works together, right? Famously, I maybe you've heard this, I've mentioned this to people and they well never heard that, but to me, I I've heard it so many times, well everybody knows this Abraham Lincoln once said that if he was given six hours to chop down a tree, he'd spend the first four hours sharpening the axe. You ever hear that? No, that's Our time of prayer is our time sharpening the axe. Our time spent in his word, hearing him speak back to us. That's our time sharpening the axe. So when we engage the enemy in that real battle, we can have a confidence, we can be encouraged. We can be further encouraged because we'll know from having studied his word That the war it ends. It's not forever, it ends. And here's this it ends in victory In fact, it's already over. Christ has already won. It is finished. It's just kind of playing it out. We're like in the mop-up operation right now. So with this sort of confidence, let's not be distracted by the turmoil of the waves around us. Let's not be looking at the waves. And let's not look inward to ourself. There's nothing super helpful in either of those places. We need to look to Christ, the one who has done it all, who has fully, sufficiently, completely done everything. And last word, don't retreat. This is almost a comment by implication, but there's no specific armor described in this passage. No specific armor described for our backside. So if you're going to try to run away, you might not really be protected. You're called to engage. To fight the good fight, to be a warrior with Christ. And that just means do your job. It means doing what you've been given to do, trusting him as you do it You've been given truth, who is Christ. You've been given righteousness, who is Christ, you've been given a readiness, which comes by Christ's Spirit. You've been given faith in Christ as a gift from God. You have salvation, you have scripture, you have prayer, you have so much. You have all you need. Because in short, you have Christ. He's the overcomer. He's all you need in the spiritual war. Let's pray. Father, you're so good to your people. We do not deserve it. We are frail in and of ourselves, but you have Called us to yourself, you have redeemed us, you are remaking us into the image of Christ. You created us initially as image-bearers But our sin has us being broken, and yet we are being conformed more and more to a life of righteousness as we stand in obedience upon the rock of our salvation. We ask that you would help us be mindful, ever mindful, to put on the whole armor. In other words, to be wholly dependent upon Christ, to have Christ on us in every aspect of our lives, every aspect of our being. But there's no area where we trust in self, there's no area where we trust in things of the world. There's no area where we we trust in to sneak by, get by That in all areas, every possible aspect we might even imagine that Christ is Lord and King over that. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Let's sing our next hymn, which is uh I'm gonna be a flashlight or something. Uh hymn number one oh four. I found the answer, one hundred four. I will be allowed. And I never do it, including my hair, on the wheel I feel as you are. Speak the Bible with you, we always cancel blessings and always structure. Pray, learn to keep the leading, and faith will keep you your content it will come. What should you have? How you pray to take a meeting? I found the side. Oh, thank you. That one. That's a good one. Okay, so this is the final Sunday of the month, which means that we celebrate the Lord's Supper together. I'm gonna read to you from Mark chapter 14 Beginning with verse twelve. On the first day of the feast of unleav unleavened bread, when it was customary to sacrifice the Passover lamb Jesus' disciples asked him, Where do you want us to go and make preparations for you to eat the Passover? So he sent two of his disciples telling them Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him. Say to the owner of the house he enters, the teacher asks, Where is my guest room? Where I may eat the Passover with my disciples, He will show you a large upper room furnished and ready. Make preparations for us there. The disciples left, went into the city, and found things just as Jesus had told them, so they prepared the passage. We're seeing here now the the setting, the context for the institution of the Lord's Supper Continuing now with verse 17, when the evening came, Jesus arrived with the twelve. And while they were reclining at the table eating, he said, I tell you the truth, one of you will betray me, one who is eating with me. They were saddened. And one by one they said to him, surely not I. It is one of the twelve, he replied, one who dips bread into the bowl with me. The Son of Man will go just as it is written about him, but woe to that man who betrays the Son of Man. It would be better for him if he had not been born. There are warnings given in the Bible about how to participate in the Lord's Supper, and I'm not going to get in all the intricate details of that, but we are to examine ourselves. And here's a point that's being made there When the Bible tells us we have to examine ourselves, we're to examine ourselves to see if the things that I just preached upon are true in our life. Am I trusting in Christ? If you come forward because you've decided you've examined yourself and I'm worthy of participating, that doesn't cut it. You're only worthy in Christ. And if you feel like, oh, I I'm not worthy, I'm just a measly little worm, I'm if anybody just could even know How true it is that I'm not worthy. You're missing the point. It's about your trust in Christ. So if you are a follower of Christ, if you are a Christian, if you've been baptized, if you're a member of a church If when you're in heaven somebody were to ask you, what are you doing here? you can say, I'm here because he told me I should be here. I'm not here because I deserve it, I'm here because he deserves it. I'm with him. I'm part of his entourage. That's why I'm here. If that's your understanding, as you examine what you're trusting in, then you are worthy to step forward. This is a family meal. And if you're part of the family, this meal is for you So now verse 22. While they were eating, Jesus took bread and he gave thanks, and he broke it, and he gave it to his disciples, saying, Take, this is my body. And then right after this, he continues saying, taking the cup, he gave thanks and offered it to them. And they all drank from it. And he said, This is the blood of the covenant which is poured out for many. He said that it might tell you the truth, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it anew in the kingdom of God And then they sang a hymn and they went out to the Mount of Olives. And so the the lesson here is that this is a picture and then some Of Christ and what He's done for us. This is a momentous thing. I don't want to overstate it, but I certainly don't want to understate it. This is a privilege. We are going to feast with Christ for all eternity. Yes. In glory. And this is a foretaste of that. And we are sustained by the bread of life. In every moment of our life. And this is a symbolic representation of that. And we've been worshiping God this whole time this evening. But hopefully you feel a heightened sense of what it is to worship God as you come together to the communion table to partake together in fellowship. Yes, really nice. So I'm going to step forward. I'm going to pray over these elements and then uh last time I think you helped, right? If you would mind helping with the the cup again. And then uh those who are participating come forward and uh Here things are done by the intinction methods. You're going to take a piece of the bread and you're going to or I'm going to hand you a piece of the bread and you're going to dip it into the uh the cup. Okay? Yep. that you give us in your word and through these these instituted practices, the sacraments. We thank you so much that you cared so much about the deep details. That we're called to, as often as we do these things, reminded who you are, who we are in you, what you've done for us, our our need Renewed to be in our lives. We thank the strength we can draw from times like this. We ask a blessing upon these elements. And Lord, I ask for blessing upon all of participate. A renewed people, we use night, a new condition for walking boldly for the name of Christ, trusting in you, because we're fed by you, we're nourished by you. We're provided for by all the uh picture and spiritual heightened sense happening right here, right now. Thank you, Lord. Everyone may be seated and um as much as I tried Madonna's shortened the message and you're really manual So if I'm making you target to get somewhere, I apologize. So um I have thought if in case I went short, I was gonna sneak another song in But I think we'll just end with the Alleluia and uh wish you well as you exit the building. So uh those who are able to see in the thing one more time As we all depart here to enter the mission field that surrounds us, I pray that you would call to mind the things that we focused on today, that you would put on always the full armor of God and be blessed in doing so. And be a blessing to your neighbors all around you. Go in peace. Amen. Thank you. Thank you.