Local free talk continues on the weekend with Frederick's Forum on 9 30 WFMB. Conversations with and about local newsmakers. Broadcasting live from the Fallacial Palace sitting atop Frederick's Grove Hill in the formerly free state of Maryland. I'm Troy Skinner, hosting this week's edition of Frederick's Forum. It's your chance to weigh in for all of your neighbors to hear on the most important things that are happening in and around Frederick. The number for doing that is 301 694-WFMD 301-694-9363. And if you can't speak on the air, you can use that same number. as the WFMB text line. Again, 301-694-9363. United States House of Representatives voted to remove Confederate statues from the U. S. Capitol and to replace the bust of favorite Frederick's son, former Chief Justice Roger B. Taney Who wrote the infamous Dred Scott decision? It replaced that bust with a bust of Thurgood Marshall, the first black member of the Supreme Court. The legislation, if it ends up passing muster with the Senate and gets the President's signature Would say goodbye to all statues of individuals who voluntarily served the Confederate States of America, quote unquote So goodbye, Charles V. Acock. Goodbye, John C. Calhoun. Goodbye, James P. Clark. We hardly knew thee. And goodbye to some others, too. Now this focus on the Dred Scott decision and Roger Taney This comes despite the fact that Dred Scott's very own great-great-granddaughter says that if it were up to her, the Justice Taney bust would stay right where it is. But that she'd add a bust of Dred Scott too, which that sounds reasonable. So if Dred Scott's own family isn't offended by the bust Why are the rest of us? Of course statues are coming down all over the place. Some voluntarily by votes by politicians like this example and some involuntarily by mobs, tearing them down and then even throwing them into rivers, spray painting them, you know, putting signs on them, what kicking them in the head so the statue can feel the strike to the head, whatever. I I don't want to spend a whole show necessarily on the monument issue, although if you have a take on it, I'd love to hear it. You can give me a call at 301-694-9363. But I've been thinking about this lately, as I'm sure many of us have. What if we just didn't have statues and monuments that bore the image of actual human beings? Could we live in that world? I think uh what if instead of having a statue uh to some sort some Confederate soldier, let's say, do we had a statue that was more of a of a marker, a head marker, you know, uh not a person's head, but like uh like a headstone at a at a cemetery. And on it you would have and it could be different shapes and some something that maybe captures the the the period in history or something that captures the geography or whatever and it's got a plaque attached that this is about this is a marker repres that represents loyalty and honor and defending family and uh advocating for one's faith or you know, whatever things. So we you know we have a statue of liberty. Now that happens to be the image of a person, but it's not an actual person. Right? There's no person out there whose first name was statue and last name was Liberty. Right? It's just it's a representative figure or you know, the idea of justice holding the scales uh or you know, justice being blind and having a blindfold around again that's a a that's a um an image of a person, but it's not an actual person. Could we live in that world? I think that I could, actually. And as you Might know I host the Faith Debate Show that airs on Sunday mornings, nine o'clock here on the same radio station every week. I've been doing it for about sixteen years. And so if you've heard me on that show, you know that I come at things from a Christian biblical worldview. And I gotta tell you, I can't think of an example from Scripture where there's an image of a person you know, put up as a monument where it ever goes well. I'm not saying that necessarily it would be wrong or s I just can't think of a positive example of having statues of people erected. in honor of that person and uh arguably making an idol, I guess, of that person and their legacy. So I think I could live in a world where the monuments were a little bit more nondescript. Maybe that would solve the problem? Probably not, but maybe it would help a little bit. Now related to this issue, Is the naming of the semi-pro football team that plays its home games at FedEx Field? The Washington Redskins. They're no longer to be called the Washington Redskins. The name absolutely positively had to be changed. It's far too offensive to utter the words Washington Redskins. And so bowing to pressure from the NFL and pressure from sponsors and pressure from other cultural influences, the team, it'll now be called the Federal City Redskins. That's right, isn't it? The name Washington so offensive, because George Washington You know, he owned slaves. So the word Washington had to be replaced by the words federal city. That's right. That must be right, no? So what are you saying? They're keeping the name Washington. Really? For how long? And that's surprising. I mean, given what I'm hearing from the culture these days. So what you're saying is the name Redskins is being dropped. Huh. Being replaced by the Ward's football team. Interesting. So even though many argue that that the intent of the name was originally meant as a term of endearment and honor to the people who were indigenous to this continent we now call North America, still have to change the name. Well, I guess we'll have to get used to the idea of sportscasters reporting that the Giants defeated the football team 27-17. Unless big and tall people complain about the word Giants, and then it'll be the New York football team playing the Federal City football team. And sportscasters will say things like, the football team defeated the football team 27-17. That'll be fun. Now when does Notre Dame give up on the fighting Irish moniker? Syracuse already gave up on the offensive orangeman in favor of the odd but gender-neutral Syracuse Orange. Do the white socks and red socks have to now be simply called the Sox? I mean white socks. It sounds so Privileged. Red Sox sounds so racist Aren't the USC Trojans appropriating someone else's culture? The Boston Celtics, too. And the Orlando Magic, they're clearly science deniers. Scientists don't believe in magic, so that name's gotta go. Washington Wizards, too, same reason. And the Frederick Keys. They're named after Francis Scott Key. That guy supported slavery, didn't he? That name's got to go. And it seems that the Miami hurricanes support global climate change. With a name like hurricanes, they must. So that's no good. And when is PETA going to start to speak up? Huh? Where are they? They've been derelict in their duty. Right? Where is PETA? Complaining about the Orioles, the Marlins. The lions, the tigers, the bears, the cubs, the falcons, and so forth. All the pro teams, the semi-pro teams, like the Redskins. The college teams, the high school teams, and don't forget the middle school teams and the community teams. They all need to drop their nicknames. Right now, drop them. I mean, I'm offended By any team, using any name that is an English word That's unfair. It's unfair to Spanish speakers. It's unfair to French speakers. It's all gotta go And if it doesn't, I know exactly where to drop some pallets of bricks and expedite ways to distribute cans of spray paint. Because that's how one improves society and stands up for goodness all around Now I poke fun because how else do we attempt to keep our sanity when so many others have clearly lost theirs? Now the name thing for the Redskins, it's a worthy discussion. You know, we can talk about that here on the show. Just give me a call, 301-694-WFMD, 301-694-9363. But you know, more important than the name, I would think, would be the Me Too problem that the team is having. I mean what is it? I think fifteen women now? Last I heard was fifteen? Have alleged sexual harassment by Redskins staff? That's not good. Who do the Redskins think they are? The Bill Clinton administration? Come on, man. If you're not America's first black president, abusing your power with a young impressionable intern and forcing yourself on women Leaving them with injuries by biting their lips. How dare you believe that you can do demeaning things with women? Unless you're an elected progressive democrat, you had better just keep your hands and your eyes and your you know, to yourself. What are you gonna wake up to these injustices? Gonna take our first time out for the show today and come back with uh actually I don't want to turn this into a sports show, but there's a lot of stuff that relates It's a cultural issue, and there's a lot of things in sports that you know the the kneeling controversy and Colin Kaepernick and all that. And I just want to have uh a bit of a little bit of a take on that uh and and see how it speaks to the the broader issue and how we're trying to deal with it here locally in Frederick. So if you want to jump on the line and Participate in this conversation, you are more than welcome. You are encouraged to do so. In fact, 301-694-WFMD 301-694 I'm Troy Skinner. This is Frederick's Forum on News Radio 930, WFMD and WFMD. com. Or not. Okay, maybe there's something broken? Did I do something wrong? Are we going commercial free? Hmm. All right. I'll keep talking, but I think that the sponsors of the show might not be entirely thrilled about that. Frank Mitchell, paging Frank Mitchell, if you happen to be around, you can tell me what I'm doing wrong and why we're not going to commercial. That could be most helpful right now. So for for the moment I'll continue, because what else am I going to do? And I mentioned um Tom Cabernet. So first let me let me frame this. You know where I'm coming from on these quote unquote race issues, and I don't like that word, which is why I put the word race in quote unquote. or I'll enunciate the word race or racist in a particular way to draw attention to the fact that I'm not really a fan of that word. Why is that? How many races are there? How many human races are there? There's just one human race. It's the human race. One human race. There are different ethnic groups. People with different cultural backgrounds, different uh family histories, that's all true, but all those differences Happen within the human race. It's as simple as that. So That is my context for this. And why do I say that? And I will say, again, I mentioned before that I do the faith debate show, and so I have that spiritual, biblical, Christian view, and so there there is language in in the Bible that talks about Christians spiritually being um a chosen race. So spiritually you could talk about there being some a different race, I suppose, but in the biological sense there is one race. And so that's how I approach these things. And so my thoughts when it comes to Colin Kaepernick and all that he's come to represent, they're centered on a the pursuit of an appropriate Biblical response for Christians like me on a large-scale issue like that. And normally I would be a little bit tentative to enter a situation where it could appear that I'm looking to relitigate an old story like the Colin Kaepernick story. But again, it's reared its head again with everything that we're seeing in our culture around us. Because a lot of people are centering on Kaepernick's individual example. And so I think it can be important for us to address it and apply it to our specific local context. Again, my motivation is to identify a path forward that is best, that is good, rooted in goodness. And my hope would be that you and anybody else who's hearing my voice would also hear my heart. Now before addressing what happened in any situation, it can be helpful to examine the context that leads to and surrounds what happened. And so here is some relevant context that I think Several years later now we've forgotten this context as it relates to Colin Kaepernick. And I'm using Kaepernick almost because he's become a p a poster child for the movement uh the the the cultural shift movement and the kneeling and the Black Lives Matter and the Equity Movement and all that sort of stuff. He's become a face for it. And there are other examples, but his is a pretty high profile one. So here's some context to remember about the Colin Kaepernick situation. The NFL made a marketing decision years ago to wrap itself in the American flag and to align itself with images of the American military. And I have to admit this always felt a bit too jingoistic for me, but there's no denying that there was effectiveness in this marketing effort over the years. I mean part of this wrapping oneself in the American flag practice included jet flyovers before games, televising the singing of the national anthem, and demonstrating a particular decorum retarding the American flag. Now to help protect this carefully crafted image, the NFL instituted rules governing the behavior of players and coaches. And right or wrong, this is what they did. And these were the rules that individuals were expected to follow or they would face consequences. Now I must say, I am not a fan ever of sports teams regulating freedom of speech this way. And I have consistently and publicly over the years maintained this stance. Um I disagreed with the the rules and apparently so did Colin Kaepernick and he decided it was worth facing the consequences of challenging these rules and by the strength of his convictions he pressed forward. You might not know this about me. Years ago, I used to host a a sports call-in show, you know, like twenty plus years ago. And back in the nineties There was a player. I used to be called Chris Jackson. He changed his name to Mahmoud Abdul Raouf. He played for the Denver Nuggets and he converted to Islam. That's why he changed his name. And he felt like he couldn't stand for uh the singing of the national anthem and put his hand over his heart for the American flag. So, um prices of con of conviction, of his conscience, he's he decided to sit, and then when that got noticed and people didn't like it, he decided to wait in the locker room. And the Nuggets fined him and the NBA went after him. It was a big outrage in sports talk radio back back in the day. Um and I took Mahmoud Abdul Roe's side in that. I said, if you want if he wants to stay in the locker room, he should be allowed to stay in the locker room. Why should he forced to stand for the national anthem if the if his conscience tells him otherwise? Now I know on a show like this, on a radio station like WFMD, I probably just got uh some people's uh their ire just raised a little bit. Anyway, back to Colin Kaepernick. So he made a decision based on his convictions, and in the end he paid the price for doing so, paid the price with his team, and paid the price with the league office. And he became viewed as a high profile media distraction if he signed on with another team. It's just the nature of the beast. And given the spotty performance of his play during the final couple of seasons that he did play, none of the general managers thought that it was worth it to bring this potential distraction to their team. And by the way, the sort of fear is also what made many teams reticent to sign Tim Tebow. Because he's a very public proc proclaimer of the gospel, a outspoken Christian, and that caused a distraction, and right or wrong, teams didn't want to deal with the distraction. Now these circumstances, they're unfair to these quarterbacks, you could argue, but it can make logical sense when it's looked at from a particular point of view. And so Tim Tebow, he went on went on to try his hand at baseball, where he still seeks a platform for talking about what's important to him. And Talon Kaepernick, he went over to Nike, where he still seeks a platform for talking about what's important to him. Now there in are intriguing commonalities in the stories of these two men, as well as some stark differences. You know, Tim Tebow, he causes a raucous for advocating very publicly for the gospel. Colin Kaepernick, he advocates very publicly for protections from what he deems inappropriate police actions for black communities. And there's a guy I'm going to talk about here in a moment named Grant Napier. You might not know that name. Oh, hold on. I've got to figure out how to make some noise. Hold on one second. I'm going to make some noise. Diana, could you uh call or close Frank and let him know that I have no way to get it on the work display and why? All right, pardon that timeout, but somebody walked through the hallway and they can call and figure out how to fix this technical problem or we're not gonna get any commercials played this hour, so I have to do that. I apologize for that pause and that what we call in the business dead air. But I mentioned Grant Napier, he got into trouble for uh advocating publicly that every single life matters. And I'm gonna talk about that in in just a minute. Now Tim Tebow advocating for the gospel and Colin Kaepernick advocating for what's important to him, and Grant Napier advocating for the importance of all individual human lives. Uh, that's something that's good, right? Now I would say it's unfortunate that Colin Kaepernick chose to advocate in a way that many were able to interpret differently if indeed he they misinterpreted him. You know, instead of speaking for something good, he's been viewed by many as speaking against something good, speaking against America itself. And that's not a good place to put yourself. Now he might have actually intended to do that, but Let's just say for the sake of argument, that's not what he's intending to do, then he didn't advocate his cause very well. And I said these same things at the time a few years ago, so this is not revisionist history on my part. I was saying years ago that Mr. Kaepernick would have advanced his cause more widely, more quickly if he'd chosen another means to draw attention to his cause. Because in today's televised and social media world, visuals are important. Kneeling during the anthem, or the flag waved in the background, that was a bad visual. This opened him up to criticism that he did not need to take. His intended message got swallowed up. And from that perspective, it was sad to see. Anyway, maybe I've said too much already, so I'm going to wrap up with just a couple of additional thoughts here. So and then hopefully we'll be able to go to a commercial break and get these sponsors taken care of. Colin Kaepernick advocated in a way that many saw not as advocacy but as a protest against America itself. Now some think America is worthy of protesting, okay. Some think America's worthy of honoring. Now, we can and do as people disagree about this. And regardless of who was right, who was wrong, it's noteworthy that Colin Kaepernick knew he was risking sanctioned for violating rules. If he had any reason to be initially unsure about this, he was given warnings to stop violating the rules. He was warned. So he knew that he'd get in trouble. And he did it anyway. And that's not meant as a criticism necessarily. Because again, I've mentioned it a couple times now today. I'm a Christian and our Lord and Savior knew that he would get in trouble with the worldly authorities. When he didn't say what he did, but he did it anyway because he had a higher calling. Now let's compare Colin Kaepernick, who knew he'd get in trouble, but did it anyway. To Grant Napier, who I mentioned a couple minutes ago. Grant Napier, he wasn't protesting anything. He was merely advocating for recognizing the value of each individual life Now, nobody should disagree with that sentiment, right? Every individual life matters. And further, Mr. Napier had no idea that he would be violating any rules For publicly valuing everyone's life. And in fairness, why should he have? It's preposterous that any such rule would ever exist. And yet such a rule has proven to exist. But Grant was given no warning about consequences for violating this supposed rule. He sent out one tweet so that everyone who follows him on Twitter would know that he values each of their lives. And the result is that he got fired from both of his jobs. He got fired by the NBA and he got fired by the radio station he works for, because Grant Napier is a play-by-play announcer or was for the Sacramento Kings and the host of a call-in radio show that focused on sports issues. He lost both of those jobs despite not intending to break any rules. Now what was his what was his crime? He got a tweet from a former NBA player because he's well connected with NBA players and they tweeted to him and said, Hey Grant, what's your take on BLM, the Black Lives Matters movement? And Grant responds back saying, hey, it's great to hear from you. Thanks for thinking a little old me, you know. And then he says, hey, about that BLM thing, all lives matter, every single one. And for that, he got fired from both of his jobs for breaking some rule that he didn't know exists. And to be honest, breaking some rule that should not exist. No one should be fired for saying all lives matter. Are you kidding me? Grant Napier was wronged. Now if Grant was wronged Our response can't be to say, well, that's okay because Colin Kaepernick was wrong too, and so two wrongs make a right there. Christians are called to stand for justice in each individual case. I would say Americans are too. We should believe that every human life is valuable. And if we do, then Grant Napier was treated unjustly, wasn't he? I hope we can at least agree about that. And support anyone who's moved to draw attention to the truth of the sanctity of human life, that all people have value. So I just saw Frank in the hallway. I don't know if he knows that uh we haven't been able to take a commercial break. We're now past time for having taken our second time out. So Frank if you can hear me, if you can help me figure out how to Get us to get our sponsors satisfied, that would be most appreciated. You can give me a call at 301-694-WFMD 301-694-93 63. You're listening to Frederick's Forum on Free Talk 930, WFMD and WFMD. com. Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMD, a service of Hunting Creek Outfitters in downtown Frederick, and Frederick Air, Bryant's National Dealer of the Year. It's Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMD. This is Frederick's Forum on Titakem in Maryland, 930. 30 WFMD and I believe that we're back on track now. The technical glitch has been solved. As simple as knowing which combination of buttons to put back in place, so somebody had accidentally pressed buttons that turned things off, and I didn't know where those buttons were. But I know now. See, life is a learning thing. We learned this together. You and I, we're closer now. We've forged a deeper bond because of our challenges in the first half of today's Frederick's Forum Show. Give me a call if you would like at 301 694 WFMD. 301-694-9363. That's also our text line number. So what have we been talking about? Well, we've been talking about the Uh the removal of statues and busts and the whole c you know controversy around that and sports team nicknames which is kind of related to those kinds of issues, the Roger B. Taney Bust, the House of Representatives in the United States wants to take that down. And of course, Rogers is one of the good old boys of Frederick, I guess, in in history, right? Used to live in in Frederick and was an elected official in in Frederick before becoming a a Chief Justice. And I I use the Colin Kaepernick case to kind of expand upon what's going on in in the sports world. We touched upon the um that semi football team semi pro football team that uh plays at FedEx Field, the formerly the the the football team formerly known as the Washington Redskins and uh they're taking a time out from that br from that name this coming year. They're gonna just be called the Washington football team. But they've got other issues going on with the sexual harassment accusations that are coming their way. And so it's interesting, it's predictable They've added somebody to their staff that's going to be part of their broadcast team and is a part of the management of the broadcasts for the team who's a woman. Not saying she's not deserving, but I just it it's not a coincidence, right, that she's a woman, that's predictable. He could see that one coming So if you want to jump in on these different symbols and whether they're appropriate, inappropriate, where they should come down or not come down and how how much ground we should seed, you're welcome to call 301-694-WFMD. One of the big issues has has to do with imagery and whether we should take it down or not take it down, be angered by it or support it, is the Confederate flag. Now, that's a piece of fabric, right? It's threads sewn together and a combination of colors that represent something symbolically. Well, a Kentiscarf, you know what that is. You might not know the word, but as soon as I describe it, you're gonna know what it is. Picture a few weeks back. Nancy Pelosi, Chuck Schumer, people like that were taking a knee in Washington, D. C. , wearing these brightly colored scarves around their neck. Well those brightly covered scarves are Kentus scarves. Now for the record, I do not own a Confederate flag. I never have owned one. I don't intend to own one. I don't own a Kentis scarf. Never have owned one. Don't intend to own one. I didn't grow up in the southern United States. I have no emotional feeling about Confederate flags one way or the other. I didn't grow up in Western Africa. And I have no emotional feeling about Kent's starves one way or the other. As an intellectual curiosity, You can't help but ask the question, how is it that one piece of fabric is counted offensive Especially when it's used as a political statement. And the other piece of fabric is counted appropriate. Especially when used as a political statement. Now I understand that Confederate flags were historically flown by people Involved in the slave trade, some of them anyway were. I also understand that many recognize it as a present-day symbol of pride in the culture of the southern United States And pride over defending states' rights. Well, similarly, I understand the Kentis scarves were historically worn by people involved in the slave trade. Yes, they were Western Africans, but it was to have a scarf like that was a symbol of wealth and position. And some of those people who were wealthy and in positions of power They sold fellow Africans into slavery. So I understand that to be true about the Kantascarves as well. But I also understand that Many recognize it as a present-day symbol of pride in the culture of Western Africa, and pride over ties to that particular region of the world that exists for some African Americans. Now I'm not suggesting either is offensive, nor am I suggesting that either is appropriate. I'm I'm merely grappling with why it is that they're not viewed the same way. If consistent, then both would be offensive, or both would be appropriate. I understand world we live in. Consistency consistency does not matter a lick. Because we now live in a postmodern world. But I'm not a postmodernist And actually I took, you know, some I thought it was, you know, fun, but you know, it was intended to be heat on social media a couple weeks ago and I was talking about postmodernism and what's driving Um in combination with postmodernism, what we're feeling in today's world, which is cultural Marxism And I find it interesting that people they don't like if people who subscribe to cultural Marxist ideologies and ideas don't like that being pointed out. It's bizarre to me. It's as if somebody came up to me and said, hey, Troy Skinner, you're you're one of those Bible-believing Christians, aren't you? Yeah, I'm not offended or upset by that at all. You have used an appropriate label that describes where I'm coming from, and I fully embrace it. And I tend to be conservative politically and conservative theologically and conservative economically and conservative socially and even in in many contexts, conservative in in my personality, I'm kind of a conservative guy. And if somebody wants to wag his finger and say, you're a conservative, yeah, I am. Now I think that the the language that we've given up over the years is it goes too far because what we now call conservatism used to be called liberalism But now if we want to make the distinction, we have to call it classical liberalism. And that's my worldview. And that worldview applies to international situation. In fact, it applies to metaphysical situations for that matter, probably. And it certainly applies to national issues and state issues and county issues and city issues and personal issues. My worldview Affects everything I think about everything. That's true for you too. Even if your ideology is a culturally Marxist one. And I don't mean that as a pejorative I mean it as a descriptor. I'm using the term academically, if you will. And it's important that we come to grips with this stuff because what is happening now, as we can see, if you listen to, read, watch the news, what is happening now? is different. It's different than anybody in America has had to deal with before in our lifetime. And this is because there's been a worldwide philosophical worldview shift of Titanic proportions. And it has happened so fast as far as it's picking up its its steam and its speed lately that our common discourse, our common conversations about these things, it's failed to keep up. With what exactly is happening. The language shifts and changes. In the terms of not so long ago, we're focused on distinguishing between classical liberalism, which now is conservatism, but there was something called liberalism, which we now call classical liberalism. that uh we have to distinguish from the modern left and from Marxism and from socialism and from communism and from progressivism and from feminism and so on. There's all these nuances. I mean, during our lifetimes, we have added to our vocabularies radical feminism, liberation theology, neo-Marxism. Climate change activism, identity politics, political correctness, LGBTQ plus rights, and social justice And then it it feels like seemingly overnight the world is on fire and disorder is the order of the day. Well what happened? You take most of those phrases and terms I just used 30 seconds ago and teleport yourself back in time 75 years and they wouldn't know what you're talking about. What we have to really worry about here is identity politics. What are you talking about? LGBTQ plus rights, that's what's important. What are you talking about? We've added that to our lexicon and we've gotten used to using it. We've gotten used to it because the air we breathe, the water within which we swim now, has become postmodernist. Cultural Marxism has happened. This historic philosophical worldview shift has been going mostly unnoticed by most of us. Most of our lives, and even in recent years, has it picked up momentum of having influence. But the shift has been a it's been a decades-long slip and slide. It has now turned into a full-on avalanche. And so a couple weeks ago when I was talking about this, I was I in one sense I suppose I was sounding the alarm in the sense that pay attention, learn what is happening in our world today We need to know what it is that's going on. We know how to how to label it and how to identify it and how to grapple with it. I said, was it two, three shows ago, about a leftist takeover in Frederick County. I wasn't talking about an impending takeover. I'm talking about there has been a takeover. The county council? Majority left. County executive? Left. The city's mayor. Left. The alderman? Left. All of them. School board? Left. All of them. Other than the sheriff, I mentioned this was last week or two weeks ago. He's like the one holdout in this avalanche locally. Now I'm gonna see if this break works and then I'll finish my thoughts on the other side. Well maybe I kind of finish this. I don't want to make the mistake of going to this break late. I made that mistake two weeks ago. I'm not making it again. So let's uh let's continue this conversation. You can jump in at 301-694-WFMD. 301-694. 9363. This is Frederick's Forum on Free Talk 930, WFMD and WFMD. com. Thirty, WFMD. This is Frederick's Forum On News Radio 930, WFMD online at WFMD. com. The home Monday through Friday of Glenn Beck from 9 till noon, Rush Limbaugh at noon to 3, and then Sean Hannity In the evening after Mid Airline Live, Sean Hannity's on from 6 to 9. All the big heavy hitter national talk show hosts. find their home right here on WFMD. So before we took a little pause to get all the sponsors and we're now fully caught up on all of that, thank goodness. And I want to thank Frank Mitchell for coming into the station on his day off to help take care of that technical glitch. I was taught how to use do this stuff, but you can't teach you you know every eventuality can't be taught and so you learn as you go, but Frank came in and fixed it, and he is my hero for the day. Gold star for Frank Mitchell. Even though he's on the left. See, I can say nice things about people on the left because I'm not using it as a pejorative, I'm using it as a descriptor. If you don't know, Frank Mitchell, he's one half of the duo that hosts Mid-Maryland Live here Monday through Friday. Tim May is the other half. Tim May represents pretty consistently a conservative point of view, and Frank Mitchell represents pretty consistently a progressive or a left view. But we have to understand the even these terms are tougher, and this is my point. We've entered a different environment and we have to get ourselves up to speed with what exactly it is we're dealing with. Because if have you noticed, certain members of the left, of the quote unquote the left, have become increasingly radicalized with little opposition from others who will happen to be on the mainstream quote unquote left And perhaps it's because many of the high-profile lefties were busy only examining the radicalized right. Such as skinheads and white supremacists and the alt-right and neo-fascists and so on. Well what's going on now is not your grandfather's traditionalist progressivist debate. Now, whether all people on the right and on the left realize it or not, everyone who is not a radical, everyone who believes that there is material reality and objective truth and everyone, even among the wild radical themselves in an odd twist, we all have a common enemy. And will do well to recognize and understand the movement of the new left, which has emerged from the activist left that is currently running roughshod over society. Now you've surely heard of wokeness, cancel culture, language policing, deplatforming, belonging to or being on the right side of history? And perhaps only recently have come to grips with what these terms and phrases mean. Well, have you heard of collectivism? Critical theory, critical race theory, radical liberationist, uh let me say that again, radical liberationist activism, post-structuralist theory, intersectionalism, Look them up. Don't let the dog eat your homework on this one. It feels nearly impossible to keep pace with the rapidity of forming factions and their labels and maintaining a firm grasp is immensely challenging because postmodernists embrace subjectivism and they proudly Reject reason. They wear it as a badge of honor. And we should know this about them so we know how to engage them. And not everybody who is on the left end of the spectrum is a radical leftist. But what's happened is all of culture has shifted to the left. And so what counts as a moderate position now, 30 years ago, would have been considered a left position, but now it's a moderate position because all of culture has shifted left and I'm arguing that that's not a good shift. It's not a healthy shift. And it's gathered so much moment momentum and the radicals have taken over so much of that momentum that they're driving us right over a cliff. And we need to know about that. Real quickly, last thing, here's a a survey out about what people are comfortable doing or not. Going out to eat. Most people not comfortable going out to eat because of coronavirus fears. It's interesting though. 34% of all Americans, say basically one out of three, say that they're comfortable going out to eat. Half of Republicans say they're comfortable. Only a fourth of Democrats. So twice as many Republicans as Democrats. It shows you how ideological this split really is. Who's comfortable going on vacation? Well, only four only twenty nine percent of Americans are comfortable taking a vacation this year. But forty-one percent of Republicans are and only eighteen percent of Democrats are. How about going to a shopping mall? Less than thirty percent of Americans say that they're comfortable doing that. But 36% of Republicans, 22% of Democrats. Consistently across the board, the Democrats are more afraid of what's going on than the Republicans. And in every case, both Republicans and Democrats, there are more people afraid than not afraid. Well, if this isn't proof that marketing works. Even if the marketing is propaganda, you hear the message often enough over and over and over and over again, even if you have reason to suspect whether it's true or not, you keep getting hammered on those messages and it will have its intended effect. And the people on the left, the the radical left, they want you afraid, cowering in fear, and most Democrats have followed suit And uh to a lesser extent, the Republicans have followed suit too. Not as bad, but we've got to wake up and not be so afraid. Let's take on the day. Till next week. Well I think I'll be sitting in again. Have a great week and God bless you. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com. Unit Radio 930. WFMD Frederick. A connoisseur media radio station.