Well, welcome Saints and those who are curious to our now Saturday evening session of the Household of Faith in Christ. As you'll notice, it's just me and Tyler and our dog Angel here today. Uh Angela's not able to make it today, and Dina is uh with family helping to celebrate. her brother's birthday this weekend and so it's just us. And that's good. Right? We can do a little more, maybe a little more informally. So where we've been going uh the last month or two as we've entered into a series on 1 John, the first epistle of John in the New Testament. We've done, I don't know, maybe six or seven Um this might be a this is either our sixth or our seventh sermon in the series. What we've covered so far is maybe why have your Bibles handy to this evening so you can can kind of follow along on some stuff. The first message we did in the series focused on 1 John chapter 1, verses 1 and 2, and the next message was verses 3 and 4. four and then we did um a message on verse six of chapter one and also through verse six of chapter two and we also did chapter two verses um 15, 16, and 17. And you can see right there is a little bit of hopscotching going on. Well last week we bridged part of the gap by covering for the most part first John chapter 1 verse 5 and now this week we're going to finish up by we began to focus on chapter 2 verses 7 through 14 last week. We're going to finish that up this week. And so by the time today is done, our series will have covered all of chapter one and the first half of chapter two all the way through verse seven. And so we'll kind of be back on track with that. And there's a reason why the pop scotch that way, but I'll address that in a future message. At the end of today, we're going to have not so much a discussion together, but I'm going to share with you some conversation starters, some questions that you can use yourself to have your own discussion. And also uh got some announcements about things different ways that you're able to keep in touch with what we're doing with this particular ministry and what we're doing in our lives, both me and uh Dina. There's lots of touch points out there and so I'll walk through that So um I'm not able to look at the comments and things immediately, but I'm gonna see if I can figure out towards the end before I wrap up to to to snag the phone. and see if there's any comments that I can interact with before I leave. So if you have a question or a comment or something, feel free to add it to Cable Bellow. Good job. Oh. Okay. At seven o'clock. So anyway, uh tonight's probably gonna end up being a little bit shorter than usual, which isn't a horrible thing because our goal with these has been always to be a right around an hour And we've drifted past now or a few times, hour five, hour ten. I think we went like an hour and twenty once. This one might be more, I'm gonna guess, in like the 45 minute range possibly. So we'll give you back a few of those minutes we stole from you previous weeks on Saturday nights. Well before that was Sunday nights. But again Saturday night six o'clock Eastern time. Eastern Standard time on the East Coast of the United States, that's the time we're going to be doing this regularly. So let me grab myself a little drink of water to wet my whistle. We'll have a word of prayer and then we'll jump in. Father, we thank you for bringing us together by the power of your spirit to be the body of Christ. Christ, to study your word, to be accountable to one another, to trust in your plan, to glorify your name, and to see To be busy about the work of advancing the kingdom, be useful to you in that regard. We ask your blessing upon our time this evening. Would you open our minds, our hearts, our ears? To have a deep, profound understanding, not only of what your word says, but what it means for us in our life. Help us, Lord, to be attentive. to eliminate distractions and to be focused on what it is you have to say to us tonight. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So last week when we started, this is the second half of really a two-part sermon. Uh that's in the title Living in Light with Love. I actually put that in the description here of the Facebook thing. So we covered the first half of this message last week and we're gonna do the last half. of the message this week. And so last week opened with the question, who loves your baby? And we talked about the need for love and the uh the desire to love even perhaps, but that we maybe don't do it as well as we might. And we didn't exercise together as a group where we uh we looked at each other and said we loved each other, that we that we wanted to uh make sure the other person that we were talking with that we were meeting with in our in our own homes or wherever you are viewing that they're special to us. Um and we wondered whether or not that was felt natural or forced, that sort of thing. Um and then we we read the passage from first John that the message is examining and actually I probably should do that again now. We read it last week, but in case you missed last week, let's read from God's Word right now. So this is 1 John chapter 1. Not to be confused with the Gospel of John. So the first epistle of John, chapter 1, verse 5. And after reading verse 5, we're going to jump into chapter 2 and pick up with verse 7 and read to verse 14. This is the message we have heard from him and declare to you. God is light. In him there is no darkness at all. Dear friends, I am not writing you a new command, but an old one, which you have had since the beginning. This old command is the message And yet I am writing you a new command. Its truth is seen in him and in you, because the darkness is passing, and the true light is already shining. Anyone who claims to be in the light but hates a brother Or sister is still in the darkness. Anyone who loves their brother and sister lives in the light, and there's nothing to make them stumble. But anyone who hates their brother or sister is in the darkness and walks around in the darkness. They do not know where they're going because the darkness has blinded them. I am writing to you, dear children, because your sins have been forgiven on account of his name. I am writing to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning I am writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, dear children, because you know the Father I write to you, fathers, because you know him who was from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you are strong. And the Word of God lives in you And you have overcome the evil one. This is the very word of God, infallible, inspired, inerrant, the perfect rule of guide for faith. So we talked about the theme that pops up in this passage, and John loves this theme in his gospel too. contrasting the light and the darkness. It's a big Apostle of John theme. So we're not surprised to find it here in this letter. And in making this Contrast, comparing and contrasting the light and the darkness in that context he tells us he's not giving us a new command, but an old one. So if it's an old command, where did he get the old Old Commandment. Well, we got it from the Old Testament. So last week we we examined well examined so much as we turned to and read aloud twelve different passages from the Old Testament, a dozen passages. And these passages help to give us an understanding of light, perspectives on light in comparison to the darkness, and that the light is good and it represents Holiness and righteousness and goodness and justice. And we talked about this in the context of love, which we sometimes think about as maybe being different. But we talked about the importance of not losing any of these truths. these things are true. God is love, but God is also just. And they're not balancing each other out even. They are Flip sides of the same coin. They're integrated together. You can't have the one without the other. We talked about throwing out the baby in the bathwater if you try to get rid of just one. God's just God's love, God's light, that holiness, it all works together, and it's what makes God God. We contrast this with our contemporary ideas of who God is. Sometimes we think of God Or I think I talked about it being last week of being a doting father, you know, and a and interested in our lives as a friend would be or as a a a helicopter parent who wants to make sure that our lives go perfectly well and that's not the biblical God. So we made that um um discovery for some was perhaps made that discovery last week, amplified that truth last week. But we wanted to make sure that we understood that God is love and he is mercy and kindness and gentleness and all All those sorts of things, and these are not at the expense of his justice, of his light. Getting back into the theme from first John So he is light because he is love, he is love because he is light. That was a key theme, a key moment. Now we can attempt to have unity in our world, and the world does try to do this all the time by living in the darkness, wallowing in the darkness, celebrating the darkness, and saying, Look To each his own, do what you want, you know, you do you, I'll do me, and let's not worry about the warts, and all that's just let's pretend the warts aren't there. We're all in this together. And that can feel for a time like there's some unity in that, but the reality is there are differences that remain hidden. And we can't grapple with those and we can't celebrate the good differences in that kind of a context. So better, the Bible, John here talks about shining a light on it, the light of truth, the light of holiness, to chase away those shadows in that darkness so we can see what's really there. And for the Christian, what's really there is someone who has been redeemed and is being transformed and it's a beautiful thing. We don't want to hide that. We want to shine a spotlight on it. And so we talked about that last week. week. And for the most part, most of our time was spent on 1 John chapter 1 verse 5 last week. But we also covered a good portion. you know, made a good beginning run at uh the portion of chapter two that we're going to finish up talking about uh today. Um we talked about already tonight, reiterating what we talked about last week that there's nothing new. It's n it's old, but yet there is something new, John says. And and what's new is Christ. So what's old is what's new. Uh what's old is being recast uh again. So in the old it's looking forward to the Christ that would come, to the Messiah that had yet to arrive and pay the penalty for But then at the cross, through the life and ministry of Jesus and his death on the cross, paying for our sin, now everything that John is writing here is looking back at that cross. And so instead of looking forward to what was to come, we're looking back at what has already come and what this means for us for all eternity. And so we're swinging back to then go forward again. And so in that sense it's new, but it's not brand new. It's a recap And we need to understand that the Old Testament God, the New Testament God, the one and same God, from all eternity to all eternity, one and the same God, unchanged And we alluded to that I think at least a little bit last week. And we talked about the tension of the light and the darkness. Once we are saved, we are justified. We enter into the cleaning up processes Sanctification process of believers and and we're still living in a broken world. But Christ has already come. He's entered that broken world. He's ruling as king now. What does that mean? So the old, the darkness What with Christ came to conquer and vanquish, that's passing away. And what's new is already here right now. But it's interesting that what's already here right now is here forever yet to be realized more fully over time and what it has replaced is still kind of fading away. It's it's passing in the world of the apostle John. It's still there. There's this overlap. This over, this already not yet, it's referred to oftentimes as the already not yet tension of the Bible. It's a recurring theme that you find as you read the scriptures. Um And then we talked about uh world famous theologian Diana Ross of the Supremes last week. uh a and used uh one of her songs to help us ask the question of do we know what we hope for? Do we know where we're going? Are we wandering in the white uh in the in the wilderness? Are we in the dark Are we blind? Are we happy? And for and if and if that's what our situation is, can we really be happy with what life is showing us? And so we find ourselves being distant With what life is showing us, perhaps it's because we're placing our hope in dissatisfying things. And everything short of God is going to ultimately end up being dissatisfied Satisfying, I don't care what it is. And so our hope, our ultimate hope, needs to be in Christ, needs to be in what God has done for us through Christ. And if that's not where we're We are and our our focus is on our jobs or our family or our health or our politics or whatever, we will maybe have momentary glimpses of happiness, but we will ultimately be disappointed And find life to be dissatisfied. So we need to remember to keep our focus and our hope in Christ. Because if your hope is in Christ, then we are saved from the spiritual death penalty that is due to us for our sin. The penalty has been paid by Christ, God's justice and grace, perfectly blended together at the cross Cross in a beautiful way, light and love together, which is where we ended last week's message. So we're going to pick up there with this idea about the light and the love together. So I opened last week with a question and we opened this week with a question. Are you walking in that love? This is a question John And you can't answer that question without answering the other question. Are you walking in that light? To say you're walking in one and not the other is not doable. Because again, they're integrated, they're together. Are you progressing in your sanctification, your walk towards increasing holiness? Are you working out your faith? Are you demonstrating your faith? by what you do, are you grabbing hold of Jesus and persevering and refusing to let go? Are you wrestling with him to know him better? Are you wrestling with him so that you can trust him more? Are you wrestling with him so that you can love him back? Acknowledging that he first loved you. Are you doing that? Are you? If you've answered yes, let me ask you this. Would your Christian neighbors who know you well, would they be able to honestly agree with you They will be able to honestly agree with you if they have felt you love them. Because remember And if you're if you're not remembering, then this is a lesson to learn and hang on to. And if you already know it, remember. Love is a verb. It's an action. Yes, love. put into motion. But love is net not merely some warm and fuzzy feel good make my heart go bitter pat sort of sensation of euphoria. Love is action Consider, for God so loved the world that he gave. He took action. He gave his one and only son that whosoever believes in him shall not perish but shall have eternal life. That's love in action And so what has then your behavior towards your Christian brother and sister? Your fellow believers, those who are on this walk with you, those who make up the Bible of Christ with you, the co-heirs of Christ, just like you. Are you talking about them behind their back? Because gossip's not loving. Are you mean-spirited sometimes in your rebuke of them? Well, you know, he reminds you of gentleness, that's a fruit of the spirit. Are you demanding Well, if so, what's happened to your patients? Are you unavailable to help? Unavailable to give, unavailable to serve. If so, then it sounds like maybe you're unavailable to love. Because again, love is something we do. It is helping, it is giving, it is serving. Now the Bible, it tells us how we are to behave. Tells us how we are to approach the lost people in the world, how to evangelize to them, how to witness to them. It does tell us us those things. But it also tells us how to behave in another regard. It tells us how to minister to the saved people of the world. To other followers of Christ. How are we behaving to one another? How are you behaving to other travelers of the way? Those washed clean by the blood of Christ, like you. How are you behaving towards them? Now if you don't know how to do these things, these things of service and love, if you or if you refuse to do these things, then you have to ask yourself And I, as a pastor, I'm charged with asking you, are you one of the lost people of the world? Or are you one of the saved people of the world? If you're one of the saved people, well then we can take a peek inside of the apostles of John's heart for you. Inside of God's heart for you. So let's look and see in 1 John chapter 2. Verses 12 through 14, here we find a beautiful personal moment in this letter. So personal, so tender, so loving, so caring. It's poetry, it's poetic. And if you're reading in your Bible, you're going to notice it's structured differently, it's laid out, it's formatted differently, because this is this is pure poetry. I am writing to you. Do your children children, because your sins have been forgiven on account of his name. I am writing to you, fathers Because you know him who is from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, dear children, because you know the Father. I write to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you are strong. And the Word of God lives in you. And you Have overcome the evil one. We talked about this last week, and I mention it here because he's using masculine words here about you know the the the fathers and that sort of thing. This is for all yeah this is for the women too to be paying attention. God's word is for all of us here. So I I I don't have time for uh excursus on why the masculine is important to retain, but just know that it is important to retain it and yet it's still meant for you if you uh are of the are of the female Now in this passage we just read, these three verses, there are different ways that people might understand what it is that uh John has In view as his audience for this passage. There's actually been some debate over the years in different circles. Who's his audience? Well, he might be actually writing to you know some physically old Christians Along with younger Christians and kids who are Christians, chronological age differences. That's possible. He might be writing also to spiritually mature Christians So it's not about their physical, biological age, but their spiritual maturity. So the spiritually mature Christian, and then those who are maybe not quite so spiritually mature in their walk And those even who are maybe baby Christians, as some like to call them. Well, whoever he might be writing to I'm not going to enter into the debate on that. It doesn't really matter that much. I have an opinion. I'm leaning a little bit more heavily on the spiritual side, but it doesn't really matter. Because whoever he might be writing to It's very clear. John is talking to Christians. If you call yourself a follower of Jesus Christ He is writing to you. These words they are for you and for me. But the question is: are we listening? These are words for us. But is our attention arrested? Are we locked in? Are we gripped by what is said to us about us? How profound is that? These are words to us, about us. Are we paying attention? If you're in Christ, if if you love Christ's bride, the members of his church, that is Christ's If you demonstrate this love for Christ by loving his chosen people, if that's true for you, then please be reminded It's important that you hear this, remind yourself of this every day, believer, Christian, brother, sister, fellow saints, hear me. You are a child of God. He is your father. And as you grow in your relationship with him, you will increasingly know what you already knew from the beginning of your sanctification. process from the moment of your justification. You knew it then and you can continue to know it from the moment you knew you were a sinner And you knew that you deserved eternal punishment, who deserved only the experience of the unfavorable presence of God in hell And you knew that because you knew you were lost, with no hope at all in yourself, no hope in anything at all that you could do. Helpless and hopeless. No hope in anything that you could To rescue you from that of God's purity that we've been talking about, his holiness, his righteousness, which all require his justice, all requiring that restitution be paid. You have to be paid before you can be free from the from that heavy burden of the debt that you owe. From that moment that you recognized that horrible and depraved truth about yourself, The truth that even when you tried to do good or thought you were trying to do good, if you really self-examined, you'd realize that it was motivated by trying to look good to others. or uh building up a reputation for yourself or seeking to prop up your self-image, seeking to get some sort of a selfish gain Now you might not have understood it to be true before this moment when everything hit you like a ton of bricks, but you knew it then. You knew it then. And so you threw yourself at the foot of the cross and at the feet of your Lord and Savior. You came to realize your need for the forgiveness that you you had on your life. The need for forgiveness for for the lies, for the cheating. For the gluttony? For the the inward focus of your thoughts, for those sarcastic, biting, cutting words that you too often utter towards other? For disrespecting your parents or your your or your um the leadership of where you work, for dishonoring maybe the sanctity of your marriage bed. You need forgiveness for this things for ignoring the truth and for sometimes working hard even to spread falsehoods But to really need to get honest stock of ourselves and recognize the depth of our depravity, the height of our arrogance, and the pain we have caused, the pain we were in Pain. Real pain. Honest to goodness pain. Pain for our sin. The pain of our sin. And we recognized. Either in a distinct conversion moment or gradually over time we came to recognize We needed healing and Jesus the Messiah. He came to heal us and he offered us that gift. And then he gave us the strength to open It. We don't have the ability or the strength even to open it. He gives that to us too, on top of having given us the gift. And so we who walk in the way. And the truth and the life. We know who we were. And we know who we now are. That's the beauty of the gospel. Once we were leches, once we were wretches, once we were blind, once we were lost, but we've been found. We've been given eyes to see. We have been redeemed, we have been forgiven. Holy cow What a holy God. What an amazing thing. What is it we've been given? Do we understand? At what cost? Do we comprehend? It's free to us, but at immense cost, an immense price paid. Paid. Fully, completely, forever, by the blood of Jesus of Nazareth, the blood of the God-man himself And because we know all of this, and because John the Apostle, he knows we know all of this, but because he also knows we might tend to forget He reminds us, we have known from the beginning of our faith that God has forgiven us. on account of his own provision. In the name of Jesus. All those horrible things are rattled through, all of them. Those those were true. But they're no longer true for us. We have overcome the evil one. That's what John says we have overcome The evil one, because we are in Christ and He has defeated the evil one. The Son has won for us. What we could not win for ourselves. And so now we know the Father. Abba, Father, our Father, who art in heaven. We know him, and so we are strong. We are strong. Because the Lord lives in us, he dwells in us. The Holy Spirit dwells within the heart of the believer. Your body is God's Temple. If you're a believer in Christ. Are you a believer? Well then you have overcome the evil one. And so now we're charged with acting like it. Act like who you are. We can't simply say we follow Christ. We need to actually follow Christ. If any of us does not follow the way, then we are not, in fact, following the narrow path of truth that leads to life. And if we're not, in fact, following, but merely saying that we are And we're lying. We are lying to ourselves. We're lying to the world. We're lying to God. And it is better to be poor than a liar. If you've got an NIV Bible, then that's that's a quote from Proverbs chapter 19, verse 22. I say NIV because different English translations translate the Hebrew there slightly differently. But the full verse, the NIV, it reads, When a man desires what a man desires is unfailing love. Better to be poor than a lot. What a man desires is unfailing love. Love that Never fails. Love that is unflagging. Love that goes on and on and on. You know, last week the representative Let's reference a song by Dana Ross. Well this week, let's reference a song by George Strait. He says in his song, Let Me Tell You a Secret about a Father's Love. You see, daddies, they don't love their children every now and then. It's a love without end. And Amen. Now that might not be true for our worldly fathers. There are a lot of failed daddies in the world. But it is true of our heavenly daddies. With him it is a love without end. Amen. That's what God gives you. And that's therefore what he tells you to give as an ambassador of his and as someone bearing his image. And this This is especially true for those who are your brothers and sisters in Christ. They're family. And if we fail to love each other, as a family is called who love each other. Well then we we might as well admit that we hate each other. I mean seriously Matthew chapter twelve Verse 30, Jesus says that whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters. So? Are you with him? Are you with him in this? We're told to love one another. We're told the world will know us by our love for one another. In John's Gospel, not to be confused with his epistles. But in John's gospel account, chapter 13, verse 35, Jesus says there, by this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you love one another. So practically speaking, what can you do to love others better than you're currently loving them? And you should take some time to think about this, maybe not in this immediate moment. But take some time and really think about this. Think in specific terms about this. Be as specific as you can. What can you do to love a specific individual better. Identify what you specifically can do for that specific person and then commit to doing it for that person. And then consider that same person again and ask yourself, okay, how can I love that person again, specifically? And then commit to doing that. And then consider how you can act lovingly towards a second person. And then you repeat that commitment, get it done process And after you've done it for one or two people, do it for a third person. And then a fourth. And then you repeat, rinse, repeat, like the old television commercials for shampoo. Now for you, maybe that first act of love, possible, it's going to be you asking for forgiveness from someone. Or perhaps, you know, a Group of someone that you have offended. You personally have directly offended and sinned against them. You have done something sinful towards them. You need to ask for forgiveness. I mean, have you been rude to anybody lately? Have you been rude to anybody ever? Well, if you have to ask for forgiveness for that yet, then maybe you need to own that sin and you need to do the right and loving thing. But you know, on the converse of that, maybe the first act of love for you is going to be to grant forgiveness. Not to ask for it, but to grant it. Granted to someone who has offended you in specific ways. Take the attitude of Christ and say, forgive me But whatever the first act of love for you might be, yeah, I'm sure you can come with a long list. I suggest that you must figure out what it is. We all must figure out what it is and we must do it. And I'm not kidding. You might want to get a pad of paper and a pad Pan or a pencil, and you might want to write down all the acts of love that will flood your mind as you meditate upon it and pray up upon it and contemplate things Consider different things. Write them down because you don't want to forget any, right? And then you got this list, you can check them off as you do them. And that can be rather fulfilling in itself. You can look at them as answered prayers as you pray about this and ask for God to help you do these things. As you check them off, you can then praise God for helping you to accomplish those prayer requests. Now when you're going through this sort of a practical process, uh I advise strongly that you consider the necessity For blending the areas of need for all the different people who are in your life, the areas of of need of showing individuals' love. Because if you don't do this well Well, you can run into some problems. For example, if you were to come over to my house and spend all your time loving me, well, then you're not at your own house spending time loving people there that needs your love. So figure out to prioritize and how to handle that. We need wisdom in setting our priorities. So you need to thoughtfully consider this sort of a thing And understand that sometimes the loving thing to do is to say no. If somebody needs your help, and sometimes the answer, the loving thing to do, is to say not now. Perhaps later, but not now And sometimes, it's counterintuitive, but sometimes the unloving thing to do is to say yes. You know, for that first reaction to be, oh, absolutely, no need for any f further consideration, I'm on it. And you do it at the detriment of of somebody else who needed your attention maybe even more profoundly. Or you jumped in so quickly it maybe wasn't the best possible way to try to help and love them. And so the answer of yes or no, it's not necessarily well being busier and doing more things. It's not necessarily about that. It's not about the agreement or the refusal to to do something. All of these can be loving responses. That's the point. It all depends on the circumstances, the context of the situation in which you find yourself. But whatever your response, whatever it is you end up doing, make sure that what is you're doing is one that you've arrived at after you've looked for what is the loving thing to do? What's the out of all the things I could do, what's the loving one? What's the most loving one for me to do? And then do that You consider it this way, maybe. What would God have you do? And I asked it that way on purpose. It's not what would you do if you were God? That's not the question. It's not what you'd like to think that God Himself might do. That's not the question. Instead the question is, what would the all-knowing Alpha and Omega, creator of the universe, God of creation What would he have you do? That's the question. And remember, God is holy. His commands are righteous, his judgment is just, because God is light. So that's be a part of your consideration here, considering the holiness and the justice and the right rightness, the righteousness of God. And because we're in Christ, we are to live lives that are holy. We live lives that are righteous. We are to live lives that are just Because we are in the light. We're in Christ. And we know that we're in the light when we love one another. I mean it makes perfect sense. God dwells within the believer. He is in us, and he loves us. And we're to love as he does, to reflect God and his character to others That's who we are. Right? That's who we are now. Yeah, I mean, yeah, we're being changed, transformed, process isn't completed yet. More and more we trained, changed, and transformed into an increasing likeness of Christ. But we're not there yet perfectly, and so we might have these doubts that creep in, right? Are you unsure maybe? It's true for you that maybe I'm not really who I thought I was? Do you have doubt that you have been rescued By God's plan? Because you don't measure up to any particular standard or you know at all, and certainly not measuring up to God's perfect holy standard You know, so you're wondering, have I really been rescued by God's plan to purchase your freedom from bondage and sin through the obedience of Jesus? That's how you're rescued from that bondage. And it's applied to you by God's Holy Spirit, but you're wondering, is that actually, is that my experience? That was happened to me? Do I know? Can I know? Well, yeah, there's no need to be unsure. Be unsure no longer, okay? Turn from trusting yourself. Don't measure yourself against your own thoughts and measurements and stuff and your own work. Don't trust your don't don't trust yourself. Turn from trusting yourself and turn toward trusting in God. Now, as you sit here or stand here, whatever you're doing right now If you've come to a place where you feel like, you know, I think maybe I've been pretending for years. Well, if that's the case, don't worry about the embarrassment. maybe of being found out for having to admit that maybe you've been a fraud this whole time. Maybe you're going to church for years and you realize now that I wasn't really following Christ. I wasn't a believer. Maybe. If that's true for you, God already knew it. He knows the truth always. Not surprising him. If you get to a place where you can recognize, well Wow, I was living a lie, but now I'm gonna I I'm gonna truly repent. Turn and repent from trusting myself and my own works to turning uh and trusting in Christ and his works that he then grants to my record. Well, if you can do that after having lived the lie for a period of time, oh man. That kind of honesty? What a testimony you'll have. What a what a witness you'll be able to share with others. And that's sort of true. That was Set you free. And I do pray that for you. So as we begin to draw to a close of the message Portion for this evening. Let me wrap up with this. Some might say that it's hateful to tell a person that they are a sinner. However, the Bible teaches us that that is absolutely Actually, the loving thing to do because how else will a sinner know that a savior is needed if we don't point out their need for the Savior because of their sin? And so I hope that every day, including right now this evening whether that you feel loved, but whether you feel it or not, I I I hope that you at least can Intellectually understand God loves you. He's holding out his arms for you. He is waiting for you to surrender and to melt into his embrace. That's the kind of maker you have. And he loves you. He loves you. And he desires for us to love one another. In a moment we have some announcements and things, but let me uh let me wrap up the message portion with a prayer and we'll get into the announcements. Father in heaven, We adore you. All of us who are called by your name are so thankful. We're so humbled. We can't begin to understand all that there is to know about you and your plan for the world. But you tell us that you have a plan for us. It is a plan to prosper us, to give us hope and a future. And we thank you for showing us that that hope and future rests in you Jesus Christ. Help us to trust in His finished work. Help us to love you. We ask that your Holy Spirit work through us to better love others. We want to be a blessing to you and to your people. Continue, Lord, to equip us. We implore you, Lord, as you dwell inside of us Equip us to better stand mission. We're in a battle. Spiritual warfare, it rages. Even though the accuser has been defeated, your people are still prone to stumbling into the darkness through unholy living. Help us to remain vigilant as warriors for your kingdom. We await the return of Jesus Christ to end the The overlap of the ages and to usher in the fullness of the age of glory. It's in his precious name that we pray this prayer to you. Amen. So you're not going to be able to do this quickly enough now. But later on if you want to go back and and jot this down or pause, you know, watch the video at this portion and pause after each one of these questions. These are good discussion questions that I've got for you. Uh you can have your own discussion since we're not having a discussion here. Uh so I've got, I don't know, a dozen or so questions here. So the first one is who loves you? Who loves you? Answer that question. Maybe not wait this second, but do the work of thinking about who it is that loves you. Make a list. And then, second question, how do they show it? How do they show that they love you? And consider, of course, that one of those who loves you would be God, right? And so how does God show you that He loves you? And then ask yourself the question, who do you love? And the final question there is, how do you show it? And again, hopefully you love God how you show love to God would be part of that, the answers that you're giving there. Consider this aspects of God. There's different aspects to God that we think about differently sometimes. So what are the aspects of God that we tend to place in the light category? And then In contrast to this perhaps, what are the aspects of God that we tend to place in the love category? What parts of God, his his person, his character, his his nature? Do we place it in the light category, the love category? Now they really opposed the in the message, of course, I said no. But so don't think about it as completely distinct categories, but list them any Anyway. Um a question that leads into an essay answer. My picture of God looks like blank. What is your picture of God? What's that look like? Now the truth is seen in Christ, for sure, and to more inconsistent level, the truth is seen in the Christian as well. And so the question here then is, can you honestly say, or if you're asking the question of yourself, can I honestly say that the truth is seen in me. Because the truth is seen in Christ, and if I'm an image bearer and I'm in Christ, he's the head, I'm the body, the truth should, in some broken and unfortunately inadequate way, it this truth should still be able to be seen in you. So is it? Now some unsatisfying things, we talked about this last So the question here is some um unsatisfying things that I find myself tempted to trust in are blank. What are some of the things that are unsatisfying that you find yourself Trusting in, even though they're unsatisfying things. Next question. Four people in my family that I will work at loving more are So who are the four people in your family you're going to work at loving more? Next question. Four people who are not in my family that I will work at loving more are so who are those four people? And as a bonus question, who's the better theologian, Diana Ross or George Strait? Being playful, maybe you've got an answer to that, I don't know. Now some announcements. Um If you're trying to keep tabs on everything that we're doing with the household of faith in Christ and in our lives and other things, there's a lot of outlets for doing that. And some of you might know what some of them of those are but I want to draw attention because there's kind of a list. So there's three different places you can go to on YouTube where we have YouTube channels set up. One of those YouTube channels is a Household of Faith in Christ Christ channel. So you can go to YouTube and you can do in the YouTube search section, Household of Faith in Christ. There are other entities out there called merely household. Household of faith. But if you put in household of faith in Christ, you're gonna find our channel and you're gonna see the videos, these Facebook Live videos then end up getting placed there for permanence and for easy access. And you can subscribe to that channel by the way, so every time a new video gets posted there, you'll be alerted to that fact. Another YouTube channel, something that Dina and I have been doing together for about I don't know three three plus years now, I think. It's called Decorating Date Night. It's a Facebook live thing that we do where we do redecorating of people's homes on the fly. And it's been a fun thing. We've done this raise money for charity, the Marriage Resource Center here in Frederick County where we live. And we have a YouTube channel set up for that as well. So if you put in Decorating Date Night, and I'm not sure if you put in Decorating Date Night with Troy and Dina. I can't remember now. But I think if you just put in Decorating Date Night in that same search bar for YouTube, you'll find the Decorating Date Night YouTube channel. You can subscribe to that too and every time a new video gets posted you'll be alert And the habit there right now is for one new decorating night night video to be posted every week, typically on Wednesdays. And there's a there's a YouTube channel for the DNA Carroll show. Dina does a radio show on a local radio station here in town, Key one hundred three, W A F Y. And she's done a handful of videos that we've now uh have placed on a uh YouTube channel. But there's some videos there as new interesting videos that she wants to highlight and save there. Get placed that you can subscribe there and everything It's pretty irregular. So if you subscribe though, you'll get notified whenever a new video hits there. On the radio we can be followed. So if you're not local, you can still listen through your Any device that's connected to the internet somehow. So we have a smartphone device or an iPad or a desktop computer or something. You can audio stream the radio stations if you want. Dina is on the air Alive every morning, 6 to 10 a. m. Again, Eastern Time, Eastern Standard Time. On WAFY goes by the moniker of Key one oh three. She also uh is on the air on the week weekends of the morning as well, but she uh she her main focus is mornings Monday through Friday, six a. m to ten a. m. So you can listen to that. I'm on the radio too on a couple of different shows. I I host a show On Saturdays now that's uh that airs live from noon to one. It's a uh a live call in show talking about some political issues and and local things happening in our community but putting a big worldview uh uh bent on what's happening locally so you can you can listen to that in the audio stream. And also the faith debate, I've been doing that for sixteen years That airs on Sunday mornings from nine to nine thirty. So you can listen to that. And if you don't listen to the live, you can always grab them on podcast. Both both Frederick's Forum, the Saturday show, and the Faith Debate, the Sunday show, are then archived as podcasts uh on uh WFMD. com. Um so um and actually something else is shows I do sometimes clips from my Frederick Swarm show are used in another show that airs on WFMD called Weekends the the Weekend Free Talk Express. So you can follow along on that. And then Even they're now taking these little short clips of hot takes, if you will, of mine. They're calling them Troy's Take, and they're putting those up as podcasts. The easiest way to try to access some of those would be to go to WFMD. com WF as in Frederick, M D as in Maryland, or Doctor. WFMD. com. Find the faith debate page and find Frederick's forum. Find those pages and all the possibilities. It's probably the easiest way to do that. But you can also follow along on Facebook. WFMD has a Facebook page and all those podcasts end up getting posted there too. Of course I have a Facebook page page and you're probably a friend of mine if you're watching this right now and I usually post those things on my Facebook page. Dina has a Facebook page, Key One Three has a Facebook page so you can follow along on all those things that and actually Dean has involved another Facebook thing called Welcome to Crazy. So you can uh you can check Welcome to Crazy out by connecting with that on Facebook. Just a couple more things. Website, they mentioned the website for key one oh three. It's W A F Y, and I think it's key103. com or it might be three key one oh three. I think it's key103. com. Uh if you just Google key one oh three Frederick, you'll find it. And then you can find Dina's morning show page, the the Dina K Carroll show, you can find that. Um and again, the same with the Faith Debate and the forum pages. And we have a website for Decorating Date Night. Decorating Date Night has its own website. So if you go to Decorating Decorating Date Night dot com you'll see all of our decorating date night videos there and photos from before and after some of the projects and and that sort of thing and some of the back And we don't yet have a website for what you're watching right now. We don't have a website for the household of faith in Christ. But one day that will probably come and when we have That I'll announce it. We don't have one yet, but I think we're going to get there. And lastly, in addition to all these things I just mentioned, if you're into social media and all that sort of stuff, I do have a Me We account, M E W E Mi Wee. I have an account there. I don't do a whole lot there, but I am on it. And if you join it too, maybe I'll start to do more there. And if you start doing things there they'll Follow and pay attention to what you're doing on MiWe. And I'm on Parlor, P-A-R-L-E-R, Parlor. Parlor is a relatively new social media platform. It's kind of like Twitter. I've never been on Twitter, so I'm not for sure how much it's like Twitter, but I've been told it's kind of like Twitter. Uh and so you can uh follow me there. So you can follow Connect Friend or whatever the lingo is for the different platforms you can you can do all of that. So you can subscribe to our YouTube channels, you can follow along on social media, you can check us out on the websites, you can make sure you're friend requesting us and follow along with Facebook. You can stream on the the the radio stations uh if you're if you're long distance or you can listen on your radio if you live listen close by. And so that's the last of the announcements save this. If you live within driving distance, or if you're traveling and ever find yourself in the area on Saturday and you'd like to come and be a part of what we do here on Saturdays, reach out to me. If you have my email or phone number, contact me that way. If not, just message me on Facebook, private message me. and say, Hey, we'd love to come, what's the deal? And we can talk about, you know, making sure that we're ready for you. Because it's not just what happens between six and seven o'clock. You know, we do other things, we sing songs. and we pray and we and we we do life together and so you can be a part of that and and partner with us and and come and participate in what we're doing here on Saturday evenings and perhaps maybe be a part of what I'm hoping will grow into a sustainable house church movement that will spawn additional house churches down the road eventually. As this as what we're doing here begins to grow I'm hoping that I'd spin off from that and and and help to plant a second house church and then those two house churches will grow and be able to spin off uh another house church themselves and And so one becomes two, two becomes four, four becomes eight. That will be the long-term vision and goal. If you'd like to be a um a part of something like that, let me know and we can Definitely uh talk about it and pray about it and figure out what makes the most sense. Let me just see if I can grab my phone, see if there's any comments, if I have time, I can figure that out. out. I'm not sure if I can, but let me see if there's any messages on here. Sorry about the the joggly uh line Uh well let me just say some some people that watching Carrie Hey mom hey uh thanks uh you guys are faithful appreciate that uh Rich um having a hard time scrolling And and Kelly and um Michelle and Dave and uh if I missed you, I I apologize. I know it's always a big hit. So Tyler Dean. Real quick, you wanna come say hello to grandma? Hello Grandma. He's a little tense because he knows it's getting close to seven o'clock and his Wheel of Fortune's gonna be on. So I'm gonna end this so we can turn on the TV for Tyler. Let me do that so it can warm up real quick. All right, so we'll be back next week, 6 o'clock. In the meantime, have a blessed week. Look forward to uh to sharing with you uh another message from 1 John. We'll be looking at uh the next section of 1 John chapter 2.