If you have comments, please feel free to share them, but we won't be able to interact with you live so I'm going to be busy taking care of the recording for the radio show. I think it was his a bicycle or maybe a little motorbike or something, off to the side. Um which I thought was interesting. And when you talk about the series, there's three that are mentioned, but I always like to include a fourth. We should have a restorational justice system so that if I do something that's harmful to you, I should restore things. Anyway, well we're going to pick up our conversation where we're leaving off this week, next week, about 167. Should they be illegal? They had jails back in the 1800s. So well they have that sort of ridiculousness because they can, you know, reduce their life thing to something less than life. So sh should we have jails? And you're sometimes you're showing up and you're just a bunch of guys and you don't really know now. But I'm not I'm not allowed as a police officer to pull you over until I have some other reason to pull you over. And and the answer she gave was, I've always felt like strangers should be a little strange. I'm Teroy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. And in the process of them trying to pull podcasts and stuff for the website, um they ended up changing a run date on a show and the system doesn't know, it just goes on, oh And Roman is fired. And I think that is wrong and it's ungodly and it should cease. You can find me online at householdfaith in Christ dot com. But should we be fighting to defend it? I kinda understand where you're coming from. But even the indirect control, it's pretty pervasive and powerful. We've got to recognize some of those other elephants we think are good. You know how Christians should understand all that, interact with that, you know, what should our policy positions be on certain things, that sort of thing. So I'll be curious to see what we all have to say, particularly Daniel. That's crazy. I could my wife was the one driving. I mean if if it it was the argument this made is that the word is the same for grape juice or for wine. They say when you go on vacation and you get your tenth of your all your um so by the way and and maybe this is another topic, I think uh there's a biblical precedent for spending ten percent of your gross income on vacation. Uh the term vacation uh maybe I made it up, I don't know but there is there's several different ties in the Bible as you as you know. But that uh that passes the reason I bring it up is because it mentions strong drink as something that would be acceptable to use in a s at least in a certain celebratory uh occasion. Like, you know, in your family of you know, if if Imran's getting, you know, lit every night on on his favorite, you know, alcoholic beverage, Daniel's gonna say, Dead in more depth on the show about honor and shame and the idea of collective uh collective guilt is maybe a a good way to understand it, uh societal uh you know uh i you know, you you're but before your for your family, right? and and control over different things are. Th this person needs help to understand that they're sinning against God, they're sinning against their family, they're sinning against all that's right, true, good, and beautiful. You know, the and then the the now that the government is providing it, the churches say, Well, we don't have to 'cause you can just get on the government benefits. It's a big problem, it's growing. You know, the seventies, the the thing that was talked about on TV, all the cops and robber shows, you know, uh heroin was the big scary drug. noxycotone stuff, uh that was very in vogue, and now it's fentanyl. that meets at Imran's in Thermont. at household of faith in Christ dot com as it relates to the faith debate than you can find on WFMD. So you'd you'd hit record, but it wouldn't start recording until some sound happened. So was mommy. So I just went along with what the societal norm is. uh uh capital punishment killed or or whatever kind of capital punishment, you got stocks and whatever, and it was done. quote unquote vacation from life. And I think that's that's very, very important. Maybe somebody's accusing you of that. Right, so the appeal system. Yeah, I said I've got an opinion kind of, but there's some nuances I'm still trying to figure out. that's that's ill fitting. in a way you typically don't even think about it. you know, innocent until proven guilty and all that and so there's many people that say, Well, I was targeted because of this, just because I looked like such and such. Absolutely. It's a cute little poodle and it looks like all, you know, wispy and frail and and and submissive. Snafu from the radio station side of things and one of the shows aired twice. That's not the right show. Compatriots on the radio station. And I think that if that's not the case, if it w it wouldn't be for the deep state, then I think that uh Kamala Harris will win the election because uh I I think there was so much uh stuff that happened Yeah, saying something, so I think we got pretty close how many people really have no clue. World War III. And Donald Trump's already, for those who support him, he's already a figure, right? Everybody'd be fine with it, right? And maybe go to the museum and the zoo or whatever that sort of thing. Uh it's almost like he's in a Holy of Holies kind of a setting, right? monuments and people were defacing monuments. Yeah. I'm glad you asked. Mount St. Yeah. And it never really opportunity to present itself in the context of talking about all this secular government, intersection with religion kind of thing, ooh Uh it wouldn't honestly would not surprise me if somebody's done that. I think is a good topic on the show because I think that there's a good case you can make that it is ungodly to cremate. and they can leverage that to have their way with what happens in the world. to nagle away to get it through things that are not beneficial to anybody in this country other than that very narrow special interest. uh Frederick County government like twenty years ago. and therefore put you in jail. these power but I had the wake up call a number of years uh ago as well and I know I'm gonna make a lot of uh enemies saying this uh in this context Oh so terrible, my life is ruined, this and that. Yeah. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. And I'm always happy to interact. Find everything I'm about online at household of faith in Christ. I thought, ooh, let me write that down that way. anesthesia and things like that or for certain health uh benefits and and and stuff and I don't want to make this into a uh discussion on the benefits of C B D oil and all that because I don't I don't really have a lot of knowledge in that area. I think most Christians should be able to agree on is the Bible condemns drunkenness. if if they're more occult than the occultist cleaning. Because there are many crimes, and according to Scripture, you're an adulterer if you look with lust, but those adulterers were not condemned to death under the law. and a glutton and he doesn't uh obey, he's no of no benefit to society and all this and then they they stole him. gotta make recom recompense. There's things you should do to live honorably before God and then there's other things that the government should enforce, mainly as it affects other people immediately so like there should be consequences. respect as well and biblically as well. uh opinion these days. And he said, oh it's gonna be like 15, 20 minutes before it's ready. constantly everybody knows you're the town drunk and you have that reputation and that's what it is to be a drunkard. actually wine. tithe you give every three years to the poor and then there's there's also a tithe every year for one of the feasts you take the uh ten percent of all the increase and if you go to Jerus to Jerusalem to celebrate and if it's too far to take all your uh physical increase with you you turn it into money and then When you get to Jerusalem, it says spend it on whatever your heart desires, whether it be wine or strong drink, specifically. And and so I I would I would cave the caveat that any sort of analogy to the modern times that we make with that uh would definitely have to be a God honoring vacation. I don't recommend getting ten percent and go to the strip club. Yeah, I think uh yeah, there's no restrictions on on drugs. um ill intent towards them before, you're still guilty of murder but you have the sanctuary city to go to. So what you do in the privacy of your home with the uh um you know the alcohol or the cocaine or the fentanyl or whatever you shrooms, whatever you want to do, that's that's your business, that's none of my business kinds of things that the libertarian mindset says, hey, you know, to each his own. But there's not really a role for the civil government to be involved unless they do damage to somebody. Of course not. you know, sh you should you should be filled with the Holy Spirit and and be in communion with God. But it's worth it because there's a whole lot more stuff that's related to the ministry, the show, meme, social media links, all that stuff. is important to me that I'm involved with. I'm mad at it, I double check the back end. What I do. online at household of faith in Christ. If you were listening last week, you had the pleasure of us really entering into a lot of fisticus. 'Cause their worldview uh isn't necessarily biblical, but you know, but even a even a blind squirrel finds an acorn every once in a while. I'm I'm finding it loaded with nuances. if it's that violent of a person. the to the appeal judge. s not really interfering with your life otherwise. And yes, slavery is a specific uh uh biblical in fact people say, well slavery is i is uh not only evil, but it's illegal in America. I'm not talking about reparations, which we mentioned last week. the the the restorational justice where you hurt somebody you've got to make it right. They're there for people who so that uh, you know, some somebody in the wronged individual's family doesn't come hunt you down and take justice in their own hands. know the our current system and then try to change it a little bit. with this with the prison system. country. Wow, what countries do that? People that actually that look like you too, right? gangster type of of mentality. Um the you know, go ahead. And pickup basketball is usually played outside on like concrete or asphalt kinds of things, right? going to color some of that. Mm-hmm. three pointers from all over the place. I mean you're right in the right. the somebody was spotted, they have a description, it looks like this. Um crime tremendously. rap. Anyway, anybody want to uh get in a last word? You'll see the upcoming show for next week listed usually in advance. Till next week, one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours from now. Not that for God, but uh neglected to mention Merry Christmas or Happy New Year. I don't know. Yeah. for granted. conqueredbylove. debate. in a serious way, in a way that hopefully will be sticky and get you thinking and that sort of thing. Oh is that what it is? conservative I I believe the signs are pointing to the deep state believes that they can control Trump now and has enough people in place around him that they don't care and I think they government to overreach and things like that. have to lay down and take it anyway. care so much about putting him in jail because he probably won't run again. And yes, you could argue that there is demonic presence around it and there could be demons that control different things, but ultimately people are the ones that give idols the power. Um now I would not it I think who you're making the monument to is also important. things and uh I don't I wouldn't go there because I take down everybody's statue that's your standard 'cause everybody's done some bad things. And so we're walking them all, and you know, the Washing Monuments there, and the the Lincoln Monument, the Jefferson Memorial, all those sorts of things I'm trying to think. and put in a glass coffin and have it made into a coffee table. that point and they had made it into an idol. and and community statues and war memorials, things like that. somebody puts a statue uh say in Frederick of a former mayor or somebody. uh up front and center in the fact if you go to Rome and and you go to the Vatican, all of the false god statues that they that the Catholic Church confiscated from all the different countries that they that they Christian I think I would probably say, you know, we can do some sort of memorial, uh, some sort of a thing that represents what their life meant to the community and and put a plaque on it that explains what this represents But let's not make it a statue of the person because the human heart is so sinful and we can uh people aren't bowing down and praying to the statue of Abraham Lincoln And less so, it seems to me, Washington. from homes don't have pictures of people on the walls either. Kinda weird, but if the actual person that's off the charts What if it's an urn of a dog I don't think they cremated their dog and put it in the room? And whole, not uh I've made a note. uh make their way over to those two platforms eventually, usually pretty quickly. And civil matters and things where uh the civil magistrates and biblical instruction kind of cross pollinate a little bit, talk about drugs and prisons and profiling. I think I'm going to title this episode, by the way, uh Ants Stepped On by Elephants. press for you, you do the best you can. from you. And these overarching entities, like we all want the government to do something to help the economy. I I didn't think this twenty years ago. elsewhere and they let these businesses die. think you you kinda have to be uh uh employee lobbyists to get things done sometimes. is to have that relationship with other countries. in in uh to to say that, right? you have multiple different levers that can be pulled, I think that's actually a good thing. But a lot of what he said made some sense to me, but he took it like to a rather obtuse degree. You can get on and I I say that uh kind of jokingly sometimes, if if if I'm in a government and I want to put you in jail, Troy, for anything, I can probably find some kind of tax law that you've broken and put you in jail for tax fraud Yeah, I just want us to wise up. The Chamber of Commerce, including the local one. Because I cannot trust them. I've seen. Alex uh uh Soros and uh two days later uh their uh business enterprise was approved by the FCC to take over all these radio stations. in ways that don't go well with our body chemistry. Yep. They weren't supposed to have a king. That that tirade, but uh You're tired of being stepped on. Oh we'd love to do that as humans. pro program in the past about the conservative movement is uh uh not in one accord with the Christian uh belief system or worldview. Whatever. eighty six. We need to be standing up for Christ, not for just so some person who happens to vote the same way we do on certain issues. And to take action to uh be prepared for eventualities that may or may not happen using the resources that God has given you. Yeah, and uh what are some of the other things that there's always like the inflation collapse total measles of the malaria, total collapse of the dollar. Uh and some of that might have some basis in truth, right? or some kind of war and war breaking out and having uh a uh idea in in in in your mind of of where to get food and water and and and and things like that know, materially or spiritually or however w whatever it it is, I have some abundance and then the next week something that I don't like happens. and and and reason the and and and uh in your the way you can conduct yourself but don't allow fear to consume you. downtrodden by things either that have happened or more uh in a worse way, like you're mentioning, things that might happen and also may not, and the Bible says, don't worry about tomorrow. taking our eye off Jesus. You poor thing. He w had a mask on, he said, You know, pardon my mask. I have also had nothing. TV show Survivor. Yep. be capturing this on. And they also run a ministry they founded quite a number of years ago now. So we've tackled a lot of really heavy theological things in recent years. Um before we got into all that though we spent a lot of time talking about what's going on in like in the world and what Christians and what the Bible would tell us For those who are on the outside looking in, we we tend to record a whole bunch of shows kind of at one time, uh in show arcs as they call them. And most of these were instigated um by side comments that were made by somebody on the panel. I've never been too big on thinking about what the policy positions should be about drugs. And uh perhaps one or two of these is my I don't know, I'm not sure, but I think most of these actually were were Daniel's uh I don't know if they were suggestions for shows, but they were things he brought up that others thought, ooh, that could be a good suggestion for a show and you know, mixed with horse tranquilizer and all sorts of nasty stuff and it really makes you people just stand there like they're dead but standing up upright. to life if you will and stood upright and then started walking. I've seen on the news a few times about that type of thing. And all of it's created by God, right? what you you're doing and how it's affecting you and so on. some would say. principle is what what was prohibited in scripture for you know for people and then what was the government supposed to enforce because Probably a really good analogy because when you're under the influence of drugs it it can be very similar and in many cases worse than the influence of alcohol, depending on the drug and only ones who actually physically committed adultery, uh, even though God is is clarifying, you know, you're w just as worthy of hell as somebody who committed the act if you're thinking about it, that doesn't mean for thinking about it you're gonna be um law about that. family, I don't think it's the government's job to regulate that. Uh I don't think anybody disagrees that drunkenness is bad. And then I think my wife was the one who said, Oh, it's one of those marijuana places I was like, Oh, you're right it is. not a good thing. Like every thirty seconds somebody's walking in and coming out of that store. uh one or two glasses of wine within let's say two hours, but you have three glasses of wine and you start to feel the effects a little bit, you get just a little bit inappropriately or behaving in a w manner that is dishonorable or um you know not proper and if you hurt somebody well then you're responsible whether you meant it or not. things, the the family has control over certain things, and I've argued the fourth one that the self is to have control over certain things. Come on. a gay relationship in the privacy of my home? That's my team, we won. to impact. get trained as a kids. Sure. and and they refuse to stop being a drunkard, well then there's Matthew 18 comes into play and you you exercise church discipline to try to call them to his senses. All of that aside, we usually don't talk about that stuff because we don't really have family value anymore. the the civil magistrates. These and this is normally uh regulation of drugs and alcohol is more family and maybe the church, but for sure not the government Well what do you do with the fact that those spheres of influence aren't existing anymore? not doing their job and that will be the argument that people make for welfare, right? ridiculous example. Okay, well if the govern if the husband's not fulfilling his husbandly duties in the bedroom, does the government have to send somebody in there go have sex with his wife doesn't mean you can get to s usurpy authority in another way. and walking in the spirit world and they'll say that they're walking in the spirit world. some some other I forget what and then you know fentanyl eventually and well pills were a big deal too. Tired over there, my friend. Yeah. Oh I'm sorry, I didn't have your mic down. Uh what politically a lot of people would refer to as kind of a libertarian point of view, but I would argue it's the biblical point of view and it's an area where the libertarians accidentally kind of get it right. But the question is are they are the jails that we find in the Bible prescribed by God? country. compared to the one who actually suffered the crime upon themselves. crime are. harmed uh you know or or a theft. him and the New York State decided to sue Trump because he overvalued his properties and got better rates than he should have otherwise and s supposedly society was harmed in some way we can't really identify. uh punished by the the government or not. but it needs to be quick. in that city. But what we've turned it into now is a business. One, it's you want to keep the the if it truly is a dangerous person, keep them off the streets until you know for sure they're safe. that was authorized by the um uh well that nuance aside though that they they weren't going to have their blood avenged if they were in the protected city until they could stand trial and things could be figured out. Until they basically like a a life in prison sentence, right? certain criminal activities. Social Security and Medicare, Medicaid and all that, but you can't just stop tomorrow. Then it can we can transition to okay well you're in jail and but because we don't trust that you're actually gonna go work for this person so now you're earning money while you're in jail. Well Kamala every Kamala's visited there that you're there. a little funny or something and it's not your fault. a uh suit coat you're wearing uh you know shorts or pants or a skirt. And then you see another guy and he's d like dressed in a business suit, you know, that's well fitted and got a suit and tie and he's clean cut and he's walking briskly down the sidewalk the only characteristic that really matters as far as discrimination goes. prob probable thing that's going to occur based on X, Y, and Z. uh and it's fun and you don't necessarily have to be great to play and have a good time, but people still play competitively, they want to win. uh onto the court for the first time with a bunch of guys and you have to pick up a team, almost always the tallest guy is the first guy you try to get on your team person that that's a suspect. Much more nuanced than what uh the black guys and other people would would want us to believe. them. Right, to be concerned about things that are different than we're used to because there might be danger. He's totally beguiling the the love interest that h that he was, you know, targeting. issue. the first part of October and recording shows are here in the first part of January. We had a technical snafu not too long ago with the show that had the shows end up airing a little bit out of sequence and the dates got messed up. That means we have done more than 1,000 shows. It's hard to say. through all of the ratings information for the market. places like that. And say, yeah, I listen and I love when you guys talk about this and that's always cool. That happens to be where we are now. This is in advance of the election. I think we're as at as much at risk of a of a wide scale potentially nuclear level kind of a war. this time uh in January. each other and then your kids when they ask you in the future you can tell them this is to remember the time when God brought us over Jordan. potentially some bad thing so that we don't repeat it. Um even Lincoln monument they won't take down, Jefferson monument monument they take down. Do I do I want to die on that hill? you know, or a creature like a s a snake and that we would potentially risk bowing down to. invite that. object lessons will be very useful for telling stories. I think some of the accusations against him are unfair and I think some of them are fair. you can see that from from my house in fact you can see it. of an actual idol that should be destroyed. Let's see. the government should erect these statues and that sort of thing. that happened for half a second. things like the Chamber of Commerce because they're pro-business. at all and then of course there's no reason for lobbyists um because they're not involved at all in the economy. tariffs. organizations and the investment uh groups they have some very big uh lobbying gr uh um organizations that have been many times successful in It's not just one guy that's going to be affected by this law. interests do, they will defend it. No, it's not. and now they can control all the radio stations and they can start uh taking conservatives off the radio and that's what they're trying to do. And destroyed the five years, or not farm at all, or farm and then destroy. God's prophet said, You don't want an elephant. Uh is na and then it sounds worse, doesn't it? and being employed by big institutions like the you know, the Blaze or the Daily Wire or some of these c very conservative uh institutions, what you would consider is, oh there's a this is more real or truthful news than Fox News or whatever Spurring on additional reasons for fear. uh you know four or five years ago. that uh uh and to be able to bless other believers during times of crisis, I think that's very important. looking and seeing what God is showing is and as plain as day what's coming and what could happen and then being prepared for it. Either we really freak out and we throw everything overboard and we just we we flounder and then we don't have any faith at all. shut our eyes because we don't want to hear about it, we don't want to think about it. that were there. That's one of my pet peeves is people using first out of context. Then he starts paying attention to the trouble around him and he immediately sinks like a rock. and all this, which there are passages that talk about that. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. And don't be overburdened by fear of what could happen. Oh Daniel stole the last word this time from Imran. You know that that turnophrase everybody says, you know, oh it's great we have a small even if even though we have a small group, it's okay. Right? Not sure why. uh today. Big into drugs, you know, you know, I've about some alcohol, you know, if you want to count that as a drug. slightly cockeyed, like he was ready to tumble over into the road and we're like, is that guy okay? of drugs say. Uh, you know. you know, then there's all sorts of people that argue well even a couple of sips is gonna make you feel the effects and make you impair your judgment and all that. killed uh on this earth or punishment on this earth. for me to like walk into and check out. 10-15 minutes waiting. Um I would agree with pretty much everything's been said so far, so we've got to figure out if we can wrestle something to get more of a debate going. uh hyper relaxed, let's put it that way. And so I think this falls into the context of a self-control measure. where dressing up as a woman and and holding yourself out as a woman is okay. And there is no self-control. jail systems, prison systems, that sort of thing. elements within the the church are the ones that would say, you know, grape juice only. Imran Rasby and Daniel Rasby can find them online at conquerbylove. I still I think my view on this is emerging a bit, although I've I'm over the last couple of years I've b begun to formulate what I think is an opinion, but uh it's it's not super strong and All it did is put me off the streets and now guess who's paying for my food? having a fair trial in in which you're presumed to be innocent. And therefore they should be working to pay off their debts. But, you know, uh there there's things you can do to restore things, but some things can't be restored, and so that's where the death penalty comes in. um renewable energy. So if we remove it and we don't replace it with a biblical model, is it I mean is is the devil we know better than the devil we don't know? A lot of people on the left, particularly, are concerned that we need to let these prisoners out because they were arrested falsely for under false pretenses. So I would argue if you were confronted with these two people walking down the street and the guy in the suit is black and the other guy's white you're gonna still be much more apprehensive about this white guy that's that's you know walking down in in in a gym and and profiling from society. You know, if uh i now if there's a uh you know bowlout on somebody saying, Hey, this is this guy was a dark skinned male of uh about twenty five years old and wearing this, that's profile. And if there's an AP B on on somebody that looks just like you who just murdered somebody, I see you, I'm like, that could be the guy Right. It could have picked either one, it picked the wrong one. So what we had a 50-50 chance. of time and the things that happen as time moves forward and passes on. online every day until all of the archives are exhausted. will be preserved uh online and that sort of thing. And you also can get in trouble if you highlight things that are specific about ratings and that sort of stuff. And um we appreciate all of that. Years ago, our consistent habit was to record the show at least three, if not six months in advance. would prefer to have Trump in fact because a lot of the Patriots will be more complacent and not protest too much about uh you know injustices of As recently as probably five, six years ago, I would uh Pisha Are you crazy? So that for a moment, just for the sake of rhetoric, let's take that deep state thing off the table. last time that it all was predetermined. now we've got uh uh sub subs and and uh um battleships uh russian and chinese uh on the border of Alaska we've had uh incursions there so I'm Correct. So let's uh here let's look at another example. Will be healed. So remember God. are there and I've seen those bunches of times in my life actually at this point and it never really hit me until I saw the one from Martin Luther King Jr. by the way. And it's it's a very majestic, very theat uh the type say a phrase or something that tells you about them. It is. I think I'm gonna put it in that category. No. That's a little creepy to me to be honest with you. I don't want to talk about this on there, so I'll do it right now. I don't know how long we could spend on it necessarily, but I think there's there is some good uh arguments you could say that God desires people to be buried honorably and respectfully. So you can get the audio there, it's a radio station, but it's not a TV station, so you don't typically get the video there. Um yeah. uh. Joined this week again by Imran Razby and Daniel Razby, co-pastoring the church called the House the Church Meets at Imran's house. Following the law, you are a victim of legalized theft on behalf of the government, taking way more money than they should take other uh departments. Hunter Biden was convicted on the gun charge and I don't know if he was was he also convicted on the tax charge? uh taking bribes from foreign officials for years and years and years. No, that is a terrible law. So just because the guy you don't like gets it does not mean that we should all of a sudden t bend the principles for that. And I know you. And they're a big elephant. perspective, right? Right. Well, I think it goes back to uh the the the fatal flaw of the uh you know people call the United States the American experiment. And these elephants are busy, the people who are running these elephants, they're busy having sex parties with minors and all sorts of weird gross stuff. But so let's not just blindly accept all what the elephants tell us to do or what to think or whatever. All these other sub-elephants, we gotta realize they're they're they're sinful, they're selfish. And the th and more of this might be in your control than you think because those elephants they have their fingers on the scales when it comes to the economy and inflation and things and even the climate for that matter. but of faith that God has given you plenty and in the years of plenty you're storing up and then you have years of hardship. But if you're allowing allowing fear to consume you, oh no, woe is me, it's gonna be to all too terrible I'm uh you know, and I'm guilty of this too. And what does he do? uh breathing problems and and air pure impurities are really difficult for them and so they might need to wear a mask. Ever since the COVID crisis. Whether it's the world ending or whether it's buying a house next week. But what is that pastor talking about? Because where two or three are gathered in my name, there in my midst. Um I think that's that there's a vacation tithe in the Bible. What do you then say to somebody who says, oh yeah? Intervention. So you're really annoying all the Native Americans right now. based on this thing that they were gonna receive that they were promised. adults or whatever, they act disrespectfully and that just riles up the police more and then there's a confrontation. I make it a habit to try to listen to the show on the radio live, even if it's just for a minute, just to make sure the show is running and it's the right one. timestamp when the show is going to air. Um where I uh the data indicated anyway for what that's worth, right? was it maybe a year ago probably now or pretty close to that I had the opportunity to read uh a letter or at least share the uh the gist of the contents of a letter from somebody who went out of their way to share with station management how much they appreciate the radio show and how we uh conduct our affairs and we try to do things with some fun and panache. So, who won? uh woman, first woman of color to ascend to that line. Well let's let's take a step back from statue. Potentially, yeah. And yeah, you're right, the Lincoln thing. uh in in the graveyards and instead of memorial stones it was like lifelike carved images of all these people that'd be creepy I think. copies of stuff that would last. It's just a common vernacular. But Abraham Lincoln has taken on kind of a deified level of of of uh of appreciation in in American culture, whether it's deserved or not, and there's some debate over that actually. Mary's University, in fact, you can see the shrine, you can see the big giant statue of Mary. And Ron Rasby, also Daniel Rasby on the show. Okay, that's that's okay. And if that's what we mean by lobbying, then I'm all for it. uh cancelling or getting rolled back some very onerous regulations, including over the last uh few years, uh from the Department Department of Labor and the uh you know Right. I don't even watch Fox News. Right? It can't be true, but it is. libertarian philosophy about it. Whatever. invite uh spiritual um attacks in ways that uh you may not want or m in many cases the some of the people that that are doing them uh that are proponents of them they do they do want that's the you know command in scripture and it does say this is a purview of the government is to uh punish any form of fornication, heterosexual or homosexual, uh and there is a death penalty for all of that. So so we're all on the same page on that. Because we we have and I think the problem is in this country we have a fundamentally wrong view of what uh crime, the consequences of crime Uh great as in bad as in big, not as in good, right? The amendment that outlawed slavery in the Constitution, it says slavery nor involuntary servitude may exist in the United States except as a punishment for a crime whereof they have been duly convicted. is they have given you know, because we spend so much tax dollars on so many different things, the whole industry is popping up where the money's being spent. It's all going to the victim's family until they're paid back. generally until the many, many years after the fact. But it's certainly the lesser of the two evils, right? Now it doesn't make sense that the person who got robbed from then has to pay to keep the person in jail. And he's got his uh you know underwear hanging out of his pants, his pants are down on his knees, he's wearing, you know, this tank top. These are two people that you're going to assume certain things already and we didn't talk about what color their skin was. There's a lot of other factors that play into it that you may not be aware of, and really how you carry yourself does make a huge impact. And that might not be fair because oftentimes the five three he might be a klutz, right? And where you have hatred for a somebody that looks a certain way because And assuming they're guilty for uh any evidence. uh gray, black and whitish shirt in a in a in a nice car. Strange is strange. Whoever lost will be denying the election. Um because they could take the show off the air tomorrow, right? Donald and Kamala both survived and one of them is going to be inaugurated into office. A statue. Potentially. Hezekiah, one of the good kings, destroyed the wrath serpent that Moses had made. To the best of my re recollection, I think it was when I had friends visiting, possibly family, I can't remember who was with me, visiting from out of town and when they've never been to this area of the country before they um let's go down to DC, right, see all the monuments. Alright, so I don't know. And every single one of them is bad. If i uh err on the side of caution and don't bring in things into your house that may invite uh the demonic influence, right? From the world. Muhammad as God, so he didn't want any likeness of him. So are you a victim now? And then that gets taxed when they die. Forget that. And I'm I'm not and I guess politically elephants are Republicans. How about what up from scripture? that pray. But I want to be careful to say n don't not think about tomorrow at all, right? And there's a whole a bunch of scenes, but one of them is the road the coyote sees the train coming and he's sitting in a little shack that's built on the train tracks and he sees the train coming and he looks out his window at the train So again the question is drugs, should they be legal? I wa it was shocking actually. tipsy or warm or whatever you however you want to describe that that feeling that that's okay because you're not really drunk and even if you are you're not a drunk erd you're just in that moment plastered on alcohol versus being stoned out of their mind on some other pharmaceutical. Imron Rasby, Daniel Razby, again they're well, you can find them online at conqueredbylove. Um I don't even know what I mean, it's the prison lobby, it's all uh privatized, a lot of it's privatized, there's a lot of money in prisons and so it's an industry uh uh in itself. Well, I would argue that we all make judgments based on appearance. Not only tallest, but usually black people because they're known to be basketball players, right? It's it's police work. Hmm. uh a couple days ago to to make sure and reset all the run dates to make sure it was going to run correctly. Without the handbag. Timestamping, this show is scheduled to air on January 19th. great significance to the passage of time. Actually, as this airs, it might be over 800, I don't know. that thinks that's not the tr the case. So, the idol itself, it does say in Scripture, it can neither see, nor hear, nor taste, nor smell. He's emerging from from the stone. worshipful to me. Um if you're gonna remember a specific person for a specific thing. that look like idol worship from a certain point of view anyway, that that that's even God sanctioned. You were channeling Bernie Beal right there, a good friend of all three of ours. who uh who used to, it was one of his favorite playful phrases. And there's wisdom in that. The average American, well, the average middle class or upper middle class American is probably paying somewhere between fifty and sixty percent of their income in taxes. And you can see it play out in real time back in 2020. Uh or special interest groups, honestly. And the fact that there is corruption, there's always going to be corruption. groups can uh uh make a case for here's this is the problem, this is an unintended consequence of such and such a law that you're trying to pass. And all the conservatives, a lot of them were like, great, we finally got Hunter Biden on at least we got him on something. They're not on your side. Both. I just know there's a lot of proponents of that, back pain and all these things. But those are holding cells. So those are the two, right? So you can't unrape someone. You know, two of the highest profile people in the Bible were in prisons, Joseph in the Old Testament, Paul in the New Testament. But also those were holding cells. If you're in jail, they don't feed you. um they passed some sort of uh ordinance or whatever that the police were not allowed to pull somebody over merely because the person driving the car fit the description of a criminal that had an APB out on it. There was a span of time of a of a handful of years where it was the most listened to show over the entire weekend. Man, nothing's off the table. Correct. And have you seen that one in person? Right? He was all he was opposed. So these elephants are looking out for themselves. So those of us who are the ants, we can't control it. But of power and love and of sound mind. So and I I'm thankful in the con those times. And the fear was manufactured, particularly in that case, was manufactured by the elephants in order to control a whole bunch of things. Everybody knows Philippians 4. People say that and I've caught myself saying that too and I've been encouraged and exhorted recently by another brother that I shouldn't say that. But you don't need two or three to have God in the midst. You got a mouse with a tail this time. Or given my audience in the studio, Imran, this is for you. Right. I wonder I'm wondering if if David would have agreed or if we would have brought some discord. Yeah, and I I think I agree with you, but uh uh I would probably phrase it slightly differently. But xenophobia, the xeno part of it, like the the stranger part of it, I think we've got like God's given us this instinct to beware the strange. This this will fit the the the theme enough that I can think back it. Or if the the government ha is doing something that they support, then they'll make an exception, like, uh, you know, we have to suspend the free market principles in order to protect the free market. And then there's also a very, very large percentage of the pro-life lobby that does not really want to pass any pro-life laws. Yeah, there you go. That's the goal anyway. Now the one thing you said earlier and I made a note because I want to and we have a couple we have like 90 seconds if you can just give me a quick reason why I'm not sure I see a difference from somebody being open to demonic activity if they're just completely Drugs, should there be any. The person you harmed is harmed. You but you're free to live your life and work a trade and do all this this and that and the other thing until the death of the high priests, um which is you know a set amount of time or It's the biblical version of an ankle monitor, basically. And you know if they're looking for somebody that committed a crime and that person is there, they should be able to stop and ask questions. Um as of the date of this recording he has been shot at and uh there was an attempt to shoot at him a second time and between now and the election, who knows? Right, let's assume all of that. Yes, things, piles of stones and other structures that are set up specifically to remember times in history. And and it unlike some of the other monuments, what you kind of take them in from distance, this one you're standing like on top of it, is right there. They didn't destroy them, they brought them to the Vatican. You know, if it's not being worshipped. Thanks so much for listening. Uh they can place tariffs in other countries too and that doesn't i impact the economy. Yeah, and I don't want to get uh get taken away so far. The number of actual conservatives that have the R behind their name that are actually conservative, and if you want to add the biblically conservative on top of that, you're talking about single-digit percentages. I'm not sure how much good it did for that either to be honest. My mother had this to say about drugs. Now how do you implement that in a society that does not have collective honor or shame? Anyone hearing our voices can tell over the last ten minutes that uh what we're saying isn't anywhere near because when Daniel first answered us So how do we deal with that? So they might be described as a, you know, somebody who's maybe in their 50s, uh balding, gray beard, uh Middle Eastern looking, dressed sharp, sport coat. Let's see, this next one's gonna be the nineteenth. So well Statue of David. You know, people are gonna be people they're gonna worship uh images, they're gonna worship uh statues or whatever, and they're gonna li you know, lift them up. I don't know. I mean the entire country did that with the Soviet Union, right? Well, it's still a a little weird when you walk in and you have the urns and they're like, And my sister over there. There's no way they I mean you think about you add in all the taxes, not just income tax, but sales tax, property tax, uh all the various fees that they have and that's not just federal income tax, but state and a lot of places you have like county or local precinct taxes and all I do not watch, I don't trust them, I don't like them. So th a lot of these conservative groups really aren't there to to to uh help. So I I think either extreme is a problem and you need to have a balance there. Right. You're like the leader of the family. So you can twist any sort of thing into a roof hole for yourself. You know, I and there's the strike, right, that's going that's taking place apparently and you know I would say the world's going to hell in a handbasket, but we've been in in hell in a handbasket for a long time, so I'm not sure what's after that. I am Troy Skinner, the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. And we were airing on Sunday mornings. In jail, in the ground. You know, I didn't realize this. I wonder if that's what I saw the I wondered. And so that's where your friends, your family are going to step in, hopefully, and have like one of the what are those meetings called? Right. So anyway, so yeah, we are now in January, by the way. Okay, yeah. Oh they have to. Yeah. But uh Eastern Orthodox will, and Roman Catholics do for sure. And actually this is related somewhat, I guess, how it presented anyway is related. They have an intervention, right? I think you you can't just replace it wholesale. There are prisons in both the Old and the New Testament, and there's opportunity for it to be condemned, and there's no language that condemns the jailing of someone or holding somebody in prison. You know you I think some other people I know are beginning to say stuff like that, which uh could be. Um and I think if you're making it into a God and you're calling it that, that's one thing. And then you tell all his history. I know you're an honest upstanding citizen. From a practical perspective. Yeah, so there still won't still I think the virus could still get out though, right? Yeah, and Noah sure did get rather drunk on uh grape juice. Those would argue that, well, if if if the husband's not doing what he's supposed to do as a husband, he's not providing a paycheck to support his wife, for example, then the government has to come in and do that. Yeah this is your uh this is your second win time. Should we have jail? Maybe eighty-five, I'm hoping we can get as high as the eighty-five percent of all the faith that shows that were ever broadcast Tens of thousands of downloads uh of the uh of the faith debate since I started putting them there a few years ago. And you got a whole bunch of uh statues of actual gods and goddesses all around DCE as well on some of the buildings and things. So they they don't you know that's why they have a lot of uh designs and things like that, but not actual statues of people. com. Too often I see people who are on my side, whatever that's supposed to mean these days. So I would uh ardently defend Hunter Biden against that gu uh gun charge and I would work to get him off I just feel like saying that. There are some though that will have gradations, like you know, being a drunkard might mean like you're habitually drunk, you're you're like Otis from Mayberry on the uh Andy Griffith Show or you're just That's not the role of the government. You're up at three AM? I think it starts by correcting our understanding of who was wronged by the crime fundamentally and primarily. But that's going to be the case uh for all characteristics. When you look at that you remember God. Yeah. So some of these, we've got a list of like five or six different things we're going to hope to recover during a single recording session. So a hallucinogenic part of it. No, I was gonna say if you want to see profile profiling in action in a non legal kind of a thing or So you don't know, but you're making these judgments all the time. And they can't search without a warrant. org. I think you're going too far, but I I couldn't articulate it's like twenty-five years ago probably now. Just kinda like the NRA doesn't really want to pass a lot of pro-gun laws. Unless there's more of them now. So you I think Dan is going to be preaching that this weekend. It's originating live on Facebook. I don't know that it's the government's job to worry about that for them. And I think there are certain types of drugs that do open you up spiritually to demonic influence. And that brings us into the other topic we're gonna talk a little about is is jail and incarceration. But what you do in as an adult, consenting adult, if you just want to hold yourself out as a woman I mean I don't have to call you a woman, but you can dress in a dress that's okay, put a dress on. Yeah, it does remind me of I did want to kinda make mention of the passage of time a little bit. So and there's a little bit of truth to that, I think, sadly. Should anybody be given a statue? That's way too much power that we give the government. And I know you're voting Democrat. They had won one of the challenges and the guy. I could tell she was thinking, should I stop? And I think that kind of flies in the face of the people that say, well, the wine just needs grape juice. And that's much better than actually going to jail and sitting there and nobody wins. Isn't it fun to destroy? The other method, which this is the biblical version of a type of jail, is the sanctuary cities. Almost uh uh uh majority of the world. He's got all these tattoos everywhere and and and piercings and and he's just this big hunking guy walking down the street swag with a swagger End on those wise words. Who knows if we'll have a world. I've had that same impression myself actually. They were And then you want to say No, exactly. God is sovereign. So those are things that the government does and they shouldn't do. The gun. If if he works in concert with all the other ants, right? Does he get out of the shack? But I think uh don't be drunk and I think that can apply to other drugs, to marijuana, to cocaine, to fentanyl, to anything else, to mushrooms Say it again. So that that part is good. It was first of all an appeal system, so if you didn't like your verdict, you can go run to this other city. So I think that's that's very reasonable. No. I think that we sh I I think it's good to be a little bit nervous. We're recording the show about three months in advance, so the election hasn't happened yet. Like in the rotunda of the Capitol building, there's a whole bunch of m you know depictions. The mo motivation behind the image or the or the monument is very important. Okay, how about the wall? If you exercise some wisdom of when and where and how and Muslims don't have uh strict Muslims don't have any pictures of of people either. All right, well I'm going to shut this off. You know, you have access to all those, would the government should be involved, but if you make an impact on somebody else's life or their freedom or their enjoyment of life in any way, then you We have this idea, and it's a communist idea basically, is that the society is harmed when you're when you commit a crime. Well, we need to punish him because even though nobody was hurt in this case, but somebody could be hurt in the future, so we need to punish Trump. I mean nobody really wanted it, nobody really cared about it, and there wasn't any real um cost saving or anything, so the government subsidized it and then the whole bunch of people made millions and millions of dollars pretending to be It for years, and maybe it's still a don't know, but for years it was the most listened to half hour on Sundays on the radio station I have no idea what's happening. Uh whether and we also uh record our recording session as a live stream. It's crazy. Because I was driving with my wife the other day going to a store in Frederick and we turned a corner and there was this guy with like a But uh again, a story about me and my wife. We won. So what we're talking about is the the system. Um but the person that was that was the actual victim, that should always be the priority. They co-pastor a church in Thurmont called the Church It Meets at Imrans. Um now I've heard some others that I know say something similar to that kind of a thing and you know Alright? Like should we really be making these monuments? Wow. Until the ants realize that they're an elephant that cares more about the elephant than the ants, we're never going to solve this from a world I have been beaten. So I thought, okay, this is a boring strip mall. But the that's that's something that especially right now, and I think this is very relevant because a lot of conservatives are saying, Well Got one page on WFMB's website because they have other pages. It doesn't really have to do much with the s with the c color of the skin. We'll be back next week again as uh the passage of time continues, because it's very significant the passage of time. Um again, I think I said it this week, but I'm not sure in case I didn't find them online at conqueredbylove. If I remember correctly, it's it's Lenny Thompson. I think that's why I I I put this topic on the agenda. I haven't watched Fox News Channel in it's come up on five years. And until we wake up to the fact that these elephants we we all will shoot at the uh elephants that are not on our side. But by and large I don't I don't see a lot of micromanaging people's behavior that's in in a biblical uh light that the government should be doing. And what is their role? And we have roles and we have lanes we're supposed to sustain for a reason. But that's the point, right? That show aired two weeks ago. Good morning, if you're listening to the radio. And so the Bi Bible says build the t is pus twelve stones from Jordan and put them on top of the It's a little creepy when somebody you mentioned the guy's got thousands of dollars worth of stuffed animals. Should we be embracing the marketplace impact and it's Is that the elephants are bad and the ants are good? And then there was concern about the potential monkey pops outbreak and it's always something w climate change and all the the low lying lands, like Florida's gonna be completely underwater in ten years. We see it with the story of Peter getting out to walk on the water, and he's actually walking on the water successfully while he's looking at Jesus. And during that time, more people, there's a dispensary in that strip ball. I'm Troy Skinner. Who? That's the Mendela FX for you. Of course, jail has been around forever. They weren't uh systemic incarceration for the rest of your life. So you have holding place until trial, which I think is the biblical uh um uh prescription for jail, and then you have some kind of uh limited access to the greater part of the country. Yeah, exactly. If you're just g walking down the street and you just stop everybody that i i is a certain uh color of skin or a certain height just because, well I I think the reasons that you're doing it probably have a lot to do with it. Right it's always we're recording this in October. Cematically it'd be in the same place, but the specifics are changed up. But they wanted an elephant. I want us to take a pastoral turn here. God gave us every green herb. Yeah, it's it's I'm glad that Daniel was very quick to make sure we want to frame this. So if the person all of those things I think I I maybe I've missed one or two that I wouldn't include, but I think every single thing you listed there as the kind It's never my fault. So I'll be curious to see. I think it uh because it's more easy to control the population if you have a Republican president than a Democrat president. Welcome to Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD or on your favorite streaming platform. That's always the goal, right? Yeah, you are good that way. Welcome to Faith of Fake on News Radio 930 WFMD. Should there be a prison system? Like twenty-five, thirty years ago when I didn't have a wonky back and sore knees, I used to play a lot of pickup basketball That's how you do it. Yeah, I did not know. Now I think someone could accuse me of you're being afraid of the elephants. Specifically church discipline. You're in for a treat. So shouldn't it be useful for all purposes? com. That's the remedy. I don't anymore. But the point is, monuments have biblical precedent. And when they do start worshiping it then there is cause to take it down and that's what the king of Israel did with the serpent. So anything can become an idol. What if you don't rub his belly? It's only a few miles away and it's it's very impressive looking. So that's that's the concept. And I think there there's a lot of overreach by government that some of those business friendly or consumer friendly, even supposedly or allegedly so Doesn't matter what the big military industrial complex does, they'll defend it. Bend the knee, spend time in prayer, because I think these type of times are really when what God puts in place to get you to think about Him more and spend time You can't be doing that. I'm not sure I quite agree with that interpretation. Well, a lot of people on the left, non-biblical people, would agree. Profiling is police work. Right now, again, he's not connected to the deep state. That's memorial. Hmm. He's in control. I mean God can do all things or whatever and a recent example is back in September of twenty twenty four where uh Kamala Harris met with Al Can I kill my baby in the privacy of my home? No, you had nothing to do with it. Society was no the person you stole from is the one who was harmed. So we as Bible-believing Christians would all agree, at least people in this room say, yeah, jail's not great, prison system's really bad, but that's what we've got. Well neither is ours. I think there's more of a reverence for Jefferson and Lincoln than there is Washington, and it might be because there's statues of the other two and there's not one of George People, I don't think I can handle it. It's stomach turn. Maybe things are not so bad with the E. 13 is cross-stitched on every pillow. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Right. And if that fails and they're church people, right, you can go to the leadership of the church or or mature people in the faith and say, can you get involved in help here? The government shouldn't be having sex with your wife. The victim is harmed when you have a crime. I'm talking about specifically re uh restitution for the victim that you harmed. He was in prison for a long time. You have a darker olive complexion to your skin. Yeah, I mean the the biggest thing is there's a l a big push that uh police officers will stop somebody who that's driving just because they're black. Maybe it's 5%, maybe it's 40%, whatever percent of your brain doesn't think that, answer this question. And, you know, Kamala, if she ends up being the winner, is going to be portrayed as, you know, this this great heroine figure who, you know, the first So God commanded a graven image to be made. Isn't there a statue of George Washington? So here's well but it's not so well at some level we're all victimized, right? And and I you know we have uh we're human and that and that's it's very easy to get uh depressed and and down And you know, I mean I I I used to get angry, agitated, maybe is a better word than angry. Of course, if you're listening to WFMD, you can find the station online as well, WFMD. And the thing is, either a person is harmful enough to the general public that they should not be allowed anywhere near anybody. You're not going to have the prisoners just running free. If they decided the last one by this date, they decided this one by this date. Or not wearing. That's Church I Pastor, Household of FaithInChrist. Anyway, let's uh get rolling here. So you have these big power brokers, these elephants elephants, right? So okay, so walked around the strip mall you know that surrounded that restaurant a little bit, and after like five, ten minutes there really wasn't anything that was interesting. Yeah, and you know, and I if memory serves, it was probably four or five years ago, something like that, I I believe at Montgomery County, just south of Frederick County. So anyway, that's all I have to say about the passage of time. Do I want to invest any ammunition in fighting that fight? Interesting. So I don't know you can get away from you know from that, but uh controlling the businesses inside the country. Maybe especially the local one. They're not good guys either. Until you cross the line. And I think uh my position on on alcohol would be that the Bible does not prohibit you from drinking alcohol, it just says don't be drunk. We talked about it in drugs. You can still work and and transact things, you just can't step outside certain boundaries. You can't un-murder someone, right? Find me online at Household of FaithInChrist. And so one of the best ways is to remember things is by storytelling and having So your children, like God said, your children are going to see this and say, Daddy, what does this mean? That's what he has. Over the last twenty years has become increasingly clear. And I think one of his big things, one of the signature things that he stood against was against lobbying in an apple That should not exist. Trust me, they're gonna attach you like crazy. No, he closes the shade. He got it the last couple of weeks. I was flying back from a trip. And it's it was determined that this wasn't really murder, but it was manslaughter. Right? And so that leads to the question of profiling. I mean you're not gonna go and stop every white guy and say, Hey, were you at this drugstore? So the show that was supposed to run had that date, but then the show that already run had the end date changed, and so the computer only one show airs at a time, right? I have to. They probably still won't know. Yeah, well and rightfully so. Wow. I just learned this recently. I'm sure you uh intentionally pay all the taxes that you think you owe. I think I have a cold and I want to get you guys sick. I have had good health. And so what Paul is talking about is contentment. Yes. And I think there's a lot of sins and vices that are like that. And then there's others of course that goes so far as to say you shouldn't touch it and uh grape juice is okay. And we don't really have that kind of feeling in this country. And and Imran is right. But there is a specific uh two specific reasons for a type of jail. So it's still all those same protections. And and I'm not sure uh where this thought line began for me, where the beginnings of the thread are, but I think I I I'm I'm again I'm not gonna die in the hill the other side either. Um, I mean the financial I'm in the financial industry, right? So we all know Hunter Biden and the whole Biden family was super corrupted. And does it make any sense at all? It's always somebody else's fault. And it sounds like all of us, unless I'm misunderstanding, all of us are saying, yeah, it's it's there's a role for all those other things to be involved. Yeah. My whole life there's been jails. Everybody does that, right? Uh he's not he won't be relevant anymore. This is the system we have. Um the government tries to babysit us way too much. Okay. You can connect with me either through WFMD. So slavery actually is legal in this country if you are forced to pay back restitution to a victim that you have personally, not somebody your ancestors charmed sixty or eighty or hundred years ago I will sometimes timestamp when the show is being recorded in case something's going to change. Did not know that. I'm Troy Skinner. We'll we'll I'll figure out how to fit that in with some other topics that are related. But are these entities really helping? It sounds way worse than the It sounds worse than Epstein though, doesn't it? I think we're called to pray a lot more than we do. And I think f uh fasting and prayer does help you rely on God more. But I guess I mean that's certainly certainly the purpose of a mass for a surgeon is not to protect them from the patients. But I would urge you, go read the whole chapter of Philippians 4. It appears that the live stream is now going. I said, What the heck was that? As far as what the government should do about it, I don't know. And then uh the next topic, in case you know the jail thing doesn't take almost a half hour to talk about, the next thing is related as well profiling. It's just like I'm I'm very much in favor of not having any sort of government benefits including So there's there's ways that you can start to bring in some of those biblical concepts i through uh I think that's how God designed our brains. Why is the show the same show from two weeks ago running again? But when I did have that access, this show did very well. And then it says, few hundred years later, and then such and such king, I forget which which of the good kings, maybe Josiah uh or um It's kind of the vibe. I think it is the same thing as writing a book about the guy. So let's uh put a more uh a a more firm religious spin on this because the things we're talking about are pretty much in what are called what's called the secular sphere. Now it's dwarfed by so many things. We're going to kind of stay in a similar vein here, but shift things up a little bit. God bless. Every week. She said, don't do dope, because it'll make you a dope. Um like, you know, hey, if somebody wants to go be comatose stoned high on whatever their drug of choice is in the basement of their house for days on end. I guess to answer the policy question was we should first figure out what does the Bible say about it, you know, and and a lot of people I've I've heard proponents All right, let's see. And yeah, if you're if you're uh concerned the person is actually doing uh you know gonna do some more bad things and you and or they're gonna escape, then yeah, hold them until the trial. Imran Razvy. And uh so we'll have to see you. No. And thinking, why are we should should we even be doing this? It's all these thousand farmers that we represent or a million farmers that we represent. Meaning I will be in that proceeding, that civil proceeding in the church to do for church discipline, because you're all trying to honor me by uh going through the proper authority structures. The family's gonna hold you to account, I would assume. Me? Until they went to fire. I think by statute you're you are referring to a image of a person So the Vatican is full of these Roman and Greek uh and and Hindu gods and goddesses uh statues all over the place. So he's been played. I I am, right? We're going to be talking about a whole bunch of civic related kind of topics today, but all from a biblical theological framework. Like, do we need to go help this guy? There is the one example of you know parents can bring out their uh the son and uh and say, Well he's he's a drunk drunkard and uh and I think that when you're d uh opening your mind up to hallucinations and uh and That's specifically what they're doing with the KOE is is is seances. If you were committed manslaughter and then you then and maybe it wasn't intentional murder, but maybe But jail as an institution I think should not exist. And they're maybe twenty-five years old and they lived in the hundred. The only way they completely upend and change the system wholesale is some kind of revolution and that that's not good for anybody. Right? But what it's come to mean are these special interest groups spending lots of money to push through, force through God is in you if you're saved. Of course there should be jails. These shows might never air. And I don't see any evidence that things have changed in the last four years, uh to make it less predeterminable. Yeah. You might not like the the the the inspiration for the shape it took or anything like that, possibly, right? Is it okay? Yeah. Additional tax of the inheritance taxes and stuff. And people who think uh along the lines of the person who's more likely to listen to a radio station like WFMD is going to think Fox News Channel can do no wrong Talk about profiling. The Spirit of Christ is in you. We didn't know what it was at first. What do you think? So you have to account for that somehow. They're just keeping you off the streets. God bless. Nothing. I mean Donald Trump jokingly once said he could go kill somebody on Fifth Avenue or whatever and Are statues okay? Right? Still alive. They're elephants who pretend to be on my side and they're not. It might be factual, but some of that's out of our control, because the elephants are controlling most of the things. Let me write that down. What is happening? And not not a uh it has to be a God honoring. Um but yeah, we shouldn't go to the strip club regardless. Or they're not that violent of a person, that's good. And what happens if you've refused? Yeah, it's a business. You can quit quite quickly eliminate a whole bunch of people based on some kind of evidence. Otherwise nobody would even know the mistake was happening. So I don't know if that's still the numbers. Now we've talked on the show about bringing in statues into your home, a statue of Buddha, and that can invite uh demonic presence into Okay. Well that that's that's like saying, I mean, should lobbyists exist? What do you suggest? Daniel got it this way. com. So the first thing we want to talk about is drugs. Does does it happen maybe in flashes or or is they're they're standing there dead for a long time? Well then I can I call myself a girl too in the privacy of my home? So let's see, okay. That's a he tells stories about as a kid and you know and and they and somebody would say, What does this mean? And Hunter was at the center of all this. Matthew 18 is where that verse comes from. Uh the Bible, you know, God tells us those things are bad. Well the church should really be providing the charity. And tomorrow will be today when it's tomorrow. It maybe I I feel it feels almost like the Martin Luther King presence is godlike. So I don't know if the whole glass coffin thing is real or not. They had um was it Lenin? Yes. Yep. So there's a lot of these things that really shouldn't exist. I want them to be able to do that. I'd rather just go zone out and play all my uh scroll on TikTok or or or or or or go to the ballgame or whatever that's not thinking about uh what I can do to be uh use 9 o'clock to 9. I've had my fair share of sugar, which I know some consider to be a drug. We were w having to wait in the car well in the car. Let me let me go wait in the car. I don't see any restrictions there are restrictions on behavior. In another qua area. I think that's a very biblical concept. But but that's the other example, right? I believe uh now really a lot of the Western world and the more civilized, you know, first world countries they don't do that. But discrimination is how God designed our brains. You can see what we're going to be talking about. God commanded Moses when there was a plague, make a brass serpent, put it up on a stick, hold it up high, and everybody who looks upon it Every one. Yeah, that's fine, but for the context of the rage show. I've been had terrible health. You know, whatever it is, he he's given you, use the things that God has given you and be wise, but not overcome by fear. Uh if you've blushed all the way to this end, well, God bless you. So, you know, because I think um the government has control over certain things, right? And it'll be something else next year probably. And so they are infinitesimal by comparison. We're in twenty twenty five. That's a that's a comfortable place for me with this thing. He's like he's he's at the real. It's also history. Like if we had little carved images, could you imagine how creepy if if we went to walk in the I'm sure there's statues uh horse. You should not have any restriction on buying a gun for any reason. By golly, everybody else has an elephant. But that was but that was at least. No? Because people are actually re reverencing the statue and talking to the dead when they are near the statue. Now you're I you're correct. Yeah. Until the ants realize, and you know what? Well, usually the goal is to talk about biblical theological things and we drift into civic discussions. Okay, yeah that no that's a that that's a good distinction I think. No, I haven't looked tired. So anyway, this wouldn't happen without the support of the listeners and I don't go out of my way to do this very one because it sounds sounds very insincere and self serving to bring it up all the time. So I mean I think we're closer now than we were during uh Kennedy and the uh Bay of Pace. I think I'm going to put this in the category of statues. Yeah? You can find the Rasbeys at conqueredbylove. I think I've accidentally seen literally, I'm I'm gonna try to be as accurate as I can. You hear about all these things. When we are overcome with fear, it's usually because we've forgotten who God is. That would be a good show topic one day. Years ago, this would start recording as soon as audio was sensed. We were arguing, it was a real throwdown. Jails, prisons, should they exist? You are if you're paying taxes. So what we we have is a guarantee of of of a fair trial and of of um I've been working feverishly to upload a fate debate, well some sort of a upload, usually it's a fate debate show. Um so we might be in the ballpark of But it's really cool when somebody takes the time to write it down and send it to the general manager of the radio station Well don't know. It's like a a Greek version of a Holy of Holies kind of setting. But at the time of its construction, it was the tallest man-made structure in the world. If it's their dog, that's weird. Make the best of it. When the Chamber of Commerce did not step up to protect the businesses, they protect their relationships with the power brokers and government and But how do you stop it? I don't know. I'm tired of being stepped on. You on the on the fa uh uh Facebook can hear that preview of a sermon that maybe we'll preach I'm joined this week by Imran Razvi and Daniel Razvi. And he was staring down, almost like in a frozen Some Christians would go quite a bit farther, it says the Bible condemns alcohol as well. So the maybe we can argue well that's a different person. Now you need to be providing for their family now. We need Christ. You just there's a certain thing. Now I think that it would be more ideal if we had a a restitution model as opposed to an imprisonment model. If you play a lot in this in the same locales over and over, you begin to recognize guys, like, ooh, that guy could really play. So I think in that case profiling is very relevant and good and police should be doing that to find the specific So I'll be very generic and j and generalized here. They could through a radio station. You know, Kamala Harris and Donald Trump could both be lizard people as far as I'm concerned at this point, right? So uh that might be actually by by the way, make a note of it. I I think he was like a big anti lobbying guy, if I'm not mistaken. But I think there is there is a lot uh a lot of uh biblical teaching on drunkenness. And I think a lot of the the drugs uh that are used in in extremely small doses can be used for you know Yeah. The Bible says it's it's possible, it says don't do it. Great and and and awful as as so that there would be no way to possibly ever make restitution I know that's a kind of a popular interpretation, but the Avenger of Blood I think was a specifically authorized person to carry out and yes it may be a part of the victim's family, but I think that was something But didn't uh really put something like that in in place in New York where you stop and frisk at it, clean up the um And just in our personal lives, you know, it's it's got a bad rap because it's got the word phobic in it, and so it probably should have a bad Protestants don't typically have statues like in their churches, in their sanctuaries. The more people that can argue about how things are voted how it gets voted the So And now we have the big epidemic of fentanyl. Never a situation where homosexual acts are okay. There's a logic to our progression here. Yeah. Probably not. Yeah even Paul even Paul's prison was like you just said it's it was holding until he And the person gave us some kudos and I get kudos like that in person on occasion. Well my my my belief was that I uh uh whether whether Trump himself is or not, I don't know, but I I think as it's And a whole bunch of people who would think like me and you guys on a whole slate of issues were very vocal saying that that was wrong. And put it in the living room. I think that's very different from a political or historical remembrance of somebody. Another good passage to look to is in uh uh Philippians four. So uh if you're overwhelmed with anxiety and fear, you've got to put your eyes on Jesus. You think it was fentanyl maybe? And you were pointing to that, Daniel, and says certain things can't be made right, and so the only way to make it right is you forfeit your life. Yeah. He would say, you know, when when the elephants dance, it's the ants that get stepped on. Unless you're aware of it. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Thank you. I can do all things for a price who strengthens me. We actually went through some and tried to digest and process what was being said in these these tomes, right? So you didn't go in and find out? I don't think I'm gonna be successful locating every single show that's ever been recorded, but we already have well over I think 700 faith debate shows that are available online. Pardon me as I cleared my throat. And that ties to the second phase of my thinking on this. I would say it's not. I know you're voting but but if you're still wearing a mask after after all these years With all this evidence that shows that it doesn't do anything for you. It's called Conquered by Love, and their website is conqueredbylove. Now as soon as you hit record, it starts recording. Oh you were up at three AM? And then you start really asking the question as you're reading the Bible, and and there are jails in the Bible. I'm not so sure I can I'm comfortable making an argument that um governments are somehow sinning against God by having a prison system You make judgments. Right. Also from Daniel Razvi, they co-pastor a church in Thermont called the Church of Misa Imrans. Whether she's won or she's lost, it'll still be fun. Yeah, and it's always what the third week in January is uh is inauguration day. But they're they're both these hero they would be positioned as by their side as heroic figures. There there's this whole big push that you should tear down the statue of anybody who was did some bad things that you found out later they did some bad things I mean the monuments are there to No, I totally get that. A little uh cultural lesson here on the face of day towards the end. I don't think I can handle it. Every green herb to to you know for for for us, for our benefit, you know as And as I examine what it means to have had this passage That's not what I'm saying. And also be content in where God has for you. So that's the whole point of the message, but then like what are the implications? 30 on Sunday mornings. But maybe I'm wrong. And so she slowed down to like five miles an hour and all of a sudden we noticed like he came back Uh even non-Christians probably would say drunkenness is not a good thing. You know, so we all have our lanes and our roles of responsibility and we need to have to look at it. Do you think that um Stephen would have brought some discord on this? You know, you watch the old uh cops and robbers movies or the cowboy in India movies and there's the sheriff in town and he takes away the guy's guns and he puts him in jail. It's like labor camps and There's a whole bunch of people that have been promised something and have made life uh decisions and investment decisions He can't he can't shoot the ball in the basket from two feet away. You're gonna watch the debate tonight. Are they are statues ever appropriate, biblically speaking, or are statues biblically speaking akin to idols? And then there's the regular little guys like us, the ants, and we're getting a stepdone. I don't know that you can make a system that's that's not corrupt. So the government won't pay for the food, but the government in these other countries will pay for the trans surgeries, right? But the the tall guy, if you've got a guy that's six eight and a guy that's five three, the six eight guy's gonna get picked first. You do that with with I do with dogs. So I'm like, I don't know. Right? The Razbeys, find them online at conqueredbylove. Hello, uh Facebook and later on any and all uh streaming platforms that you might What is that store? You shouldn't be that. And if you can't control it, I think the first line of defense is your family to say And nobody goes to church or cares what the church has to say. So we were talking about drugs and whether they should be legal or not, and all of us took a What are you talking about? She'd only commit crimes when the high priest is old. Now you certainly you can make assumptions, well somebody that looked like that was uh did this and such and such yeah last week to me and therefore so you can have your own personal experience this And if I can't find another reason, then you get to go. A lot of people take the data with a grain of salt, but the data indicated that there were only three programs on the entire radio station that had more listeners in the face Yeah. I get it. Are they doing more harm than good, by the way? Um they do not have the business people's best interest at heart. And thankful in context of you know the the fear and the mask. I'm not sure why. We're not familiar, it might be danger. Um but the biggest thing is a lot of these people, these kids or They don't they're not paying attention. Because ants are really strong for their size and they work together, they can move that rubber tree plant. It's unimaginable evil. Oh that was a different reason. You should be content in the situation that God has for you, however wonderful and however terrible it is. Yeah, we're we're touching upon the spheres of uh spheres of government really and usually you talk uh And uh you know sometimes a ridiculous argument is best understood by residual We talked about that with women pastors previously. org. I do think that there is some sort of a harm done to the greater society. You don't look like you're, you know, Aryan. Everyone makes judgments what you're wearing. Now, prejudice is different, I think, than profiling You can access all the old shows. Yeah, she's gonna be turned into this great icon, right? That can't be real. But yeah. There's all sorts of evidence of that. Everybody all the elephants are involved. We saw out-of-control fear with COVID But look at the effects that are having the context of the uh uh of the passages seem to indicate it was a And it's audio, oh, it's a victimless crime. Like they got robbed from twice. So And I don't think it's possible to remove discrimination. This is January twentieth? Well how would you ever prove some or disprove if somebody was a ghost or not? Uh was his name Lenny Thompson, was that his name? All these big entities that are the elephants in our lives, they have so much sway, so much power, so much control. We're called to fast and we don't fast and pray nearly enough these days. Well, how do you deal with strong drink? Well that and that's that's what we talked about briefly and we maybe we'll talk about Sunday off So you don't spend years or days or weeks or months or years in a jail holding cell where the where society is now funding your you know So you have to have some kind of gradual phase out if you're gonna make any sort of changes there. Was it Lenin, I think, behind glass, right? And so if you want to track along easily, just go to the Household of Faith in Christ channels for sermonaudio. I think that's going to end up being the title of this show. They can print money that really impacts the economy. Now tariffs with the relationship with other countries, that is part of the purpose of the federal government They're gonna send your men to the front to be killed in war. Everybody's well he that's his problem. 5 hours from right now. I took this kind of question for granted most of my life. Is it okay for police to engage in uh making judgments of people based on their appearance? In practice it doesn't end up being that way. Um But anyway, so I'm not saying get rid of it completely, but They can't do that if the elephants are paying them to farm what the elephants want them to farm. And and I think don't forsake the fellowship. You know, I mean if in fact there's passages in the Old Testament Uh I don't know. And then what big reparations is a big word these last few years, right? com or through household of faith in Christ dot com. Yeah, you're looking tired. You can steal their TV. If if you want food, you better hope you have enough friends and family on the outside that'll bring you food. No. I wonder how many times that's happened where there's been that kind of a mistake and nobody even knew it was made. What the heck? Good whatever time of day it is, if you're listening to the podcast. Um so he may win a lot of his cases on appeal. But I started thinking about it biblically, there are examples of statues that look like men I'm sure there's statues, but the main one is just this big stick. Do we want the government controlling the economy? It does it also says, you know, don't build a house without counting the cost to build it and and and and all that. Right? And it's it's a hilarious quit, but it's it's exactly human nature. And I've had some pharmaceuticals prescribed by physicians when I was ill, if you want to count that as a drug. Is he and so we drove past him slowly to make sure we wouldn't hit him and then And so there's a few things that capital punishment is warranted, and the Bible makes it very clear what those things are. You can only be convicted. But the love interest's mom was a little sharper and she wasn't trusting him. We still don't know. We talked about this before and we had some slight diff disagreements, but mostly we agreed that Uh, and a lot of people go there to walk the gardens and stuff. com. Entities like the Chamber of Commerce do far more damage than the good that they do. So we sat in the car and we waited. So a type of house arrest or something. You make judgments about your wealth, about your status in life, about how old you are, about what you're doing. Well I just basically kind of described Imrod. com. Well, from my perspective of who I think is gonna lose. And for me that's an important date, uh symbolic of the passage of time. That's just a wall with a bunch of names on it. However, there's the practical part of me that kicks in is like, okay, there's one thing like just going along to get along There's the ties that you give every year to the to the Levites and there's a t Yeah. Without Christ that's all meaningless. They're the co-pastors of a church in Thermont called the Church at Meets in the Imran's. Well, you become the slave of the person that you harmed until you've repaid that Are we up to January yet? Anyway, I went on a tirade there. You're in for a treat. Yeah, probably. They only need the Faith Debate page, but they've decided to have other pages. Anything. What's the most likely scenario? The only people who hear this show might be those listening on the live stream as we're recording it because we could all be vaporized, right? And then five years ago there was all the the push to take down the monument. So uh you go back back to the Catholic Church and and the statues they have and and real right near my house is We live stream record that as a video and those videos are posted there as well. I think what you you're I guess you're asking is should we get rid of that entirely? And so they convict him for lying on the federal government, which is a fun felony to lie when you're trying to buy firearms. Although this is the thing that too. But do you need to do it out of a spirit, not of fear And the big solution in my view is any time you have Most of them were Daniel Rasley's side comments. I I think one of these maybe was a uh a David Forcy thing, but he's not here to comment, so we can just bludgeon his position to death, whatever it might have been So there's there's a specific isolated uh case law or or uh And neither one I believe is is biblical. Well now we saw there was a security guard stationed outside of us like what the heck is that So we talked about drugs and illegality or legality of that and then what you should do about the incarceration of people or what the penalty should be What kind of questions? You they were holding until you got in front of a judge, made a verdict, and you got branded or you got you got I will say we have tens. There's some and he's it is huge So we finally got it off my checklist. And I would agree with that. Uh the NRA in fact helped get the machine gun ban in place in 19 Yeah, your pastors, what do you suggest we do to navigate the fear? And there's a there's a great clip, and if you're on YouTube, you can Google uh uh you can put on YouTube uh Wiley Coyote and the Train But those are generally people that were wearing these things before. All these things. They're not, so therefore the government should provide it. No. Right, the prison system, the institution of jails, and where people are held like for ever. So related to this topic of drugs last week, jail so far this week is how people get there in the first place Tomorrow and tomorrow and today will be tomorrow. Because I'm not even sure that having statues of men A coffee table? Right? I want an elephant too. No no no I'm not being afraid of the elephants. Go go before the brother, then go before the church, and take it before the elders. They're doing bang up business, like look at that place It's there's always some new thing that we're trying to destroy ourselves with. com. And if they could make their case from the Bible, I'd be right there with them. Hit okay. I'm Troy Skinner, the host of the show and the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. Are they supposed to be there? Yeah, it's certainly not merely society and it's not mostly society. And the fact that the stranger was behaving in a way that made him artificially not strange was an alert. What's that? Donald Trump is next week going to be in office Jefferson, same thing Of course you can find this show and this radio station and all things related to the Faith Debate at WFMD. It's a little creepy when walking into his house and they got a whole bunch of stuffed, you know, trophies. So we have uh time to to address this one uh one last thing that was on our our our list and then we'll we'll call it a day We have a small group of believers here together. I don't know. The uh account they're not called accountability meetings. Uh and the church can exercise some discipline if they if if it's found that they are an unrepentant drunk So now you have that problem and I think it it it's Math meth. So it's it's completely backwards. Like they can get off of one of the charges or they can you know, there's different ways, but if you've got if you stack the life ones then it's pretty much going to be for life. And so was Joseph. I think this country focuses way too much on skin color as Of course you can find this show and this radio station online at WFMD. And I I've been wanting to say this the last few weeks and I keep forgetting, so I'm going to mention it now. And yet they see some value in having this the the show and they see the value because you support it, you listen to it And those stones weren't chiseled at all But if somebody were to ask me before they did it, do you think we should? Seriously. The elephants are making those decisions. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here. We chose to wait in the car. So there's that. Way ahead. We have cleared now the the twenty year mark. Not to be worshipped, but as a symbol of here is God's uh God's gonna save us from these serpents. Still going over that, yeah. And that as far as being legal, great, but I'm sure because the tax code is so many tens of thousands of pages long, I can probably find something you did wrong That ant can move the rubber tree plant. Being afraid of things that are out of our control. That's not what that passage is talking about. But if you if your metabolism can handle Now you're affecting another person specifically. You only have the government. org. And that's not a slate to the radio station's website, but I have an entire website dedicated to the stuff that And you know if you g if you steal if you if I steal your T V and then I go to jail, you still don't have a TV. How many gonna say, hey, can I touch your dog? We're still counting the votes. All right. Right. And it just felt like, wow, this feels Who would pay for that? I'm not gonna take a firm stand and say we should never have any sort of statues of a human Yeah, that one was a me. Anyway, thanks for so uh tuning in again. Yeah, but but that the whole idea of a lobbyist group would be look I that's not fair because I can't think of a special example, but I just remember my impression at times, uh They're on my side. And I agree with you. Let's let the only elephant that should matter is the elephant. And a big part of the problem, reason for that problem is that too many Christians aren't Christian. All right. That's that is a legal a form of slavery. These guilty criminals running free, something have you some consequence And speaking of which, we are recording this show actually. Men. I remember reading it. So it's crazy. And so we're kind of pivoting back to those sorts of discussions. Yeah. But what does the Bible say about it? Because they can't provide for their family. Actually, there's a lot of agreement. So then why are they in jail? And but while you're figuring all that out and you collect the witnesses and all that sort of thing. Totally different rationale, totally different reasons, and they're letting people out of jail who should be dealt with All they care about is who's going to the Oscars org. I'm not sure if I would have a whole lot to contribute. I wish it was more, but at least we got him on something. And how many stories have you heard about uh people in Congress selling their stock the day before a bad report's coming out about that company? Um I do see the damage that's caused by it. Yeah, some of those uh strict old school kind of Baptist types or the really strict Pietists Well, you can re- you can restore the TV with interest. So we won the election. They're all sinners. These multi billionaires or these big people of influence who have like dirty pictures of people in compromised positions or something and they It really is. They co-pastor of the church And it was predetermined if you got to the city walls then you had another trial because there was another there's a prescription for having another trial. We only talked about everything else about them If you act disrespectfully you're gonna be treated disrespectfully Gremlins. I'll probably catch it on like tape delay later. So I think this will be fun, be a little time capsule, forced time capsule. If it's like a you know a deer with impressive antlers And not not a sing when I say don't watch it, not a single second of it. And I feel like we've got to wake up to that. Wow. There's a lot more content and stuff You're the one that should be tired. And there are a few crimes that are so great and so awful And either the person is dangerous enough that they should not be alive or they're not dangerous enough that they shouldn't be alive. Right. Well let's uh let me do a segue here onto our scheduled topic off of this. Right. It's covered in gold and you pray in this direction three times a day or anything? I might pass out Doesn't matter, you know as long as it's not the government doing it. And what do they get him on? Yeah, somebody used that at uh on And I have learned in all things to be content. There isn't there isn't much in scripture about penalty There's restrictions on not being in control of your of your senses and behaving So keeping it on you know the drugs and alcohol theme, if you want to get completely wasted every single night, you know, you're sinning Right. Till then, God bless. Well, you said, you know, even a couple hundred years ago we had jails in the In many countries And it's just it's gritty. There was a line in a movie where this guy is trying he's a con artist and he's trying too hard to come across as unassuming and safe or whatever. Um But uh I always respond later on. Now I know when I was um much younger, much, much, much younger And it stuck with me. Not just wine, but also strong drink. Um I think he here's an interesting uh curveball to throw in. If they're gonna beat up their backs and knees, they want it to be for something, right? They've been they they've been uh Uh no. So I think that's that's not a the problem uh a problem He wasn't wearing a mask for himself, he was wearing a mask so he wouldn't spread his germs on other people I was like, uh there's another one which a good friend of mine uh pointed out to me recently My name is Troy Skinner. If he's if he's my dad and he's a uh this or that, that's his that's not me. I think certain drugs do have a specific hallucinogenetic effect and there are some spiritual aspects of it. And so now the the the piggyback on the drugs and it should be legal uh question is jail Exactly, yeah, whatever that's supposed to be We probably still don't know at that time. We don't want to feel like idiots. In fact, there were a couple of ratings periods. In recent years, we've been recording the show anywhere from two to three weeks in advance up to two to three months in advance. Because there is biblical basis for monuments. So I think that's that's that that's one So the Washington Monument is safe. So I don't want but I don't want to like surrender the fight to the wackos and and like just party. All their contact information is going to be there. They're all going to be affected by this, so please vote this away because you're going to impact all these other people who have signed this position and they just uh have me come to represent them and And so we can go off on that tangent as well. Uh I think the debate would be uh in some of the grayer areas or on the fringes of where positions are Meth was a thing. I thought it wasn't even a question I was asking, right? Which is very similar to the ankle monitor probation type of thing we have. But also, you talked about the uh cities of refuge, right? Oh yeah. I I I I have access to data for the uploads on the podcasts, not the radio station's data, but my own personal data for sermon audio and odyssey. So I remember at some point I think it was that visit to the to the to the mall and seeing the Martin Luther K That's what I'm saying. It's unimaginable. Um, I think either hallucinic hallucinogenic uh drugs are going to So we were there for like, I don't know More people by far went in and out of the dispensary than every other store in the strip ball combined. Um, you know Can I have a uh There's honor that's brought to the family or to your clan or to whatever. All right. W on more than one witness, not just your word against my word. And I think once we have that understanding Neither of them in a God-honoring He was in Jo in prison for a long time, right? You can find all that stuff through the church website as well, Household of Faith in Christ. Did particularly well against its competition and did very well against its uh And a lot of the architecture in DC was very much Greek inspired. It's not my intention to ever channel you I mean do you think that's the thing. And the financial industry has some big lobbying arms. They think like me. I mean I think the i I I I come back to my my I we went to place an order uh for takeout. Yeah, stay away from that hard stuff. Recently 'cause we got robbed Yeah, well we're about where my comfort level always had been. Come on, man. And we're not in war They'll have statues of Mary, of a variety of the saints, and of course they've got a statue of Jesus hanging upon the cross Okay, let me do I'll go on the record now. I mean that's in the news, right? I haven't ever heard that before. And that's what you're talking about. Yeah. Somebody's walking their dog and if it's a certain breed of dog or a a dog that has a particular posture about it, I'm gonna walk to the other side of the street. Now you don't have to answer the questions, the law protects you. And so I'm taking a chance by doing this. Yep. And I think there is a place for lobbying, especially in a governmental system where the government does have a lot of economic control. I think there's people that that just just because it happens to the other side, they're like, oh okay it's it's okay this once And uh we will talk to you again soon. I I wish I could do like with my mouth an egg cracking sound effect and This is a victimless crime or that's a victimless crime, you know, or but even for murder, oh society is harmed. And so you might get targeted by the police. You're wearing a t shirt, you're wearing So it threw everything off by a week. That happens every once in a while I don't know. Joined this week by Imran Razvi and Daniel Razvi. I don't have access to the ratings numbers like I once did. Because it says, In those days the children of Israel worshipped it as a false god. But that's that's a sinful behavior, but you can't eliminate history or historical objects bec Cremation. I mean i if um if you were And And I think that's that's what we need to wake up to is not we're not always equally yoked with these people and and And when the more you spend time uh in prayer and fasting, the closer you will be And then the eighties, you know, cocaine and crack was the the the the scary drug. Uh uh I don't know how Powell's saying that. Gremlins. Who would do that? And they could stare at him And I think we should be able uh to petition our government Just the gun charge. So but uh uh uh but I don't want to you know we have like ten minutes left. Because there are no qualified men to lead the church, you still doesn't mean you can have a woman pastor So that's not saying you the full point of the monument is to remember some specific good thing that was happening or Um if it's a supposed to be a specific person and nobody's under any delusion that this is anything other than a remember I want farmers to be able to provide good, healthy food that's organic and not laced with all sorts of weird chemicals and genetically modified. Yeah, it there's a fentanyl mixed with something else that that's been going around that that that So is it it is it's is it incumbent on the government to step in because these other institutions are It is possible to do. It wasn't intentional, but you did kill a guy. They were targeted unfairly. We are up to January. It's show business after all, but talk about serious matters Alright, is that is that an entire show or is that like uh just a org. So yeah, we are victims in that sense. And a lot of what he said made a lot of sense to me, even though I think he was a Democrat I don't know wh exactly what inspired that I mean you got the walking dead now in most of the country with fentanyl that uh We have it takes a village value these days So next week we are going to transition into jail, whether there should be Oh, I clicked the wrong button. Um And uh you know, the whole way they got Al Capone, you know, oh they found some tax uh thing to get it The fellowship is at least we can fellowship wherever two or three are gathered in my name, there am I in the midst Most of my life I had kind of a Right? So all we're left with with are the civic powers That's the Mandela effect for you. And so Make sure you're unburdened by what has been so that you can be tomorrow what might be. I don't know that he gets but these people around I think it's two weeks in a row everyone got the last word. All right, let me save this We all who are in business tend to have an appreciation for things But the concept I think is not a uh uh I don't I don't know if we want to outlaw or ban the concept of lobby They get him on lying on a form to apply to buy a firearm saying that he was not under the You don't want an elephant. There's still people to this day wearing the mask. And people take that to mean the equivalent of I can move mountains. Because that's not what that passage is talking about. They're not alive anymore, right? Oops. Sound Kamala Harris right there. She's gonna become a a figure And you say, well I'm glad you asked because it's this history and I think that is important. Paul just got done saying, I have had plenty org. They co-pastor a church in Thurmont called the Church that meets at Imran's As corny as it is, it stuck with me. Because if we do it just based on popular That's ridiculous. And so yeah, the the Washington Monument or uh And you know, when you print money you're gonna have inflation. He was uh one of the mucky mucks in Feder The stuff that I'm hearing, and you I'm sure you're hearing it too, is like, oh that So being a good steward of what God's given you is not more than just spending your money wisely is also I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. I'm not one of those. And then the the painkilling drugs, uh the the oxycotin the Yep. He's a little harder core on some of this stuff maybe? Sanctuary cities are a form of house arrest, like an ankle monitor And Well I think I'll say this as a practical thing. If you haven't found us on Sermonaudio or Odyssey. Or we just blindly There was uh some kind of meaning, I remember that uh one of the guys came in and he But uh the in this situation, so if we had a system where we would actually have And I agree with you. So I always have to trim a few seconds of silence off the the front end while One is while you're waiting for a trial, because I think a fair trial is a hallmark of a God honoring society. Yes, like you say, society may at large have some benefit or detriment for He can get away. That's been on the list of a of a show to do for a long, long, long, long, long, long time. I'm calling out the elephants for what they are and trying to wake up and realize that they're not on your side I mean every time God blesses me in in some w amazing way, whether it's you know So um guilty as charged. Yeah, don't take any anybody for that. So here's what we only got a couple minutes left in this show. com. Thanks for listening to the Faith Debate, making us part of your day. Because this coming week is inauguration day. Lincoln is also this Yeah standing on the throne, right? They might be permissible, but not all things are helpful. I haven't thought about it at all Uh and that was the whole idea of checks and balances in this country. Just the gun. I don't I don't know what the outcome of that is at this as as this airs, but all that P diddy, that Sean Combs stuff org, Conquer by Love Ministries, and the website is conquered by Love. Avoid those things in all instances. They should be making restitution. That was her Let's say because you're not certain that's the case, right? Getting all the words jumped up. At all. So I think if you're concerned about the dollar collapsing or The applications? I've noticed that I'm beginning to do it. But see that's that's where there's there's an APV out of somebody. Um I think I think if if if uh he were to lose the election I don't think they're gonna Right. Yeah. In fact, 167. Yeah, and that we're gonna So we've been talking in recent weeks about things related to the government and If uh This is the thing. Find the show online at WFMD. It has no power of its own, but the power that we give it. And uh many most We gotta get him on something. So again, there's other pastors you can preach those things from. So if we went on popular opinion, oh it's totally fine, no harm, no foul kind of a thing Well there was a problem with um what's called the sk the skimmer recorder. But I believe there are people that would want Well the government's involved in in in the economy by T That's the only place where you're gonna find security and hope. You don't get to keep any And I I think sometimes that may be the the case and sometimes it's just Right. But after what we've all been through these last you know four, five, six years And they're all about, doesn't matter what the big business in They have the Chamber of Commerce's best interest at heart. These The Israeli experiment from way back when, the the the Nation of Israel experiment The homosexual relationship there is a specific uh um And the Now that's more keystrokes So Crazy people. We appreciate it so much Here's a great here's a great example of that. Have your eyes open. The the church has control over certain things. And it's funny how this the hard stuff has changed over the years. It wasn't a question people were asking of me I don't think they're gonna bother too much about it. and That's their ministry. Well ev but say he even even t if it was taxes. No, please give up That's where we are right now. God has not given us a spirit of fear We do it in all areas of life, so Rightfully so. Well, too late for me. And so those I would I would say would would uh should be torn down Right? Now I have such sorrow well up so I'm going to try to flip the tables on that. I think Jesus did drink wine, not grape juice and uh And all Christians are going to agree that, you know, being a drunkard Well this is my this is my uh normal week And No, it's not Like are are we kind of stuck with a prison system? But the five three guy might be an excellent ball handler, he might be able to shoot Exactly. You go drunk driving and you hit somebody's car, well they should fix it That that there are consequences to acting under the No no society is not harmed when you commit a crime. We actually I uh forgot to uh I typically don't Um because a Democrat So Is that okay? Please don't do that. They could run to the city refuge and say, Hey With scanty information, say what is the most logical And I and I caught it. You know, skip all the commercial stuff and I mean Iran's bombing uh I mean nothing's off the table. I don't know. Yeah, I think so. Over the last five years I've probably accidentally stumbled into maybe seven or eight minutes of viral clips that I've I think it's wise and more than that it's imperative to have your eyes open. We we tend to do one extreme or the other. I there's not a biblical defense for that, honestly. Uh and People will occasionally recognize me or my voice and say, Hey, you do that faith debate show. I think we're as close to that as we've been in my lifetime. So any idol, to truly an idol, can be uh can I worked for a general manager years ago in another radio market. Should the government really not be involved in the economy Right? As uh we're here every week and this is your first time. But I think just as a general principle, the biblical uh and something that A vacation did you make up that term vacation tithe Yeah. In fact, it's Yeah. The faith debate has been on the air for more than twenty years. So this show doesn't exist. Um we're too wealthy of a country. Why is that so? The society is diminished when there's a Oh I think Trump's winning because uh I think he'll he'll win because I think he's controlled by the deep state. And it has their name and their dates and stuff like that. Right. It's like a dyslexic moment or something. We'll properly recognize they're bad guys I mean there's so many high profile conservatives that are openly gay now Oh He may have given you the tools and the command to prepare for something Now we're connecting to something that came up last week with the restitution or you know And that's what the with the with the So inauguration day is this week. And I think that was that was the right move in If it's an urn with the with the ashes. Exactly and there are not that many of them. I know how to abound, and I know how to be abase Usually I don't get responses on Facebook actually, but I get comments on other social media platforms All in the name of fun Turn off the silence. But here's the question. And so I was never No problem with that. Reparations. I mean that's that's what it is. Because and that's really what I think when people talk about profiling, that's that's really the problem with it. You can find online at concordbylove. Passage of time. There could be more attempts. And I think the context and the um So how do you back that up for scripture? You can say I'd under the advice of my lawyer, you can't I'm not com. Um So should either one of them be given a statue That's my my my personal conviction on that The elephants are pretty much not elephants anymore politically. And so should the government or what if it's not the government, what entity You might have the security guards at the store look at you Well there is a there is a service I believe where you can get your body embalmed Oh my gosh. You know? They won't even put pictures and uh the reason was they didn't want anybody worshiping The preeminent elephant, God. You can File does not exist. They want to try to win So yeah, let me uh get this book. And I think you have to be consistent on that But in a much of the world that is the case. If you go to the website for the station 5 hours will pass. Or please pass this other law because we would appreciate some additional guidance in this area. But you just can't. But what about the victimless crime of of Trump? Right, exactly. com. Um There's never a situation I'm not gonna get all worked up in arms Good for you. For some reason they've been leaking more information about the P. Make sure you you have logic and and and But mm so uh I don't think so. I don't know. I don't but there are people that do and see that is an example. I'm Troy Skinner. Which is the gospel? And uh she the the lady who was being beguiled said, Mom, why don't you trust the guy? I actually came in The videos are typically not posted on WFMD. I was like, that's Great significance. It God is in you. If we're gonna say okay The word we should be focusing on is restoration Somebody doesn't do it You've got to have credible evidence, preferably eyewitness testimony The the sanctuary cities in the Old Testament And that's one of the things this country has done I just have full, unfettered access And if it's a government, it's a direct kind of a control You're not hurting me. And I'm again, I I would say that's less ideal. This was kind of Daniel's tongue-in-cheek recommendation earlier before we started the show, but Here's a great example of that. We w uh uh we've talked about this in the One of the things is blasphemy, which we discussed something before, whether that should be ever Wise of the serpent maybe. So that was the in the ground part. We're okay with the Washington Monument. Some of the attorneys uh So be content in all things. And I think that's actually a good thing. Now you have to remain I like to be recording shows that are gonna start airing in about three months, and that's where we are. Yeah, I I I don't think monuments are a problem. Given that we're victims and there's nothing we can do about it, so let's not live our lives as victims. I don't want us to just take ten minutes However And I think that's probably It's it's it's inviting demons to come possess you But if you're walking onto the you know They can be reached online through their ministry website They may not have decided yet who's So that's com yet, I encourage you to find us there. Appreciate it very much. There lots of crazy people out there I do not watch it. And also by the way um I mean uh the left has been in canton culture taking all the monuments down. Not on this, I don't think so. Driving while black, driving while black has been a big issue. Till then, God bless. These theological tomes about all the key issues in the world and You want to continue? We insist on having elephants in our life We're too we have to we're too safe of a country. Find me online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com Like that's that's a sermon right there. So anyway That's his and we feel some of it through sports. When I was, you know, just a little little type back in like the You just can't. com. Last week I spent a lot of time talking about statues and whether they whether EMP I was gonna say that's a sermon right there. But uh You have more money than than things to buy, it's gonna cause they Right. Is this just kind of LARPing, you know, live action role playing? The passage of time. We're talking about government statues No there's not no org. Or if you're working nine to five somewhere That's why And I think that's because of confusion over what the spheres of authority Sure, why not? Um So let's assume that uh And I'm thinking I think there there are So they're not singling out gay people. I don't uh yeah I'm more of a libertarian that So let's take the part of your brain that's Hunter Biden You you're just ruled by fear You know, particularly But I'm not so sure that I can this is where the my Maybe a little s Because uh And then the nineties I'm not sure it transitioned into s org Do not take it Do you think he survived world wars between now and That's the only one that should matter You can do all things, but only through Christ who strengthens you. Well, you're in for a treat And In a lot of the Middle East that's the case. Like any second now. And in fact the prosecutor said Um and I I agree that will be a way to So But If you're saved, he's in you. In that case this person should be killed. That didn't fix the problem All of the Faith Debate shows And I think with the com or for Odyssey Um the banks weren't so you have Alright. Each day has enough trouble with its own. No. So it has to pick one Looking out into the distance. It's crazy That's okay with as It doesn't happen that much, but it happens on occasion. Diddy story That's what he's talking about. You guys have to forgive me when I use that. I'm all for it. Yeah, just gradations like Um but Seriously. We're we're Like We're just They're all rhinos. And But com I think if We're You just And