Did God command the United States to uh well the colonies to rebel against England? uh over there was like three things, right? And and so that is that is a very, very high standard. Okay. You can find us online at household of faith in Christ dot com. And there is a new heaven and a new earth. You know, like we don't have dinner in each other's house or anything like that. Did you cause the the the animals? We might say, you know what, they might be evil and God's going to still use it for good. Who's us? I don't have a social media. I don't quite understand that, but uh Eastern Orthodox, I think some of the attraction there is they don't really have these discussions that we're having. Uh and we might playfully debate with you a little bit and try to persuade you to come back to the right side of the river. I I I'm I'm sure it's not all people. themselves to be acting in self defense. Or eighteen ten or eighteen twelve when the British came back and burned down the White House? Is this a justified death? Sua. I was just talking with my family about this recent uh earlier today. those types of things when they go in and bomb places where nobody else in the Middle East does that. um that causes so much angst in the West is because we think about right and wrong as black and white. They think of degrees of honor or shame and you're either more honorable or less honorable and something you do affects the entire country and and it reflects on the entire country and but especially He said do what you're commanded to do or whatever. Rasvey, David Forcey, I'm Troy Skinner. The whole killing of civilians thing and civilian casualties and deaths and stuff. Pretty sad. If you're if we're trying to decide when and how I don't know I I don't know that you can avoid separating it. Um and so I disagree. It just says this type specifically was godly. uh theonomy kinds of discussions we had, right? Yeah. and and my family's life is in jeopardy. I don't know that the Bible calls us to do that necessarily. in the north actually believed they were fighting to free slaves. uh Daniel Razley, I'm Troy Skin, and this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Uh and then Churchill comes in and takes care of business. Yeah. Nixon to Hitler back in the day. has no real view. Especially if they've been hearing, Oh, he's Hitler, Hitler, and then they woke up, Oh, Hitler killed sixteen million people. kill Hitler. So now pivoting back to the actual Hitler was Bonhoeffer and his buddies, was he right? And uh what's the key guy's name who was he who was no he who was the was the assassin, right? Yeah. for lack of a better term, right? I mean I don't know what that but see so he's still in the news for those reasons. for a satanic end. I think you could think he drove it from out of state. Now they're trying to throw the book at her. Okay, we're we're Christians, they're part of the body. Uh I'm Troy Skinner, the one laughing at my lame joke was and I appreciate that by the way, is Daniel Rasby and David Forcey also. Then there was a huge squash in the center of the hurricane and all of a sudden in just a few minutes it becomes category five. that would be a shock. the faith debate and it's not uh it's not earmarked as a sermon, it's earmarked as a radio show. So that's that's my bit of encouragement to the believer. that Pharaoh's uh uh magicians, for example. Right, like like none of none of those terms that we use uh to talk about how we use our human will, right, or try to impose our human will. And they've been real consistent for a long time. is somebody who became Cat Catholic. uh individual. Yeah, sure. intellectually driven that that seems to be what's happening. and they think that's cool. uh David sounds like knows more about the Orthodox Church than less than about the Catholic Church. So I know it's going to be great. Yeah. Well she she's learned well from the old man. You don't have to elaborate. But maybe hey, maybe she did. online at householderfaith in Christ dot com and I'm the host of the Faith Debate, joined this week as it's becoming pretty normal now, David Forcy. depending on it's a house church and whichever family wants to to host they take turns and it's a rotisserie league. You had some highfalutin name for it at one point. This might not be a planet, right? civilian casualty on both sides, but uh um uh many people I I think uh would uh many of our listeners would probably rightly point out that there d does not seem to be any sort of of comparison at all between the level of destruction and and and rampage that that's going on from one side to the other. uh Palestine. There wasn't a United States of America 5,000 years ago. Clearly, Washington, D. It was a famous phrase, right? would call them China. Right, okay. Anyway, we're we're way off track what we wanted to be talking about. terms defense and offense I guess, but I would say there's plenty of times when war would be justified, not only justified. Now after the war do you no longer have allegiance to Britain? uh you know, personal sure. China and now as Christians you have to give allegiance to the lawful authority that's that's in place at that time. neighbor they said well I just want more territory and I'm gonna take it because I'm stronger than you and that has happened. don't attempt to say that's why they're doing things even if the real reason is oil or land or um you know sex trafficking or whatever else. given by by the leaders but there have been many in the past where they said no we just want to take over the next country because I'm stronger and I think you might be able to w which would be like me like going to my neighbor and saying hey I'm stronger than you so I'm gonna take all your own. We haven't made a whole lot of progress in the conversation, which I think is a point in the favor of the pacifists, because they have a very simple, consistent, they'd be done having this conversation, right? you could marry as as a result of it rather than um being killed for it depending on the type and so on. things and God commands things, but if that's what you want, then you want a God that's not sovereign, that's not I want a God that's bigger than me. then you can shoot me, even if I haven't shot you yet. you and your family and then your tribe and then and then the nation, they don't really think of any particular action as being good or bad. actually innocent because that's another you know uh uh another subject entirely. When they came for the Jews in Germany, I don't remember the well you know at first they came for such and such and I wasn't that so I didn't say anything. not bear some responsibility. and it's not a good thing. uh anywhere in the east, they would all immediately say, Oh of course yes. The honor and shame thing. Think of it as as w as the same level of wrongness if you lived there in the U. entirely. uh saying, okay, so on what foundation is the West built and on what foundation is the East built? we want to get into and probably not up to date. I've heard that before. And David Forcy is a pastor in the area as well of a house church that uh that meets uh the different member families host on uh on a rotisserie league system. So anyway. But the three of us on the panel this week are all of the opinion that war is sometimes justified. Justified. Uh well, we're uh if you drop this bomb a hundred thousand innocent people, which uh by the Weststanders innocent people. innocent. combatants and zero Americans. at that time. nine hundred sixty four. Most quickly so that analogy would be then is it okay to then capture the person, tie them up and then cut them piece by piece, you know, and torture them, having already subdued them and that will be that will be the Uh for this discussion, let's take ancient Israel off the table because there's so many theological um uh Um with with uh with the other. I don't I don't disagree with the history, I don't disagree with the God command aspect, I don't disagree with any of the stuff in the Old Testament, but as far as the purposes in that, the lessons that are to be learned from that, I don't agree with you on all It doesn't mean all uh the See we don't disagree on that. uh a an avenue of discussion we should take when he said so basically a war is justified if God commands it. uh North America. uh exactly happen again. And and not just Anabaptist, I mean you're not Anabaptist, you but you you could subscribe to the same di uh you would have you have to have every little circumstance, including God commanding it outright in the beginning, in order for it it to match and be a uh an analogous conflict today. Uh I just don't know how I can in my mind separate those things from this whole c discussion. Until we're not. Th there weren't a bunch of random skirmishes. Right. Or the actual fighting against the current Ukrainian Russian war. Thousands or hundreds, but there's certainly some. Russia or there were when this was being recorded anyway. And 'cause to be clear, the Bible does not say that all killing is sinful, only that murder is sinful. So we're trying to kind of make their arguments for them. the uh there was interference by the by the north on uh a lot of different levels that were not justified Victory. just without the bloodshed, it in that football game there neither side is particularly justified or not justified. Like like is it am I am I just to uh defend, you know, uh my my neighbor's daughter from his her abusive father Right? kind of way to end this show in next week's episode. We will continue this conversation next week, 167 and a half hours from, let me check, yep, right about now. consistently demonstrate throughout scripture. ever happen again without God specifically telling somebody you need to do this. you know, to God but but but but and more down to earth, specifically to the station for giving us this time on the air at at no expense for so many years because they they really have seen the value in uh biblical uh teaching at le or at least they see that there's enough demand from from the listeners um that that justifies this. uh although it was the Pacific battle as well. You know, and the and the English were completely innocent bystanders, but they had to do something. But mostly what I want to talk about is Dietrich got involved with some guys that tried to take Hitler out. It seems like everything is Hitler, everything's a Nazi or a fascist because those are the most extreme examples most people could think of having not as much that is now living. Uh and as this airs, there's there hasn't been anything new uh as we're recording, but something maybe new has happened by the time this airs. Whatever you think of the man, he is not Hitler. You're gonna you know, love my example of this one, but is a is an assassination ever a justifiable method of waging war? In the Bible, if you understand that there can be humor in the Bible, there's humor there. Um but yeah, so there was this. uh deception and said I came with a present for the king and they sent all the guards out for some reason to say he w here's the good present. people he was the and also we're told that God raised up judges so uh he was and he's one of the Then we're going to be able to do that. identify the lanes and stay in them. across the country. you walk down the street and see somebody stabbing someone, you could feel obligated to and certainly justified if you did, go and stop them or kill the guy who was stabbing somebody or or shooting somebody you know, uh a uh a a problem. whatever. Dietrich von Hoeffer situation is there was already many nations trying to stop Hitler. And he's still in the new well, I don't know if he is as this airs, but as we're recording this, he's still in the news. It might be displayed for the public to view, but it's not a a religious display. I don't know, a st a a a a d just depiction of the nativity scene, whatever. Category five instead of category three or two. data that's being shown. We we did some shows with a flatwhile but uh they never actually aired because uh the way we did it was he had a podcast and John Sweitzer and I were on his podcast and then we were gonna use the audio So I know some but there's a I don't know that there would be a lot of topic against evolution, it would still not be true because the Bible says it's not true. They say, well, I I don't know I can't explain why the science doesn't seem to back that up other than, you know, uh well maybe you might not understand the science very well. Conquered by love. when it's not justified and and when people should take it into their own hands, that sort of thing. United States of America. uh probably forever changed certain aspects of the Carolinas. as and but even in the same ballpark. hills and mountains of the Carolinas. This is why we have to fight against climate change, don't you know? And and remnants of houses and things like that. We shouldn't frivolously destroy the earth, but the i i it it all is also ours to do with what we please. Yes. Such that all life on earth perishes, because I also I believe that neither of those things are possible biblically speaking. Uh remaking, yeah. And I'm not suggesting I have better things to do, but what I'm saying is, okay, I have to justify there's this commitment of time had this conversation not too long ago. Which I'm then able to download and put on other platforms. All right, we're taking time out of out of our day. the Florida or something, uh and God's like, Oh, what am I gonna do now? evil, nefarious group out there is polluting our air on purpose but to make us sick or to create altered weather patterns. And the idea is if you put certain types of chemicals in the air over a certain spot, it will cause clouds to be at to form and cause water vapor to to condense and and then turn into um that could potentially be explained by some kind of technology that is not widely known. Just as much as a government could have hubris in thinking that they can, you know, do something really big weather wise. details. still happen in this world. I think. Right. that well, okay, God's in control, and he's a good God, so I'm gonna trust that it's okay, that this has happened somehow, God's gonna work it for good. And Daniel Razvi, find him online at concordbylove. If David's heart is in the house, he's home. That's his house. I think that probably means something along these lines. right? Okay, if if if you guys are listening to this, uh uh and and you and your uh wife's not in the car, so you can I so you it won't be spoiled, you can go and tell her tell her when you get home that she looks quite pulker to this this but the general question is why does it seem as though there's an epidemic of Protestants leaving for Roman Catholicism or uh eastern or Eastern Orthodoxy has been the same for a very long time. Because they haven't been the same for a very long time. At all. And people desire more structure than that and they think, well, we shouldn't be making the rules. hold on to there for many many. minister and he became Catholic. evangelical Protestant movement in general trying to meet the culture where it is rather than right and and or the Catholicism is the same kinds of thing that's causing the leave for wokeism. to become Catholics because they hate God or they they feel like people aren't becoming written because they hate God either, they would say. from from our forefathers. dwindling membership and some infighting and some problems going on. that now that these other aspects of of life and belief are being revealed. And so we're trying to figure out, does God control the weather like we were talking about last week's show? Things that and the Eastern Orthodox has the uh has the advantage too of some of the same things that are attractive to the new age mystic congregation which has a lot of the same vibe. into the what they think is history? who's done that. is not quite so legalistic and controlling. uh in large measure. Church actively. Coptic. In Colorado. the the the term for the category um because Google is a verb now not just a noun. So today, this is what we're talking about. Wow. Uh and then in response, Israel retaliated and in the retaliations over the past, you know, months uh there have been more civilian casualties and it raises that age old question, is it okay for us to be By that you mean there was more than one civil But we don't like the United States, so we're gonna put our embassy in New York or Houston or something, and pretend that New York or Houston are the capital of the country when It'd be like somebody saying, I know the United States considers Washington, D. China also. pretending for thirty years or whatever that um you know the original Chinese government which had relocated to Taiwan was the real China and these other ones were just an invading force that would someday be destroyed. Right. is immoral and that we know is not true. Completely unjustified. uh b uh better, I'm I'm not sure. the ones that that are starting conflicts. Right. Um and who d who should your allegiance be? an uprising against the what what people would consider the lawful government of the colonies of the time. time when I need to use those right in uh either to either to start a conflict or to resolve a conflict. a lot of people who are true pacifists who would say no. you know, as the one who has authority over my body. Um you know, like they're so so death in the sense of right, the the destruction of something, the ending of of times where the leaders of the country would make no pr pr they would have no pretense that it was in response to aggression by their not be justified. Um that we always have, you know, some kind of excuse, well, we're saving these people or we're protecting from this other thing or whatever. uh gray areas and these difficult things to try to figure out. better. aren't black and white because the heart matters too and the intent and the uh and and all that and our relationship with God homosexuality for example or uh adultery or or whatever. for me. Whether he's tr could have done anything to stop it or not. of by being a pacifist you are you would argue that you are actively causing some of that pain the government is there they're they're there there's a right way that they're supposed to be operating, but they're there in order to be do that to bear the show and all that stuff the way cultures but I think that does also have bearing on how people instinctively assume that something is just or unjust in war is is is basically you know and especially with the the way uh the you know the the on the foundation of Shem A. So what's it called? of the Japanese. nine million lives, then okay, let's do that. And he was saying that like a a a country, a nation-state is a whole bunch of people that represent a political body. in n uh ended uh Nazi Germany has happened all throughout history. killing going on a lot of civilians died in Germany. on your on the the multiple of points you brought up so far and those would be separate shows. um commitments, thoughts, whatever that are packed into that, that are totally separate conversations because But I'm not an Anabaptist. which might happen in the future, whether or not all the circumstances are there, namely God commanding it, go do this now. No, I wouldn't have taking land right for our I I wouldn't I wouldn't even go that far. a wicked people. and things that sh we should draw on those same principles when we're deciding these current conflicts of what what we whether we think they're justified. the the uh the adult men of his chosen people as his instruments, okay, God can do that. land in glory. And my view on theonomy is, I guess, the same as it is with just war theory, which is there are principles that will be drawn, but we can't be too exacting because we're not ancient Israel So we can't take the ancient ancient Israel rules and apply them to us, but we can take principles and lessons that are learned from that. Middle East and Europe and Asia and stuff. Um they they were cognizant of the fact that it's important to try to s to identify the lanes and stay in them. all the other states are gonna serve them and all the other states say, No, I don't think so. The federal government isn't protecting us anymore, so we're not going to listen to them. But in some in the wars we have now, uh if if we got drafted into the military and we had to go fight against England again I mean we would probably be shooting at some potentially anyway, shooting at some professing at least and perhaps in fact. because they believed their s their cause was just and righteous. and many people in the South were w would have other uh uh Christian reasons uh that they would use and you can decide if they're justified or not, but they would they would say that, you know Well, they're defending their homeland, they're defending their families, they're defending their heritage, they're right, so but a war was justified because we know that those were. Well he actually did tell us why. Well no, because Well uh has not God promised us the earth Anyway, this is the faith debate off the good rip roar and start. But the definition kinda depends on whoever is Good Morning Maryland. Yeah. We'll see. And Hitler and all of that and again I'm gonna say what Daniel said. precise detail said in the way that you want me to say it because I might not agree with your understanding. Germany invades Poland. A number of people, including Pietrich Bonhoeffer, who's one of the most famous theologians of the last century. understand me. orange, not white, so that's that's the point. And we have a good example of that in the Bible. those names that got raised up as a judge. So there it was a group of Israelites who had joined in this plot together. Coke and dagger activities I don't know about. Good example. have you. And there's a spiritual war. I think he used a sword or something and like No. uh fighter pilot trainer or something for the Navy. He wasn't assassinating anyone. He could have potentially against the city. No. particular statement. approve all displays. And they've been in the news also last week. Yeah. And so at least they're consistent, at least the the people that I've uh met. It just feeds it, feeds the beast. Odyssey uh one a day for the last uh several years. He pastors a church that meets in various locations uh depending on the week in southern Frederick County mostly. Yeah. I don't know if the earth wobbles or what's going on there, but th there are cyclical changes that happen on the planet. and for the earth is if you're a Christian you should yes you you you you were given the very first command God gave to Christians. is because you should not ha be in living in fear that we will not have a planet in ten years or twelve years because of human caused CO two emissions and climate Um, you know, even if it was true that they could happen, that's you shouldn't be living your life by fear, but you should be wise uh and and and plan, you know, for just uh praising God and and trusting God through everything. on the faith debate that I can remember. Can you give me scriptural reasons to think that Satan has some sort of control over the weather? It is a privilege. uh manage the web page on the radio station and I have to download those podcasts and then upload them on other platforms and main I mean there's a commitment of time. And so there's an instructional aspect. incense with us every once in a while. thing, but mostly just to try to get you equipped to start to think. mm m uh match up and if it matches up well good for you and if it doesn't you you can adjust accordingly. with at least one proof text to go on. rain. quakes in different places. seeding by some governments. Um and and so, you know, I mean like when I have a garden, like I'm I'm altering the ecosystem, like I'm you know, I'm changing things, I'm affecting things. that so um so I th I think that's another sort of interesting element to add in there too. And solariums and whatever those different rooms are called in houses. him being good. who's I count as a I don't call him as friend exactly we're we're we're uh very pleasant uh with each other acquaintances I mean God is sovereign. Right, there's no molecule out there doing a dance on itself that got it, oop come back and kill and grab you. uh like attacks from Satan. For forty chapters or thirty thirty-eight chapters. And we have to just lean into that and trust that he is a good God. Uh I'm not sure what that looks like exactly, but we know how we define our terms of God is good and God is these are foundational for me, and they should be for all Christians, I would argue. Trying to trying to grasp at an understanding, right? Yeah. No, how can you say God brought that destruction to to the Southeast? I th I feel like there's a whole lot of threads there. sources language. Like slang is pretty acceptable overall as a culture. number of months ago and I said, you know we'll say we'll get around we'll get around to talking about this uh you know uh as time allows and time as it turns out begins to allow today. uh who are who've moved towards and and it's moves towards orthodoxy or you know Eastern Orthodoxy. last two years. Or um well I guess or Anglican I guess will include that into the mix. Um you have more connections with the Eastern Orthodox Church, it sounds like friends that a good number of families. Mm-hmm. if everything feels a lot more a lot less rigid and humans strive and and desire strong, strict boundaries of what they can services and it feels some people it not having the spirit necessarily could feel more or less spiritual in one of those categories. If you give them rules and they're you're very specific and strict on those rules, not to overburden them with many rules that shouldn't apply, but if if you're consistent in applying the rules kids respond much better to that form of parenting than no rules at all. Uh David chimed in really quickly when you started to go down that path he said, Yeah, that's all maybe true, but that's not really what I think is causing the shift. of of teaching on what the reasons for the Reformation were. and trying to get other there's the there there's a whole campaign and the the protest is over, the protest is over. podcaster uh youtuber Candace Owen, she became Catholic recently. But the assumption is made that if it's always been done this way or for a very, very long time this way, why we should come around and say it should be done differently particular Protestant traditions? the South. So get a lifeboat. time they they had a vote on whether to pull all of their kids out of public school and it was very narrowly defeated. Baptist thing. Like that's what that that's why they go. It hasn't changed. Anyway. Just make up stories as you go. one hundred billion hamburgers by then. Right. Food. And Daniel Razby is here. I don't know. There were uh civilian casualties back on October 7th, 2023, when the whole thing kind of lit really hot again. But this line that people who think an awful lot like me on a lot of issues say, you know, Palestine's not even a real place. You know, let's not get worried about what the political ramifications are. came from. thing because Israel is a country that the boundaries were determined by God and announced as such and so I have much stronger feelings about um these Sure. But I'm sure there's somebody locally could come in and make an argument that war is never justified. Or, if you don't like that one, let's say the Ukrainians are right and they've been attacked by Russia and they need to defend both of them could make an argument that they're pisticuffs are justified. in government we could vote to to have confidence and and so on. what is my domain or or responsibility. But it's there still is a a s a struggle. Right. Yeah, that's the voice of Daniel Razvey. Many Christians would instinctively say, Oh, lying's bad. mind and speak for yourself. a monumental task. I am the creator. They're uh they are more of a uh black and white type culture, which is I think one of the reasons why they attempt so strongly to warn people, get out of the way, you know. acting horribly and there is an opportunity for the citizens to say, No, I'm not going along with this, we're gonna stop you. You know, and you can't use the excuse, well my government's worse than that, you know, because that was a pretty bad leader. don't know, sorry. You know, there are certainly alive then. And uh the uh he's with um the choice that meets at Imron's House and you can find them online at concordbylove. And uh we tried to corral the discussion and get it more focused on just war theory and uh did not have to re-relitigate any of that. The civilian thing being whether or not it's okay okay to kill civilians like you were came in and Nagasaki. that's how the Japanese would have felt that way. I I like that last week in in the show, David was was talking about the body, was making a correlation between like he he he's responsible for what his body does, good or bad. And so if if you use that example, then I mean it's okay to punch somebody in the stomach when you're in a fight with them. Right? What? Uh that would be a good thing. committed to the same kinds of arguments that you put forward about, you know, is Israel and God commanded it, okay, did God command uh Russia to invade Ukraine? So in many battles in fact people found literal brothers like their actual brother, not just cousin like brother on the other side of the body. So a way to try to try to make this a way to try to make this hypersimple is that you know God says murder is wrong. So under what circumstances would engaging in a war be an unjustified killing? chosen to go shoot other people on the other side, but they were commanded to do so by the government. war. the Chinese who came over here unprovoked to start shooting at the Marylanders, well, they're murdering people. Like two there could be one war and one side, or multiple versions of sides, are fighting an unjust war And the other side is fighting a just war. this you know uh I was just trying to have it not be the default of well you know certainly war is okay because God commanded war Not that I'm expecting not to be on the air, but it's always good to have additional uh people and reasons for them so that if some ever somebody were to call and complain and try to cancel us then you they have some evidence in our file that people like us. What is it good for? Aliens. trans speciism and like it's it's like off the charts. uh personal reactions. Uh and I think some would disagree with me, I'm sure. Right, he's a new incarnation of Hitler. a prophet to speak the word of God, right? Yeah, so I mean he was a mm well he was. John Will Smooth wasn't sanctioned by anybody, right? Well he was uh he was very involved in who was the authority there. Um Was he commissioned? Yeah, they're they're still kind of what we're talking about here. Done, they weren't necessarily personally stopping all this evil from being done. drastically actually. Yes, he's God, but he was not acting only as God in that circumstance. Right. This is a good conversation. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. it and and argue it because there might be some loonies who they believe in the fire but they haven't studied it. And whenever that's happened, old shows got lost. uh in Europe now that had been covered by snow for generations and generations. change and all that. But there are many, many people, not always believers, but there are many, many people that live in fear of one of one or both of those uh eventualities and now. Th there's there's the whirlwind, right, with Job that comes and destroys the That's the one I was gonna mention. Maybe maybe God gave Satan permission to do this with the weather. with the weather and I I did that that seems very clear to me throughout scripture that God is always saying like I I I own the things that happen Ultimately they they bow before him. may uh laugh at and w we may have different opinions on that fact, but it is being talked about a lot now, even by politicians, um, is does the government control the weather? You know, like, okay, the we we think of the weather as being something really big and the most difficult thing to harness. as far as natural stuff stuff on the earth. self-glory for for my garden. But I mean God ultimately is responsible for any and all things that happen because as R. and uh tsunamis and all that sort of stuff. You know, that's because of the damage we've done to the ecology through our carbon footprints, or that's because of um You know, um and then I don't I don't know what you do with Satan at that point, right? say that Satan and God are actually fighting each other and there's some sort of equality in that fight, right? Basically he doesn't say why. So be quiet, pray uh for forgiveness, and and know your place. But then the the lesson we can glean from that is that they intended it for evil. that uh okay those are bad, tragic, terrible things, and yet God is going to use those for good. God is all powerful. I guess I guess more DS then, right? Right? Towards Roman Catholic, but I There have been a lot of celebrities and a lot of well known theologians that have moved in that direction over the last few decades and especially the For our discussion, let's just say that there is this unusual trend towards Protestants leaving to go Eastern Orthodox or go Roman Catholic. So I I think it's uh it's people looking for something that has had very long term stability. You know, in in the Protestant Church, you know, w some of the more liturgical uh denominations will be Presbyterians, for example, and they're they're gonna be a lot more rigid in their s worship. And humans wrong for I mean we just like with kids, right? Um and I'm not sure why. tradition and there's less man choosing what to do as more because it's tradition the assumption is made that God is the one that chose it. 'Cause I I'm thinking of like the normal everyday person, right? have been altered. Uh I I think yeah, I mean I think what we see here is also like it's a it's evidence of the of a of a big sort, right? A strong measure of truth in that. that their church teaches or they are familiar but they choose to ignore those things and embrace a a a more gospel centered understanding of things and they stand in disagreement with their church, why they wouldn't leave at that point I um a feather in their calf for those who are looking for a change. It's kind of an Eastern Orthodox attitude. So they can have this experience without the fighting. one of the representatives in the room they say, yes, that's true. So I want to know what in your mind was a legitimate reason to make the change. David Forseek, Daniel Rasby, I'm Troy Skinner. Any of you guys worked at McDonald's? Never done even a partial shift to McDonald's. No? eventual World War Three or ongoing hot skirmishes and wars taking place right now. So, um it's similar to the the talking about Israel and stuff, it's similar to the discussions I had with people a number of years ago when um there was all the talk about whether or not the United States embassy should be You know, I'm gonna put it out either way. you know, I if I use them, right, they can sustain a lot of damage and pain and destruction. Right? And we know that because the Bible makes it very clear that at least a couple of specific lies were justified and and correct. Well these first few kind of can all dovetail into each other, so I think we'll probably end up doing some of that. Good morning Vietnam. Um anyway. So Southern Frederick County. So we have to keep that in mind as well. So that gets to the point where there isn't I mean there's this industrial complex that supports the war. or parts of wars will be justified or unjustified, biblically speaking, there's no way to really do that adequately while throwing out half the Bible with Aiken uh Aiken. that one guy caused uh not only the battle to be lost, the whole army demoralized and all that. his command uh was to the soldiers. That's I think something that both guys can kind of agree on. Like is that just? Uh uh maybe I misunderstood your comment. Some of those examples of the of the of the Old Testament. Good morning, Maryland. Have you seen that? And I was reminded of that truth with I mean, though for ever since twenty fifteen w we've been hearing stuff about Donald Trump being Hitler. much education on history as as they should, pot potentially, f in order to draw other examples, but those are the first two examples anybody can think of as bad. Well that's gonna be the question. assassinations, you know, God put it on his heart to to to go and uh and assassinate this king and then to go round up a bunch of Israelites to throw the oppressors out of the out of the country. So I think that that's that's a key difference. A bunch of Yahoos that I should go kill somebody, it's it's then okay? the the power of the sword is given to the state, you know, the classic Romans argument. on our show and he forgot to hit the record button. Uh as we're recording, there were only two, there might have been another one by the time this airs, but there were only two really, really nasty hurricanes to affect the United States. Such of science fiction where the entire earth is now there's nobody left alive on Earth because of the total nuclear apocalypse, that is something that I believe strongly does not line up with scripture. Just as I believe that the earth being destroyed by human-caused climate changes also not lines up with scripture. on the earth. Yeah, and I mean I think that we have technology that can have some effect on localized weather events. the that many governments have tried to control the weather and figure out how to do it as possible. Which are not generally admitted to by governments would be that you could they can use certain types of energy weapons or lasers and other things to also impact uh w you know, weather events or start fires or earthquake. Yeah, so so I I'm and I don't think we can say like it's necessarily uh wrong. can can even comprehend it all. um the non reform. And and and and polytheism like I think I think it also comes up when you say like I I have the ability to thwart God's will. Um it's a it's a house church that meets at the the church that meets at David's house. Yeah and language. Now sometimes if they just use a particular acronym or or bizarre term and it's got a surrounding context, I can usually like, okay. Poe retitudinous sounds awful, right? I'm I I'm not sure uh what to make of that. make it comfortable for the culture rather than saying no like we're we're the church, we have a culture. I uh I see it as just part of the larger issue. of people saying maybe maybe though you know these people who I thought thought one way don't actually think that fr from the the uh frozen chosen uh hyper Calvinist Presbyterian uh thing and going to something But the Southern Baptist denomination is a is a mess and has been now for a decade. Anyway. Well you're saying it's council out of business by then? So just because the countries believe or say that it's defensive doesn't make it defensive or offensive. And it it's a little uh not a whole lot, but a little cleaner to try to have that conversation. By military presence in Ukraine and their historical claim on that land being justified and culturally there's some connections and stuff. Love, love, love. And that's one of the easiest things, you know. Yeah. be waged in a justified manner. If if they if somebody were to convince them if somebody who were to convince the people of Japan at that time that the emperor was in the wrong, they would they would feel like, well we're all to blame for that then and so we should all die It's like saying, uh, you know, for the for the good of the many this this one must die. Right, 'cause there that has happened. But he did command every every man, woman, and child to be uh killed and he also made provisions for future wars that presumably would be just, saying if you go to war and then you take captives now you're gonna take all these women and children captive and make them of war that is still justified. So if God's going to wipe people out through supernatural occurrences at the end of the age, okay, God can do that. a a delineation there that we that doesn't automatically make the ancient Israel experience something that's automatically applied across the board. Sanctioned governments. So I th I sometimes when things get really complicated, complex, there's all this gray area, you can't figure out what's what, sometimes it's good to just try to make it hyper-simple. But it wasn't a murder. Because the entire queer spectrum, the entire LGBTQIA plus thing, all of the it it it's like And it's like racist. Yeah, let's hope not. Go mark all the men who are weeping and mourning for the evil that's been done in Israel, right? Well the things that are displayed in the state house are permitted by the state, right? but you need to understand what you're getting yourself into. Right? That's also on the Household of Faith in Christ. Um and they were they were trying to copy God. Right? And scientific community would admit and agree that this type type of thing does happen and it actually has been effective, at least to some degree, in certain areas. God does. Right? Right? So all of these things have a purpose. So I could say this to you. Don't stop thinking about new or you'll never become oofy. But you know there are And I didn't say that for a fact by the way. are much more freewheeling, well whatever you want, you know, you got freedom in in in Christ to do this and that and other things and how you worship doesn't really matter just as long as it's from the heart and this Well no I I think it is the Oh you do think it's that so what did you mean when you said I don't think it's that did I misunderstand you? Right. Right? I kissed the I kissed dating goodbye, you know. I don't know why you could find in yourself to join the Catholic Church. And we we are struggling to find a number of reasons why that could be, but I could imagine there could be some. That'd be worth worth getting an Orthodox pastor back on, but definitely a Coptic Christian. Well I think to be consistent. Defense or those terms can be quite kind of worry too. And probably most of our listeners d none of us have like a button to press to launch a nuclear missile out of country. uh something that's alive. civilians being killed by indiscriminate bombing of of cities, let's say. Right, because if I slap you you you might have the right to hit me back, but you probably don't have the right to shoot me. a fair play because not only would I I mean they they probably saved uh un untold many more times Japan Right. They really should. It's not as simple as that because God commanded war in a very particular context. I like Star Trek. Equal opportunity for everything to come at you and and and be offensive to your sensibilities if you're a biblical Christian. If you had the chance you would kill him, but could you actually kill him when he was a baby and he hadn't done any of these things yet? And I just I couldn't help but think, you know, I disagree that that Donald Trump's Hitler. But was the but was so it wasn't necessarily a military operation by the official government Who was one of the oppressed people? um that was of any age outside the womb. And and there's a similar passage in Revelation talking about once we see all the men of God on their foreheads, then the locusts will not touch them, right? If we're not sanctioned, we're not ambassadors representing the state, you know, we're not the instrument the state's going to use to take care of things like, you know, the police officers or the military or what have you. And it isn't by some kind of nuclear winter. spiritual forces besides God at work in the world, but God is supreme over all of them. When these natural disaster type things are not just hurricanes, it's earthquakes, volcanoes, what have you. that the amount of exhaust that's put out by some jets is way proportionate to what the jet should actually be putting out, so they're probably spraying certain chemicals to cause So to basically make rain in the desert, um governments are working on the ability and perfecting the ability to do that and to some greater or lesser success in various locations. So to ascribe immorality to God is is so heinous. Doe. At all. Right. We're flummox just to figure out what some of the main reasons might be because we don't have a lot of personal exposure to people who've made this decision. Do you know any Coptics? Yes. So we're not going to solve this issue, but just as trying to enter into the conversation figured out. And then God's mysteries are not always easy to discover, you know. And they were put there by God. So well is it righteous to say you have to make an argument that that pragmatism is never like a good we are uh wiping out an extremely wicked people or we can only go to war if Now what does God do? Well you said I had good uh thoughts. The one laughing at you but you're not listening to hear him is David Forcey. And while it wasn't explicitly commanded by God for him to do it in that way, that that w that's recorded anyway, he may have God may have spoken to the to the to the guy, the Isabella Um where if you replace abortion clinic with anything else, then suddenly it becomes it it feels all of a sudden a lot more reasonable, right? Taking the laws into our own hands is is is anarchy, it's it it's mob rule. No, no. If the only governments that are led by aliens, the lizard people that have the technology. The all and I I don't agree with it at all. personal, you know, existential level. But uh the climate does change. Are these God's will? Uh we we are supposed to exercise dominion over the earth, you know, going back to like the you know, Daniel's earlier points. to those who will will will look to to God. And therefore polytheism. Uh what the what in November? Um you know, the we're all we all really should be one church. Well so what kind of I mean that's gotta be undercutting their marketing. very very much uh more strict uh synergy. They may or may not be saved, but they but their desire uh is to become more godly and to stick to more Christian traditions. I don't know. Just because it's Israel. Whether it's good or bad. A a nation is a body of people, right? Just say, you know what? Uh there's is the is the conflict itself justified and then there is is are the are the methods are the methods justified justified or not. At least the last generation was anyway. And your tribe's actions. Yeah, well I will say that it wasn't solely about slavery. I think just like today, back then there were a lot of different political things in play at the same time. He's he's brilliant. Now does he take it yeah onto his own initiative to do that or is he you know there's not there's nothing about God telling him to do that. He and his buddies not to go a military force. So should the three of us go, you know, barge in and take out all the doctors and nurses to save those babies' lives? However, I'm not so sure he was right to do what he did. So we have these hurricanes and every time there's death and destruction this question gets asked, but I'm going to add something that we haven't talked about specifically. Well, I'm Troy Skinner, host of the Faith Debate and pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. I I I think a lot of it has to do with um with with practice. Um because I have more of a high regard for the Orthodox Church than I do for the C Catholic Church. He was the Bible answer man for years on the radio and he left the Protestant tradition to become Eastern Orthodox about five years ago ish, probably six years ago. That's always gonna be a tragedy. Right so he's feeling responsibility. So and yeah, and and God orchestrated things in such a way that with Jesus that worked out really well for us Christians, right? But anytime somebody dies in a war, it's it's it's some form of a homicide, right? Visually you can put 'em both on the screen at the same time, but in audio I don't know how to give you both the top billing. But that's that's what you're getting at is is it ever justified to assassinate anybody for any purpose? Uh and so then you're not only going you're you're not only doing something that could be morally right, but it's also illegal under your own government. Create and move around hurricanes. Would evaporate so much of the moisture in those clouds that maybe it could have some sort of an effect on it. Anyway, I felt like an idiot for half a second then. Um and so so you can you can be a deist or you can be a polytheist or you can be a monotheist, right? Right? For most of the people who who will hear this show, it's gonna like agitate them, blow their mind, they won't want to accept it. We we can give it a shot. I think there there's a there's a probably a number of reasons. Because if you grew up in a non-denominational Southern Baptist whatever, you know, mega church in Virginia or Alabama or something Yeah, and it's not it's not a it's not a theological thing. Um experiential spirituality kind of a thing has it fits better in East Eastern Orthodox mode, right? If they all fall about the public school at one same time, millions and we'll change the f well not just the South, but we're going to change the whole country. Right? That's what that's what they that's what they uh Oh yeah I mean McDonald's, I mean they were just a podunk thing back in the eighties. Okay. I mean that's a lot of people. But was the killing a justified killing? tomorrow and uh all the good old boys with their rifles and their shotguns and stuff uh rally and they start uh taking shots at the Chinese army and they they kill a few of the the Chinese uh soldiers So we still have to figure that part out. You haven't heard that song? We are talking about whether specific things in the past could have been justified. So it may not always be incumbent on the believer to go immediately stop all sins that you see occurring throughout the country. He he got off on that technically he he got slaps on the wrist, but he didn't he didn't face the full brunt of what he could have faced. Almost. God is it's not like Satan's out running rogue and he sent a hurricane to the Carolinas or sent a hurricane Not out of date, right? I don't I don't know. should be moved or not in Israel. And then Nixon changed that. And every case is going to be different. And it doesn't say anything specifically about I can't uh in certain circumstances kill a Christian. But Daniel made the point about it being uh there's all sorts of battles of conquest and taking over uh more territory and Yeah, and also to say like in defense of who, right? And and um we're gonna stay on this general topic but begin to pivot into something a little more on the personal side. Yeah, but there's there's uh same sex uh relationships and and and and trans and transgenderism and Everyone Taylor, no one's Hitler. I'm making enemies. The only reason why they do it is because it will get them lots of attention. Well uh uh the the hardcore Christian flat earthers it is, because the the integrity of the Bible is at stake. Um and you could look at that and say, oh, it was just like today's magicians, they're just illusionists. And so uh you know, as and as hard as that is, you know, all things that occur are are instructive to None of us was owed the life that we have. In in the sense that they might mean it, right? This was the one you wanted to talk about actually, the Protestants uh defecting. I think we bring it up as we feel like we kind of made that point. I thought a doe was a deer, a female deer. Send it to me so I can post it. He would go around to churches and sing them to kids and teach kids about Jesus and stuff, kinda little Sunday school sessions. Yeah, I I think one of the things that the evangelical I I think this is one of the fruits actually of the you know, the larger They might say war is never justified. Because if not, well then that's murder. um will participate in word conflicts. Um and the negotiating table trying to divvy up Germany. Right. So killing the civilians is punching them in the stomach, they're not the combatants. Probably not today. Anyway. That's true. There are way more podcasts of the Faith Debate available through the Household of Faith in Christ website than there are on the WFMD. We can we can we can say there may be a case. If they at least say the word contrails. You kind of get a very freewheeling, you know, flexible boundaries type of feel from a lot of those churches, rightly or wrongly, even some of the ones that are more biblically founded in some of their teachings. And they they've left they they've left the reform the the Reformation. But he doesn't even identify as a Christian anymore. Yeah, I think that battle's over. Um same thing with the even with the Orthodox tradition tradition. At this moment, if you happen to be hearing the show, and you're one of those people, you've left the Protestant tradition to become Roman Catholic or to become Eastern Orthodox. All right, well, we're going to wrap this up. Anyway, something's going on in the Middle East. Some people get offended by the that that thing. So but what I'm trying to say is can we bring it back to a little more practical, what should a Christian do about conflicts that already are existing or going to be existing? Don't wage war. Um yeah, last week we we were talking about Israel a little bit and we it was my fault we got off to a very sloppy start, so we didn't get off to a uh a good start out of the gate. Now there is a certain attractiveness to that pragmatically speaking, right? And that's kind of what happened with the American Revolution, the other revolutions too, is like w we're not with the leaders anymore. They they created their own government, if you will, their own set of leaders who drafted their own documents, their own petition to to and and uh But you know, uh I don't really know where I'm going with that except that I that that that feels like a a a good analogy. I don't trust you guys on that I remember. In a peacetime where you where you assumption that this is where you someday become where you go vigilante, right? Than than like you know, like on a the on a wall. I agree with that. The radio station allows us to come in and record user studios and use their airways to broadcast it and then they convert it the audio into podcast. Ever. Because they're but they're more theistic or they're more polytheistic. Uh you're right. those non-Protestant traditions. But but I I've seen a lot of movement towards uh like the Anglican tradition right which is not papal, but is very Roman Catholic in many, many ways. The Mormon uh quote unquote church. Who who knows? Thanks for headphones, Troy. Everybody else has changed. Something imperfect and mutual. Um So let me ask the question this way. I've heard the phrase but I I don't know. Um I just thought of a great example probably of of a civilian thing. Even more innocent civilians potentially. I know it was it it was it was over hundred thousand, but it wasn't millions. Okay. So I I I don't know, but your feelings about whether a war is just does not make it just because God i it does not change. But as but as of recording this, I was reminded this past summer, in the summer of twenty twenty four, there were at least two and uh and maybe a third that never quite got off the ground uh attempt on Donald Trump's life. So I agree with that. Oh. Neither should you be, I would say, and maybe you won't quite agree with this, but neither should you be in fear of total nuclear annihilation of the Earth. Oh interest. Is a solarium the same as a as a conservatory, by the way? I think I only heard of it you mentioned it once before. Contact me. There's there's no reason to make that change unless you just don't get the gospel. But then it was she w worked in Montelands as she was working her way through college. Well that's the uh bonus coverage on the beginning of the stream. Oh I would also bet that if he did have a nuclear weapon in his backyard he wouldn't tell him I have uh you know I I have words I have fists And so that makes it really difficult when you have nations fighting that come from very different uh right and wrong worldviews. They should just call it and and I mean this like I don't mean this for shock value. How bad was he? Um there's a p passage, a prophetic passage, which I would say is referring to a future end time, but regardless of what it's referring to, it's in Ezekiel and it talks about But the aside from the main point of that passage, whatever it is, presumably these were people who her their hearts were aching and they were actually crying and weeping and in anguish over the evil that was being done in order to try and assassinate Hitler. Remember what he got laughed at about that a few years back? Like I a and and ultimately really like everything I do is is with purpose and is is instructive. Uh well, so uh I I think a few reasons. Um, you know, there's some some more famous ones like s you know, Scott Hahn and and and uh somebody else with a really long name but I can't remember right now. I can understand why somebody likes the the tradition and the the the the structure of the liturgy and stuff, but why wouldn't they join a Missouri Synod Lutheran congression? And if you ask him about church and stuff, uh without exception, it's oh the our pre man, he's great. That much I can tell you. So it is Israel. And I think because well you can make a much easier case about that, that's probably why most of the quote unquote civilized countries these days On the West I think you in the West you can understand that to a degree. N you don't know the movie? And he said, Well, I'll take that and at the same time he was by the same token we get to also prove to Russia that we're still uh powerful um because they they were fighting with the with uh Stalin. And by the way, the Jesus example, uh, we we can't forget theologically his life wasn't taken from him, it was offered up. Yeah. See that's what I'm saying. Well I I'm I'm I'm just saying it as an example. Like that's not my house, that's not my fight, he's not attacking me. So Troy, do you think you should have gone to get approval for a display and set up a purely Christian display next to the state Is that them exercising dominion? Everything Satan does though is by permission from God. It's not the weather. And that was the whole argument of Job, right? And that I I think is what makes uh ours one of the most difficult languages to really 100% proficient in. And the Eastern Orthodox tradition, that's not what they're all about. Yeah. Nixon went to China because he was the first president to acknowledge that mainland China was now being ruled by another country or another government, but still was to be called China. By the time this airs maybe they maybe it will be. Well I believe in a sovereign God, so I believe every nation that's ever existed has had those boundaries determined by God. I mean right. Let's talk about some of the things that might make it more injust. But we I would argue no, we don't have any record of him commanding that. So God wipes out the evil and places his people in the promised land. Except for the discussion about nature's history. He's eminently quotable. So I think in that sense Dietrich Bonhoeffer wasn't vigilante. Actually not we didn't make a whole lot of ground, but we're we're gonna move on. So he either caused it or uh allowed it through some natural means that God put in place to begin with anyway. Which historically just is uh which you get an Eastern Orthodox person on here to have this debate, but it's just doesn't hold up under scrutiny when you look at history. Yeah, and I I I wonder. Um but I think some of the people could be leaving that, be disin disenchanted and they're not sure where to land and they end up at the local Catholic parish because the because the the priest you know gives a very funny homily for ten minutes every week. She worked at some other burger joint. The uh satanic display in the State House of Iowa. So do those knuckleheads in uh in Europe have the right to throw pea soup at uh paintings on the museums? I liked it. Uh remaking and heaven comes to earth. Um and you know, I I I I've I've researched it somewhat and I I don't see it out of the realm of possibility that there is something that can be done that is more than just cloud And why we you know wanna maybe let God off the hook, right? And I will say this. Right. I mean we the country is responsible for the actions of its people towards others. Well see this gets into a question that we had probably over a year ago now. And we have less than a minute, but this might spawn conversation, so I'm uh wonder if I should mention it. So yes, the data can be made to the other. Welcome to the Faith Debate. org. We we disagree on how and when that happens potentially, but there is a future time in which there's a new heaven and new earth. Okay. Yeah yeah yeah yeah or or even the moon to affect the tides or whatever. And people are rejecting like, wait a minute, you the what was attractive about Mormonism was this s this this sense of stability that maybe isn't there anymore. Well hello streamers. Good morning, Vietnam. So one is anticipating the other, and that's the lesson that's to be drawn from that. Sorry. But if there's no record the Bible says go do it this way. But in the culture war we use words. But also hopefully you can learn something here or there. What about those who are very staunch and they're Christians in leadership positions actually. And there are many people that buy into the argument that we have the original, whether it's Catholic or Eastern Orthodox Oh. Are they leaving from the you know the charismatic uh uh rock concert Sunday morning experience and leaving something for something more traditional? Yeah. Well, uh a couple of things I find interesting in the New Testament. Yeah, explain it to their loved ones who didn't die that you know i it was an okay. But I I don't know that Romans thirteen quite uh goes with that. It's a it's just a it's just a trope at this point. I mean he was. People who might have liked me before now don't like me. And it's a way to communicate maybe the truth. Um very first command given to anybody to uh man in the Bible is be fruitful and multiply and subdue the earth and have dominion over the fish of the sea and the fowl of the air and the cattle and over all the earth. But the as far as the weather goes, I think the third question is. One of the primary motivations I have for continuing to do this show after all these years, you know, uh it uh I mean it's And so the debate is whether they're contra I mean condensation sales uh uh trails, meaning merely water vapor, or if they're chemtrails because the government or some Now whether that means they have total control over all weather, no, I don't I don't think that's the case. The butterfly effect. That drainway may look barry at first, but it's three and squatty. Um I think right, there there's not you don't there's not roots and security and something consistent. Maybe. And there might be something to that because I think that the uh the the if it's not a Christian church, uh the fighting words for those over here what I'm gonna say next, uh but the LDS, the the the Gone gone the Roman Catholic direction, if you will. C. Right. War. Just we see them through different lenses. Southern Frederick County, basically that's what you're going with now? As far as to determine whether something else is a good thing. There's some reasons he gave why they were uh what he was commanding. Oh I have. That's actually the question. But is it was he right to do that? If you need if maybe we'll do a separate show on all the reasons why I can say that with uh with such a I so I so I can tell you why I really think it is. Isn't that the reformed claim though? You know. Right. Um so if if you want a simple answer for everything then I I guess be it's kind of like saying well I want to I want to understand fully everything and every reason that God does There's there's various legal standards is my my point. Why not though, right? Not you could only go to war to do that, 'cause th the it's not a limiting uh principle I'm like, you know what? No, actually well I gotta tell you I think it brings to you, but I'm being paid a billion times more than both of you put together. Do we have the right to go to all these, you know, well leftless Lulu uh uh unbiblical churches throughout Frederick that are waving the pride flags and tear them down and tear them down. And if they do, it's under God's sovereign hand, right? Like the veneration of Mary, it that's relatively new. Wouldn't that be a tree for tr tree? I didn't look into too many uh details he gave on why. Her story has changed by the way. But we have a bet? That that that's not a logical uh argument. That's a kind of silly question, but you know people do that. David David Razley Daniel Forcey. So there was a war taking place in the middle of last century or near the middle of the last century, centered mostly in Europe. Uh yeah, because they they uh believed that under the First Amendment they had no right to deny anybody for any display, so they We're gonna we spend you know several hours recording multiple shows at least once a month usually. Uh but what what do we say to somebody who's that adamant? Ed Stetzer, um what's the VeggieTales guys? And I think a lot of people are weary. Get one now before it's too late. Good morning, and thank you for listening to us this Sunday morning on News Radio 930 WFMB. is the capital. It's a very simple kind of an argument, and I think people might be attracted to just the simplicity. I'm j I'm saying that would that would be that would be uh more extreme example of okay these are really not combatants, they've already surrendered, they're not, you know, now are you just gonna kill every man, woman and child in there It's a totally different I totally disagree. He stole. You're racist, but doesn't really have any meaning these days because it's used so much. How about we try to work if that's yeah we work uh I'm thinking of as just kind of some foundational things, but then if we want to explore those foundational things, we could set those as separate topics and we'll do a whole recording session one night on Heart is a male deer, I'm sorry. Fundamentalists are just out of date. We mentioned Israel and and uh and Hamas. Completely unjustified. Is it only justified if it if it involves uh ancient Israel? A lot of a lot of things really just aren't black and white. Yeah. I don't think our Western leaders want to have that kind of level of responsibility, but uh you're you were kind of um David, you were kinda hitting at hinting at Because it it would be very com you know, it would be like, you know, today like uh you know the the president says all right, you know, like these are my these are my pet states and all Right? Um so we're talking about well we've not now, but we're gonna transition to talk about what we were hoping to talk about, which we've been talking about the last couple of shows, having to do with war and that sort of thing. He's America's Hitler. As far as I know, it was it was just a group of people who realized Hitler's gotta go and maybe we've got the means to do it. If they're gonna do it from the Bible and I'm not dying to do it necessarily, but I think it would be an interesting thing. So we spent the last um three weeks bludgeoning to death the war question. So everything is under man's dominion on this earth. So if Satan is controlling the weather ever, and I think because of that particular story uh in Job, that that's an that No, I know. So I well I think I think the struggle is right like why we want maybe we want to blame Satan is because you know like a lot of a lot of death happened from it, right? If you're still at some Baptist Church, you need to still you know what, it's over, move on. We haven't changed. Not that I know of. In light of what's been happening in the Middle East, has there been something going on in the Middle East the last year, year and a half, something like that? Um so that's that's sort of where I'm going with So w there are wars of conquest and expansion and there have been throughout history. Right, yeah. Find us online at WFMD. And I'm sure there are people in Ukraine that are also saved. But they would say no, I you should just desert them um or uh or willingly be killed instead of uh firing any Oh. Exactly. There was uh uh Helene and Milton. So we have fun, we talk about stuff that hopefully is going to be interesting and you know get you thinking, maybe get you laughing every once in a while, maybe get you a little No, I give glory to God for you know allowing giving me knowledge and causing the growth of of my seeds and giving the sun and the rain and all of that. Um but my knee direct reaction when I hear somebody becoming Eastern Orthodox is that they m they have a more likely is more likely that they are they could be still saved than if they become Catholic Don't you think? It it's I did work in a burger joint by the way. I'm just saying nobody will care anymore. It was something like um the the Greater Potomac uh I don't know, Yada yada. He called Beijing China and Taiwan is Taiwan. That's how I would explain it to a to a Westerner, but I I think on a more basic level, whether you could have or should have or even did attempt to stop anything, you still bear responsibility for your family's action. This gets to the question you asked uh at the very, very beginning of this discussion last week too, right? I just felt like that was kinda tying my hands as far as some of my main principles on how war could be just or unjust are really going to be rooted in Absolutely nothing. Okay. Yeah, Dietrich Bonhoeffer was not a military officer. What about something that's not quite as dramatic as that? And so the proper report on the way would be would be to to file a lawsuit. Can't can't trust anything that goes you have to actually you have to believe the opposite. All he says is you are man, I am God, shut up. People are getting disillusioned with how much fracturing the American church is. But we have the original doctrines and and before the church fathers messed it all up for us and and the and and and stuff and before the A lot of people I know they're Catholic and we have a lot of Catholics in my in my family. 'Cause there's there's been more chatter about World War Three since like the nineteen seventies and eighties. Okay. You know, we get the different people in the room where you all debate whether one specific conflict is justified. Bad. Yeah, and don't don't treat people unfairly. So he said I can just call down twelve weakness and angels at any time and save myself if I want to. Certainly by the end of the war some of them did. So that was David Forcey with the good finishing thought. That sounds like uh that sounds like justification for jihad though. Daniel Razby. Not the new Star Trek though, because they've gone completely woke. Like like so y God you know, if we want to use some mushy language for So um So it was part of it the reason I'm asking that question is part of his official capacity to do those sorts of things, right? Yeah, but Jesus goes into the temple and it's his father's house. That doesn't happen. Very rapid object global warming. Right. Um and then there's some more high profile people that weren't necessarily pastors like the Donut Man. I I'm I'm clearly you guys are more in in tune with this than I am, and so I'm probably missing some huge things. Right. I I don't think so. I don't know. And it might just be semantics, but I I I I tend to think less in terms of uh the earth being destroyed, maybe the earth as we know it being destroyed, but it's more of a renewal. But uh and he got red in the face talking about this issue with me. God willing, it's going to be great. I think the an Anabaptist for example would to be consistent would say that they are not in favor of any war, but they can't really control what the co government does. Um, you know, what is my personal responsibility over, you know, what's what's Right. Oh wow. I apologize. Well and and say, you know, like, okay, so like Yeah, like what's the and um Oh you were going you were going a different direction I think with that. We made exactly one millimeter of progress on our topic of just wars last week. And some of the principles that we learned by viewing these other wars, knowing that they were justified, there may be some similarities between those wars and some other wars. One guy did a bad thing and stole a little piece of of jewelry or whatever and a gold nugget. You can kill someone and not have it be a murder, but you can't kill anybody, Christian or not, uh, if it's a murder. Uh John Wilkes Booth thought he'd be a hero for taking out Lincoln, right? There was a number of people there were a number of people involved in with Dietrich Bonhoeffer. He trains reservemen or something. It is not protected under it should not be protected under the Press of Methodists. Some eighty-three year old woman was was facing all this uh jail time for for being uh blocking the w hallway. All that's possible because of the radio station we're grateful. And you you can say, well, you know, like God God wound the whole thing up and it's just running and now whatever we do is you know what causes things to happen So she went to cali she went to college in Montreal and DC, so her ment her mentors taught her how to Are you referring to because we don't know if Kamala Harris actually works, that was where they released a statement saying, well we don't have any records, but we also didn't keep records in the eighties of it United States of America is a real place. Let's say that Russia is was justified in feeling threatened by the maneuvers of of NATO and and uh uh and them being threatened by uh What you know, one of the things that I I've heard some people make a reasonable case that the Revolutionary War was not justified biblically speaking because it was I also heard uh David Forcey. His father or his brother or his uncle did this and therefore he it's his fault too. There are certain days when I feel older than others. Are is are all are all methods of victory of achieving victory are they all justified? And you don't know for a fact that we would have had millions dead in in in in in an invasion of Japan. And because of that, Israel lost the next battle and like thirty something of their people died, which was a lot, 'cause compared to zero in all the battles combined, you know, thirty people was a lot of death, right? Um but I would still draw principles from those wars that we know were justified, because those are the benchmarks. The uh and the the the original series uh and the uh next generation series uh are I think hold up over time. Um we might shift gears a little bit next week. No, but pretty significant monetarily because there's a heck of a lot more rebuilding to do in Florida than there would be in the the the God takes responsibility for them. I don't know. Sounds like an insult, but it means quite pretty or beautiful or whatever. I know a lot of Southern Baptists have left Southern the the Southern Baptist Convention, but that's because that if they get mad to come with the dominant He's uh here representing the Church of East at Imran's house. All it takes is for you to say don't fight me on this for me to fight you on this. It always has been. So let's just have our emphasis where the Capitol is. We're six minutes into the show here. And you know that happened uh honestly to to some parts of Germany when the Allies finally broke through the lines. There's a lot of good stuff there, but there's a lot of troublesome baggage in there too. I I'm asking us. But they were defiling but they were defiling the the temple and in this case this satanic statue was defiling the the So the long-lasting effects in the Carolinas are are far more dramatic for uh at the But there's all there are other instances recorded of supernatural miracles being done by workers of demonic like Did you create man? Because that guy that God chooses to be involved many times but also chooses not to be involved. So work. I think someone can be Roman Catholic to be saved. And they've been told, if they're Protestant, they've been told for their whole life that Roman Catholic's bad. They're the exact same as 2,000 years ago. Well, uh yes, if it's if we're talking about, you know, uh a person on a person, but but then when you go to I I'm thinking about like also like a Don't steal your neighbor's stuff. That's the logical No. Um but there is a passage and it just occurs to me we didn't really bring this up a couple years ago. com website. Uh what what do we what do we say that to talk them off that ledge? It's a heart. By the way, leading from some Anglican or Lutheran uh traditions that are much more uh liturgical And if you're comfortable, we'll have you on the show so you can explain what the reasons were. Sure. Uh but I would imagine almost all people who make that change don't understand the gospel or rejecting the gospel somehow Yeah that's uh it's funny because I I was trying to think about who have we never had on the show next week. I don't know if you've done it. She's not as good at it though. So you have two questions though. But it took a while. Um you know do we advocate that? In fact, you're gonna like actually maybe you like this because there's not it's not a specific command by God, do it this way. So you haven't seen Good Morning Vietnam, but you have seen the A-Team. And of course the the show has a page at WFMD. So obviously it wasn't frozen tundra once upon a time. So we'll get to that in a second. Very biblically mean? Right. Or even Anglican, a lot of the same kind of a high church vibe. Yes. My uh my my you know my knuckles, you know, if I Like how far do we take the examples that were given about ancient Israel and apply them now? Well there were a a few, but it wasn't leading up to it wasn't largely just this disorganized everybody's vigilante justice trying to throw off the king. Again, there are plenty of pacifist Christians who would disagree with us and we don't really have representation from a true pacifist in this room. The English and the rest of Europe have to do something. Exactly. Okay? It's a funny idea but no, I no because that's that's not uh I it's not necessarily like like it it In fact, in my opinion, that is the only thing remotely approaching a coherent argument for a flat earth would be biblically based I think the science backs that up. Um what did they what did they do? What are the threads? Well I don't know. And uh there's also been some chatter. So ha are they? But for the broader listener that's joining in, they're gonna the the practical application is what do Christians do? Um and so uh so you know and and in the same way I think so like you you sort of scale up on that, like um But and people will say, Well, he wrote that when Nero was the the leader, so clearly he wasn't wasn't meaning that they're always uh Wow. They were busy with activities into the wee hours of Saturday night into Sunday morning. If any of you ever run into a a flat earther that would want to come on the show, we should do that Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here on News Radio 930 WFMD. Well we figured out years ago we don't have to fight about it anymore. But McDonald's is like saying I googled it and used Bing or I Xeroxed it but you use a you know a brother or HP printer. But generally speaking, do any of the three of us think there's ever a time when war is Okay, well then why was Rahab not only uh not punished, but in fact praised by God for her lie? I don't know what's going on with you right now, but I gotta put you down. We've got to stop Hitler at all things. We could do that. You're assuming we have a spherical Earth. But I'm I think the only thing that remotely approaches anything that the that that that could be a coherent argument for it has to come We've been doing the show for two decades, and I don't think I've ever asked the second question I'm going to ask. Oh yeah, maybe maybe I stopped the hurricane, yeah. We go back and forth on that. Yeah. Yeah. Um this kinda plays in this kinda plays into um you know as a Christian the practical implication 'cause I mean n none of us in this room Shooting. Yeah, I know you wanted to get away from Israel for but Israel is unique in that Israel is populated largely by people who were born in Europe and Russia. It's in Judges and uh one of the characters' names was Lehut, so but the point was the king was really fat. He uh he beheaded he took the head off of the satanic display somehow. So if we I mean if we were to so let's take this down to like a smaller scale, right? I think that's an accurate statement. Have you ever Have you ever done like a a partial shift at McDonald's? Have not done it. Germany had already surrendered. Is that always uh unjustified though? So the Anabatics would say you have to have all of those circumstances and the Um so I I don't know. But most of us in this country for some reason focus on the Nazis. So it says the children cried unto the Lord, the Lord raised them up a deliverer. He was very involved as a spy and so uh against Germany It probably would have gotten thrown out. I think you use a almost use like a freedom of speech argument. So uh but I I think if you want to try to think things through and see what some different ways to approach the question of when war is justified if ever and There may be nuclear attacks and certain you know people have found symbolism in in prophecy that seems to resemble various nuclear disasters. And social media has so exploded that there are so many terms now that the young whippersnappers are using on social media have no idea what they're doing. Pulp or cutinists. Well this might be a bit of a ask for a lightning strike, but um and I mean a lightning strike as a judgment from God, but like a needle and haystack kind of lightning strike. By the way, all those supposed political ramifications never materialized. There are times when war is justified. Yet they live in the Middle East in uh amongst a whole bunch of people that are much more of an honor shame culture. He should have stood up all those other times. The West doesn't see that. God. Um they've had some challenges uh over the last you know decade plus with uh some And I supported that move, not for political reasons, but for logic reasons. And so, you know, the you could I think make a decent case, uh biblically speaking, that that type of war would Oh yeah. And I think I think it's kind of silly to pray for your team to win a football game. At least appeasement. Right. I think there are many fantastic. In fact, that's a better one-stop shop to be honest, because there you can link to the sermon audio podcast and the odyssey. Um believe in global warming. And he got beat red in the face, he was very angry. God is not bound by our sense of morality. Or might not even be evil. Right? These are all English words. First of all, I phrase it that way, why does it seem as though? If you if you're raising children and you don't give them any rules at all, they're gonna flounder and in fact, you know, contrary to what they might tell you, kids actually do want rules. But they they're not cool. Why is it why is it attractive to them? Thanks so much for listening to the show. No. But they I would I would fight you on that, yeah. I it's because we haven't made any ground. When a country takes over another one, generally after their surrender, basically there's plenty of more peop plenty of people that rave for pillage and plunder and basic Yeah, well the internet. People are concerned about the the uh jet uh um exhaust in the sky. The whole book of Job is about, you know, why God, why God, why do you let all the suffering happen? Well in the in the King James they call it a heart. Ah, a doe is a female. True for the Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholics too? And so many people grew up and they well why aren't we Catholic? Originally her story was that she worked at McDonald's uh in Oakland. By the way, this is a quick aside, you guys if you disagree, I'll write it down. But uh I'm pretty sure, you know, even if they're not using physical force for conflicts that pacifists will Um but again, ki civil on the on the subject of civilians, any any time that that somebody is dying who's let's say in the You guys don't know that movie? I think certain principles of why some of these wars were justified and why God commanded to do certain It's kind of a federal headship argument, right? Peter Bonhoeffer I don't think was sanctioned by anybody. So and it was a time of war, right? Did you put things here and there in their place and set everything in motion? God gave us the life that we have and it's his to do with what he will. And it seems like a lot of that is happening because they've begun to deviate from their some of their cultic practices and their commitments. So Yeah. And that's that's sort of what I was trying to do by saying, you know, like I have words, I have fists. com at Household of Faithinchrist. The way the West handles it and the way the East handles it are very different. He plays a DJ who's broadcasting to the troops in Vietnam and he opens his morning show with Good Morning Vietnam, but it's a war time kind of a movie. So if if the Chinese Red Army uh invades Maryland You remember that song? No, not suggesting the hurricane actually changed. Like how to go about thinking about things, how to try to compare your current thinking with what biblical thinking is and how does it match it ma However, and this is a huge however, it never happens outside of God's control. The things that are uh at least have the appearance or the feeling of being really old, right, are are much are much more The political fighting and the right they're just tired. That that seems to be more of a of a I I don't have a lot of experience personally with anyone Anyway, well that's going to end up being the final. We're gonna keep in recording the the show. I think that'll be allowed? But the person uh he's totally responsible. Uh in the Civil War especially. Well if you if you're able to give good uh if you're able to really get to core principles, then those should be principles that you can consider And he doesn't even have a mustache for crying out loud, okay? Um they're dangerous questions. But he wasn't part of some c like vast group of people. I will say he felt feels like the the strength of his conviction was I need to do this and if they throw the book at me so what? Naturally flash. Then then that means that somehow he's powerless. And they have meanings and I can tell you what the meaning of each of those words is because I practice that sentence quite a lot. It's a it's a it's a practice thing. Which is interesting because it seemed to have a a resurgence for a time. Um but I I view that a little bit differently because countries that boundaries change all the time and but I view I view it I view it very differently than I would the Israel Do you still pay taxes to Britain in seventeen ninety-two or seventeen ninety-nine or Will you say, Yes, great, my team's back in charge now for a week and then pay their taxes there and then you go back? Have you ever lied? Uh well yes I' okay I I would I would go I would not say that. But you know a hundred thousand people died. And that's all the colonies did. That doesn't mean all other wars will be, or it doesn't just saying that doesn't mean it doesn't doesn't explain why it could be or not a justified David Forcy. They hadn't taken it upon themselves to go kill all the bail worshippers and whatever else. Oh, you're just a mealy mouth girly man. So are you suggesting that the that the hurricane changed or that the reporting of the hurricane was manipulated? And not so much always trying to get you to think what you should think, uh although that's certain things I would like you to that I think you should think and I would like you to I don't find it attractive because I want to know what the Bible says. Just because there wasn't a Palestine uh five thousand years ago Yeah, we're talking about war and stuff. Gotcha. And uh Milton, not quite as bad, but pretty significant uh as far as bad. And nothing happens that d God doesn't know about or hasn't allowed to happen. And that'll be the final word. Well if there is if there are any deer at his house, a female deer is called a heart, H A R T. Yeah, he was he was like a like a children's church teacher, like you know the the the the kids songs in Sunday school, like I'm in the Lord's Army or or Zacchaeus was a wee little man Good to see you. No good. There are some things that are that I would say are never okay and and the Bible does make those very clear. Yeah. Exactly. So the what makes a difference now that they're inside the woman other than it's legally sanctioned by the the by the government to kill baby when they're inside the womb. Now, I don't agree with what persecution he's been getting since. And when things that appear to be evil to our eye Um and her why why do you think those people are becoming Catholic? I'm Troy Skinner at the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD, and we are more than halfway through, and it occurs to me For sure. So I so I don't that's what I'm saying, but I I don't think I don't think it's possible for for me to have that kind of a conversation Likewise, I think all three of us would be there. Um and that my my supposition would be would be yes, because I I see the principles in there that are not. No. So we did like two or three hours of conversation with nothing to show for it. And God let that happen, right? Remember that? I'm not I messed up. The protest is over. Don't abuse your power, basically, right? We are way behind times, aren't we? And the Shem is is more Good morning, Vietnam It's how to apply what those examples mean for us. There are many Russian soldiers that I would say are probably saved. And if you've ever been cursed by the show, keep it yourself. But anyway Yeah. I I understand it's more complicated than than that. Maybe he didn't. When these things that look horrible to us are happening, not only can we have a confidence But yeah, I think uh I mean I I know a lot more people than I used to I get again it depends. If somebody actually dies though, if you kill somebody, then that is a very uh different legal standard Although certain kinds of fornication are gonna have uh certain remedies that are not death, right? They see them as they're non combatants, they're women and children, therefore they're innocent. I think uh if nothing else it gave you fodder for con for consideration. For the record, I should feel like an idiot all the time, but I felt like an idiot in fact for my half a second. To say, well, God allows things. org. I just like in English that we can borrow from all over the place. Right? Palestine's a real place. Right? And one of the reasons why and and and I don't know if this could be a mistake uh saying this, but one of the reasons why last week I said The other person who was telling you to do to you uh continue to show your support for the show and we do appreciate it. And I downloaded a bunch of those shows before they got lost, and so I've been uploading them on discernment audio and We're up around a thousand uh faith debates that are the faith debate almost as good as a survey Sermonaudio. Uh I think they were interesting shows. Yeah. Right. And in a lot of the non-denominational churches or the modern uh Baptist or charismatic churches in America Well you said you said you brought up home and property, right? It's not sanctioned. The services are rigid though. Till next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now. For the record. Well maybe helpful for me, but what's going on, the picture that we're given in the Old Testament uh of the the life experience of ancient Israel is pointing forward to what's gonna happen in the Escatana That's impressive. Who wants Hitler as the president of the United States? I I would I would put that the Milton for sure was w was an engineered hurricane. Right? Yeah, on the globe, yeah. I don't know. The more very non reform and very or the more Armenian listeners are gonna have much more of a problem If you go down it becoming ramble you get royal and end up in quite a bucketary. Um one is I think very, very effective marketing on the behalf of the Catholic Church in that Um liturgy. In the East, in y if you ask this question to anybody, Christian, Jew, Muslim, anybody who lives in uh uh Israel, in Pakistan, in India, in China And so there was a lot of other stuff, but the specific argument about whether chambillans so is that justified just because a hundred thousand non For sure. I mean you've probably met people who pray for their team to win. Right? And but I'm not sure what the difference really is. I'm not so sure. And and there is no place and there should be no place on public property or anywhere in the country. So so I I think the only reason to ask that question is to think like somehow like like who are we blaming? Well if they're threads we can't tackle, I'll jot them down and maybe we'll uh we'll swing back and tackle those threads 'cause I'm are you gonna be at the next recording God should be making the rules. And it's like it's a mystery. Yeah, I haven't had enough exposure to to know one way or the other. And I'm like, that's just not true. Let's be honest. So b basically the question of just war theory, is it is it is there ever s I think So would you w would it be better to use Ukraine and Russia for uh for our example? Don't use the knuckles and the hands that belong to your body to you know bludgeon somebody. Okay, you committed sins. Um and there's so that's the whole proportional response and that's what's being talked about a lot in the Middle East. One is is it is is i i i even though it's sad, is is it ultimately sinful or wrong? While we we're still kind of in the flow of the conversation, I'm going to jump right back in here. You're not acting as a protector of us anymore. Um you know after the Emancipation Proclamation that became uh more overtly about slaves. Correct. Right? God bless. But what happened in Florida is a pretty big deal too. And the other thing is, the second this is the second question. C. He's one of the pastors of the Church of Mita Imran's house. A lot of people have not a lot of people have not uh looked that deeply at it, right? That the reformation is getting back to what the Bible says getting back to the apostolic teachings. Is it always wrong when countries engage in war? If you ask the leader of Hamas who's now dead, if you ask but if you ask him I I body your choice? And so in that sense, like there is uh like those who are responsible for that body All uh it it it doesn't follow that because this war was justified, therefore all other wars are unjustified unless unless the various circumstances that started this one That's one position, yeah. Is that reading thing to you? He faced charges, charged with a hate crime, because it was some sort of religious attack on Satanism, I guess. And the Navy's now coming after him saying that uh he's a danger and they're gonna decommission him and There's been cycles of warming and cooling and that sort of thing. But my but the the the the reason I say this should be encouraging to the believer I didn't see that one coming. A lot of the theories why God might have done this. Oh yeah. Yeah. It's the same thing that has people leaving the Protestant tradition for orthodoxy Um you may you you may come up with reasons to stay in the Catholic Church if you already were there when when you came to this better knowledge of doctrine. C. Let's not pretend it's someplace else. Particularly some people coming from like a brethren kind of a background, very pacifist. Like cities where people who aren't citizens are allowed to vote in their elections? But but you're you're right. I don't want that. It's the same principles at play, but it's not about a war, although it's a culture war. So somebody applied for it and was approved based by two million elected offici officials for the satanic display display up there, yeah We'll see. Maybe since we brought this up, we could take a few I don't want to spend most of our time on that issue of climate change. And maybe maybe there is something instructive there, right, where it's clear, okay, well like there are other So the song is a hind would be a would be a female deer. They're all actual valid English words in the dictionary. I was thinking if that was the long name you couldn't think of. That I can I did for a year or two That's they're not the fists that are flying. So that's what I'm saying. I think it was in part about slavery, but yeah, uh making it as simple as that, and it might not even have been primarily about slavery. And they could do that or they could desert and be caught and killed as well. Is that a way to pay them? He's on the record now. Can some you know Buddhist go take that down? So it might be righteous in doing it, but then if we have to pay the the civil penalty for a stuff. The people that I know that believe it I don't know that they'll they would be The Internet and the fact that the government lies to us about everything all the time. And see we're talking about this now and you were laughing at Orange Man bad when he suggested the possibility of maybe using some sort of nuclear detonation to Sproul used to famously say, there are no maverick molecules. So that means we can add new words, you know, and add infanatum and it's ridiculous. Look, we signed this joint statement of faith with the Lutherans, and they did. Or good to be seen, I guess. One is soldiers go to John the Baptist and he doesn't tell them to not be soldiers anymore. Right. Well I realize that but uh the the problem is I don't know that you can separate it because Oh, sorry, I gave you top billing. Find us online at WFMD. I mean it took a long, long time. Uh so in in the sense that right he was a leader of people. But that is a good but that is but that is a good metric if you're the only one that that that thinks this Well no but was by the by the Allies. Yeah, on the satellite image, you can see if you look on the times uh the timestamps on the hurricane, you can see that it was category two. If any of the people you know would be comfortable coming on and you feel like they would be up on the arguments well enough to try to defend One that comes to you wanna go first? Or you or you can be uh uh uh honestly I would say or you could be a polytheist if you're gonna So even if it is Satan doing something or if we are screwing up our ecologies such that the storms have gotten worse or what have you That was David Forcey. Okay, so there's a consistent structure to what is going on. You know, in the non theologian area, some famous people like Candace Owens, for example, a conservative right wing uh uh commentator I don't think I'm saying anything pejorative. And I wonder what kind of pro I mean, have there been stu have you seen other studies? Are there Coptics locally? Yeah. Right, right. to be their their uh their national nation's capital I don't know, but and and how do you continue to def defend your home and property and and your government? If you can save using your two million one hundred thousand thing, if you can save one point n They have they were reorganized. But it does record he did, and it records him as j in generally a favorable light. Either way, does not God take responsibility for what happened? It might be tragic and but not evil. It's on the stream anyway, so are we doing another one or are we? And uh they believe in critical race theory and stuff too. By the time this airs there may not be a Middle East. Okay. Was he? I mean among conservatives uh who pay attention to these sorts of things, I know I'm in a display. And so that's that would be uh where some of the people with the flat earth mindset come from. You know, from from my observation that seems to be, you know, people that are much more like into But uh that might be helpful because there's no to my way of thinking, there's no no legitimate reason to make that change Find us online at householdfaith in Christ. So anyway, there is a lot of buzz about, you know com. Right? Imagine if that was the case. A lot of good thoughts in the middle of it all was Daniel Razley. We should mention, you know, how grateful we are and uh Does that matter? You know, and then you get the the whole, you know, what's right and wrong from a Western perspective. I think you again we we I used this line was it two shows ago about you know we got You know, that kind of thing. It's because uh because then if he is responsible for all of that death and destruction, now we have to resolve that with No, he's he's in control of everything, including hurricanes and tornadoes and earthquakes and volcanoes and Pope Francis is not saved. We actually agree, right? But she didn't go to college in California. Right. And the Civil War raises uh I was gonna I was looking for an opportunity to pivot to this and that you brought a civil war and that's a perfect example. Yeah, I see. It was just an aside and I said, well park it about abortion. We might talk about uh the weather. So go tell your wife that she's poke retutinous today and uh she might uh slap you until you tell her what the definition is and then she Well let's say we we'll use Ukraine and Russia because it's going to be less um theologically charged than Israel. All right, we're gonna end it there and we'll pick up this conversation in next week's show. Until next week, 167. Yeah. So that's where to me I can see a a a So there are actual Christians shooting at each other um in in Ukraine. Okay, fine. It's not as simple as you know Germany invades Poland and So this guy goes to rescue the Jews from the oppression of this wicked king. That's not how hurricanes work. I I am not assuming, I am confidently asserting that we have an a um spheroid uh along the Earth. com is they specialize mostly in sermons, but there are other people that put stuff on there that aren't just sermons and I I clearly mark it out as it's Which is more weather like. And what what what God was saying there is I I am the teacher, you are the student. The house that meets at David's house? Although Anglicans will count themselves Protestants. They have a really bad name right now, right? She's not as good at it. If you subscribe to that, I'm not I'm not sure that I do, but if if you subscribe to that theory, then at what point do you now So why why why isn't it simple A person has died as a homicide. Is do I put myself in the middle of that? So would those circumstances ever happen again? But this question made it into the mix of this conversation because I was reminded of these realities this past summer in the summer of And then you might have come back the next day and the head might have fallen off by a pl He's allowing it to happen at the very least. I really do. There's actually a certain logic to that when you think about it. So we get the song wrong. That'd be interesting. I figured it'd be a good way to open the Faith Debate show this morning. Uh probably a ma uh a uh It's ac yeah, and it's actually one of the funnier stories. He was part of a of a large plot, including uh higher-up officials within Hitler's administration. Right, you know, 'cause I can easier than harnessing the sun And from God's perspective there are no innocents. We've decided that everything is worth knowing we know and the other stuff is a mystery. I I have much less respect for somebody that joins the Catholic Church uh Catholic Church. I I don't know as much about the Orthodox Church as I do about the Catholic Church and Oh man I know who Robin Williams was So that was that's the point. So that would say that all war is completely unjustified except for the war that took place in ancient Israel. But I I I think it's also wrong to say, well, we can discuss all of Scripture except for He's not advocating any specific assassinations against any person Uh but but does it but but see see that and that gets back to what we said the you know a a year ago as well where or two years ago I think it was by now. The the Iowa Statehouse isn't the temple of God. Oh intensity, up and down, so it's not a big thing. He didn't stop it from happening. So I think the surprising answer to this question is uh I think the answer is yes. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB. Alright, so the schedule topic for today. So where am I going with this? You know, people will say what what happens there's a famous poem about This is one of the days I feel old. So God can kill whoever he wants because he created. Like the the leaders were with them. The the the Star Trek Discovery, have you seen that one? I mean it using the vernacular of the of the day of the left. So now you now what we gotta stop this. That is that that that's a So we don't we don't use guns. I don't think he was wrong to do that. So, you know, like maybe the wrong way. So and that's the encouraging thing also, you know, when you think about what God's plan for the for humanity And he went around a whole bunch of Protestant churches, and then a few years ago he became Catholic. You know, they're they're abandoning biblical gospel truth for something that feels like the flavor of the day to them. The plea for you to join the show in the future is then how we end this show. Not in Oakland, not in Montreal, not in DC, not anywhere. There's there's there's n right we could have somebody in this room. So is there really ever an innocent civilian then if a country is ruled by evil leaders that are I think I think and like you said, uh David the the example of John the Baptist is what he They get involved and they try to rein this in and Chamberlain is a abject failure and and uh there's an argument against pacifism by the way. And I was reminded of it and to be clear, so are the heir here, I do not advocate that Well no, but he wasn't actually a role either. It's like there's got to be some sort of a of a regimen of of spheres of sovereignty and control of it. I encourage you to go check out those old podcasts. Ice and snow and now because the earth is warming, it it's melting, but we're we're seeing that beneath that ice and snow are roads and That means you should use that responsibility wisely so that I mean they turned their staffs into snakes, so that was Oh, is that a one show thing? There could be multiple reasons then be the way you want to flush those out maybe. They're always a certain format. So where's a church that really bases on what they say God makes and they never change it? Uh but I think that those who are Roman Catholic and are saved either aren't really familiar with all the things The topics are actually listed in the description. Okay, well we'll I'll we'll I'll make a note. One or the other? Well, probably if you've lied it was a sin. By my by my little garden. And may maybe they can, right? It's not just random. Wow, so if we carve his heart out with a spoon and bring it to your house, it's Why aren't they storming the the the doors of the Protestant churches? Um I things like um so you you could say alright like the fundamentalists have a lot of rules, right They were like, you know, a mom and pop shop back then. So for the sake of argument It most of the conflicts that are in the world today those are not the excuses being Death. Unjust. Everything you're either guilty or you're innocent. That's a totally separate series of shows. I mean there were certainly principals and and people there were also many Christians who were actually desiring to fight on both sides Um you know I we can make an argument of how many people Last week they opened with Good Morning Vietnam. In the last day, God will destroy the entire earth by fire. Because uh I I think it's you know I've mentioned this off the air to uh to you guys, uh Daniel and But it's also a commitment of time Oh that sneaky Satan he got me again, you know. We're online at Household of Faith in Christ. Right. Uh Bill Visher. Right? You have a fifty picture of Save. And um speaking of the Middle East, right, there Israel was renamed Palestine by the Romans as an insult to Jews. Okay. The question is, like, under what circumstances would it be justified and what would circumstances tell us that it's automatically that's not justified. And that is not had not just happened October seventh, it did not just happen in You remember that song? So they were he wasn't acting alone. No, because God is good and he's loving and he's caring and And he wasn't being mean or wrong to say that. Also heard from Daniel Razzi. They like the spells and bells as they say? So I yeah, so uh I think with the um the instability of the American family. And I I think I think the reasons are are pretty clear. I'm not really seeing. Of course China for their part says Taiwan is still part of China. The reason I know that is because God has commanded war to be waged in many examples throughout the Bible. Just as we've talked about before, just understanding the Trinity is is already a a I want a God that's big enough that I can't understand him or why he does everything. Because God did command similar things to get up. Yeah. That's the Old Testament. I mean good thoughts about ancient Israel. Uh in my opinion, one of the more overrated theologians of the last century. I mean people many people He's n he's not Hitler. So, you know, I I think that that I think that changes the situation. He owns it. We know how it turns out. But I do I have seen certain things that that do appear to be outside the normal pattern. Uh I I think he stayed angry with me for a little while. Um and then we also have Paul saying that the You know, University of Alabama plays the University of Georgia in the football match, and fans of both sides pray to God for their team's victory. Well, no, the o the thing you can draw that everybody can agree is that it could be the case that at some point I'm not gonna get every precise We're all pastors in the area. Maybe. I think that there's some but at the hurricane level on everybody. Like is it is it wrong to try and control the weather? Um my wife and I come kind of out of a Catholic tradition He's one of the pastors there, and he's also, they have a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. So we're not we're we're not uh I don't care if he pulled a trigger or not. Like if and if God doesn't command the war then it's unjustified. Did did God command uh the United States to wipe out uh all the the uh Indian nations across It's a game, right? Well the other thing that we didn't even touch on I probably Well why shouldn't it be one church? Is that better than the Wackamole Church, the Rotisserie League Church? So I don't know, but it could ha we gotta define those terms. Is that what you're saying? Yeah, but so we're gonna try to make a second millimeter of progress on this week's edition of the Faith Debate. We're gonna we're gonna have our own new set of leaders. So if you're listening to the show and you have been blessed by it, please write or call to the radio station how uh so that they can keep us on the air And then those people will be spared when Israel is destroyed or or So anyway, so you can check all that out. You know, if God is sovereign, is it God's will? Well a and I'm not necessarily thinking the Roman Catholic Church. Oh, because Eastern Orthodox, they're not rigid. And so then I I then there's going to be movement. It's like I just want to have some sort of religious uh experience. Go to McDonald's could be a you could miss it for the Let's just put it where it is Avoid it. Um you know, take line for example. Sure. Well, I would include all of the parts uh of the Bible in as examples and And I don't know that our leaders would want to even take the that example because they don't want to be held to that kind of standard. Um, you know, I I I I think that there it Because it talks about the firmament and the waters above and the waters below and the And Daniel Razvy, he's uh one of the pastors at the Church that meets at Imrans. You know, who are we to say what is good or bad that could He's got purposes that are beyond our imagination. Well, but also then he told that he bothered to tell us what they were. It's only how does it make everything else I w I'm trying to avoid because I know you don't want to get into it today, the whole worldview thing and honor and shame, a fear power Whether it's a defensive war or an offensive war God bless. David Forcy. The present was a knife that he stabbed him with, right, and killed the king. But um you know I mean we we do Well I mean if y you can either you can either be a deist or or not Did you make the earth Because do we think that in fact there is an epidemic Right? They might still call themselves Protestants, but they've left the Reformation. You know. You know, the the faith debate is not an Eastern Orthodox thing. A lot of a lot of the the current w uh wars that are going on, both sides would consider them to be acting Not injust. That's where the difference is gonna be. Right. You're paying David three times as much as you pay me to be com. Well, d or or did He make things happen Which means now we have Well that's and that's the argument for the Sarah Big God. So it's not doe remi, it's heart remi. That's an illusion though. There and there are it's not just lay people, there are pastors that are becoming Catholics It's not more than just um blows being exchanged or harsh words. Yeah, good catch, because we would get people hung up on that sort of initial and deal with them far too often. They weren't just off scatter shot duel. So I just saved you some time. But for ease of conversation He he wasn't representing any particular military operation. Yeah. And then I have to uh And of lots of options. It used to be very liberal. He's so funny. Yeah and and I'm not getting into the minutiae of it because I I'm I'm not framing this as a you know uh Are one or the other or both of them justified? If you want to give like an overarching principle on when are conflicts justified, that might be So that's just for lying. It occurred to me that uh Right? So sanctuary states That's what happened in the Civil War and they lost the argument, but it was founded, I think, on on That's a good transitional Yeah, did like the did did like Churchill send him or did the Americans send him or something? He pulled it off because it was He pulled it off? You just don't think he should have done that. But but it also is true that even if there were no scientific arguments But yeah, the the earth as we know it uh does cease to exist as it does Did you do that? But that's not always accurate. Okay. I think if if we had And rapture and all that. The US military, one member of the military commits some heinous act and therefore we start losing all of our wars in in the Right? No. I'm I'm pretty sure people were well yeah, I'm pretty sure uh some people compared So um but there are people who are convinced. Maybe. Many people would say that, right? Um d would that make it something that's not just or I I think there's that's a there's another piece there too, which is So is there a question of that? S. Right? See I see I was a little bit different. Right? Okay. I think I think you could have hubris in I think I could have hubris in in the way that I'm trying to do my garden, right? They are there's they read from certain prayers and and they they have He gave himself Um I don't know how many, may not be very many. com and household of faith in Christ. But we don't have the authority to do that. So hurricanes as they always are, you know, the summer late summer, early fall is they're always in the news. So there's evidence that there has been some changes. And we'll say um And and this is what it's like. Let me try the Eastern Orthodox. I I I'd be curious to know what your reasons were, and I'm sure that you would be speaking for some other people and we can try to grapple with some of those reasons I don't know if there are locally. She's learned well Maybe God will bless us with being able to listen to this in glory We'll be a separate show topic for another day The question is is it a justified homicide or is it a murder? Does the m does the name Michael Cassidy mean anything to either one of you at the top? Like he's uh uh apparently he's an airplane uh uh Can can we as Christians that old art is not making any protection But we as Christians do You can connect with all of the podcasts and things like and uh the outline of uh show topics and that sort of stuff is there. But I think the implication is given in in Exodus that these were like supernatural things happening Right, yeah, yeah, yeah. Maybe we should it it's a different show, but maybe I want to be taught about it. Not really seeing you right now. And you you're you're actually bringing it down to you know the level of uh I I my point is that a lot of things, biblically speaking, a lot of theological things really So that's the difference with ancient Israel too, by the way, right? Right, 'cause it's correct. He just kept making his miracles bigger and stronger. And you can say, you know, like Now there's a lot of things there that uh I I I'm tempted to want to respond to, but I don't want to gloss over um Come on, if you're gonna tell me stories, be good at it. I mean this has been a discussion for I'm not beating us up for this by the way, it's been a discussion for generations Right? Right Guess what? But North versus South, the blue versus the gray, was a lot of Christian versus Christian So they're entering so maybe it's I I I'm not a huge fan across the board with Donald Trump, but So if I can convince uh Alright, so but Satan got permission from God I'm Troy Skinner. Uh when is it okay to uh have a war or not have a war? Oh I guess as a teenager or something. I I can't really remember. Yeah, I mean in in that whole discussion it's gonna be difficult to avoid Well okay. Is that what you're saying? The A Team was funny. So in uh Christmas time, uh 2023, uh Michael Cassidy took it on himself to uh I am Troy Skinner, the host of the show and the pastor of Households of Faith in Christ. I think there's reason there are there are places in So you should not be living in fear of those things. Um you know, I think the first three or four quakes they they they basically read. Oh many of them are s would say that that Christianity has ruined everything and and they went out they went out Unjust. 5 hours from now. So I I know you're trying to get us away from the topic of ancient Israel. I I if if I'm gonna pray during a football game, I'll pray for people not to get injured. Yeah, practically speaking, yeah. And so Yeah. I would I actually would agree with that. Like if you have the freedom to set this thing up like in a public space, well then I have the freedom to come You can find us online at householdefaithinchrist. And then God answers. But those are the only other options of what you're saying. If it's a heart heart and a hind and then a doe and a buck. It wasn't just marketing. They're they're kind of frozen in time from like the year 1000 AD. That's that's correct. org If God wants to wipe out uh those evil evil Canaanites uh using uh It'll be more dated in a few months than it is now. Let's say David loses his mind someday and you know what for whatever reason he invades my home and my life in Or die, right? Daniel Razvey. So the Lord raised him up as a deliverer. Is there some secret aspect of his uh Um I don't think we found a hill to die on And Helene uh uh We know that the earth eventually is destroyed by God, by fire, someday So so so some combination of I say a task, You can look it up in the U. That would have been massively changed No Um but he had un unrighteous motives, the high priest had unrighteous motives in saying that Yeah, yeah, we really need school we wore. Yeah. And then then it went back down again with Um so uh Is a solarium similar thing to a conservatory? When I said, Of course He's he's there's no way. com and WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Like that kind of example? Anyway, so that's not up to We don't have to get bogged down in all of that unless one of you wants to take the bait. No, I don't think it's if it's in a statehouse? Right? But if they can try to make the arguments, that would be an interesting show I think. Like you're a polytheist if you believe that. For us, that's pretty pedestrian. I mean what let's just and the Catholic church has been signing these joint statements of faith with the Lutherans and These guys still call themselves Christians. We are sinful people and we have imperfect. Um In in a way. And I think that is And he was acting in the role of a deliverer that was raised up and he was like sanctioned. And I I say praise God for that because Yeah, pretty much. Um, and God is the one that destroys the earth, not man Can Satan control the weather? If you were to detonate some sort of a huge explosion, the heat No, I didn't think so. It's not true. He is so funny. And McDonald's will no longer be relevant by the time this airs because this will be after the inauguration Right. Uh just on a one to one basis. Um so Truman was told, well you're gonna But Ehud was a very fat man. Yeah, there's a group of them. I would have a hard time convicting him if I was on the jury. Oh man. I know you want to start And so it it And David Forcy, he's a pastor in the area of the Unnamed Church. Okay. So what what we owe this to? Why wouldn't they do that? God wipes out the evil people and places his people in the forever promised land. They're not actually killing people You don't have to watch it. Well there was a title that was more conservative than the other. Yeah. I can disagree with you, but and they can still be good thoughts. Well you're Hitler. Right? They come out of the abyss. Who's to say? Everybody thing. No, it is. Palestine. He didn't do anything to stop it and In Japan they wouldn't have considered themselves Right. He's the he's the potter. Like is that the right thing to do? You guys haven't heard of it? com website. So the first question is these natural disasters like these big hurricanes and stuff. There could be some sort of a um you know some sort of a uh a good tragedy This is the Faith Debate. I want you to post that on social media You heard the Donut Man And I think most of the churches may He's the pastor of the Wackamo Church. There's no in between. And then they came for me and there was nobody left to say anything. But it occurred to me that the last comments you were making, Daniel, connect to Holy schmolly, how do you not know good morning Vietnam? You know. Right, so you have Those are the two Yeah, and then you find out like, oh, he was a Christian brother. Do you watch any movies, Daniel? Let's complain about traffic and the weather. But uh you know, are they are they glorifying themselves in that? And we have to remember the lesson we learned from the tail end of the book of Genesis for the story of Joseph. Well well yeah, more strict boundaries I want to dive I've never heard that the Earth Eastern Orthodox tradition is bad. So I would say that that both both foundations are actually Well, here's I guess what's a more basic question. Like they're they're slaughtering, brutally slaughtering children in abortion bills also But they were definitely cut to the heart. And I think it would be f interesting for the listener. There is such a thing and this is not a conspiracy theory, there is such a thing as cloud seeding, which is being done by many governments Oh oh well that makes me a god, right? Sometimes you're not at David's house. Well, that's a different different type of protest. And and things that are things that are uh really old God bless. Go figure. That fell would be the Anabaptist argument or or I don't know that much about the brethren, but I But uh the bet is uh do I have the ability to start a At when do you decide, you know, if if China invades the US, at what point does it stop being the US and start being China? And they could be very angry word. And and I'm Uh well, I'm I'm saying I'm responsible for what my body does And that's one of the littlest sins you could think of. And you don't generally uh um think Good morning Vietnam Remember that Robin Williams movie from like the was that the eighties, nineties? So these people they they they get it in their head that if I take this guy out, I'm doing the righteous thing. Right? They're just showing us a colorful picture on a screen that circles it. But now for this week So if the government wants to make the hurricane stronger We're all guilty. Well but it right, but if they're gonna use the you know, he's not willing You think it's more than one show? Then it could be a wrong assumption And they'll be accountable for those decisions whether it's a good idea. But then they don't. So we got two million probably or a hundred thousand for certain that are probably not uh This week they opened with Good Morning Maryland. You right? So traffic in the weather, so we're gonna talk about how the the government needs shifts to Anyway, the one give me a hard time over there is David Forcey. Okay a lot of people would say that com. S. So what do you think it is? Yeah. This is the Faith Debate. And which is I know some of the I'm Troy Skinner. They tried to assassinate him. So now you have the question you must obey God Well Is it like George Barna or you know Barna group does that? God bless. But they have a Pope right now that's not even Christian. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ You know, and and I would say yes and I I think there are Um Okay. So many of the people in the Civil War, they may personally not have Uh could they I'm just trying to figure out what these are the righteous things to do. This guy wasn't even in Iowan, I don't think Some people We've had them on this show. Um but also beyond that, God doesn't do anything without a reason. But I I I think a lot of it has to do with uh They haven't changed much in a thousand years, but they don't go back two thousand years ago. And I don't know they've been doing it that way for a very long time His I love his homily. Right. It wasn't like it was sanctioned by anyone Are you Batman? Right? Oh, the changes of Vatican too, that's last century. Oh yeah. I mean, on the current trajectory, I think it was uh There was a lot of raping going on, there was a lot of uh I would say that you one of the reasons you could go to war is to wipe out an uh It's a streaming only thing. Uh I I haven't seen much in the way of moving Last thousand, couple thousand. But there are lies that are not sins. So you're I don't know. And Um They were in the middle of a war. So what now I That's not what's going on. Now the more uh extreme uh uh claims Why if God is good, why do why do bad things Why me, why me, why me, or why them, or whatever. Find us online at householdthefaithinchrist. Why why go Roman Catholic? I don't know. Because I Let's say that the Russians were right. Or are both of them completely there's no there's no justification for anybody? Like I don't have to go through all these And I would say no, they're not all That's why there are plenty of times to kill somebody and m most notably being when the government does so in if they res So either com. I always identify it as a Klingon I think this might be a good But anyway, anything that Orange Man Bad says is Oh take one of those Yeah, we've got we're gonna do one more if we can. But my point is you can go through an unabridged dictionary and you can get a whole bunch of words that are not common use. So we're not Come on, it's healthy for ya. Yeah. And so the first question I ask is like is it is there ever a time So clearly not all lies are bad. That's that would be a separate that would be a difference, by the way. Be the kind of killing that we would say is murderous? I mean as much as it's the official capacity of like a you know a He wasn't alone. That's because the radio station over the years has changed ownership a few times. He got over it. So that might be uh Oh that doesn't exist Um and So that that is the difference, right? You are highly cultured, my friend. That's a big big deal, right? You know, that's kind of where they live. I think there are. There doesn't ever seem to be an exception given against On the entire Bible and not just This is similar to the uh We know these were justified, so why were they justified? That was uh That's the name of the church that I pastor. Have you heard it before? But the Bible says this, therefore that's what it is. And um we made a lot of ground. I don't know. We thank you so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. There's no way I don't know. If you get drafted, what should you do? And I think one of the reasons that uh The potter can do whatever he wants with the pot that he made Murder is a sin. That doesn't make God evil. Um they were Presbyterian ministers I think one the other guy was an Anglican I think those uh some of those same reasons I think they feel like there's more structure, there's more um They don't hate God, and yet they're about as woke as they come. They didn't keep very good records in the 80s though No that was a good one. You can find us online at wfmd. I don't know how to give you equal billing com podcast. And we do it on a really small scale with greenhouses and things like that. You know, because uh there's the Ukraine thing and this might not even air day now. Where in the in the East nobody thinks of right and wrong that way. Thank you to Daniel. They should call it queers in space. These things happen. Right? So I was like, male deer. What's going on? Something that has com. For the record, I've never worked at McDonald's. They'd only served, you know Do they Fight to the last man, fight to the last person mentality of the But that that's still gonna come up in the in in the discussion though Is that the right thing for nations to do? Um Satanism doesn't need to be protected. She didn't kill anybody, she didn't stop anything, she just stood in the hallway, which I'm sure somebody could you know send you an email for the technical God is good If it's not they're looking for the liturgy and the familiarity of the structure and those sort of things, what do you think it is? Okay, it's going to sink. It's just we're not gonna fight No. I I ha I'm not sure who off the top of my head Don't do those things. And it's unfortunate because in in especially in American politics it Right. Alright. You should still be wise, you should be good stewards of what God's given you He was ex explaining we have our place. Yes. We'll see if we can do this in one show if we're gonna need multiple episodes for Wouldn't take long if we did because we didn't cover that much ground. Then we're gonna have to say, you know, basic principles are, yeah, well, we can only go to war if Were there no other avenues available to him at all? No. I've had these discussions. Well She could have just said I worked at a burger joint, I worked in a fast food place Because if I can understand it all then he fits in my head and then he's not my creator. It's God's people attacking clearly the enemy I don't know that you can necessarily say like it's righteous. That's always always good things. com. People died in those hurricanes. Stop it. You know, if you have uh Sure. He is so funny. What about what about um Catholic D this is DC area. Polite and non vulgar and Um I don't think we we we really actually resolved those questions a couple years ago and I And he speaks for like four chapters and he doesn't answer the question They don't debate these things. Are they leaving Not sure what we're talking about next time for sure. Um that be a Remember this passage? And by him the children of Israel sent a present unto Egon the king of Moab I don't Or you can connect with me and I can connect you with them. We have yeah one time. Right. That's the reform argument. Then okay. It's just it's part of the cycle That is that is a very significant point. Or just about Christians shouldn't participate. The w No, I haven't Anyway, Hitler was famous for liking white people, but but the term Trump Whatever it was. They're like, see? Well, uh okay So I think that's uh I think I I like that. A lot of destruction. Right. Last couple thousand years or something in the Middle East He wasn't raised up by anybody. I'm 100% certain that we Uh and I don't talk about that with him anymore So w what's going on there? That's where the name Oh, it's just a little wa a lie. It's really impossible for and that's in fact um And I guess that's what it comes for me I that's what's beginning to boil down to with with Um I do want to take a second here to throw in Not that he's completely overrated, don't miss Let me go do that. A a war of offense or a war of He wasn't representing, you know, some sort of uh he didn't kill anybody Hank Hanagraph is a famous uh This generation is all about experiences I call it that because they meet at different locations Um but then if I pull out a gun I I I mean we have a a say in in that we can vote and if we get to this I mean it what what he did was less destructive than like spray painting Depending on uh those must come from two different roots. That was the whole thing about when Nixon went to China, right? He beheaded it. com and WFMD. It makes us sound silly when we say it's not a real place If somebody dies now all of a sudden you have to decide whether it's But every major war uh you know government They so the traditions Yeah, it's a mystery. Most of them although although I do think you're more likely to find Yeah. I had one pastor And though and th and even that is just a human way of of trying. Then the Roman Catholics um So we would always have our embassies in Taiwan and we would Turn the other cheek. I'm Troy Skinner. And so I I think that's a different situation You can find them online at But That makes me in some way equal with God. That's not that long ago. Alright, here we go. com and household of faith in Christ. All right. Heart? There's a lot of different That's one question. I I wasn't trying to give you a hard time except that I I really So uh we've been talking about war. Okay. Just for the record. They they everything's a mystery I don't Uh in the No. See? So I think that's part of it So good I remembered it really well So if it never is justified, then God Like how do I end this m But we're intending these uh principles to be tied to the same thing. Was it only because God said so? It was a sloppy display. Satan can have control over the weather with Is it just tapping Look at what happened Yeah Who can say? The other series, you know It's a way to communicate something Like do I give my It's wrong. Well It'll be more sophisticated than that, I promise you They've lied about this too. com. And Troy sounds like Troy's also talking more about orthodoxy. org. You just heard uh Daniel Razzi talking about the millimeters. But anyway, um We are man, we are not God The other question is were they actually Or you can of course go to wfmd. And God bless. Uh-huh of course of course yeah Every single person deserves death. I think it's possible that that neither Like, well that really stinks. No, it's one we should make though. Um he and his The Protestants that are leaving, are they leaving from Um I think that's an option. Um and You know, that that's kind of a If it's the right thing to do. So it then pivots back to the big question. I think we got some things in the hopper. Okay. Well that would be the Anabaptist argument. He he knocked the he knocked the head off. All these horrible things befall Joseph. Period, full stop, done. This is a good thing for me to do. It was a sanctioned activity. Well but people aren't leaving I could And how can it com Right You Ooh That's the question I'm asking. com.