Local free talk continues on the weekend with Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMB. Conversations with and about local newsmakers. It is 1206, and that means we're broadcasting live from the palatial palace. Sitting atop Grove Hill on the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, in a formerly free state. I'm Troy Skinner and this is Frederick's Forum. We're on air at 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. You can enter the conversation by dialing 301-694-WFMD. That's 301. 694-9363. You can use that same number for the WFMD text line. You can't use that same number for the new COVID hotline that Maryland has set up. But for the next hour, forget the hotline. Your hotline for this hour is 301-694-9363. I've been doing the Faith Debate show on this radio station for a lot of years and before that, believe it or not, I was on the air in other radio stations doing other things, mostly sports talk radio. Um was a DJ for a while, that sort of thing. But back in the day Back in the old days, I used to do a segment called We Get Mail. And I had these cheesy singers, you know, set it all up and and and play that, and then we'd do the mail, and I would interact with as I read the letters from listeners. Well then this shifted to the reading of emails, which I have done a few times over the years on the Faith Debate Show that huh airs right here on WFMD Sunday mornings at nine o'clock. And now we live in an anti-social media world. It's one where people don't always merely write to you, but they write about you to others. It's a cowardly new world, to be sure. But even in this cowardly new world, sometimes people will draw attention to the fact that they're talking about you rather than to you by tagging you in some of the stuff. And so I've been able to take notice of some of the things said about me and more importantly about Frederick's Forum and WFMD and you, the beloved listener. So here's some of what's been said about all of us during the month and a half or so that I've been hosting Frederick's Forum here on WFMD. And a lot of it is directed not so much at the show. Not so much at anything that I've done or said. It's been a lot of it directed at a tease that was put out there to promote the show on one of the Saturdays. The tease said Frederick's form is just minutes away From noon to one o'clock today, Troy's going to talk with you about recent evidence pointing to a leftist takeover of Frederick City and Frederick County. As always, calls are welcome, 301-694-9363. That was the tease that spawned comments like this. Leftist takeover of Frederick City and Frederick County. Seriously, Troy. Well, at least you didn't say Marxist. That's clear evidence that that person hadn't listened to the show first because actually I didn't use the word Marxist. I talked about cultural Marxism. Used that phrase uh probably a half a dozen times during the hour. I'm I didn't count them, but I'm gonna guess that's probably about how many times I said it, so Um not a reaction to me or the show or what I said, just a reaction to the tease. And I think he realized that that was the case because later on he then said, according to Troy, taking climate change seriously makes one a Marxist. Even the Republican Party here is the only major party in the developed world that is steeped in denial. Two points on that comment. First of all, yes, too many of us who have traditional values that call ourselves conservatives, that value the principles of the Constitution. That are churchgoers even maybe. Too many of us are steeped in denial of what's going on. And so I'm sounding the alarm. I'm saying, hey, let's wake up. The left is winning. The left has all but won. We need to stop playing a defensive political and cultural uh battle and go on the offensive and start winning minds and hearts back to the truth. rather than surrendering the truth to people that don't believe there is really any truth. And if as far as me saying that taking climate change seriously makes one a Marxist, when did I ever say that? Or anything even remotely like that. I think if I had said that, I might remember I have no recall of ever saying anything, even in the ballpark, of saying that. So if somebody has a recording of a quote of me saying otherwise I will stand corrected. Just send me the audio and I will play it on the air and I will give you my mayor culpa and say, I'm sorry. You're right. I did say that. But I promise you no such audio exists. Somebody else wrote, Troy Skinner, leftist takeover. Seriously, are you okay? Is it Sweeps Week? Goodness. No takeover, just citizens expressing themselves. Well thank you for the concern. Yes, I am okay. And I get it. Yes, citizens expressing themselves and voting for leftists. Voting Voting for uh if and if the individual doesn't want to identify as a leftist because they find that offensive somehow, they don't want to identify as a cultural Marxist because that bugs them to be labeled as what what they are, okay, fine. Change the the the the the the labeling to whatever you want. You pick the name. What I want to know is the policies that are being put being put forward at the local level in the s in the city of Frederick, in the county of Frederick, and in the surrounding regions local governments. The policies that are putting forward of late have been consistently way to the left. They have taken over the policy positions of where we live. And it happened exactly because citizens expressing themselves voted them into office because they don't know any better. They don't realize that they're the frogs and they've thrown themselves into a simmering pot of water before they know it'll be boiling and they won't be able to get out And so I'm sounding an alarm about exactly that. Here's another comment from anti social media Our local radio station, please note that I put local in quotes. The station does have some local programming, certainly, even if most of it is right-wing talk radio. But it is owned by Connoisseur Media, a non-local company that owns a lot of other stations, and a major portion of its airtime is for people like Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity, and so on. Non-local and extremist insanity. The local headliners, with the most hours by far, can fairly be described as of the same ilk, so to speak. There's so much there that's not right. It's not right philosophically and it's not ex entirely accurate. First of all Our locals uh are are uh in the radio business, oftentimes perceived to be the most important part of the radio station, and there's some re There's some legitimacy to that sort of thinking. It's not ironclad, set-in-stone kind of view of radio, but generally speaking, what's viewed to be the most important part of the radio station would be what are called the drive times. You have the morning drive when people are commuting to work, and you have the afternoon drive when people are driving home from work. Those are high profile positions on the radio station. On this radio station Monday through Friday, those positions are filled by local people, serving the local community with local news and information. The morning show is the Morning News Express. It's a news magazine show. I used to refer to it as it's like the Today Show, only on the radio. Yeah, it's got some some personality and things mixed in, but it's got business updates and sports updates and weather updates and traffic updates and local news and national news and regional news. Got Diana Gibson, unless she's on vacation. She's the one providing a lot of that news and information to you. Then you got Bob Miller, who's been living here pretty much his whole life as far as I know. And he's been on the air here locally for decades now. And before that he was on another radio station for a while, or a couple of radio stations maybe. They're local people serving the local community every morning, Monday through Friday. Maybe you don't like that on occasion Bob Miller, morning mayor, will offer a opinion that strikes those on the left as how was it phrased? As the same ilk of the extremist insanity that comes from Rush Limbaugh and Sean Hannity. Now I Bob's probably not demanding one, and so I'm not going to demand one on his behalf, but to refer to Bob Miller as an extremist and insane, I think he's owned owed an apology. There you go. We'll wait. Oh, probably shouldn't wait right now. Probably should keep talking. Um the other thing that's talked about here is oh on the afternoon show. I want to talk about that. The afternoon show, mid-Maryland Live. Yes, Tim May is a conservative, and I guess he would be an extremist who's insane as well. Okay, fine, whatever. But he's counterbalanced by another extremist who's equally insane, but on the left. Frank Mitchell. That's a point-counterpoint kind of a show. They do that show together. Yes, Tim advances a more consistently than not a traditional conservative point of view And Frank Mitchell, more consistently than not, advances a progressive leftist kind of a point of view. Sounds balanced. What's wrong with that? And a show like this which has me and whether I'm balanced or not that's for you to decide I'll leave that to you. But it's an it's called Frederick's Forum for crying out loud. If you don't like what I'm saying, then call. It's as simple as that. I will put you on the air. As long as you don't violate FCC rules with the things you say, you can call any time you like and we will talk about it and hash it out right here at 301-694-9363. That is a publicly proclaimed number. It's not a secret. You just call that number, 301-694-9363, and guess what? You can be on Frederick's Forum, and you can provide a balanced point of view if you feel like I'm unbalanced. But or I suppose you could take to antisocial media and voice your concerns there, and that's fine too We live in an era where we have a multi- a very diverse, very, very diverse media landscape It's not like the old days where you only had a couple of TV stations and a few radio stations and make maybe one successful newspaper and that was it. If you have a point of view that you wish were being advocated, I promise you it's being advocated somewhere out there. Here's another quote from uh antisocial media. A leftist takeover? Wow, I agree. Wow. Somebody else that I know, they didn't even provide helpful details like where I could sign up. Look, it's not that kind of a takeover. It's not this overt, hey, everybody joined the takeover club and we're gonna we leftists are gonna march on Frederick City and Frederick County and take it over. It it's it's more like osmosis. It's more like it's become the air that we breathe, the water within which we swim. It might have started as a mist in Frederick County and now it's become a full-on fog. And everybody's walking around like, what fog? I don't see any fog. I don't see a leftist fog. We've become so accustomed to it we don't realize what's happening. And so I'm just pointing it out. There's no signing up for this. But there should be and could be some signing up for a refutation of it, for re a rebuttal of it. You need to sign up, you need to register to vote. You need to get involved. You need to be active in social uh anti-social media. You need to be active in shows like this and let the world that's paying attention to us know that there's more than, you know, the um extremist insane ones who are on the radio talking that believe how much danger our culture and our society and our political process for that matter are in. Now here this one's interesting. Quote, where's the radio tower located? End quote. Now goes on to say something else right after that, but boy. Is that a dog whistle, a threat? I'm not sure. Well, he apparently realized how that could sound, so he said, no, it's not what you think. I was suggesting a protest. A protest of what? What what the heck would you be protesting? Someone has a dares to have a different opinion than you, and you're gonna protest? You're not allowed to have a different opinion. It sounds crazy, but that's exactly what's going on all around the world. If you have a different opinion, you will be canceled in our culture. They will protest. They will try to scare away advertisers because we wouldn't want anybody to have a different opinion. It might make me feel unsafe in my safe space. It's a microaggression, don't you know? Somebody else said, that's rich. Well I would turn that back around and say, that's right. That's rich, the things that are being said about this show on anti-social media. Rich indeed. I'm gonna squeeze maybe uh a couple more and before I uh take my first commercial break. Says AM radio is a dinosaur that has failed to evolve. It's survival strategy is to stoke far right rage and pander to vain, arrogant name personalities. It would be of service to the community if it just went the way of the button hook. Alright, so is it a dinosaur which failed to evolve? Because by the way, the dinosaurs are dead. They they don't exist anymore. You don't see them walking around Frederick County. You know, you might see them in movies like Jurassic Park once in a while, but they're they don't actually they're not around anymore. And so if if if AM radio is a dinosaur, then how in the world are you hearing the sound of my voice right now? They want us to go the way of the button hook. So I guess the button hook failed to evolve and didn't go away. To stoke far right rage I'm not stoking any rage at all. Far right or otherwise. And I'm not a far rightist, actually. I am a traditionalist. I am a conservative. I am a constitutionalist. That's not far right. That was mainstream not that long ago in this country. Many hearing my voice right now, it was mainstream within your lifetime. It's not mainstream anymore, I get that. And that's what I'm sounding the alarm about, actually. And one more before we take the break. They're scared. I moved here from D. C. I'm honestly shocked that my street is filled with Trump supporters. I literally knew no one in DC who supports Trump, even Republicans. I think my neighbors are scared of me moving here. Holy cow, does that say it all right there? Here's somebody who left their bubble in DC and realizes they're not in that bubble anymore, and then trying to recreate the bubble here because they they feel like their neighbors are scared of them. How would you know? Have you talked to your neighbors? I talked to my neighbors. Not all of them agree with my political views. Okay, we hash it out. We're still friendly. I count them as good neighbors. Hopefully they count me as a good neighbor. Alright, now I'm officially late for taking this um as Rush Limbaugh would say uh obscene profit uh timeout. So We're going to get this in now so we can uh pay our ex i it's obscenely high uh taxes that the uh the government imposes upon us. Otherwise maybe we could just broadcast for free. But, you know, with the burden of the taxes uh uh uh hanging over our head, we must take this break and when we come back we'll take some of your phone calls, hopefully at 301-694-WFMD 301 694-9363. Sean Hannity. President's positivity rating now fifty percent. Oh, I thought that um he was in trouble. So the mob in the media says, I'm telling you right now, there's gonna be a an emotional roller coaster ups and downs, and it is gonna be buckle up It's gonna be rough waters for a lot of days and a lot of insanity. You can see it emerging and unfolding pretty much in all of these cities run by liberal democrats. Sean Hannity. Weeknights from six to nine on nine thirty WFMD Hey, it's Murray from Hunting Creek Outfitters. Summer is far from over. It's time to get out and do what you love. Outdoor equipment is hard to find right now, and at Hunting Creek Outfitters we have the fly fishing gear you want. Top brands, great prices, all of it ready to get wet. Of course, we're well stocked with amazing men's and women's clothing and the popular Yeti cups and coolers Come see us in downtown Frederick, we are Hunting Creek Outputers, Outdoor Specialists, and so much more. Hi, I'm Sean Kirby from Ren Kirby Mitsubishi. Wren Kirby Mitsubishi has evolved from Wren Pontiac of which Alvy Wren started in 1938. For years we are located at the corner of Sixton Market. In those days, believe it or not, there was a trolley car line that went up both Market and South Streets, out Fifth Street and Rosemont Avenue, and through the Hood College campus. As you now know, there's a lot that's happened in Frederick over the years. And as a local business owner, I encourage you to help your neighbors during these times. Keep Frederick's economy strong, growing. Moving forward by keeping your money and buying power local. I hope the next time your vehicle needs service or you're in the market for a new car, you'll shop Ren Kirby Mitsubishi. We're here for you and your vehicle needs. We have dozens of 2019 leftover new Mitsubishi. We have drastically reduced the prices to move them out. Both the Outlander Sport and the Outlander CUVs have 0% for 72 months. If you take the time to come to Ren Kirby, we'll make it worth your while. 0% buying for all my customers. See dealer for details. The biggest news stories in Frederick and surrounding counties. Around the clock. Only on News Radio 930 WFMD. This is 930 WFMD's Frederick's Forum. I'm Troy Skinner, your host for the next oh, what is it, 35 minutes or so? Tomorrow morning I'll be back on the air during the Faith Debate Here on News Radio nine thirty WFMD, which I do every Sunday morning at nine. This week, John Schweitzer and Darren Gerrell Talk about what's going on in our world with regards to relations between people who have more melanin than others, the black and white melan question and what churches are are thinking about it and leaders in the church community are trying to do about it. We talked through that tomorrow morning at 9 right here on the Talk of Mid Maryland, 930 WFMD. Before we have that obscene profit timeout just a second ago, I was talking a little bit about the local uh content on this radio station and the and the and I and I feel like I defended that pretty well. I mean, we have a lot of local content. It's It's not easy to navigate uh and be profitable in today's climate with the uh the the the uh burdensome tax situation that we have in the state of Maryland. And in spite of that We have local staff here. We have, you know, dozens of people that work for the radio station. We have hours and hours of local content on this radio station. But even the stuff that's not locally originating. Right. Even Gladdenbeck, who's on from nine to noon Monday through Friday, uh even Rush Limbaugh, who's on from noon to three, and Sean Hannity and And all and all the people that are on this that you hear on this radio station, the you know, the the Fox News uh updates at the at the uh beginning of each hour and the and the and the at the bottom of the hour usually as well. All that sort of stuff It's not originating from companies that are owned by companies or or or that that find their base here in Frederick County. They're not local companies providing that content. I get it. I admit that. But why is that wrong? If somebody finds a problem with that, then I'm I'm I'm left to assume that they never ever watch a program on Comcast. Comcast isn't based in Frederick. And if they do make an exception for Comcast, I'm sure they don't watch CNN or MSNBC because those aren't local companies feeding that programming into Frederick County and Frederick City. And I'm sure they don't use cell phones because last I checked, Verizon and ATT and Sprint and T-Mobile, none of them were based in Frederick. So I'm sure they're living the Amish lifestyle. And I'm sure they're completely uninsured because I'm sure that we have uh companies with bases of operation in Frederick, but they're not state farm has I don't think their their ownership is based in Frederick, is it? And what do you have and some of the people making these kinds of comments are government officials? Government officials who are critical of companies doing business in the community helping the local economy to grow and thrive, ideally, they're critical of them because they have owners who live somewhere else. Well, what about all these franchises that are locally owned, but the corporate headquarters, the corporate ownership is elsewhere? If you hate WFMD so much because we've got headquarters in Connecticut Then you must also hate all the people that run the McDonald's and the Chick-fil-A and the Home Depot and the Pick One All of those places have a lot of them have local franchise owners and they employ, in many cases, dozens and dozens, and collectively thousands and thousands of people. Who are paying taxes on all of that income that they're generating. You have an issue with that too, right? We should just shut it all down It's pathetic. And it's not like Connoisseur Media is huge, by the way. Think the company owns like, I don't know, a dozen radio stations total. In three different places, here in Frederick, also in uh New York, and in Connecticut. And that's it. It's not some gigantic behemoth That sort of a attack on what WFMD means to this community is ridiculous Anyway, I'm responding to antisocial media comments directed at this show, some of them directed at me, uh mostly just uh directed in the general direction of anybody who's a traditionalist and a conservative and some specific swipes that are taken at you, the listener, which we will get to in a minute. And most of it's not even a reaction to the show. It's a reaction to a tease that talked about a uh the evidence of a leftist takeover in Frederick City and Frederick County. And somebody said, ooh, will there be rioting? I was promised rioting No, it hasn't taken full route here yet, but we'll catch up to Seattle and Portland and Detroit and Philadelphia and Chicago soon enough. You just you just wait. If that's what you want, I'm sure you'll get it. And then somebody else says, What a crap a croc of crap. I'm I'm more and more disheartened and even angry at people. Is their privilege so great that they can't spare some compassion and resources for anyone else? Do you see the irony there? They're appealing to us, people who think differently than them, that we should have some compassion. And because we don't have any compassion, they're angry. And they say things like, a Kraka, you know what? Where's their compassion? I think they project just a little bit, don't you? It's usually what happens. They accuse you of exactly what they're guilty of doing. Well, believe it or not, we've got to take a news update. I know. I'm sorry. I apologize up front, yes? We're guilty of serving the community with news and information, but if you can just bear with me, it'll just ease our guilty conscience if we share with you an update of what's happening in the world so you can better navigate it and better live your lives. I know Guilty as charged. This is 930 WFMD. Crossing Center, Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMD, a service of Hunting Creek Outfitters in downtown Frederick, and Frederick Ayer, Bryant's National Dealer of the Year. It's Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, as you just heard the big voice man say, this is Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMD. During the week, make sure that you uh listen to Local Favorite Sun, Frederick's Morning Mayor, Bob Miller for your morning commute. And then in the afternoon, tune in for Mid Maryland Live from three to six with Frederick's very own Tim May and longtime City of Frederick resident Frank Mitchell for your afternoon commute. It's every weekday here on Free Talk 930 WFMD and WFMD. com. Did you hear that news update just a second ago? Real quickly, the the Fox News people uh told us about the coronavirus cases in California. And I'm sorry, I love, you know, everything that we do on this radio station, but I think that that story should be reported reported differently. It's horribly bad news. Six hundred thousand cases of coronavirus in New York. You know what in uh California rather. You know what that is? That's good news. We're that much closer to herd human uh herd immunity. That's good news. We want herd immunity The more cases there are that we can put behind us, the closer to herd humanit uh immunity that we are. That's good news. And yes, it's it's horrible that now that apparently California has had eleven thousand people die, if you believe the numbers. I'm one who's highly suspicious that those are accurate numbers, but let's just say those are the reported numbers. Okay, fine For the sake of argument, eleven thousand people in California have now died from COVID-19. Or at least died with COVID-19. That pales in comparison to the number of people who have been murdered in the womb in California so far this year, but hey, that's not being reported as bad news, is it? Back to our subject matter for today. I spent the first half of today's show So uh interacting with stuff that people have said uh to me about me, about the show, about you the listener, about the radio station in general on anti-social media. Because even though this is Frederick's Forum, it's an open forum where people can call 301-694-9363 and go on the air and share all they want to their heart's content. They choose r instead to hide behind a keyboard or a smartphone uh device or something and and and send it out into the the Ethernet. And that's fine. Whatever. I just find it amusing and interesting. So some of the attacks were directed specifically at me, which I find interesting because how well do you really know me? I mean, come on. How well do you really know me? Well, here's somebody that c that I guess claims to really know me, says, I knew Skinner growing up. Used to attend my parents' church, and his family lives a street over from them. This sounds about power for the course, sadly. So me raising the alarm that there's a a you know a a move to the left in Frederick City and Frederick County and how traditionalists and conservatives should be you know uh concerned about that. Uh Me saying something like that is power for the course, sadly, I guess. And it's interesting. I remember this um this young man when uh you know, he was growing up. But I gotta tell ya I don't think I've seen them. It's gotta be 15 years. Might be more, I don't know. I don't think I've seen them in 15 years And he was like ten, I think, at the time. How well does he think he knows me? How well does any ten-year-old that you see at uh at church once in a while How well do they know all of the adults that go to that church? It's interesting. But he feels like he knows me. And you know what? It's good to be known. Somebody else wrote on anti social media, it's bad enough that the station, WFMD, is spewing this crap. The C R A P word. Where is the Ferratus doctrine when you need it? Oh, that's right, Ronnie Reagan gutted it. But the number of people who unquestioningly buy this CRAP is an embarrassment. Well, you can fool some of the people all of the time. That's my point. The leftists have fooled a lot of people all of the time and got them a could persuaded them to the population's own detriment to vote these so-called leaders into the positions they hold. That's my point. You stole my point. And the fairness doctrine, really? Are you kidding me? If there were still a fairness doctrine, all the liberal nonsense, or C R A P, that you see on all these different outlets would have to go away too, don't you think? We have a free market, a free exchange of ideas. People can get all their various opinions until of course YouTube or Facebook or Twitter slams that shut. You know, their censorship police knock that down. Okay, that's fine. But we have the freedom to ex or well, until recently, we had the freedom to express ourselves in this country in a variety of ways Here somebody says, I wallow into the local mud as a listener from time to time. This person with a high. uh opinion of you who live locally, right? You mud people, you mud dwellers. Hi I wallow into the local mud as a listener from time to time. Bitter dregs of the media coffee cup. So you, when you listen to this radio station, you are hold on a second. I don't have anybody. I've got to pick up this phone. Hold on one second for me, please. We'll put you on the air in just a second. I gotta finish my thought. The people who listen to this radio station are local. And you're part of the local mud. And you're part of the bitter dregs of the coffee cup. And the person saying that Is an elected official. He has such a high opinion of you, doesn't he? Why do you vote for him? Why would you do that? Let's find out. All right, you're on WFMD. Did you vote for him? This is Jean. My my fault is is You're just another punching bag against religion. These people are just totally anything Or anybody that's religious or has religious beliefs and what's wrong with religious beliefs, even if you don't like 'em, they're always to care about your neighbor and and be a good person, you know But um and you had asked me one time before I spoke with you why the uh religious people didn't get together and speak up more. It's because what happened to the black guy when he had the Trump hat on. We don't want to be killed. We're not violent. We're not vicious people. Uh we have it in our heart, but we are afraid of 'em Yeah, it's like uh it's like a gang fight is going on, right? And only one w and only one gang actually came bringing switchblades. That's right. And everybody else like, hey We came here to have a powwow to try to talk this through and you're bringing your switchblades out and so we're just gonna kinda go home now and be quiet. And I suppose that's fun, but I'll I'm gonna say this. And I don't think that the answer to every ill in society is showing up the voting booth. I and I'm not that naive to think that all of our ills will be solved if only we had better politicians, because there's no such thing as a perfect human being and they're all going to have their frailties and their failings and that sort of thing. However Certain politicians stand in stark contrast to other politicians and so you intend to vote this year, I'm hoping, Jean. Yes. Well, be like Jean. That's that's gonna be my mantra for the rest of today. I want everybody to be like Gene. You need to go vote. You know how many people Gene you talked about the religious people Such a high percentage of religious people, church-going Christian people, evangelical people, don't vote in every election. And we end up with the leftists ruling the roost. If there truly is a silent major uh majority, then that majority needs to not be be so silent anymore. You agree with that, right? I agree with that and I say we will stand up at the voting booth. I really believe that in my heart. Well here's hoping you're right Thank you, Gene. I appreciate your phone call. Uh-huh. Bye-bye. You can take Gene's place at 301-693 or 694 rather. Our our main business line number has uh there we go. I had to hang up the phone. Uh our main business line is six nine three. It's actually three oh one six nine four WFMD is number to call in. Three oh one six nine four nine three six three. Yeah, I'm a punching bat. That's right. I'm owed some reparations now because I've been treated unfairly. Here's somebody with a comment about this. radio station more I mean this was part of a thread on antisocial media that was directed at the show and at me and at you the listener, but some of the comments weren't generally directed at the radio station. So if I used to have a preset in the car for FMD Thirty years ago, it truly was a local news source. Now I can't last 30 seconds without changing the station in disgust. I don't like propaganda from the right or the left, but the stuff from the right is really noxious Okay, well if you can't listen for more than 30 seconds at a time without turning the radio station off, then how do you know whether or not WFMD is still a local news source or not? And guess what? WFMD is. Year after year WFMD wins the um Associated Press Chesapeake uh news club press club of Chesapeake They win multiple news awards every year. We won again this year. I think we won, I don't know, three, four, five, six, seven, I don't know, thousand rewards. I I I don't know. Half a dozen or maybe a little bit less. I I I should know this off the top of my head. But I know we won for I think out uh outstanding local news coverage, outstanding local newscast. Uh outstanding continuing coverage of a local news story, outstanding local sports coverage. These are the kinds of awards that WFMD wins. So maybe you should try listening for more than 30 seconds. Someone else writes about me sounding the alarm that there's a leftist takeover in Frederick. So thank goodness I got out of there before Antifa took over. Now, that might have been sarcastic, but I'm going to choose to read it the other way. Yes, good for you. You got out before Antifa took over. Maybe more will follow you. Here's someone that writes, When I was filling in for Bob Miller, I definitely tried to present a moderate viewpoint. The problem is that it seems to be the same five people that actively participate in calls. I never understood why they didn't program the station to be more moderate with balanced viewpoints. Seems like a better way to encourage discussion on issues. First of all, I know exactly who this is, and if you used to listen to this station like ten years ago, you know who he is too, and I can tell you. His viewpoint wasn't moderate, okay? And that's fine. You can have a progressive viewpoint and be on this radio station. That's fine. You can be on this radio station as a fill-in host. You can be on this radio station as a caller. You can be on this radio station as Yes You can be on this radio station every afternoon, Monday through Friday from three to six, because Frank Mitchell is a progressive. So that's totally fine. But this thing about the same five people. Now Jean, who just called a second ago, she has called this this show uh one other time uh I believe since I've been hosting. This is my I don't know how many times I've been doing this show now Five, six, seven times. I think something like that. This might I don't know. This is my seventh show, six I don't know how many. Half a dozen ish. Maybe it's a baker's half a dozen ish shows. And Jean has called the show twice But I've taken between uh text line comments and phone calls on the air uh for this show, it's only an hour There's not that much time for a whole bunch of phone calls. And I've probably taken, I don't know, I'm gonna say pretty close to I don't know, twenty-five, thirty phone calls during the six, seven shows that I've done. And Gene and I don't know, maybe one other caller was a repeater, maybe. So that's more than 20 different people. On just this show. It's just one hour a week. So what's this same five people nonsense over and over again? Methinks thou knowest nothing of what you speak. And then here's somebody responding to that uh attack that we don't want to have any sort of uh discussion on issues says, I don't think elevating intelligent discussion and debate is part of their aspirations. No? Have you ever heard the other show that I host and have been hosting for 16 years that airs on Sunday mornings at 9 o'clock called The Frederick Faith Debate? That is nothing but elevated intelligent discussion and debate. That's what the whole show is about. says reasoned argument is just so darned he used to use a different word but I'm gonna change it to darned boring though I don't think so not if it's done well Not to toot my own horn, but the Frederick Fein debate show is proof of that. That's a reasoned arguments, people going back and forth, and it hasn't proved to be boring at all. And it's done pretty darn well in the ratings over the years. That's why the show's still on the air. This one's interesting. Somebody claims that they were interviewed years ago on the radio station and was told to, quote, dumb it down for the audience before going on air. No joke. Well first of all, it's merely anecdotal hearsay. I I I don't know that that's true. If it is true, I'd want to know the context and who in the world were you talking to that say that? Because I promise you, if you ever come on the show with me I'm not asking anybody ever to dumb anything down. So I don't know what that's all about. I don't I'm not sure it's true. I I'm gonna treat that like a COVID nineteen death number. I'll accept it to certain level, but it's highly suspicious. And then somebody else said they love the charged wording of me talking about a leftist takeover in Frederick City and Frederick County. Thank you. Appreciate the love. Believe it or not, it's time for another one of those obscene profit timeouts. So we'll be uh back to finish up the show here in just a couple of minutes on News Radio 930 WFMD. Hi, I'm Sean Kirby from Wren Kirby Mitsubishi. Wren Kirby Mitsubishi has evolved from Wren Pontiac of which Alvi Wren started in 1938. For years we are located at the corner of Sixth and Market. In those days, believe it or not, there was a trolley car line that went up both Market and South Streets, out Fifth Street and Rosemont Avenue, and through the Hood College campus. As you now know, there's a lot that's happened in Frederick over the years. And as a local business owner, I encourage you to help your neighbors during these times. Keep Frederick's economy strong, growing. And moving forward by keeping your money and buying power local. I hope the next time your vehicle needs service or you're in the market for a new car, you'll shop Ren Kirby Mitsubishi. We're here for you and your vehicle needs. We have dozens of 2019 leftover new Mitsubishi's. We have drastically reduced the prices to move them out. Both the Outlander Sport and the Outlander CUVs That's 0% for 72 months. If you take the time to come to Ren Kirby, we'll make it worth your while. 0% fine. Call my customers. See dealer for details. Have you ever wanted to learn a new language like French, Spanish or Russian, but thought it would be too difficult and time-consuming? Then try Battle. Text Retain to 64,000 and try it for free. Babbel works because it's built around real life. It teaches you everyday practical conversations that you will actually use. In 15 minutes a day, you'll be on your way to speaking a new language in just a few weeks. Travel uses a modern conversation-based technique that makes language engaging, fun, and memorable. It starts by teaching you words and phrases. Then Sentences gradually get more complex, and soon you're practicing short conversations about real-life topics. Battle is created by language experts who use the space Repetition method to help you learn quickly and remember what you word with Babbel. You can speak a new language. Babbel Language for Life. Now try Babel Free. Just text Retain to 64,000 and start learning a new language today. That's Retain to 64,000. R-E-T-A-I-N to 64,000. The news at the top and bottom of every hour. And free talk. In between. News Radio 930 WFMD. Frederick's forum on 930 WFMD continues. I'm Troy Skinner. Your financial editor with Chris Murray is Coming up next in about ten minutes, right after the upcoming newscast for an update on world and local events here on News Radio 930, WFMD and WFMD. com We're interacting with the naysayers on anti social media who have a highly charged dislike for apparently this radio station, this show, me personally I guess, and also you the listener and everybody who lives in Frederick County based on some of the comments that I've got to do. I've read and shared with you so far today. Gonna do a few more as as time allows before today's show is up. So me warning about the left taking over the political scene here locally, one person wrote, Good grief Now, I don't know if that good grief was meant well, I think I do. It was meant at me, like what's wrong with you? Why are you saying this? Good grief. But you could also say, good grief, how do we let this happen? So I'm gonna I'm gonna choose to look at that one from the positive point of view. Uncritical anti-science conspiracy theorizing. That's what was said about I think me and what I talk about on this show. Let's dissect that a little bit. Uncritical. No, by definition, actually the exact opposite. I'm highly critical of what's going on in the in the local political scene and so are a lot of my neighbors and friends as I can tell from the conversations I have off the air and the conversations I have mostly on the air as well. Now I understand you don't mean that uncritical and that we're not criticizing. I get that. But it's a critical analysis. The show that that gave rise to this anti-social media comment was a show in which I walked through the policies being advocated by the city of Frederick and the County of Frederick and what they were already doing or were going to do to the quality of life in and around Frederick. It was a reasoned and uh high-minded critical, if you will, approach to the issues. And then to talk about anti-science conspiracy theorizing. What in the world are you talking about? First of all, I don't think I talked about science per se. I mean there was some stuff that the policies that have to do with uh global climate change initiative, and so maybe that's where that's coming from. I'm sorry, but science isn't about consensus. It's about investigation and experimentation where you provide a thesis and you test it and you once you think you've come to a conclusion, you retest it. And the science bears out what the science bears out. That's science. Science by opinion polling. Nine out of ten scientists agree that's not science. That's what is that? That's gallop polling. That's not science. Conspiracy theorizing. Let's look at that phrase for a second. There are conspiracy theories, and they're merely conspiracy theories. However, you start to stack up the evidence, and pretty soon you don't have conspiracy theories anymore. You begin to have conspiracy facts. But that said, I'm not talking about some vast conspiracy theory to take over Frederick City and Frederick County for the left. I'm talking about what is right now in reality happening. It's not a conspiracy nor a theory. It has happened By whatever means, whether it was some secret conspiracy, which I don't really think was the case, I don't think it was some secret conspiracy. I think there is a broader uh agenda and worldview that's on the march and on the move and has been for decades, even even more than a century, to be honest. But mostly we have a bunch of leftists in powers of positions of power here in Frederick County and Frederick City because they've been voted in, because the people are their own worst enemy. They're voting in people that don't have their best interests at heart. That would be my uh conservative point of view And if you don't like it, that's fine. You can disagree with me. We're running out of time now to take a phone call, but you can call me any Saturday and we can hash it out right here on this very same local radio station, WFMD. It's as simple as that. Let me see if I can squeeze in a couple of these short ones before we uh wrap up the show. See if I have time. Says I take it that you are part of leftist takeover. They're talking about one of our elected officials here. uh that you elected official are part of the leftist takeover. The people voted to UN so you can't be too far off target. That's exactly my point. People are voting in these leftists either knowingly because they're leftists themselves or unknowingly because they don't know what's going on. And I'm speaking to the unknowing ones to say, hey, stop doing that. Stop voting for leftists. And if you are a leftist, I'm hoping to persuade you that maybe you should consider not being so left anymore. And then somebody else wrote, please calm down. If you mean for inclusion against racism, join us. Okay, first of all, I've talked about this ad nauseum on this radio show the last few weeks. I'm against racism at its very base root level. There's no such thing as racism because there's one race, the human race. Now there is such a thing as ethnic pride, and I'm against that. And I am for, I'm not sure what inclusion is supposed to mean. That can be a loaded and charges work charged word, but understood a certain way, okay, I'm all about inclusion. But understood another way, no. That's that's a problem. I'm all for equality and fairness and equal justice before the law. I'm all for those things. And so I would invite you to join us. And then lastly, leftist takeover. Did I miss the memo? Yeah, it wasn't a memo. It was an election. The series of elections. And there's another one coming up. So let's not miss that memo. If you're a traditionalist, if you're a conservative, if you believe in the truth And the American way. You've got to vote, and you've got to vote the right way. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening to Frederick's Forum right here on 930 WFMB. Talk to you again tomorrow morning at 9 on the paper page. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com. New Radio 930. WFMB Frederick. Akonnoissore Media Radio Station. One