Local free talk continues on the weekend with Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMB. Conversations with and about local newsmakers. Broadcasting live from a palatial palace sitting atop Grove Hill on the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Plantation County in a formerly free state. I'm Troy Skinner and this is Frederick's Forum. We're on air at d 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. You can enter the conversation by dialing 301-694-WFMD. That's 301-694-WO You can use that same number for the WFMD text line. Now in Frederick County, Hood College is welcoming students back to campus this fall. Mount St. Mary's too, allowing students to live on campus. Meanwhile Montgomery County politicians trying to force private schools to shut down any attempts at in-person student learning. That is until his Majesty the King Larry Hogan intervened. In Washington County, the Teachers Union doesn't want even in-person student teaching, meaning it's not only the kids they want staying at home, but the teachers too. Instead, apparently the students will sit at home while the teachers go into the office like the rest of us working blokes. In Frederick County Public Schools They spent the summer wrestling over the wisdom of going back to normal versus hopscotching their way through the academic calendar with students alternating days that they'd actually go to school, ended up saying that virtual classes, that's the way to go. Which is what the Maryland State Education Association wanted them to do the whole time. The MSEA says that they'd like to see virtual learning At least through the fall semester, parents and concerned citizens retort that they'd like to see any actual learning take place. Keep in mind the fact that virtual classes were mostly disastrous for loads of students and their families last spring and for a lot of the teachers too, from what I hear. Meanwhile, if I understand correctly, St. John's High School is opening with what's been called the hybrid model. And St. John's Elementary School They're fully opening for full-on in-person instruction. This is in contrast to FCPS, which is going with what some call the full remote learning model. Full remote quote unquote learning is rather presumptuous. Some might complain that very little learning was happening to beg begin with. And now doing stuff over the Ethernet is gonna result in absolutely no learning whatsoever. Bit of hyperbole there, so please forgive me. Now as I as far as I'm concerned The students, and the teachers too for that matter, they can stay as far away from public schools for as long as possible, even forever. And actually that's happening at some level, as can be seen in the reports of teachers opting for early retirement across the country. and by threats from the American Federation of Teachers, a teachers union, supporting strikes over reopening plans. Like I said, I'm all for this sort of disruption. The less indoctrination that happens, the better. The less effective the indoctrination, the better. Now, here possibly to talk sense into me is someone that you might know, Cindy Rose, an erstwhile candidate for a seat on the Frederick County Board of Education. This is after she sued that very same board. She has remained a fully informed citizen on public education issues and she often voices her informed opinion on social media and as a writer for The Tentacle. And now I've invited her into the hot seat on Frederick's Forum because we've got lots and lots of stuff to talk about when it comes to students, teachers, and the ruling class who's in charge of our area's school system. So We're going to begin with what I hope will be a few really quick kind of topics we can cover in just a few minutes before we go into the real meat of the dangers that are faced by our students and therefore the dangers faced by our entire So welcome to the show, Cindy. And uh let me start with a uh an opening question. What is your take on the current slate of candidates for Frederick County Public Schools, for Frederick County uh school board Well, thanks for having me come in, Troy. I appreciate that. Um They're no different than the candidates we already have sitting in the seat, so it would just be a body switch. But I will say that uh as a writer for the tentacle, the tentacle sent each and every one of them a questionnaire to see if they would answer them so that the the voters could be fully informed on questions that we were concerned about, not union questions and the typical Padlam questions that they get. And only one saw fit to respond to that questionnaire, the rest of them ignored me, and that was Sue Johnson. She was the only one who was respectful enough and responsible enough to answer that questionnaire. the other ones didn't even bother. So you say it's a body swap, but Dean Rose says he wants to be an agent of change. So what does that mean? I don't know. Any relation by the way? No, none of the Roses who ran and Caleb who dropped out. No, none of them were related. And I said that right away in the beginning. So they wouldn't be harmed by my negatives and they wouldn't benefit from my positives. So no. No relation whatsoever. Okay, so it's same old, same old, so don't vote for any of 'em. No, no. I would like to see Ms. Jarman leave because Miss Jarman has already proven that She's not fit for the job she's yet to apologize for calling me and my slate mates herpes. Uh that she was appointed by executive gardener is kind of insulting, even though she was never made to apologize for calling us that. S and then she had the whole she's trying to create a cell phone policy where students because of the distraction and while she's creating this policy, she herself almost kills a woman Because she was on her cell phone driving, so she needs to not be voted for. She needs to be gone. She should not be on that board of education. And the rest of them I have no opinion, good or bad, other than I thought it was bad form not to respond to a questionnaire for candidates. Right. Okay. Um Thoughts about the recent debate over and again we don't have to get in the weeds on this, but there's been a debate about whether we should start the school year earlier in future school years. And then they discussed whether or not there should be instruction on on Fair Day and on election day. Any any thoughts on either of those debates that we had this summer? I am always for keeping Fair Day. I am for keeping tradition alive. That's what bonds community So you need to keep the things that bind you as like-minded neighbors. So you want to keep Fair Day's tradition. We should keep our traditions alive. Election Day, I open the schools. Why do why do we close for election day? We used to vote when I was in school. They were in the cafeteria. We were elsewhere. That's fine. I don't see a need to close the school. on those particular days. Although if we could have like, I don't know, two hundred elections a year and then close the school for all those elections, I I could get behind a move like that. And here's my other reason for wanting school to be open, because the teachers' union sends out their troops the teachers to knockdoors canvas to hand out ballots and things before people get to the polling place. So if we open the schools up, we take that tool away from them. to be able to sway people to vote for their particular candidate. Teachers should be teaching, not being union shills for election cycles. Okay. Montgomery County, they canceled their fall and winter sports. Uh Frederick County apparently is intending to postpone the fall sports until deeper into the winter and some to twenty twenty one. I'm not sure exactly what that means. If if it even happens, we'll see. It could it could change. But I think right now the plan is to have football like starting maybe in January or something. Do you know anything Is this one of basketball gonna happen at the same time? Yeah, that's what it sounded like to me, that they were gonna have them run together. I don't know how they're gonna do that. I I don't understand the if this COVID is the reason for for not letting you do these things, I think it's silly because young people we are if we don't know anything we do know that young people aren't affected by this does this virus. So why can't they play their sports if the adults I w can't we give enough volunteer adults to say, Okay, let's let's have it. I'm more than willing to go and be their coach and be the referee and to help them have their sports. Why can't we have volunteers stepping up saying, We're cool with this. We want them to have their lives as normal as possible. Yeah. Well those who would disagree with you are clearly science deniers. Well yeah, right. Because the science says the c it's interesting, it was of ten, eleven, twelve years ago the H one N one uh pandemic. Right Um it targeted kids. Yes. Those under the age of eighteen were were highly at risk compared to the rest of the population. And yeah, we didn't close down our schools and cancel football seasons and basketball seasons, so that is interesting. It wasn't a presidential election. Exactly. I think we have weaponized I I don't believe this is a hoax. It's a absolutely the COVID nineteen is a real virus. But I think they've weaponized it to the point that now everybody's hysterically afraid to do anything. Now I saw your comment on social media uh uh it was a couple weeks back I guess about the school uh or maybe it was a week and a half ago, something like that. Uh Brad Young from the school board. Uh he he was on the air and he talked about homeschooling being difficult. Uh and and and you uh you had a comment about so what's what's your gist about your of your thinking about uh homeschooling being so darn difficult? No homeschooling is not difficult and there's so many support groups out there and in Latinical we actually have a a homeschooling helper section where it gives you all the resources you can leave for local people to help you with your homeschooling, the forms you need to fill. It's not a difficult thing to teach your children. And nowadays there are pre-done curriculums. that you can vet and you can go through. Some of them are are Christian based and some of them are not Christian based. You get to decide what your child will learn. That's I think it's just his way of trying to dissuade people from homeschooling. And by the way, Frederick County Public Schools has hundreds of students or parents. trying to withdraw their children for homeschooling for a a mass quantity of reasons. And the thing that could be confusing to somebody that hasn't homeschooled and doesn't know a lot about the homeschooling and they think that the virtual schooling experience represents that. Right That's been difficult. Yes, that was awful. And that's not home schooling. No. That those are two different animals. That is school based uh distance learning, however they try to do that. You don't have to touch a a computer screen if you're homeschooling your children. You get to pick your resources, you get to pick your curriculum and how you will teach the subjects that you are that's the only that's mandated is you know you have to teach math, you have to teach English, and it's all set up for you on the MSD website and FCPS also links you to that as well. You have to teach subjects. how you teach those subjects is totally up for you up to you. So there won't be any sex based, gender based, um, anti racism stuff in there. That'll be what you choose to teach your children. And as a word of encouragement for anybody who's thinking about possibly going down to homeschooling or pulling from public school to go into a private school setting. I'm not a big believer in the standardized testing and all that, but those who pay attention to education tend to put a lot of weight on standardized testing, so I'll meet those people where they are and and use their own thought process uh to engage. SAT scores, AC ACT scores, other sort of standardized tests. The homeschoolers and the private schoolers far outperform the public school students, and it's not even close. Every year. Yep. And if as a home school parent, if you want to participate in those standardized tests, they have to let you. So if you actually want to m use that to measure how well your child has done, which I wouldn't do because that's just a snapshot in time, you are allowed to come in and take those tests. So in a weird way in Frederick County, home schools uh parents and students, home school families Uh are they still under the umbrella of SAPS? Yeah, you still have to go and have a case manager who's just monitoring that you're teaching what not how and not what you're using, but that you are teaching the subjects right required of them by Maryland state law. That's that's the only contact you have for them. And they're are they very helpful. Anybody I I homeschooled for one year for my children when we moved from one area of the county to another because my kids are very nervous. So I did it for one year and they were the kindest, most helpful people. Of course that was a while ago, but I'm still hearing that they're very helpful. So, you know, don't be nervous about having the home school people help you out to get you doing unschooling is which is what a lot of people call it because it's totally different from what they're doing in the classroom. Now before we pause to h hear some messages from important businesses in the area who want to tell you how to improve your life by using their products and services. Let me squeeze in one more question. Uh generally speaking, what reforms are needed, and I'm talking mostly monetarily at this point, uh, because we're going to talk about the ideological reforms uh in the second half hour of today's hour together. But the FCPS budget, Freddie County Public Schools budget is about two thirds of a billion dollars. Two thirds of a Billion dollars. That amounts to almost fifteen thousand dollars per student. And that's not including the capital improvements budget, which is another half a billion dollars. So now you're over a billion dollars of total budget Any thoughts of where the cost could be cut? I mean you're certainly not gonna put a freeze on or cut teachers' salaries because they actually got a raise in the midst of all this downward pressure on the economy right now. Right. Well I I think that raise was just so Dr. Albin could get a raise Because when there were teachers, if she if they get a one point nine percent raise, that means Dr. Alvin gets a one point nine percent raise because they said they were trying to, you know, keep the teachers happy, but why are you yeah, like you said, why are we giving raises to them but why we're cutting five hundred staffing positions? I I don't understand that, but I I don't understand where the money goes. I I have to be honest with you. I I I lo I've looked at the budget. I've seen all these numbers in there. When we had categories ten million dollars of other, well Please tell me what's other. Right. So I mean there's a lot of spending hidden in there and I know a lot of it goes toward uh uh if your English teacher is also teaching some uh other class somewhere else. They'll give him two, three thousand more dollars to do this other class above and beyond his studies. How much of that's happening? Where i I don't know where the money goes. That's one of the things I wanted to do if I were elected to the board was a line item budget. And I wanted to see a budget per school. So you knew why Tuscarora was spending this, but Brunswick High School was spending that. And and cross compare and see who's Who's spending what on what? Yeah, and it's interesting. You know, there's a big push to do an audit for the sheriff's department and the two sa two eighty seven G program, uh, but there's not this big push to have a transparent understanding of where the money's being spent, over a billion dollars of taxpayer money being spent every year. Right. And I know it broke their hearts. Uh yeah um Teresa Album album uh album had a uh nearly two percent pay raise like the teachers are gonna get. And yet it broke her heart I'm sure to have the bus drivers and other people lose their jobs. So you know, part of me wonders, could she say, you know, I'm good this year. I'm gonna bypass my one point nine percent increase in pay, which represents X number of thousands of dollars. 'Cause two percent of her budget is signific of her salaries is a significant amount of money. It's over six grand. And if she and a few other high level Yeah, said no. Or if the teachers cared about the other support staff that's part of the school system, maybe they could have said, you know Don't give us all a one point nine percent raise if it means we don't have enough money to pay the bus drivers and everybody else. But that money's already in the budget That money for those bus drivers and those cafeteria workers was already in the budget. So why can't we because w aren't we hoping that by January everybody's back in the building? So if that's the case, why don't we just say, look, we're going to pay you through January at least, because we're hoping that we're all going to be back in the building by then. The money's already in the budget for these people. So why were they let go? That doesn't make any sense at all. No, I'm not a fan of paying somebody not to work, so don't get me. No, I'm not either but the logic of it is escapes me. Well she's Cindy Rose. You can follow what she has to say in her writings on The Tentacle. I'm Troy Skinner. You can follow what I have to say right here on Frederick's Forum on News Talk 930 WFMD and WFMD. com. Online, on our app, on HD Radios and Alexa. Okay. You're always on 930 WFMD. Roy Skinner on the Frederick's Forum Radio Program right here on 930 WFMD, home to Morning Mayor Bob Miller. Part of your Monday through Friday morning routine, I'm sure. Listen every day between five and nine. That's when you can hear Bob on this very same radio station. And uh we've got Andy, who's called in with a comment about what I've been talking about with Cindy Rose here on today's edition of Frederick's Forum. So let's let's see what Andy has to say. Welcome to the show. Yeah, I was just thinking maybe the uh cafeteria workers, janitors and school bus drivers need to form a un get together and form a union so that they can protect their jobs and they they wouldn't have just been let go. They do have because it's my understanding part of the reason that these uh school teachers received their raise was it was in their contract that they would get X percentage raise every year or every other year, whatever. So they have to give it to 'em because it's their contract. Well, if the janitors and the school or the uh lunch people and the school bus drivers are contract They can't just let them go at their win because they don't think they're gonna need them this year. They do have a union FAFSA S A S S A. Okay, and well do they have contracts stuff? Well yeah, they do have contracts but I don't know what their contract says but also toward that is we didn't have to give that one point nine percent raise even though it's in the contract because the last contract for the teachers that I saw also says that the board doesn't have to give it if it's extenuating circumstances, i if things have happened that says You know, we need to forego that this year because things have happened. This was the perfect year in my opinion to say something's gone wrong. We really can't give you a raise. Yeah, because the optics to the uh public is okay, you're lesser educated people uh let go, but the college educated teachers they get a race. Right. And I understand, you know, they do do a tough job. Tr don't get me wrong, my niece is a school teacher, I wouldn't want to do it. But It's just there's that optic that almost that they're thought of is better than the lesser people. And those bus drivers do a tough job too though. My son rides a special needs bus, so they have to be ready to give medications and they're They they are highly skilled people. They're they are professionals as well and I I think that they were just given short shrift and I I feel bad for them. I think they could have kept them on. Because hopefully, right? Aren't we all hoping they're coming back? Yeah, well, depends on how you want to look at it. Yeah. Th thank you for calling so much, Andy. I I I appreciate you uh taking the time. to give us a buzz here on uh Frederick's forum. And how do I make that go there we go. That is a double edged sword though. You you want them to go back but not under what they're currently learning. Yeah, and you know w we this isn't gonna be a show about that, but you know, I'm I have um mixed thoughts about anybody who's being paid by Uh taxpayer dollars having a union so that we're not able to make decisions as taxpayers through our representatives of how to compensate people we get beholden to these third parties that hold all of the power. So the teachers uh don't appeal to us as voters uh for what their needs are. They appeal to the union who then goes and bludgeons us the taxpayer to beat us up for things and I I'm not a big fan of that whole process. Uh let's well we got another call. Let's see who this is. This is we're flying blind. Hi, you're on news radio, nine thirty WFMD. Who am I talking to? Hey Troy, it's Frank Mitchell, how you doing? Frank Mitchell. I've heard of it. Hi Cindy. Hi Frank, how are you Good. I I know this isn't the direction that you're you want to take a program, but just real quick from the uh last caller, gotta say that I I and Cindy, I think you know this. They are not contracted workers. uh the uh food cafeteria bus drivers. In other counties they are contracted workers, but I understand they are Frederick County public school employees. uh here and so the system can do what they want. No, uh I'm pretty sure that the workers have an it's called FAFSA. F A F uh I the acronym escapes me right now, but they have a they have contract. And maybe somebody can call in. How is that different from the teachers? Uh it's not. So you're trying to make the distinction they're not contract employees, they're actually employees of the system. But they're kind of coming from the screen. I see what he's saying. They're they're employees but they have parameters under which they work. Is that what we're trying to say? Right, right. Because in Montgomery County they're all contracted employees and they could just, you know, do what they want at will. The the other thing real quick is that why do I hear so much about, well the schools are closed, what where's all that why are they paying all these food workers and transportation people when, you know, we should be saving money or the schools are close. So they actually do that and then people are calling up and criticizing. Yeah, it's a to me it's a double edged sword. I personally if Our goal is to be back in the building. I don't understand why we're letting all these people go to have to rehire them and go through that long drawn out process. And people have moved on. I I I I if I were on the board I would have voted to just keep them at least until January to see the th or f through the first term, to see where we're at. Because like I said, you're gonna have to rehire these people and in the meantime they need to go find employment so that they can feed their families and pay their bills. So Yeah, I I uh you know, it's there's no right answer here to me. I mean it's money that taxpayers shouldn't have to spend for people who aren't working, but then again, we're gonna have to hire them all back. So we're losing one area, gaining another, I don't I don't know I have the answer for that. Frank Mitchell. See, all viewpoints, even the lunatic fringe, is welcome on Frederick's Forum. We love you, Frank. So my point bringing that up by the way, I'm I'm not advocating that we pay somebody not to work ever. So if the school bus drivers aren't driving kids to school, it kinda is Tough for them, but the reality is that job has been uh unilaterally by the powers that be been uh deemed non essential and so they lose their job like everybody else who lost their job by dictates from the government. So I'm So whatever. I'm um and they don't have their job and they can't pay something for not working. My point bringing it up was the upper reaches of the uh of the administration of those who are admins with the the county school system, they're making a lot of money. Yeah. I don't begrudge them. Whatever the market will bear and that's what you can make, fine. May I don't we could pay them a billion dollars a year, whatever. If that's what the market bears and that's what they're worth, that's totally fine. But my point is, oh it's We're bleeding hearts and we feel so bad. You could have done something about it. Right. You could have pulled you could have pulled the Donald Trump and said, I'm not going to take a salary this year from the government and I'm going to use that that hundreds of thousands of dollars to help pay the bus drivers to mass of work. If you if you want to be real and and put your money where your mouth is, then that's what you do Jumper's pointing out the hypocrisy, there's an unwillingness to put their money where their mouth is. There's only a a uh a willingness and an insistence that we put our money where their mouth is. That's the point I was trying to make. So anyway, we're We have to uh pause to hear what's going on around the world, local news and weather and all that sort of stuff. So we'll continue our conversation about everything that's wrong with the schools here in Frederick County on 930 WFMD, the talk of Mid Maryland. Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMD, a service of Hunting Creek Outfitters in downtown Frederick, and Frederick Air, Bryant's National Dealer of the Year. It's Frederick's Forum on 9 30 WFMD. Frederick's Forum, 930 WFMD continues. I am Troy Skinner. Your financial editor, Chris Murray, is talking with you next in about a half hour or so right after the next newscast for an update on world and local events here on News Radio 930 WFMD and Wfmd dot com. And this might be a familiar voice. It's a familiar name. This is uh Jason who's called in. I I I think I know which Jason this is. You're a pretty c connected uh influencer in Frederick County politics, aren't you? Hello? Are you there? Do you still love me? Hmm. Did I press the wrong button? Let's try this again. Let's try this. Hello? How about that? Is that working? Are you there? Yes, I hear. Oh, there you are. Are you there? Ah, we hear you now. You're sounding better to me all the time, so No, I wanted to I was sitting and actually I was driving and I had the benefit of of a drive Boy, you're in a bad cell. You had the benefit of something. I think you had the benefit of hearing brilliance come from the voice of of Troy Skinner and Cindy Rose. That's what you had the benefit of, I'm sure. Of course. The I wanted to sit there and touch on something that Brad Young called in, the president of the Board of Education And he explained that the money that was in the budget for the uh the bus drivers and the food workers actually go towards per the coma. It went towards what? I'm sorry. And that uh that that's exactly where he said if I remember Correctly, no, I might be wrong. I might my memory might have lasted, but I'm pretty sure that's where he said it was going. Well believe it or not, Jason, your your cell line is under satanic satanic attack right now. And every time you say a cle uh a a critical thing that's part of what you want to say, that's exactly what it cuts out. So what is it the money's going for for the kids? Chromebooks. Chromebooks. Really? Because everybody doesn't if you were to go and you were to look, it was earlier this week that he said that the money was going to Chromebooks, but that this that the food workers and the bus drivers could claim unemployment. But they will have their uh health care benefits still. Okay, so the Chromebooks, we were supposed to have already been one to one in elementary and high. I think middle school were the only ones who didn't have all of them, although they had most of them. So I have a hard time coming to grips with the fact that he's saying that they were supposed to pay for crimes book books that we were already supposed to have. That's I'd have to have him clarify that. If you if you think about it though, the the difference is is that that's that's one of the expenses that they set. So what we had to work with was if you have bus drivers And you have work food service workers that are claiming unemployment while still having the budget cover their their uh salaries, I guess you could say, their paym their their pay Really you think about it, the taxpayers paid twice. Once with the money that they paid in the unemployment and now through the budget. Because the budget didn't it didn't it just dis doesn't disappear Like Cindy said, they've been paid in the budget. Right. So where does the money go? And that's what was explained by Brad Young, if memory serves me right, it went to purchase new Chromebooks. You know, interesting. And you know, it I don't want to get derailed because it's a totally different topic. We could do an entire show on the compensation and how that all works. But In what other job would you basically be laid off, no longer have your job, but get to keep your benefits packaged? And they're paying for 'em? And they're paying for them. Yeah, and it's paid for. Right? I mean so Anybody wants to cry poor and complain that, oh, I'm a lowly public servant who works for the government system, you don't know how good you have it. Isn't that what the Democrats always say though? If you want a better job, get a government job. It's uh it's it's unreal. Well Uh we're not going to cover anywhere near as much as I was hoping to cover in the hour, which I kind of knew going in. But before we run out of uh time, let's let's finish our potpourri a little bit. Uh And I've been promoting you as you know a writer for the tentacle. Is that the the best way for me to introduce you and let people know who you are and to follow along with your own? Yeah, I'm I'm an education advocate. I've been fighting for public education. I'm a believer of public education, not in this current format and I'm also a believer in school choice. I believe parents should the money should follow the student. That's basically where I sit on that fence. So if it's sixteen thousand dollars per child You cut a check for the parent and an account for them and it has to go for their education. If they want to give it to a public education school or a private school or spend it for homeschooling, that's what they should be able to do it for. We should get to choose how are our children educated. But if you want to introduce me, I'd say I'm a public education advocate. No, but if people want to follow your thought lights, it's meant for public consumption. Yeah, I'm sorry. On the tentacle. com. That would be the place to do it. And I got that because I didn't make it on the Board of Education and I so much believe in parents being informed about what's happening in the classroom because You don't understand. We are where we are because of the misuse of education in the classroom. Yeah. All right, so a couple of quick questions before we uh have to listen to some of our advert not have to have the opportunity to listen to our advertisers tell us how to make good use of their goods and services. Um what is it that you like to say to those uh like the editors of the local bird cage liner uh who say that keeping kids away from school buildings is the best and safest thing for them because after all people are afraid, very afraid Which is, you know, why I'm sure they're never going anywhere at all. They're so afraid they don't go grocery shopping, they don't go to the workplace, they they don't go any place other than their bunker Uh I'm being a little tongue in cheek and so but what about the what do you say to people to say, you know, we've got to keep the kids away from the school buildings 'cause that's how they're gonna be safe. They are going to be safe from the indoctrination, so I'm gonna have to agree with them there. Yes, keep them as far away as you can from public education until you know what they're actually learning. But as far as COVID nineteen, I think that's just silliness. I I think it's been overblown. I think the hyperbole has made people afraid of things they don't necessarily have to be afraid of. Every year kids go back to school in September and every year they start coming home with the flu and this virus and that virus. and m much more horrible things that have hospitalized many of our children. Yeah, but that you brought up the flu. So why wouldn't we in the future have full on virtual classes every full seat flu season or masks? And and make yeah, well yeah, I wanted to ask you that. So so for every time that there's snow on the ground, we could go virtual moving forward. And they are talking about that. And every time there's an outbreak of flu, influenza season, you know, we could we could go virtual. And yeah. uh uh somebody uh a young man, I think he might even still be a student who who put a piece that I think was put in the newspaper advocating for exactly this. So I I don't even know. Rather than being critical, is he onto something? Is there something of value in that? In totally going virtual or in if there's a snow day ahead and go viral. I'm all for that. I'm all for that. Take your work home and and do it on the computer that day. That way you don't lose a s a snow day. But then again, I'm a traditionalist. I love a snow day. Didn't we all live for the snow day? I don't want to have to get up and go to school on a snow day. Yeah, on planned vacation day. Exactly. Don't take those away from show. We've taken all the fun out of school and out of life And we're also afraid of something we should not be ninety nine point oh seven percent survival rate, people. Why are you afraid to send your children back to school when they're not the ones who are getting sick? Fifteen I think fifteen people, fifteen children. worldwide or nationwide, I'm not sure what that stat's for, have succumbed to this and I'm pretty sure they all had pre existing conditions. Why are children not back in the school systems? They should be back in the school, get volunteer teachers. I'm not for forcing people to do something they're afraid of. But since when do we become a cowering nation where we're afraid of a virus? The flu season kills more people every year and all age groups. Healthy people and non-healthy people. This virus, as horrible as it is, is attacking the most vulnerable in our populations. Let's protect the most vulnerable, which aren't our healthy, vibrant 20-something teachers and our children. And and put them back in the buildings and let them learn or opposite of it, keep them away so that you can learn the crap that they're actually teaching them This is Frederick's Forum. That's the voice of Cindy Rose. I'm Froy Skinner. And we've heard from Andy and Frank and Jason. You can take their place on the line at 301-694-WFMD 301-694-9363. That's also the same number you would use. for the WFMD text line. Um you mentioned masks, and I said I wanted to swing back to that. So I think I know your answer, but I'll give you a chance to articulate it. What is your view on students being forced to wear masks when classrooms reopen I think it's inhumane. Uh why would you put a mask on a perfectly healthy person, child, adult, student, who who doesn't need it? Masks are for sick people. The science says The m okay, here's here's a perfect visual that I got from one of these scientific guys. If you take the cloth mass that everybody's making, you can put it on a Walmart fourteen dollar microscope and you can see the holes in it. It takes an electron microscope to see the COVID virus. What do you think the mask is preventing? It is not preventing the virus from getting through. And I'm tired of seeing the P P analogy. If you have a mask and I have a mask, it's like wearing pants and the and the pee won't get on you. Well, my response to that is they just smell the urine. Yes, you did. That's the virus. The virus is so small, it's getting through that mask no matter what. So let's not mask up perfectly healthy children take away their smiles and their laughter. They're I would be terrified. Can you imagine your first day of school, you're a a preschooler or a kindergartner and everybody's masked up. You're already terrified. Remember when you were a kindergartner or when you sent your first child to school? They were scared. Now now put them in this situation where everybody's pretending they're not pretending, but they're overreacting to a pandemic and now you're depletely terrifying children. I just think it's silly. And I think you know part of me wonders if it could even be on purpose to try to uh you know indoctrinate us in a spirit of of fear. And I see oh we got lines ringing like crazy. How do I do this? Let's uh Uh good luck to writing. Yeah, no no kidding. Uh hold on, I'm gonna do this and then I'm gonna put you on hold, hang on one second, and I'm gonna do this and put you on hold, hold on one second, and now let's go back to you and hello, you're at 930 WFMD. How might we help you? Wanna order a pizza? Uh I'm actually just asking to f find out uh you know, listen. The the problem is you have a group of teachers that want to go back to school. You have a group of teachers who don't want to go back to school. You have various people that are affected by it in different ways with people at home that are sick Now what I understand is as an essential employee myself nobody asked me if I had an underlying condition. No one asked me who I had living with me at my house uh uh who I have that may be ill or anything. I mean my father got this, my mother got this. My father's an essential employee. But nobody asks their conditions. Mm-hmm. My father has a condition, so does my mom. It didn't matter. We had to go to work, we had to keep the economy going. What uh w the problem that I see, regardless of anybody's belief on this Is that the CDC requirements and the legal and lawful requirements of either a business or even the schools Is that when one person gets this, the the element of following the letter of the law creates a widespread net that gathers up other individuals. If one person gets COVID And gets tested positive. Whoever has been in contact with that person from the time they show symptoms has within forty-eight hours of them showing symptoms and testing That's it. You have to go get tested. You're pulled from the screen. So if you have teachers in a class and one child pops positive, if that teacher's been in contact, and here's the kicker, it doesn't matter if they've been in contact with that person with a mask on or without a mask on. It doesn't state that. If you've been around them for more than fifteen minutes in an enclosed environment You're done. So what do you do with the teacher who gets pulled from that environment and how do you replace that teacher? Does that class have to go all virtual now? So I understand the hodgepodge. It's it's because we have created a lawful system that is is keeping these things from occurring. You I'm an advocate for opening the schools, but the only way to really do it is to open the school Forget the CDC guidelines and just go at it and be done with it. But th we're trying to live in the middle and we're trying to fight government regulation on this, good luck. It's not gonna happen. Hi, James. It's nice to hear your voice. Um, I agree with you. And to my knowledge, FCPS doesn't have a plan yet if somebody gets sick, what they're gonna do. if they're back in the school system but I agree. And it's just a guideline. They're gu it says it right there, they're guidelines, they're suggestions. They're not laws and Hogan can't write laws. So any Our Board of Education at any time they wanted to. They uh Karen Salman, the state superintendent, told them, come up with the plan as long as it matches CDC guidelines. Okay, they're guidelines. That's a word everybody keeps glossing over as if it doesn't mean anything. They're suggestions. We suggest you try this, you try that. So okay, let's open our schools. Let's try the distancing, which I think is is the logical thing to do. Let's social distance. Let's, you know, not have kids sneezing and and coughing on each other, which I think is what we already teach in our schools. And let's see what happens. And this is not the city that's killing this population. It sounds callous. I don't care if it sounds callous. It's time for us to be adults now. We've been doing this for six months. People are suffering in other ways. They're losing their jobs. They're committing suicide. We have people who are being abused locked away at home. We aren't helping anybody. We are hurting more than we are helping. So I'm all for that. I'm all for your suggestion. Let's open up the schools and let's just let uh let's go back to living. Well thank you for the call, James. We're gonna try to squeeze one more in before we take one of those what r Rush refers to as an obscenely uh profitable time out. Um hello you're on 930 WFMD. Who's this? Yes, hi, this is Louise. How are you? I'm splendid now that you've called. My di my day is brightened. That's wonderful. So I actually um I actually have been in the education profession since nineteen eighty nine, both as an administrator at colleges as well as uh secondary education teacher and I don't think I've ever seen anything like this before in my life. And while I understand, you know, we want to be cautious with a supposed virus that we do not know how to control. However, I will say I don't know if we know how to control any virus, including the cold virus. Um it is concerning, you know, as to why this is happening more so than that it is happening. And so it's um you know, I I think all of my friends who are teachers and wonderful teachers, uh, you know, and don't necessarily always go with the party line, shall we say, but it's like we know how to teach and we know how how to help these kids and we know how to respect the families that they're from and the parents. So You know, it's an it's an interesting time. Um I think I can see the benefits at some level of folks who have the wherewithal and the ability to, you know, work as they would have previously, you know, um with this with the schools in terms of educating their own children the way that they wish to be educated while realizing that there are some skill sets that um and social emotional skill sets, not politically, but just character education wise, you know, that um our our kids need to know um generally speaking. So I think it is an a very interesting time. Um not sure how any of us are gonna uh fair with this, especially us quote unquote older teachers who are too expensive. So they would like to hire us as long term subs uh instead of keeping us employed. So you have to look at that too, like who's actually being furloughed even though you're not all that old and you know technology probably better than some of the younger ones Well, uh Louisa, I appreciate your perspective. You take the time to call and share that with us. And do me a favor next time you're out, say hello to Thelma for me. I appreciate that. So Uh thank you so much. Uh you can take her place. I'm not sure if we have time to squeeze any more calls on, but just in case, 301-694-9363 is the number. This is Frederick's Forum on Free Talk 930 WFMD and WFMD. com I'm Troy Skinner. This is 9 30 WFMD's Fredericks Forum. I'll be on the air again tomorrow at nine o'clock for Frederick's Faith Debate that airs every Sunday at nine o'clock from nine to nine thirty right here. on the Talk of In Maryland, 930 WFMD. And here if you join us and do a little babbling. If you heard the commercial just now, you'll get the joke. Do a little babbling with us. Here is Ray. What can we do for you Okay, I got a real quick question. Cindy, you just mentioned uh a figure, I think you said sixteen thousand five hundred or eighteen hundred eighteen thousand dollars per kid. Is that what you said? Um no, I was just taking a guess. I think we do it like sixteen I think we're close to sixteen thousand dollars per child MOE maintenance of effort. Yeah I don't know what the exact So your statement was the parents should be able to decide where thus you go, correct? Absolutely. Okay, I have a question for you then. I don't have any kids. Mm-hmm. So do I get to shoes where my sixteen thousand five hundred dollars goes? No, because you don't have a child, so you didn't they didn't give you any money. You get your dad. Okay, so I have so they so they here's my next question Why am I paying for your kids? You're paying for it now. What does it matter? No, that's no that's no point. No, it's the point. Why why do I have to pay for your decision To have a child. Because to ha no, you didn't pay for my child. You you elected the people you elected who passed the laws they passed, and now we pay for education. W wh why are we doing that? I think the problem with the school systems right now is people have their babies, they send them to school and they expect the school system to raise them because someone else is paying the bill If you had to pay for your child your full expenses, I can guarantee you most parents are gonna pay more attention to what's going on. Oh I agree. I'm not just a But yeah, so why do I have to pay for someone else's child? Because that's the way it's set up right now. If we don't like it, then we need to go to the legislature and have them change it. Would I agree to change it I don't know. I'd have to hear the the arguments for and against. I'm okay with paying to educate people's children. Not everybody can the reason we made the compact was because poor children weren't getting an education and the rich people were getting the education and the good jobs So we as a society said, Okay, you know what, I think it's a great idea if we take some of our tax dollars and we give children a basic education. And we all agreed to that because we elec elected the people Who did the majority, I didn't shouldn't say we all. The majority of people said, Okay, you know what, that's a pretty good idea because we don't want people to suffer. But aren't we beginning to see right now that it failing because of the very fact parents are seeing that they don't have to pay attention. They don't have to be responsible for their kids' education. No, I don't think that that's look, I look I look back to where where we were school systems in the eighteen eighteenth eighteen hundreds, early nineteen hundreds, and there's a great example of of like the Kansas City s um eighth grade exam that's out there. I can guarantee you no one Let's see no next could pass it. I agree with you. Yeah. Well, and we're gonna end on a note of agreement. Isn't that exciting? This is Frederick Swarm, thank you so much for being on the show, Cindy. Thank you, Ray, for calling. We'll be back this same time, noon on Saturday, and we're gonna do this again. Cindy's gonna be the guest next week. We'll finish talking about everything and anything that has to do with uh public schools and what's happening with education in Frederick County. Thanks so much for listening. I'm Troy Skinner again, Faith Debate's on tomorrow. Chris Murray and your Frederick uh uh what's his darn show called? Your Frederick Financial Editors Up Next God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com. Use Radio 930. WFMD Frederick. Akonnoissor Media Radio Station. One o'clock