Local free talk continues on the weekend with Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMB. Conversations with and about local newsmakers. Broadcasting live from a palatial palace sitting high atop Grove Hill on the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Plantation County, in a formerly free state where more than 19,000 babies have been murdered in the womb so far this year. I'm Troy Skinner and this is Frederick's Forum. We're on the air at 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. You can enter the conversation by dialing 301-694-WFMD. That's 301-694-W 9363 use that same number for the WFMD text line and good news for you I just learned today how to try to use that thing. So if you text I might actually interact with you. Sorry, the last few weeks. I thought I was doing it right and learned today that I was not. So to today's forum to topic and discussion. Should everyone run around? With their hair on fire, scared out of their skull about healthy children returning to the classroom amidst coronavirus concern. Rhetorical question. Should teachers go to work and interact with other people every day, as do grocery store workers, medical professionals, and even an individual like you Again, rhetorical. Have the liberals accidentally demonstrated to a watching world that the public education system is anything but what they deem to be essential? Rhetorical. Who should be running your child's education? The feds? His Majesty the King Larry Hogan? The emperors and empresses of the county, the city, and the residents of the downtown Taj Mahal? Or you, the parent? Yes, once more, it's a rhetorical question Do you want activists on the left instructing your young'uns about the ins and outs of the birds and the bees? And the birds who identify as bees? And the bees who identify as birds? Do I even need to say it? Okay, I will. Rhetorical question Do you want and should it even be legal for admitted racists to teach your child Yes, admitted racists using your money and your neighbors' money to teach your kids and your neighbors' kids. These admitted racists are teaching the kids What's that you say? It can't be so. Oh, but it is. How many admitted racists are teaching the young impressible minds of Frederick County? Well, there's at least one Whom we have on tape. Jessica Fitzwater. So there you go. What do we do about it? Well, option one, homeschool. Option 1A, homeschool. That's my suggestion. You train up your child in the way he or she should go so that he or she will not depart from the teaching that you instill in him or her. That's truly the best and safest option. Private school, if they can swing it financially, that's a distant second option. Increased school choice, charter schools, vouchers, those sorts of things bear minimum alternatives, but these options are proving to take time, so if you're stuck being a victim of the public education system as I was when I was but a mere whippersnapper, then you gotta at least know how to combat the indoctrination coming at your little ones from the powers of be. Now it sounds harsh maybe, I know. But that's what something in the ballpark of a billion dollars per year buys you In other words, about eleven thousand dollars in cold hard cash from each and every household in the county, each and every year, on average. Basically it's about one grand per month, every month, to send all our students to re-education camps. Have I brightened your day yet? It's why I agree with anyone who says we shouldn't reopen the schools. It's why I suggest homeschooling or private schooling or anything other than government-run brainwashing encampments. And that's just the half of it. Here to help talk about the other half. Cindy Rose, you might know her as the conservative candidate who ran for a position on the school board. You might know her as the advocate who once sued the Board of Education. You might know her for her column written for The Tentacle and accessible at thetentacle. com I know her as the returning guest at Frederick's Forum. She was in the hot seat last week as we fielded your phone calls, and she's back for more of the same this week at 301-694. WFMD, that's 301-694-9363. She's back because last week we talked about a whole bunch of really important stuff from Masks and athletics and money and virtual classes and alterations to the academic calendar and even more than that. But we didn't get to the two things I most wanted to discuss. Shame on me. Can you even believe it? But before we get into the revisionist history of cultural neo-Marxism and the total nuttiness when it comes to sex education, uh I promised somebody who had contacted me via social media that I would mention There's an event coming up three weeks from today that is uh being put forward by the Frederick County Conservative Club and is uh sponsored or supported uh in a marketing sense, at least in some regard, by the tentacle Uh it's an effort of monumental importance. The effort to stop human trafficking in Maryland. It's happening on September nineteenth. Again, that's just three weeks from today. So If you want to learn more about it, I think maybe if you go to the Tentacles website you can find information. If you uh want to go to Facebook and type in the word stop human trafficking in Maryland, it it might give you some hits and you can find more information there. Uh I didn't do a deep dive yet because you know I wasn't going to be talking a lot about it today, but maybe next week we'll we'll talk a little bit more about it and you can call in and and share with me what I don't know. So again, this is Frederick's Forum. I'm Troy Skinner, joined by Cindy Rose. And if you follow along with what Cindy writes, she published a couple of really excellent expose style multi-part series. this year, both still available at thetenacle. com. One series fell under the heading of Failure in America Public Education. The three individual articles are titled Frederick County Public Schools and the Dismantling of America, Parts 1, 2, and 3. And the other series is titled Rather Shockingly Anal sex in the eighth grade classroom. Well, we're going to aim to address uh both of those series and unrelated issues in Frederick County Public Schools. So First, I guess, I'm not sure where to start, but the taxpayer-funded local indoctrination centers, as I like to call them, now have the option to teach what's called the 1619 Project Curriculum And I'm wondering should every right-minded parent and patriotic American uh be okay with this? What say you, Cindy? Welcome to the show again. Well, and thank you for having me. Kier, I appreciate that. Um the sixteen nineteen project is not something I think we are officially doing. But Sadly and not sadly, so double-edged short, we have what's called site-based management. So each school can do kind of do its own thing. So if there's an educator in one of our local schools who wants to do the 1619 project. documents and and information then they can do that. So that's a scary thing. There are certain things I think should be standard throughout the school system, social studies and history should be this and this is what you must use to teach it. So But they're allowed they they're they're if they want to, they're allowed to. There's nothing that would stop them from using the sixteen nineteen project information. So none of them might be, but all of them could be. Exactly. And let's just assume that some of them will be. Absolutely. I I will always assume that because then I can prepare for that. I never assume that they're not because then you're you're damaging your children, they're not getting the right kind of Yeah. So this might be news to somebody. Sixteen nineteen project, what the heck is that? You know, um any details that you're able that you know about it? Well I know it's been It's not really history. I know that much. The woman who wrote it is a racist and a vowed racist and sh it's just a rewriting of how she would have hoped American history would have been and they go back to sixteen nineteen. So they can blame all of their failings on slavery instead of you know. 'Cause sixteen nineteen is when it's purported that you know the first slaves uh were on this continent. But the reality is history shows that there were slaves on this continent even among the the natives who were already here before the pilgrims arrived. So Slavery's been around in human history for Forever. For thousands of years. And every society, every race, every culture has been enslaved by some other culture and country. at one time in their lives. Everyone's been a everybody's race has been ensl enslaved by some other race. That's the way humanity used to go. I thought we were getting away from that. I thought Americans have gotten rid of slavery. Still happens in some other countries. There are still Uyghur slaves out in China and there are Muslim slaves. There are still there's still slavery. Guess where there isn't slavery? In the United States of America, not legally. Yeah, not legally. Right. Yeah. There are sex slaves in America right now. Right. Right. And indentured servants. They're also slaves. So yeah, but that's not legal here. Yeah, right. Yeah, illegal elsewhere, but it's not legal. Um Organizers of End Racism FCPS Uh they were invited to speak to the uh FCPS Racial Equity uh Committee this summer. Um they say the school system is quote unquote racist. I put it in quote unquote because I don't even like the word racist. I feel by using it I'm co-oping their argument and granting too much ground. Hey, exactly. There's There's one race, the human race, and to to say that people with different skin tones are a completely different race is seeding too much ground. So I always whenever I say racist, I try to say quote unquote racist. But anyway, they're they say that the school system is racist. Now, you you'd submit it uh submitted a uh a public comment to the committee at the time Do you recall some of the things that you said or what motivated you to want to say what you you said? Well Jameson, the vice president of the board, called me a racist. He said I was racist. Yes. He said I was using racist language because I dared to question this committee. Because I am against automatically assuming we're all racists and m moving forward from that position. I don't think s the school system is systemically racist, which means it was developed that way, it functions that way. Just do we really believe this? I don't think so. Maybe we have some racist teachers, black and white, Hispanic, all people can be racist, and everybody just assumes it's just white people who are racist. And if we're going to trust somebody's self-identification, then we have admitted racists teaching our kids in the school. Yeah, absolutely. But that that was a planned Oh, event with an agenda to roll in their Black Lives Matter stuff. Right. That's the whole neo you know that's It's part of uh the the the neo-Marxism, the cultural Marxism, the idea that the systems are racist, the fact that you're white makes you racist by default, and there's no way to escape it. You can't really repent from it. You can lament it forever. You can say you're sorry and sorry until your dying day but you're still always going to be a racist. It's just the way it is because of the tone of your skin. Right. Which Sounds quote unquote racist. Makes everybody who says it a racist. It's ridiculous. If you ask me. Um speaking of uh Jessica Fitzwater, member of the county council, but also a teacher in the county. And she said and and I was trying to find the clip and uh actually I found it but it didn't play, so maybe I can find it uh I'll try to play coming out of the break if possible. But Uh she takes ten or fifteen seconds just to say that I'm a racist. In case you didn't hear me, let me say it again. I'm a racist. I can't white privilege. You know, I'm I'm a white privileged person, I'm a racist. She's basically Like doubles and triples down almost every ten or fifteen seconds. Exactly. White people, only white people. So I really can't be that bad 'cause you're just like me, is what she's trying to say. Yet I am really bad and you're really bad too. And we all need to repent together. And this is the kind of stuff that the sixteen nineteen project curriculum would be kind of putting. Would be pushing. Right? Well Uh yes, in order to change the culture. I don't think that they lean more toward I don't know. See I kinda dismissed the sixteen nineteen project because I was told by our curriculum specialists we weren't using it. It wasn't gonna be going on in our classrooms. But then I should've known better 'cause I don't know how site based management works. So I I haven't dug deeply into what that they want to teach in the schools. Now the Black Lives Matter on the other hand, that's a whole whole nother story. That's something that they definitely want to get into the classroom. That's a fact. MSDE has already approved. It's called um Black Lives Matter in the s Black National Black Lives Matter at School. And they have a week of action starter kit, which they pass out to the schools. And MSDE has signed on to it saying it's a fabulous, wonderful thing. They have a th thirteen point uh project or thirteen point that they'd like to do away with and getting rid of SROs in the classroom. i uh in the schoolhouses is one of them, which coincides strangely enough with a group or a town hall meeting set for September I think. And I wish I'd have brought that with me. where they want to have a town hall on getting SROs out of the classroom. And I thought Brad Young said there was absolutely no interest in doing that, that the SROs are a vital part of our society and our community. So that kinda, you know, sends some red flags up for me. Why are we doing all these things when he said we aren't going to be doing these things Well, we're up against our our our first timeout for the show, so we're gonna pause now for some important information from important businesses serving our community and growing our economy. So after you get caught up in what you need to know from them, Cindy Rose and I will talk about some of what's uh very broken inside our public schools. This is Frederick's Forum. Kamala Harris may be the exact leftist radical that they want in the White House who could never get elected. Rush Limbaugh. It could well be that precisely because she could never get elected, this is how they're gonna make that happen. by naming her the VP. Have to consider this a possibility. She is perfect from the standpoint of being an Uber radical San Francisco Democrat leftist. It's Rush Limbaugh from noon to three on WFMB. Hey, it's Murray from Hunting Creek Outfitter. Summer's winding down, but there's lots of fun still to be had. And at Hunting Creek Openers, we specialize in fun. From top-of-the-line fly fishing gear to amazing Yeti coolers and drinkwear to the finest clothing for men and women. We have everything you want with brands like Orebis, Barber, Patagonia, Ex Oficio, and more. Come see us in downtown Frederick and find us on the web. We are Hunting Creek Outbiters, Fly Fishing Specialists, and so much more. If you're curious about who may be out there, but Don't want to jump into anything right away, then take a fun step and just take a look at our time. Our Time is the number one dating site for singles over fifty. It's easy to use and can help you find a partner to share in a new activity you've been wanting to try. Take a walk or just meet someone new. Check it out. Start for free today. Go to ourtime. com. That's ourtime. com. Start for free at ourtime. com. This Saturday, take advantage of Ashley Home Store's special Labor Day preview offers. Be the first to save up to 75%. And off on every Ashley living room, dining room, bedroom groove, and more. Get early Labor Day savings this Saturday plus free delivery. And Ashley pays your sales tax. Whether you're decorating one room or your entire home. Find the Ashley Styles to fit your look and budget. Beat the Labor Day Crowd. See up to 75% off Saturday at Ashley Home Store in Frederick and Hagerstown, Maryland. Have you been to our Facebook Page lately, more breaking local news, podcasts, and good stuff. Like our Facebook page for the latest from 930 WFMD. I have white privilege and I'm a racist. Anyone who is a white person in any sort of position of power, um, we have white privilege and we are racist because of the systems in this community is to Who could that be? I hope I hope she's not teaching any of our kids. Well actually she is that's Jessica Fitzquater, member of the county council, but also she's a music teacher in the county, uh, over on the uh east side of the county, and she said that she's a racist Should admitted racists be teaching students against whom they apparently hold an uncontrollable prejudice? Wait, are you concerned if she's your student's teacher that she's going to be able to grade them fairly, treat them fairly, treat them with respect and dignity because she hates them for who they are, because she's a racist. Now I understand she's we talked about this right before the the timeout. She's using the language differently. This whole neo-Marxist, cultural Marxist, uh you know, Black Lives Matter kind of entity, you know, hyper leftist radical. stuff that's not traditionalistic anyway. So she's using it differently and for her it's a virtuous she's virtue signaling and she counts herself as righteous for acknowledging this to be But that's not how the rest of us think of this. My whole life, being called a quote unquote racist, was a bad thing. And you know what? It is. Yeah. We shouldn't going way back to the I Have a Dream speech, you know, in the nineteen sixties, we should be judging people on the content of their character, not by the content of the melanin in their skin. To to put a uh contemporary spin on uh MLK's words there. And yet here she is saying, I'm a racist What should somebody who's traditionally minded, like the two of us are, and I don't have kids in school anymore, but if I had a kid in school and they were in her Jessica's classroom I'd be a little bit concerned. Well I was shocked that more parents weren't righteously outraged by her comments, knowing that she is an elementary school or most um malleable children. She's in front of them. And the some of the comments I got were she's just the music teacher. She doesn't have them all day long. But you don't understand. She touches every student in her school because she's the music teacher. And music and the arts is the best way to get to a child and influence them. So what is she going to be teaching through music? And she has told me through an email that I have right here in my Formerly nicotine stained hands to quote Rush Furnball. That uh Oh you gotta do it like this though. Yeah, oh yeah, so they can they can't stick. Yeah. So so I asked her. You know, I wanted a copy of her syllabus, which I still haven't gotten yet. She kind of wheezled her way out of that. So she said that yes, SCPS is going to be providing all the teachers with new training and discussions about race and racism this year. This one on the elementary school level What what are we doing? Why are we teaching children about racism and and in what fashion are we going to be teaching it? I thought we modeled our behavior and students would follow along. This is how we did it when I was growing up. You treat everyone kindly and fairly. And then isn't that how you teach not to be a racist? I mean these these are they're actively that's the whole thing about anti racism, they are actively going to try to train your children not to be racist by telling them, little white Susie, you're a racist because I'm sorry, you were born that way And little brown Sally who's her friend, please don't judge her because she can't help but she's a racist. She was born that way. This is not something that parents should be comfortable with And I was just talking to uh a friend and colleague of mine this week about not specifically the schools, but this larger issue that's you know dominating the news cycle for the last couple of months now. And as I've reflected upon it, I don't know if this has been your experience, but uh going back in time through my family my family's history and uh my Great grandparents for their day lived longer than most people did back then. They they lived uh, you know, in into their eighties and you know today everybody's living into their eighties. But now if if you're a hundred and three year old. Back then if you're eighty three you were old. You were really old. And they both lived to be I I forget exactly how old they were, but they were in you know, into their eighties. And so they were still around when I was a little kid. And so they were not functioning um cognitively at their at their at their peak. But but yeah, so we should have should have elected them president. But the um Because they were around, they were talked about and stories were told about them because they were there, they're top of mind and you could share. And and and then my my grandparents and and my Aunts and uncles and my mom and stuff would tell stories about what it was like when they were younger and stuff. And so I came to realize that my great grandparents were by again I don't like the word but quote unquote starkly racist. Yes. I mean viscerally in their bones racist quote unquote. And then go go forward one generation to my grandparents' generation. And my grandparents They were incredibly prejudiced a and quote unquote racist against black people behind their back. But when they were with in front of them they'd turn on the charm and they'd pretend that they were welcoming and warm or whatever, which step away. Which my great grandparents could not do. So yeah, they at least learned the social structures of being polite. And to be honest, really later on in their life I think that their edges on their quote unquote racism softened quite a bit. And then you go to my to my mom and my aunts and uncles and that that generation, the generation right before me, and generally I think their attitude was, you know, everybody's equal, but they should be separate. Like A black person and a white person shouldn't get married. And you know, but but th that's fine. They're they're human and they're good and but you know but so again, another step in the right direction. And then you get to my generation, which is pretty much Knowing that baggage is there, I grew up on the uh in Chicago and on the uh west and near west side uh of of of that part of the country which has had lots of tensions, racial quote unquote tensions. for years and I saw a lot of really horrible things happen and so that's part of my baggage and my past. But I I've learned how to know myself And check myself so that I don't act out of any of that baggage, even though I recognize that some of it is there Right. And so I think I've taken another step in the right direction, and so has everybody else, my sister and and and my wife and her her cousins and you know brother and stuff. We're all kind of there together, I think. Mm-hmm. And now you go to the next generation, which is, you know, my kids and and and uh the people who are in my generation, my family, their kids. I don't think that they have this baggage even. I don't either. You know? They they they played sports with other people that had darker skin or lighter skin. didn't think anything of it. Some of their good friends were they it was they were judging people by the content of their character by default. And what I'm so c why I'm taking time to say th all of this I'm so concerned that what's happening right now is sending us back fifty to seventy five years because we have Jessica Fitzwater Training up our kids to tell them you need to notice the different skin colors and you need to have a prejudice against that other person. Right Because they have a prejudice against you and they can't even help it. We've we've taken it backwards, but they can't see it. I well I I no but I think they can I think it's purposeful because that has always been the Democrat Party's way to get votes was by using race to to to ke keep those people in their corner. Well we're all growing out of it. They n they're fleeing that Right. Identity politics is waning is what you're saying. Exactly. And they and they need to soak the fires because they're losing their electorate. There's no one wants to vote for them anymore because they have become what they said that they were always trying to to be against. And I think that they do it purposefully because they're in their death knell. And when you're in your death now you're flailing and you're at your most vulnerable and you're most dangerous all at the same time. And I think that's where we are. It's interesting, you know, I when I was uh younger and I and I worked at a in a beach setting, I worked at a concession stand and I was given some training uh about what to do if there was an emergency. And I wasn't a lifeguard, but I was given some training what to do in a crisis if lifeguard was distracted or not available and I was taught If there's a drowning person, the last thing you want to do is go straight to them and try to help them. You gotta try to sneak up behind them because they're flailing and and and they're in the death throws and they will take you down with them. So I guess that's what's going on. If we're right, if our analysis is right, the identity politics is in its death rows. We can praise God for that if it's true. And because of that they're grabbing onto everything and they're trying to take us all down with them. That's interesting. And that's why they've moved on to the K through twelve education system. They've gotten to everybody up there. Now most of the people up there are kinda they're kinda on board. Uh that's still a scary population of the college age kids. But I think some of them actually are s kind of seeing the light, which is why the walk away campaign is is being so popular, but I think those people are seeing it. Well they now they need to move the K to twelve children because First of all, they're the most malleable. They're the ones that they can move and shake and change the the quickest. And they can raise up an army of activist Democratic voters. They've trained them to be activists and de and and then I I witnessed it. We saw it on the walk out that um the march for the two A march that they had last year or year before, I think it was the year before. where they were doing it nationwide. They did it our school system, our students walked up out of class to protest against the Second Amendment. Right. And the school system didn't give them one lesson on why that's a bad idea. They supported it. Right, yeah, they encouraged it. They encouraged it. Right. Because they're trying to culturally change the attitude of our children and that's the next step is the racism thing. Yeah, and they've had some success, we have to admit, they've had some success. They've had great success. Who's burning and looting us? The young people. After getting an update on local, national, international news headlines, we're to continue with our conversation and your phone calls at 301-694-WFMD-301-694-9363. I'm Froy Skinner and our esteemed guest again this week, back from last week is Cindy Rose on Frederick's Forum. Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMD, a service of Hunting Creek Outfitters in downtown Frederick, and Frederick Ayer, Bryant's National Dealer of the Year. It's Fredericks Forum on 930 WFMD. This is Frederick. Forum. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week again by Cindy Rose, back for another round as she was last week. You can give us a call at 301-694-WFMD 301-694-9363. And I probably should get in the habit of letting you know that If you want to connect with me on social media, I'm on Parlor. I think my thing is at Troy Skinner. I'm not sure how that works, but I think you can find me by putting in at Troy Skinner. You'll find my Parlor account. I'm on Facebook. You can uh follow me or like me or friend whatever that's called. You can you can friend request me or something. I don't know exactly how that works. I want to be liked. I want to be liked. Uh so you can do that. Of course, there's the Facebook page for WFMD. You can follow along um there. And you can pay attention to what I'm doing on the other show that I host every weekend that airs on Sunday mornings at nine o'clock called the Frederick Faith Debate. Been doing that for just shy of sixteen years now. And we're talking about some of these same issues, actually. So we'll be talking about tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock. If you want to start to take a deep dive, we've got a four-part series with somebody who is really sharp on these issues. And he's not local. If you've listened to the Faith Debate Show for any length of time, you know that only I think on one occasion have we had a guest that wasn't local. So this is the second time now we're having a guest who's not locally joins us by the phone. I asked him to do it because he's really on top of this cultural Marxist stuff that's happening and his analysis. is so good. And I went back and watched some of his social media posts from like two, three years ago and he was saying, now if we're not careful, this is what could happen and here we are and Everything he said is exactly what's happening. He's really good. So he his name is John Harris. He's gonna be on the show with me and John Schweitzer uh tomorrow morning. uh at nine o'clock from nine to nine thirty and then it's a it's a four part series so it'll be four Sundays in a row with that same panel. Anyway, but today our here on Freder's Forum Uh the Tentacle, as I mentioned I think, uh earlier, has a series on Marxism and all that comes with it. It was written by Cindy Rose. Um this cultural Marxism as as we're calling it. It's infecting uh the indoctrination camps as I like to call them, our public schools, uh that we fund with our tax dollars. Um And then we're forcing our impressionable young minds to attend these indoctrination camps uh camps and be conditioned in This Marxism, so we're gonna talk about that. And you wrote this, you know, he wrote some articles about it. You did some homework and some research on it. So you know At a basic level, what do we need to know about the things that's in your series? Well, if we want to find it, the series is Failure in America Public Education. I think it was a three-part series. So what are some things, some basic things that we need to be on the lookout for? Uh you n most people don't look at the resources that the students or the teachers are using and They see the papers that and I think it's purposeful. They they see the paperwork that comes home with that very little comes home anymore. If anybody's ever paid attention to that, we don't get as much stuff anymore. Look at the resources that they're using. And I complained about this ten years ago when with the social studies book that said that we needed all these other nations in order for America to survive. It downplayed America and it and it put it down. So you need to be watchful of what your child is learning. Don't just say how was your day, Sally. Ask her, what did you learn? Let me see your lessons. And one of the blessings of the pandemic is now you can watch. No matter what a teacher says, watch. And if your teacher is saying don't watch Uh, that might be reason more to watch. Why don't you want me to watch? And they they'll say it's for privacy or whatever. It's a public school. What what expectation of privacy do you have? They shouldn't be discussing private personal things, so where are they aware afraid that's the public's gonna learn? So to me the most important thing you can do is look at the resources, the things that they will be using to teach your child. Very few people when the the school puts them out and you go to the libraries where they have the resources that they're about to adopt. What do people go up and look? I'm probably one of the few who do it and I've been remiss lately and I apologize. And for an example is a couple of years ago there was a resource for elementary school and it was about um Rosa Parks. It was someone well the N word was replete in this it was everywhere in this book. And they were going to adopt this. It was just going to go on the consent agenda and what the consent agenda is, whoever's on the curriculum, the board members on the curriculum resource uh panel does just says, okay, let's adopt this and everybody else on the board just says, okay, let's adopt it without ever having read what was in there. So they make mistakes, which is one of the reasons why whenever there's a resource available for you to look at You need to go look at it because you have no idea what's in there. My daughter in fifth grade was assigned a a reading book that had incest in it. Fifth grade? Incest? No. So that's part of the cultural Marxism of trying to re-chain retrain our children into what is socially acceptable in American culture. But they try to say there is no American culture, but there absolutely is. So they want to get children uh sexualized to pull them away from their parents so that they're more malleable for the information that's about to follow as they get up the ladder on the higher grades. That's my concern and it is happening. And we've drifted uh we've gotten here because we've drifted away from what you know good conservative foundational principles would be. You know, there's the the the Uh from from a again, I come at things from a Christian biblical perspective. And from that perspective, there's three realms of authority and responsibility that are are how the world works and how it all works together. If everybody stays in their lane. The church is Part of that. So that's one realm of authority. And right so that's why it's a problem when a governor can say churches can't meet. The governor has no authority over ecclesiastical matters uh if he's getting out of his lane. That's a real problem. The gov um and families are supposed to be taking care of their children, raising them, feeding them, tending to all of their needs, training them up in the way they should go. And the government is supposed to Support that. If somebody's beating somebody up and and you know and and or somebody is dishonest with you and you you need to get some sort of legal recourse. The government's there to protect us from the sin that's in the world kind of a thing. So now we've got in a situation now where The parents aren't teaching their children. When I was uh you know, the parent of a younger child, you know, I'm the parent of older children now, but they were in the school system, and I remember they had the sex edge stuff and they invited the parents to come and check it out. And so my wife and I went. And I think there were, I don't know, four or five other parents there. Out of there should have been dozens. And out of the four or five, I think that we were the only ones that actually opted our daughter out of some of the stuff that they were. uh teaching some of the videos they were gonna watch and stuff like my daughter's not watching that are you kidding me and I expected everybody else who showed up to to care enough to show up would have done the same thing. They didn't. They're too trusting. Yeah, exactly. We can't not we just we can't allow ourselves to just trust them anymore. Well we've been made to feel guilty if we question people. Dr. Albin threatened to sue me for asking too many questions. It's it's in part of my ethics complaint against her They actually s they slap my hands for asking too many questions. I have abused the PIA system, public information acre quest system They th that's the way they are. They do not want to be questions and they will belittle you and make you feel small if you do ask them a question. So parents have learned not to. We've been conditioned along with our children. We don't ask questions. Whatever you say, that's what I'm supposed to take as the gospel And that's w why we're here. So it was like in the Wizard of Oz with a big green glowing face and the and the fireworks and the flames shooting off and Quiet! No, exactly that. That's the whole mentality. We know what better than you do, so you just follow our lead. And another thing that parents need to go do is don't just believe the syllabus because Uh the syllabus doesn't contain when I found out that there's a wooden life-size penis that is trotted around the classroom to give demonstrations on condom use. it looks like a toy. So mentally, for me, that says penis is a toy. The female genitalia, the vagina, and the uterus, that looked very clinical. It looked like something you would see in your doctor's office. So that was not treated that was treated respectfully, but the penis children were made to feel comfortable with. And that makes me uncomfortable. I'm not sure who this is. We're gonna find out together. Hello, you're on nine thirty WFMD. Who are we talking with? Oh Seth Eisenberg. Hey Seth. Hi Seth. Thanks for calling. Seth is a uh co uh owner and writer for The Tentacle also. Alright, so are you here for moral support? You have a comment? Oh I I I just want to echo what Cindy's saying when it comes to the school system. The problem I see it as is people vote based on appearance rather than ability I mean like when they vote for all he's a good guy, I know he's a real nice guy. That doesn't mean anything. Can he do the job? Can the person do the job? I mean, a year and a half ago fourth grade reading comprehension was at forty seven percent They they couldn't read proficiently. That same year the graduation rate to fifth grade was in the high nineties. So they're setting kids up for failure, but their main concern is uh racial equality being caught. They should be more focused on reading, more focused on the math, on the science, on on history, but they're not because that's not I guess the best way to put it, that's not a sexy topic now race is sexy. We we can get people to back us up or or applaud us if we talk about things that are important today that are gonna change in two days. That's why it's called social justice because social issues change That's why they're not a focus of anybody's life because what doesn't pass as to today is gonna be fine in two weeks. So why are we wasting children's time and parents' time on teaching things that are basically people's emotions and their opinions that aren't based in fact? We're wasting children's time when they're not reading pro proficiently or doing math proficiently in these schools. Let's stop wasting time on little like little Janie's color. Let's focus on little Janie's ability to read. Is she reading correctly? Can she read Because she know how to do math. That's what's important. Not knowing that, you know, four years ago people you've never met and will never know might have owned people that you've never met and never known. But now let's let's hold everybody else accountable for actions we had no part in. We're we're hurting children. Yeah, no, I good points. And it I I think it's uh it builds upon what I was saying. One of the challenges that we have is the school system now isn't really focusing on educating kids. It's It's trying to in my opinion I would use the word culturally indoctrinate, but that sounds really mean spirited. I don't even mean it that way. I don't think that they're meaning to do harm. They've been d deluded in their own minds and they think it's the right thing to do is to condition the children to come and become woke like them not realizing that this wokeism is is a blight on our society and a blight on the human condition and it's not where we should be going. And then on top of that we've got schools that are they're more worried about uh aftercare programs and school lunch programs and that sort of stuff And maybe there's a place for that. I could be persuaded if somebody made a really, really, really, really good argument on rare occasions where possibly we But that's the role for the church, that's the role for the family, that's the role for the community, that is not the role for the government. Their role if we're gonna trust them to educate our kids in the public school system They should be focusing on that. But that's not what they're focusing on. I think that's part of your point, Seth, I'm not mistaken. Well yeah, like well, correct it is. And let's be honest, you know what the old saying about good intentions are. Yeah, there's what we're dealing with. The road to a not so nice place is paved with them. Yeah. Exactly. And it's a fact. Just because you feel something is right doesn't make it right i in actuality. Your feelings don't matter Unless it's you're talking to your family or your friends. But when you're when you're educating students, a good teacher takes steps to make sure his influence doesn't affect his pupils. He should his his views should never, ever come into play when he's talking to his students or her students. And that's the problem today Well they don't educate students, they indoctrinate them and they have for for many, many, many years. This is not a new thing, it's just people have ignored it for so long, now it's getting shoved in their face Well, yeah, good good points all. Thanks so much for your call, Seth. Uh there are people working hard, by the way, to provide products, services, and jobs throughout the Frederick area. So we're gonna take a moment to hear from some of them right now so that we can all learn. how they can assist us in living the life we want to live. And then Freddiex Forms conversation today will continue. And yet another major brand just announced it will be closed. This time it appears major advertisers all over the country are refocusing their efforts on video. As an advertiser, you have to trust your partners to protect your brand's truth. Radio Advertising. Trusted to deliver your brand's truth. Radio. It's on Your message has always been safe with 930 WFMD. Go to WFMD. com, click connect with us, and then sales at WFMD. com. If doctors told us that we'd made a breakthrough on COVID 19, we would rejoice. We'd feel hope that we could live our lives again. Get back to work, back to doing what we want. Well masks are a ticket to that freedom. We can help protect others And save lives by covering our noses and mouths, which is how the virus mainly spreads. Until there's a vaccine, grab the breakthrough that's already here. When we're out, it's masks on A message in the public service from 930 WFMD. Are you looking for a new career with a dynamic company and great benefit? Fairyville Graphics is holding a job fair this Saturday and Sunday under a 10 in the parking lot of Long John Silvers near Walmart, 32 Henry Way in Charlestown, West Virginia, from 9 to noon. Applications Accepted for all open positions. Entry level to skilled printing professionals. Interviews on the spot. Barryville Graphics offers weekly pay. Eight or twelve hour shifts with no rotating shifts. Health, dental, and vision insurance. 401k, ten paid holidays. And much more. Few know Kamala Harris's radical record with her attacks on gun rights and religious freedom, her backing of socialist programs, abortion, and the cancel culture. Newsmax TV's new primetime show with Grant Stenchfield exposes Kamala Harris. Tune into Stinchfield at 8 p. m. Eastern tonight. Find Newsmax TV on major cable systems or get Newsmax free on Roku, YouTube, Zumo, Pluto. Apple TV, Chromecast, Amazon Fire, Smart TVs, and more. You can even download the free Newsmax TV app from your phone and start watching now. Got Alexa. Just say open or start OEFMD. And you'll hear your local news and free talk radio station. That is sweet. Wheat. Shot Alexa just said. Load or run WFMD. Forum on 930 WFMD continues. I'm Troy Skinner, your financial editor, Chris Murray. He's coming up next after the Top of the Hour News. We still have time to try to squeeze in some calls if you want it. 301-694. WFMD 301-694-9363. Uh Cindy Rose visiting with us in studio again today. These are some of the headlines in recent weeks uh in in Frederick County related to school relate uh and and the surrounding region related to school issues. So nearly nine hundred thousand dollar grant for STEM education coming to Frederick and Montgomery counties First day of school, a little different in Frederick County this year. Frederick County Public Schools extends free to go meals to August 31st. Um let's see, what's some other ones? The Board of Education calls for a delay in opening Frederick County public schools because apparently we're not ready. Who would have called that one? And those are all good things for us to have headlines and pay attention to those news, but Those are the things we end up talking about. What what are the the the uh the block and tackle? What what are the X's and O's? What are the The the tangible physical things, like how much money is being spent, where, when, and how, and where is it coming from, how are we going to pay for it? And what's our schedule going to be And when are my kids going to go back to school? And if they go back to school, what's that going to look like? Those are all hugely important. Hugely important. They affect our our daily lives in very intimate ways, ongoing ways, throughout the whole school year. I I get it But because we get so distracted by those sorts of practical considerations, we're not taking enough time to pay attention to what the school system is trying to teach our kids. and try to get them to believe and understand about society, about themselves, and get this, about you, their parents Because if the teacher is saying, look, I'm white, therefore I'm racist, and your classmates who are white, they're racist too. Well, their parents are white, which means the kids go home saying, Mom, Dad, why are you so racist? We need to pay attention to what's being taught. And they're trying to affect us. I think about a half hour ago, Cindy made the point that, you know, we we can we can access the kids through the arts and through the cultural things and and it's and it's through sports and stuff too. And you know, um Uh Troy Barnes is is talking about how in important it is to uh you know to to be to to uh support with the NBA players. Right. Troy Barnes, a principal at Minochasie uh elementary school. Um Is th is that really the position? 'Cause that's not my position, by the way. The things that made education fun. They are putting these kids into some dark, heavy places. This is an elementary school principal. Wha wha what is he going to be teaching? Th these are the things they won't tell us. They just put out these ambiguous, you know Let's what was the the sentence that he used about teaching uh our work was culturally responsive teaching, race and racism is only the beginning. That's a scary sentence. It says elementary scenes. And then he says change starts here Change into what? Exactly. So what happened to hey kids, first day of school starting tomorrow, we're gonna get onto that reading and math. We have some great lessons planned for you. and we're gonna have some pep rallies. What happened to culturally things that we were used to? This is the cultural Marxism part where they're trying to change culture. We no longer care about those things. Now we're going to focus on identity of people and what they look like and the color of their skin and the sins of their fathers, not the things that are before us. It's the things that are behind us. And related to all of this, you know, um the kind of things we've been talking about mostly today, the addressing racial trauma and the removal of uh SRLs at FCPS, there's a town hall on that scheduled for tomorrow Right? I think tomorrow from six to from six to eight. So uh the end racism FCPS anti racist quote unquote effort continues in partnership with uh panelists from uh group of different people who have this kind of a mindset. I I did want to make time to talk about this and we're not gonna have time to say much. You alluded to it, thank goodness, with with sex ed and stuff. But I'm gonna I'm gonna kinda end our our our thoughts with the these are a couple other headlines. Month or so maybe. Montgomery County teacher charged with inappropriate sexual contact with a student. Another story. Washington County teacher charged with sex abuse of a minor. My question is, who's to say what's inappropriate and what's sex abuse to the minor anymore? If we're going to go all in on this stuff and read and redefine what's appropriate traditional good, you know, honest to goodness, non-sinful behavior. Let's go all in. So who's to say these teachers should be in trouble for doing this? Well let's let's go all in. If a teacher you don't know and you may not know your sex ed teacher, it's whoever volunteers for the class So if a teacher you don't know can walk around the room with a wooden penis and show you how to put a condom on it, that opens some doors and some leeway that says, Ah, you know, it's not that big a deal, guys. Penises are everywhere. When we let boys into the girls' bathroom, why should you care? There's a penis in the girls' bathroom. These short these should concern you. Reality should matter to people, but they are changing the culture. They want you to be get comfortable with this alternate reality And for clarity, in case somebody doesn't notice sarcasm when they hear it, I'm being sarcastic, right? I'm saying if we're going to take this to this logical conclusion, then there are no rules to govern our behavior anymore. Everything becomes our cabin. Everything becomes, you know, situational ethics and uh cultural relevancy. Well In that school's culture, maybe it's okay for s for teachers to abuse the children sexually. That's that school's culture. And who are we to judge that? We wouldn't want to judge So if you want to go there, then okay fine, go there and see how many people will send their kids there. Well I'm telling you, you're sending your kids there Right. That's that's where we're headed. And I know I sound like, you know, hyp hyperbole is, you know, sometimes a way to get people to pay attention and so I use some of that on occasion. But I'm really not joking when I talk about indoctrination camps. That's what that's what these education centers, quote unquote, have become. They're not really education centers anymore. Well what made a teacher in a Frederick County Public High School comfortable with showing pornography to his students? We had a teacher walked out of school by the pol police office, by the sheriff's office for that infraction. Now what's happened with that I haven't gotten a follow up on yet. But that's happened. What made him feel comfortable with that? Well we're we're we're we've run up against the clock. We're this is Frederick's Form. Thanks for listening. Thank you, Cindy, for being on the show again this week. You know, maybe we should start a defund public indoctrination movement. And have some riots in the street. What the heck? What's good for the goose is good for the gander. Thanks so much for listening. We've got news coming up in just a few seconds right here. Till next week. Be back at noon. Till then, God bless Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com. Use Radio 930. WFMD Frederick. A connoisseur media radio Station