Cray pots, right? Something like that, yeah. Alright, let's think the stream is going. We're gonna be recording a series of fake debate shows, so I'm gonna have my back turned to you for most of the evening, but if you'd like to comment I will get to those later. Actually most of the comments come on other platforms besides this one, but if you comment on this platform, I will uh respond if I spend more time on uh alternative platforms don't censor as much Oh. Wait a minute. I thought I had this set what I do. I didn't do this right. Uh hold on. Now you guys are really seeing the uh Everyone has technical difficulties. Yeah, everybody has technical difficulties. This is uh okay. Except for Elijah. Elijah has never never uh had technical difficulties game the radio show started on this on this never ever. But were you guys saying we should talk about one of these days soon? Flat Earth. We probably need to get someone completely though. That would be good. They exist. I know this for sure. Alright, I think we're finally squared and ready to go. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me at household of faith in Christ. com. That's because I'm the pastor of that church. You can find Daniel Rasby at concordbylove. org. That's not the name of the church that he's one of the pastors at, but that's the website they have. He's one of the pastors at the church that meets at Imran's house. And Elijah Dirksen is on. He's becoming kind of a irregular regular. He's like the the the Jay Leno of the Tonight Show back when Carson was still hosting Yeah, it was mostly like Carson, but then there were those rare special moments when Jay Lena would come in. I think I'm too young to get that reference. Yeah. Oh that's like two recording sessions in a row now that I've had a cultural reference it went right past the audience. Yeah, you know, it occurs to me, uh, as this show airs, I'm now in my fortieth year in the uh television radio broadcast world you can believe it. And the faith debate has now been on the air for over twenty years. So you were like a baby probably back then. I don't even know how old you are, but uh you didn't get the Jay Leno job I know who drive them heals. So at least at least there's that much then. Yeah. I I have a vague recognized. I would recognize him by some picture So the one who doesn't know who Jay Leno is like at all is Elijah Dirksen. Still a little bit. I knew he has funny hair. And uh and the big chin, right? Yeah. And uh the other voice you heard was that of Daniel Rasby And Elijah is a seminary student. How close are you to graduating? About halfway through. Okay. So well depending on the pace he's going, you might be done in five years. We don't know. Halfway through doesn't tell me much. At least another yeah. At least another year, probably probably two. Alright, so pray for him. Alright, so today we're talking about uh Harry Potter and it's interesting this topic was brought up by somebody who said we were sure to talk about this and then he decided not to be part of this this week's show. So I'm gonna have to play the role of David Forcy. If you're a fan of this show, then you might know the voice of David. Forcey. Uh but the the quite it came up as an aside in one of our other shows. I can't remember why, to be honest with you, but basically is I think Daniel actually said something about like you know Christians shouldn't do this, shouldn't do that, and of course they shouldn't be re meeting Harry Potter or watching the movie, something like that. And David said, Oh, I'm not so sure I agree with that. We should talk about that on the show one day. So here we are. So I'm gonna do my best. David, of course I can't get that Are you also of the opinion that it's not necessarily uh always in the right? So I'm not sure if we're in agreement agreement, but um based on what you said in that quick aside, I'm not sure I'm in agreement a hundred percent with that. So we'll have some some thought or so uh you're the one who brought it up initially kind of by accident. Harry Potter Christians shouldn't watch the movies, shouldn't read the books. Is that Is is is that I mean that's but is that is there any new ones that or it's just a flat stay away? It's it's a stay away, but I have a reason why specific and and it's because it is a story that glorifies witchcraft, it's put witchcraft is presented in a good light as in the good guys are doing it. Um and the you know, there's a lot of Christians in America who especially America, who have uh no real understanding of the demonic world and how that it really works and interac and and it is real. Ghosts are real, which is a real witch Deserts are real, um demonic activity and uh and possessions and witchcraft, all that is real stuff. The Bible talks about it extensively. It says not to do it, we're commanded not to do it, not to commune with the dead, not not to practice witchcraft and sorcery and all that. And so I think a lot of Christians instinctively say, oh it's just a funny story. I mean that's not real anyway. Well who cares? But it's not, it's extremely serious And so I guess I mean the question w would you want to watch a movie where the good guys are going around murdering everybody or, you know, raping everybody or whatever? And as a Christian you might say, well, maybe not Okay, well then why should the good guy be practicing witchcraft? Because that is also one of the capital positive I now have to rewrite the screenplay that I was working on, by the way. Thank you very much. I do think there's some nuance in it as well. I I generally agree with what you're saying, but also I think th there is room for if there's a main character who does these bad things to realize, oh, you you do this this bad thing and then there's consequences. You you grow from it. Right, you have character arcs, but but if the point of the writer of the story is to show that this is actually not a bad thing, you know, or maybe it's even a neutral thing in and in in case of Harry Potter, uh from my understanding, having uh full disclosure I haven't actually read the books. I know slight amounts of some of the story plot points, but I know enough to know that magic is presented as somewhat of a neutral idea there. There's there are good guys that do magic and there are bad guys that do magic in Harry Potter. It's kind of an escape from this kid's bad life. This is how But there are bad guy wizards in Harry Potter. any magic but there's white magic and there's black magic and there's this and that and uh all magic, all all sorcery is is evil in real life. And I would say you don't want to be as a Christian, um watching or reading stories that glorifies sin, um it's one thing if that's a minor plot point, right? Maybe you have and this is maybe some point of disagreement with I have with the largest something that you know somebody might say, well what about movies that have adultery in them? You know? Uh maybe there's a there's a James Bond and you know he goes and he does all these spy things and uh and stuff that's not necessarily sinful to to fight for his country and and and all this, but that he also sweeps around in the movie. Well, are you is that a minor plot point that's not actually part of the story is it possible to skip? Is it possible to not be consuming that part of the media and still get the story? Maybe that maybe it is, and so maybe it's not necessarily the entire movie is wrong. But I think one of the main point the movie, it's for the same reason I don't watch heist movies. Something like Oceans Eleven or or whatever, for example. If the whole point of the story is theft, larceny, uh something that is wrong, it's a s it's a Now that's different than Visual Ante uh stories where you're they're stealing something back that was stolen from them and they're getting justice done when the government or the police is not doing anything. That's a different type of story. But if if the whole point of the story is to glorify or uh sin or to say that sin uh is is good or okay, then I think that's not Christians should be involved in. So you y y you've made it clear now you were joking before we started the show, uh about Harry Potter being some sort of follow-cle challenge Just uh cup and bowl maker or something like that. Um you've demonstrated that that is not the case, you know more about it than that, but you have not read the books, any of them. And you haven't watched any of the movies. Correct. Have you read, Elijah, any of the books? I haven't watched the movies, but I I've seen like other people reacting to some parts Okay. And uh so that people know where I'm coming from on on my exposure to it, I haven't read any a single page of a Harry Potter book Uh I was way too old before it became popular. It was more of a kids series ear early on. I know a lot of adults like it too still, but uh and my my daughter wouldn't have been interested. She wasn't interested in that sort of thing, so our family was not a Harry Potter family, so I have no exposure to books. I feel like there's gonna be a lot of people who are uh concerned about three people who I I've not read Harry Potter. But the movies, uh I've seen possibly all of them. Maybe I've missed one. I don't know. They were such a pop culture phenomenon. I I think I possibly I think I've possibly seen one in the theater and the rest of them at home, like streaming or BHS back in the day or something, I don't know. Um it's been a while. I haven't seen anything very and to be honest, uh this is gonna make very possible fans probably mad at me because I have to I'm not a huge fan of the movies. They're f not for religious reasons necessarily. Just for the movies. Okay. They're far too long The storyline takes way too much time. No. But it's it's one thing when it's long because you need the time to unpack the story and develop the characters and stuff. There's just I don't know, they stretch. At least except not all of them, but a couple of the movies anyway. Little Rings only has three movies also. So I feel the same way about the Hobbit. I feel I feel the same way about the uh uh director's cuts of Lord of the Rings. Far too long. Yeah, yeah. I I was super into Lord of the Rings, so I loved watching the extended cuts, but yeah, I agree. Yeah, theatrical edition is is definitely superior. So so maybe we can contrast that. So for somebody Who's and that's a good segue because somebody who's thinking well, you just said put Lord of the Rings in a positive way and the good guys do magic Yeah, so what about it? So so so before we get to that. Have you read those books or watched those movies? I have read the books. I have actually not watched the Willie Beans movies, but I would not be opposed to doing so But the uh I I like the Hobbit much more than I like the the trilogy, The Lord of the Rings. Um but in any case, um well since you brought it up what is the difference? Well the difference is I wanna I want to know if if you can argue against what I said before about why do you think as a Christian it was okay Well yeah, uh I mean I think it I'd like some of those hours back to be honest with you, but uh it if it if it's a sin question vr or a wisdom question, I might give it a I don't think it's a sin to read a Harry Potter book or watch a Harry Potter movie. Is it wise to read the books or watch or let your children read the books or watch the movies? I think that that's probably case by case, you gotta make a judgment call. Uh for me, clearly it's in the category of fantasy. Um it's not dramatically different than a Lord of the Rings uh trilogy kind of a thing or some of the if you're familiar with Ted Decker, he's a Christian author who does a lot of fantasy writing. It's not horribly different than some of that. And so as long as you're considering this fantasy But where do you draw the And then consequence. Pornography is a fantasy world also. You watch pornography, none of that stuff happens in real life. scenarios so you could just justify by saying, Well these women aren't real and they're not actually doing this and therefore there's nothing wrong with watching this. So but I I would venture to say as as a Christian you would have different answer on pornography. Yeah well the pornography the main the the main primary reason for watching that would be titillation, right? That would be like the only reason really to watch it. Unless you're into the avant-garde arts and you're going to you know oh the human body or whatever. But um but the the positives of Harry Potter, this will be the Reasons why somebody might be like, no, Christians, it's a it's a classic good versus evil conflict. The Harry Potter character is accidentally or on purpose, I don't know, but is in some sense a Christ figure. is a messiah figure in the storyline. So you would look at it as as a very allegorical. So yeah and you could make connections, uh like if your children did watch the movie or read the books, you could make the point Like, okay, we know that all of this and magic stuff is frowned upon. God doesn't like that. However, we can look at the hero, the bravery, the the fighting for your friends. So so so we all agree that if someone was acting like Harry Potter, they would be in sin, correct? Doing magic or which creating life. Evil and and wicked and and all that stuff. Yeah, well in real life. Yeah, no, and we have to clarify God's and I say, What do you mean doing what your c Potter does. Yeah, the magic part, yes, but fighting for his friends, trying to defend righteousness, trying to overcome evil. We should definitely try to be like Harry Potter in that regard. But like Psalm 101, verse 3 says, I have set nothing wicked before my So how how would that factor in there? You i in my opinion, watching witchcraft portrayed in a positive light is setting something wicked before Well one of the topics we're intending to get to um uh in about four shows from now, I believe um is a biblical example that how how is that in the Bible? You know, uh 1 Samuel chapter 28, necromancy and uh uh a a witch. So uh and and that's that's something that that's I think super important to my position on it is is it being portrayed in a good light, a positive light where it's glorifying this this witchcraft, or is it being portrayed in a negative light? So now is it time for a segue to Lord of the Rings also has people that are called wizards. That are called good guys. Gandalf calls himself a wizard, does magic, and is considered a good guy. The main difference I would say between a Lord of the Rings and I would throw Narnia in there as well, both written by Christian authors. Um Professing Christians. Professing Christians. There's some debate about the salvation I think. They've created worlds that have parallels to our own where they have higher powers. In Narnia, it's Aslan, in uh Lord of the Rings, I've I believe it's a Lubutar, um, which you wouldn't know unless you read the Summerlean. But but even Gandalf is is very much of a Christ like uh figure. And this but this is what you're saying about Gandalf himself as a wizard within the story is given the authority by the the stand-in for God. He's and i if we're going to say well that that use of supernatural power is is evil, then we'd also have to say like Moses, party of the Red Sea, is also evil, because he's been given this authority by a higher power or by God to do this supernatural act or the biblical Elijah or anyone who does supernatural acts. They've been empowered by God to do them. And I think that's Gandalf? That's good. It's clear in Lord of the Rings that he's empowered by God Oh. Maybe not the movies, but certainly in the books. Um and Narnia of course, the i Narnia is even more explicit with its allegory. Aslan is Jesus. He the there's deeper magic from from beyond the from the dawn of time. It's God's authority, God's power to resurrect Aslam. Yeah, I I will say this, uh You know it it would be good probably to have David Forcy here who brought up who brought up well they Daniel brought up a topic, but David was the one who was like, hey that He should talk about that 'cause I I'm not sure I agree with you. He would probably be stronger uh in advocating for because I'm guessing that he reacted the way he did Because he has a bunch of kids in his house and they've probably all read Harry Potter. That's my guess. I don't know, but the way he reacted makes me feel like they probably have. And maybe they've watched all the movies And they're a Harry Potter family and they're all about it. And um and that wasn't us. But I will say that um if I did have a daughter who was, you know, when she was 10 or whenever Harry Potter was becoming popular. And she wanted to read the Harry Potter books, I probably would have read them or allowed her to read them, but I would have been reading them with her. I w it would have been a shared reading experience. And this is this I would say, regardless of what you think about what what we're saying about Harry Potter or the Rings or anything, something You as parents listening to this show can take to heart is do not buy a book or get a movie for your kids and let them read it or watch it without you first knowing exactly what's in it. I know that's time consuming, but do not let them consume any media at all, book or TV or or or movie, without either you watching it at the same time to immediately stop any that things that you see or watching ahead of time, front to back, at first beginning to end, to be one hundred percent sure what's going on there. It is not worth it. It's better not to have it consumed at all. They will not die if they don't see the newest high movie or read the great new uh young adult book in fairness in the w I mean and I'm not saying that this is an excuse, but in fairness uh taking a hard line stance on it or Oh, for sure. Because it's everywhere. You can't watch old sitcoms of Bewitched. You can't watch El Elmo Saved Christmas Uh you right? You can't watch Cinderella? You can't watch Fantasia? And this is like I I haven't read Harry Potter, I haven't watched the movies, but I have watched those old Disney movies and I really like a lot of them. I I think they're great, but I'm not gonna give them to my daughter to watch because Little Mermaid Beauty of the Beast. I mean right down the line, right? All these Disney movies. But it's not just Disney, it's it's uh I'm trying to think of things, but they happen almost accidentally. Like you're watching a show and like one episode. For example Okay, do you know the Waltons? Okay, Elijah knows the Waltons. Well the Waltons are a there's s supposedly like this wholesome all American, you know, comfort food drama program that aired back in the you know nineteen seventies. And it kind of started that way. The first couple of seasons were pretty pretty particularly wholesome. It's a church going family that prayed before meals. A lot of things that Christians would applaud and we used to watch the first two seasons all the time. I guess we can get to the bad part. However, they have uh during their run they were that show was on the air for like ten years or something. And there were two or three years where they did Halloween episodes. And one of them features what we would call a Ouija board. I think it's called a spirit board on the TV show. They have uh ghost apparitions. in one episode where and and and then and it's not a they think it might be a ghost. You're left with the impression as a viewer at the end that it was actually a ghost because things are left unexplored. A lot of sitcoms have oh you know prank ghosts or or people pretending that they're ghosts or thinking that they're ghosts and then they turn out oh it's not really it's not really. So the point is you're watching the wall test thinking, oh this is safe And we watch the Waltons all the time. We've watched thirty Waltons episodes. It's always safe and good, wholesome stuff and then boom, the Halloween episode comes up and you're like, whoa, didn't see that coming. And that will be one where, see, my standard for my kids is they They don't watch anything, even a single episode of something that I haven't watched a late. So so so they well it's easy well uh I don't know if um it's come up on the show in the past, uh your father has said there's no TV in the house So that's a little easier. You guys have said, you know, T V's dangerous. But we I mean I do it's a portal to evil. We're not gonna have one. I do have subscriptions to streaming services. I do have online access to movies and TV shows and things like that and I do watch some. But and and I have I have very, very limited access to what my kids would would see. Um but it but they will it what if and when they ever see anything, it's not gonna be something that I haven't already already seen. So that won't happen that we've watched a whole bunch of episodes of something and think it's pretty good and then we turn on the next one. Oh I didn't know about this. It doesn't happen because I like that it's really countercultural, right? That's very that's a very cool thing. But uh as I was saying, it's really hard to be counter-cultural because sometimes you're surprised. Um So where where would your line be if you have a line with consuming media. Where where would you say I'm not gonna do that? Well we know we know pornography is a law. You just mentioned you agree with me. No and and I I'm not saying to be funny. I I I uh uh uh there are people who that's not a line for so there's a line there. And along thou those lines by the way, a lot of people a lot of people that profess to be Christians uh were big fans uh ten years ago when it was Pop or five Whatever years ago when it was popular of um Games of Game of Thrones. I've never seen Game of Thrones because I think it was an HBO show and I didn't have HBO. So I've never seen Oh that's my understanding. It's like it basically it it's not even if you turn on the filter service it would be It's is loaded with like crazy violence and lots of frontal nudity. Well, okay, I don't need to see that. So I had no interest in seeing even though it was popular enough to be a chance. Let me break it down. Why is it, Troy, that seeing Final Nudity is wrong for you as a believer, but watching Witchcraft is not wrong It's kind of like the discussion I had uh with your father and your mother one time about uh drugs and sugar. And your parents were taking I don't know if they still hold this position. they probably do, but they did back then is sugar is a drug. I was like, ah no sugar is a drug. Uh I uh but anyway, uh it's similar to that. So the the the nudity, the sensuality even if it's not nudity, if it's highly sensual um that has an effect almost at a subconscious level. It it seeps into into Well the the fantasy entertainment stuff is like I you can check a box and break this is clearly fantasy. He's not really waving that wand and and c and And sending C into the Abyss. spells and all that because it was so popular it kind of pushed people in that direction and it it just kind of exploded around the colour. people that do practice the cult uh uh do it much more openly now. And so you think it's because of Harry Potter? And it was something that was openly talked about. So that's why I would say there's danger in glorifying sin is be that it makes sin fun and popular and like the big thing about both public schools do. They glorify being in a a homosexual relationship or being trans and guess what we have a lot of more homosexual relationships and peop and teens saying, well I'm trans now. Now I since I haven't read the book so the movie is always short cir circuit It's possible that some Dodd presence, higher power kind of presence, is responsible for the magic power that Harry has in Harry Potter. If that were the case, would it fall in the same category as Lord of the Rings? It would. I to my knowledge, that's not what Harry Potter is. Okay, I I thought it I I guess We're kind of arguing for ignorance. Yeah. And welcome to my world. Certainly s different sins have different consequences, but sin is sin and I don't think it's it's right to be um glorifying sin in any way, so just as you should not uh consume content that is putting adultery in a good light. And in pornography would be one example of that. But you'd mentioned could be sensual content that doesn't have nudity in it. I think s uh watching or looking at a heist uh movie is is not not a good thing because Christians should not be involved in varseny and and robberies. Um And dislike rape and dislike murder and and and anything else. So and the thing is, well almo it's it's interesting to me because almost any of those other sins, I can get somebody a Christian to say, yeah, you know what, that makes sense. That makes sense. But as soon as I say witchcraft, oh no that's fine, that's just a fantasy world That I hear that time and time again from people. And for whatever reason, it's only the witchcraft, it's only the Yakut that's okay. Everything else, so yeah, you know and and they might they may not follow the rules Right? They may say, Well, yeah, I don't want to glorify adults, but it's it's I mean, it's not that much, it's just a tiny bit of the movie too. But the movie at least I think that overstates the case a little bit because peoples I said, people do what the Heist movies are very popular They are. A a lot of foul mouthed drunks in movies end up being the hero. Like there's you know, there's there's lots of So so would you watch something? Seinfeld for crying out loud. That's nothing but a show filled with sinners I mean seriously, every single they're so narcissistic. The whole show is about sin on display and that was t and people watch that made excuses for it. acting in sin and the the consequence of those sin has consequences. I haven't watched that side, so maybe it's a big thing. George Ball Santa murders his wife and gets away with it. Come on. I don't know, in that one episode they didn't get any suit So that was a conflict. No show for you. No more show for you. We have to uh wrap this up. We've got like 30 seconds. Elijah Berksen, Daniel Razby, I'm Troy Skinner. Find us online at WFMD. com And then Household of Faithinchrist. com. That's kind of the one stock shop for everything to connect with me, get my contact information, everything. Householdoffaith in Christ dot com. Wfmd. com is fine too. I'm going to tell you not to go there for sure, okay? We'll be back with another Faith Debate show next week to talk about um I don't even remember now. Oh yeah, casting lots. That's next week. 167 and a half hours from right about now. Until then, God bless. Yeah we should probably circle back on one of the next couple of recordings to let David Forcey give some more input into the He had his chance Yeah, I'm not sure if he would say anything a a whole lot different, but he might have I think he would highlight the you know that there it's good versus evil. Um It's clearly fantasy and my kids understand that you know we're not glorifying the magic. We're just using our imaginations. If I say things like that. Again, I didn't have to make that hard call. My daughter had zero interest in Harry Potter. Zero. It wasn't like, hey, you want to read Harry Potter? It's like she just never came to me with, hey, everybody's in Harry Potter. Can I read it? Like it never ever came up So I I d I the so like with a show with like let's say a serial killer goes around killing people, would that be okay if he was like a good arrow? He's a good dad. Takes care of his What what would your your opinion of that be? good guys they also They do heroic things, yeah. They uh they do heroic things and then they also drink blood and kill people. Right? So you know that's the twilight either. Game of Thrones was huge for them, but so was the Sopranos. And mob guys, and they're the heroes. So I mean but Godfather one, two, and three. So there are shows like that where you do have someone who That's the character is doing something bad, like I guess breaking bad. From my understanding, is that a drug drug cartel guy trying to a drug and Yes. But my understanding is that causes him to lose his life. Yeah, basically. So Yellowstone, familiar with Yellowstone? That's what's been the rage the last five years I've heard of it. And Kevin Costner's in that stuff and that's loaded with violence and murder and there's anything violence and murder aren't necessarily bad things. Murder's the bad thing always. Well murder murdering killing though is not necessarily You're really great on the curve. There's a lot of justification sometimes for certain actions and a lot of it's cultural, a lot of it's not. But e even if someone did murder someone and then there's consequences for that, I think that's fine. I don't think there's any consequences. For performing magic. The Bible has murder in it. Right? Everything you can think of in that. There's consequences in Harry Potter, excuse me, though. Or using magic. But not for not for him him using magic. There's no consequence that happens. happens where it's shown that it was a bad idea for him to use that magic. Unless I I don't know much about it but unless there's some uh minor some side plot where he turns dark for a bit and gets drunk with power and then that that becomes a bad thing. But generally whenever he's casting spells, if it's portrayed in the good light, I don't remember the thing So you knew the Waltons, but you didn't know Johnny Carson or Jay Lennon. I knew them. I just died. I didn't know the drama of of everything associated with them. With each passing year my cultural references are less and less relevant. Um I try to pull from abroad, like yeah, I'll reference things even from the fifties and occasion in the sixties, the seventies, yeah. A broad range. Uh I'm a little bit thin the last fifteen years, I gotta tell ya. The the cultural wave Um by game drones. Yeah, but that might be fifteen years ago. I don't know. When was that on? Finale what's it? It's at least five, ten years ago, right? It's got it. Well it's had eight seasons. Eight seasons Season eight was in two thousand eleven. But everyone says it was from like the two thousand teenage. So it was probably at the peak of its popularity like ten years ago. Yeah, that's okay, I heard a little something about that. See, I'm still hip. Who was saying I'm not hip? But yeah, I did uh out of curiosity, have have you heard of this this the filtering service today? Angel. Uh yeah. Okay. Well it's really cool 'cause you can really filter out a lot of stuff you don't want to you can so I out of curiosity, I put on Game of Thrones into the into the filter. And I've got to go. Every episode is twelve minutes off. It was about that bad. It was the only one it shows the bar of what's cut out before you watch it and it's like it's all black. And you can choose but the nice thing about that is you can choose like well I don't want any annuity but I'm okay with violence and I don't want the F word but I'm okay with these other words, you know, like it's just gonna be and it'll only mute those sections in the movie. It'll only skip those things and so you can get a very clean experience from a lot of R-rated movies you can that can actually be kid friendly with that because you can cut out everything bad in the There was some version of that like fifteen years ago that the tech wasn't quite there and it was very clunky and it was horrible and it didn't really it's very good but they're only limited because they uh Disney and Warner Brothers sued them for uh and so they had a settle So they can't do any Disney or Warner Brothers owned content which is like half of all movies. Um but anything else they can do. Um and it's completely wrong. You know, why can't you just skip. You could fast forward through something. Like this is basically pre-programming fast forwarding. Right. What's wrong with that? Right. You're still giving credit to whoever made the movie. Right. And more people are watching the content so yeah it should be m it sh it should be good for them like for example um there's one movie that in my opinion it's one of the all time great movies but I can't ever watch it because it's got one scene in it that's just horribly inappropriate movie. Um um Jerry Maguire. Okay You ever seen that movie? That's for underwear Tom Cruise dances in the underwear, right? No, that's oh my god. That's risky business. That's the nineteen eighties. Oh my goodness. That's like almost twenty years before Jerry Maguire, I think At least fifteen. Nigeria McGuire it's about friendship and loyalty and uh and defending what's right and standing up for good principles and taking taking a chance, willing to risk everything to to do what you think is the right thing to do. It's a great lesson. Great story. It's well acted. It's funny. It's got one scene. It's like two minutes long maybe. It's just it's basically sex scene and it's not like there's nothing left in the imagination. It's like whoa. And you don't even know it's coming. The first time I saw the movie I had no idea that was in there. What am I looking at? And the fact that it wasn't just a fleeting glimpse, it goes on for like a minute or two. It's like whoa. So Jerry Jerry McGuire is on Vidagel. Okay. And you can put the filters in there and it'll tell you exactly what you're skipping to. So it e in like the the nudity section. It'll say, well, male shirtlist, female shirtlist. Okay. I wonder what a faith debate stream would look like What would they edit out of the phase? Daniel Raspberry Circuit I'd like to work. Face. Face. Um but it's it's a it's it's it's it's like getting another subscription like ten dollars or fifteen dollars a month. But they they'll link to all of your other ones so you're putting your password for Netflix in there and it'll log on to Netflix within the system and then just fastboard while you're watching that or whatever. So it's uh it definitely definitely worth it. Probably edit out the magic of our thing is that one of the filters I'm gonna I'm gonna give that a shout out at the beginning of the show. That's where people hear in if they learned last week's show. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Elijah Dirksen. He's a seminary student. He lives in Iowa, but goes to school in Florida, and here he is on a show in Maryland. Don't ask. I'm a very strange guy. Oh say that again because I had your mic off. Very strange guy over here. And Daniel Ram Daniel Rasley is uh here as well. He is one of the pastors at the You can find him online at uh conquered by love. org. The best way to connect with the show with me and most of the guys here is on my contact information everything is at my church's website. That's Household of Faith in Christ. I know it's a mouthful, but it's kind of easy to remember, right? Household of faith in what? In Christ. And there you can connect all the stuff that has to do with the faith debate, also that has to do with the church. There's great resources on there that have been vetted by me and others that are trusted uh resources for for print out Just because they're trusted doesn't mean I agree with every single jot and till what somebody says. But on the whole, the ministries that we connect to on the website are uh are are solid. Uh we might disagree on eschatology, we might uh you know, disagree on some political matters that are lesser importance, uh things like that. Um but might disagree on baptism questions, but I think you can uh be in good fellowship with people that have a different different view on some of those kinds of questions. So that's not a knockout blow. But if you're woke, if you preach a false gospel, uh if you're insanely leftist and liberal, like you're not you don't believe the Bible is the word of God, stuff like that, I'm not going to recognize Anyway, you were mentioning between shows. Last week we were talking about Harry Potter, and this would have been a nice thing to mention last week. But so a lot of people will listen to this the shows like on podcasts, back to back Maybe. So welcome to uh five minutes ago as you were listening to the podcast, you heard us talking about Harry Potter. Uh we should have mentioned then and I s and I said at the time just for a little bit of context, as a parent, you should always be previewing everything your kids watch, whether it's hair title or anything else. And you should be very careful in what you let them consider. So one thing that you can use as a parent, there's some there's a service call call it vid Angel. V I D like video, Vid Angel. And they have an app and they have a website. Basically it's a subscription. You pay ten or fifteen bucks a month or whatever It's not. Um I'm not I'm not sponsored by them, but it's it's a really really great service because what happens is they'll connect to your Netflix or your Amazon Prime Or your HBO or whatever it is, and you can watch anything that's been that's on there that they've they've gone through and they've done filters, it's a filtering service. But it's not just their pre-programmed filters. You can choose the filters. So it'll tell you in XYZ movie, you know, there's three sex scenes and there's eight users of the F word and there's this violence scene and that violence scene and it'll it'll describe like it'll have a sentence about, you know And you can check check check the box to skip certain parts of the movie, whether it's sound, let's audio for language, or whether it's video for violence or nudity or something like that. So if it's sound like the video is still there, but they mute it. Exactly. Um unless it's it's sometimes they they go so far as to like if there's And how precise are these at the end? Extremely precise, like to the millisecond um before and after so you don't miss any other part of the movie and you can choose what level of of filters. So you can say, well I'm okay with violence but I don't want to hear uh profanity and or I'm okay with profanity but I don't want to see nudity or whatever and you can choose Or even levels of violence like some mild violence might be okay, but then like gore and that kind of stuff could be could be a good thing. In full disclosure, they there was a big lawsuit against them by Disney and by Warner Brothers who were mad that they were filtering their con And so due to the settlement, there is no content owned by Disney or Warner Brothers that can be filtered on this class. Well yeah, I mean, have wholesome content for family I mean certainly every company would want to do this except for Warner Brothers and Disney, which is half the movies out there. Yeah. But the other half, there's actually quite a few things on there that I highly recommend. Look at that effect Especially if you have kids that might be watching things, uh filter it through Bid Angel and you can preset what's gonna be seen so you don't have to get up and fast forward. I mean how many times Now can you like filter it for heresy? 'Cause like I you know If if I were to if I were to watch the chosen I could watch a whole episode in about three minutes maybe. Unfortunately It might not be time to go through that advanced, but you can take out like his name in veins. I was gonna watch the shack, it would just jump to the end. I di I did uh test. I I loaded up Game of Thrones up there, one of the episodes that I had And I checked off all the filters and it was really like for instead of forty-five minutes, it was like five minutes or something. But anyway. I you know it's funny. I I'm just regarding Angel, B I D Angel, and it's they're not a sponsor of us But I highly highly recommend them. So if you got an extra kind of fifty bucks a year to spend, you can have uh some s some s some security that your kids aren't gonna We watch this at the U Stadium. Eddie Murphy was still kinda popular as a stand-up comedian back then. And I was in involved in um sports radio and I wanted to pull some bits that uh for comedic reasons in in the show that were from Eddie Murphy's stand-up Well if you've ever seen or heard anyone's hand up, I mean there's lots of foul language. And so I had to edit out the the foul language and make use of And Stephanie the idea hit me and said, maybe I'll just go through an entire album and I'll edit all the foul stuff out. It's like a 45 minute album and it ended up with like a you know 32 minute album or thirty or whatever it was. And I gotta say, probably 85% of the time, it was just as funny, maybe even funnier because it was so distra Oh yeah. Uh in some cases y like you had to just take the whole joke out because the punchline was the foul word and so without the punchline there's no joke. But um anyway, so I did that. I actually still own on cassette somewhere, I'm sure, uh Eddie Murphy uh two of his stand-up albums, Curse Free. And then the way that you did editing back then is you actually physically cut the tape with a razor blade and taped the the the the the oxidized tape back together. And so I took all the the stuff I cut out and I taped that together And it was like seven minutes of nothing but curse. If someone tries to consent it in your face, but why with different inflections and stuff, you know. And I gotta say, right here here we are, we're all laughing at it. It is it it's it's morbidly funny, you know. Anyway. Other things that are morbidly funny are casting lots. Okay. No, that's not a very good segue. So what is casting lots So uh it's going to Simon Gomorrah, grabbing uh a guy named Lot by the scrub of the neck and casting him out of the city Uh something like that. That's what that's that's how my children's bible tells it anyway. Uh anyway, so yeah, that's one of the questions. Well, what are casting lots? Uh the the the scheduled topic for today, what are we to make of casting lots in the Bible? So part of that is what are they? And then once we've figured all that out, should we still do it? Should we still cast lots? So who wants to tackle what casting lots is? Unless I was right. Was I right? It's about grabbing a guy with a scrap of the knife. I think it has to do with with some kind of game of chance in order to make a decision, right? So so you're drawing like drawing straws or whatever, you know, you get you get uh correct. From my understanding i it was a a casting lot. So you you take some straws or I guess talisman I'm not sure, but you cast it. Kind of like throwing a dice. Yeah. Throw on a dice. Basically like a dice. And when one of them lands a certain way, then you then that that points you with one decision and then a different one lands a different way, that's a different decision. It's a determin it's a determination governed by chance. And by the way, you can't talk about throwing dice without saying, roll the dice, move your mice, nobody gets hurt. Anyway. You were way ahead of your time because now I'm not sure So we can trust any other thing. Red Tales are bad because the pirates were the good guys and they were singing fun catchy songs. Because the pirates Are singing catchy fun songs and we're gonna be glorifying piracy. The the issue I had with Veggie Tales was that it wasn't biblical, it wasn't Christian, it was moral And so it's it's an insidious kind of a thing and it's not the gospel. It's it's it's works based. And yeah, you want your kids to be moral, and so it's certainly better than ninety eight percent of what's out there but it wasn't it wasn't presenting biblical very little pointing actually to the gospel. There was a lot of explain why Phil Visher went off the deep end And it became ultra woke down because he wasn't a Scotland gospel type in the beginning. Um and that was a similar type I think it was a whole bunch of kids' uh Sunday school type um songs and then they weren't really that deep theologically. But anyway So, um casting locks. So it's it's kinda like throwing you know, y you're flipping a coin, you know, calling heads or tails and saying basically if it's this way then I'm gonna go this direction, if it's this way I'm And in the in biblical terms, there's a lot of examples of people casting lots and then praying to God to say, God, please make it end up So it's like instead of having trusting that God's gonna actually audibly speak to you what you should do, you're telling God I'm gonna abide by whatever Right. And so it has been used in the Bible a number of times in a positive light I would say. There's um other times that I would say, well maybe this wasn't actually commanding God actually commanded to give lots, I think a couple times. Is there any place that God actually says the the two that come to mind are Joshua dividing the promised land in Exodus or excuse me Joshua eight eighteen I think. And there God doesn't directly command it, but it seems like God approves of it. And the other instance is the Chuze of Matthias as the twelfth disciple. Which that was that was one that I I've heard and number of sermons about when maybe that was a really bad idea with the twelfth apostle because it doesn't i you never really hear from him again but I I don't think there's anything in the passage that reveals that it was a bad decision. It just f it feels like to me in the in the Neo Matthias, like they got two people they're like, Well God pick between these two. Um, not God show us who it is among all the people. Well and that's why many people say, Well God really actually he chose Paul and Paul is the twelfth uh apostle. Now there's a whole bunch of I don't know arguments you can make about that. Um Anyway, so in my understanding it is it's decent to shoot to to cast lots to decide something when making a decision co would prejudice a a particular group, like the the twelve tribes with with Joshua dividing up the land. If Joshua were to show favoritism to one tribal the other and say, hey, you guys get to pick first then it would create infight infighting, um all that the strife Among the tribes. So I think that would be an example of one one area where it would be okay to cast lots. to respond in some way to do that. Well that's that's that's what they were doing in my in my opinion. But is is that so is that how you should make decisions as a believer? today. So should you say, well, God, should I take this job or not? So that's if they call me in the next ten minutes, then I should take the job. If they call me in twenty minutes, I should not take the job Okay God, you do it now. We didn't have everything from the Bible yet. Oh, you're talking about We No, we didn't have the New Testament. We didn't have the entire canon when Matthias was chosen. But they did have the uh the Holy Spirit by that time, could it cause it all yet? They did. But They they were still receiving revelation organically through talk the Holy Spirit working directly in them, speaking directly to them, things like that. No. That God does not speak to people or give them audible commands. I'm saying that we have a complete Bible So if we're looking for advice on hey, should I take a job, I'm gonna look to the Bible first before I I listen and God gives me a direct Yeah, but then but but but i if it's uh assuming you're not in an in an immoral career, you're not joining a strip club or something or whatever, then if you're choosing as a lawyer, whether to work for one law firm or another law firm and they're both seem to be reasonable law firms, there's nothing in scripture you're gonna find that's gonna speak specifically to that. Not specifically to that, but I can make applications from scripture to every area of my life. You can. Always do that, but there's gonna be plenty of decisions you make that it's not gonna be easily clear from scripture. You're gonna have to have the Holy Spirit's leading. And the question is, should you as the believer, should you wait for that leading By the Holy Spirit? Or is it ever appropriate to just make a random choice and m mighty and trust God? In a position of authority like Peter or Joshua. And they were doing it so as to avoid favoritism or any appearance of favoritism within it. They're just leaving it completely up to the providence of God. So they're they're not saying, Well, I choose Matthias over them or I choose Neptali over the rest of the tribes to get the the best pick Alright, so Troy, your turn. You haven't said anything yet. Yeah, so d I didn't do like any special study for the topics we're tackling, you know last week's show, this week's show, well last week was Harry Potter. So I I'm doing this off the off the cuff and so if I'm saying something that's really horribly wrong, you know, forgive me in advance. But to the best of my memory, I don't think there's an in instance in Scripture where any of God's people are commanded or instructed to cast lots I think it's always in the context of a narrative passage where it's describing what happened. So the narrative is tell or somebody's saying what they're going to do, like Joshua said I'm going to cast lots and figure out a divvy up the land. But it's not, God told me to cast the lots. It's just he just makes a declarative statement. I'm going to cast And the in the New Testament you talked about Matthias in this lecture here. That's in the book of Acts, which is a a narrative, it's a descriptive uh book of the Bible, it's not a prescriptive book of the Bible Bible meaning it's not law, it's not legal code, it's not these are instructions that you must obey. So they're just I part of me wonders, is it possible? And I and I'm this is uh this is me off the cuff, so you guys can walk me off the leg Is it possible that this is an example where the Bible doesn't come out and say this is wrong, but maybe there's an inference that that wasn't the best way to to go kind of like there's no explicit you know and David had a billion wives and Sam and you know every king had a billion wives and it's not specific and this was condemned by God. Like that doesn't follow. And yet if you read the full narrative, it's clear that, yeah, they really shouldn't have been doing that because you can look at the consequences All of these I would always say this. I would only say that in that particular case, that may not be a great example of it because there is uh some passage in the law that says kings may not multiply wives themselves It's a specific command in the in the Torah that says s kings may not have multiple wives. Um so what would be the specific consequences you're talking about? I agree completely with the wives thing. So the the casting lots of like Joshua. Yeah, I haven't thought it all the way through, so you're talking of but if if the before I really tried to connect the dots on the the adulterous relationship relationships that these kings had with all their wives, I wasn't noting all the consequences. And then when I went looking for it, like there's you're it's a command. You can't do this. And yet they're doing it. There's Every single example of polygamy in the Bible If I were to take the time and do a deep dive study on lots, would we see that maybe the allocation of the land wasn't without its problem Matthias is like never heard from again. Maybe there's some message in that for us. You never hear of Bartholomew again either. You know, I'm I'm not saying it's necessarily wrong, but it's not they're never commanded to do it But there's also a bunch of what there's one. But but there is a command to do that. I I'm reading the the passage of Joshua eighteen. It's And the one thing I would say is that this is Joshua after he has received a vision from God to go and do this, after he's been rebuked for not dividing up the land and he's saying we're gonna cast lots before the Lord. So it's that it's not them doing it without God's approval it it's not them doing it without God. They're doing it before God, they're doing it with God I guess to your point they may not God may have not have directly sanctioned it or may not have directly approved it, but it seems like they were doing it in conjunction with with God or at least attempting to. Yeah, so that's that's me trying to see because I I felt like there was some pushback from Daniel possibly like maybe we we shouldn't be doing this. And I was like, okay, that would be my thinking. I would want to do a a study and a deep dive and try to see if I can make connections to see if there's some strong valid validity rather than just perhaps some surface validity of what Daniel's saying. But on the other side, like lots, these are good guys. Joshua's a hero. You know, the the the twelve of uh the eleven remaining disciples who become apostles, they're good guys. And they're doing this. So, okay, what's the good You know what? We still do cast laws. We just don't call it that anymore. We flip coins, we draw straws. We go een meeny miny mo, right? We we do we do that and we and we're We're not putting up the chance per se but we're allowing for a random drawing because to the best of our wisdom I can't decide if I'm the host of this show and I need to ask one of you two a question and you're both, you know, equally capable of answering the question, and I don't know who to go to, and in my mind I'm going to make a a judgment call, but if I'm just frozen because I feel like this is too important at this question to just pick the wrong guy And I don't want to offend. So I'm going to say, look, I don't want you, Daniel, to be offended. I don't I don't want you, Elijah, to be offended. So if it's okay with having a flip Bookcoin heads, I'm asking the lines of the question, and everybody feels good about it. But I think that's all it is. So should we use different like instead of let's flip a point of let's cast lots, who's got a quarter? Should we use biblical language? Maybe that maybe that was kind of a more of a wrinkle to this. I think uh an example where it is somewhat negative is Gideon. He's questioning God. I don't want to do this, but if you really want me to do it, I'm gonna set this fleece before. Right. But God actually responds to it. Yeah and yeah, and and it's not called casting law. It's a good thing. Yeah, it is different. And it is yeah, it is weird and that's like that might be a good topic. But it's different in this regard because the casting locks like heads are tails. The fleece wasn't exactly. It's a little different. Probably. And then Isaiah said, Okay, you don't have a sign, it'll be this. But Gideon's saying, Well, give me this sign If you really want me to do this, then show this. If you really want and show it. But then he gets the sign, he says, show me again. Right But and and then god How big of a god are you really? Can you do it twice? Just to work really, really clear. Right. And so so that's that You know, th I I think it's a little different with Gideon. Probably. I I think my my hesitation with casting lots is trying to put God in a box. That God can only pick one of these two or three ten things that you have on the list. It's kinda like something I you know my my um uh my mom tells this story about how as she got closer or walk with God it's it's it's very different. So she used to get up And that that was one stage in her walk with in with God. And then later she got more mature and she said, Well, God, please help me get the things that are on my list that are of your will, please help me get those done today. Then she got more on uh in her mature on the walk because I just used to get up and say, you know, God, this is my list, but if you want me to do any of them, some of them, none of them, just get down what your your will is. I even if it's none of this stuff, you show me And so that becomes more maturity and recognize that sometimes what God has for you isn't even on your list at all. Right? So in the case of that guessing loss If we're doing that, then we're telling God we're only gonna choose one of these things, not some other thing that you might have for us. That's that's my only hesitation. That may factor into our biblical examples here, because it clearly was God's purpose to divvy out The land between the tribes. They they well but the but the question is I guess the question is though with the difference with the twelve tribes, God wanted all twelve of these tribes to have a and these are specific ones. Well and they have a specific general geo geography. So here With with the twelfth apostle, it wasn't commanded which of these people should be. They picked two that they thought would be good. My my my argument is how do we know that God actually wanted one of those two people Because if they cast lots, the lot wasn't going to fall on some other person. It's going to be one of these two people. Well it was they were qualified. Those were the only two people who were qualified. But Only two people that were qualified. Well they in their determination it seems. But here's something that's different about the casting lots from the trusting God to help you make your decision. I I like again I'm doing this how to But I think all the situations where lots are cast, it's like group decisions. And right, it's the it the it only group The disciples weren't a hundred percent sure and so they weren't in agreement. They they decided among them it's one of these two equally qualified people who were gonna pick. And the people were maybe unsure of who was supposed to do what part of the land, and they were disagreement And he's like, let's cast lots. Uh there's a story about where it's they're not Gaz people, but the the sailors with Jonah, they cast lots to figure out what to do with this situation they were in probably in disagreement of okay let's see who who's gonna win but God still revealed the right answer sir I found a place where Cathing Outs was was commanded for the scapegoat You cast you have two goats, you cast rocks, one goes for the Lord, one's for the scapegoat, um and and so then you sacrifice and one away. Alright then. So God did command cast Who says he'll learn something on the faith debate show? Even the people on the show are learning things on the faith debate show on the fly. Okay, so it's clearly not a sin if it's commanded. So it's it's an allowed thing. decisions anyway, you can't do it. Right. So that makes it different than but polygamy. But that's kind of like saying, well w like we said a few a month or two ago, oh, clearly war isn't always wrong because God did command it sometime But you could even make the argument that that might be the only time that war was ever justified. Well there and there. So there could be a a situation to your point where, you know, y you're you're not gonna exercise wisdom, you're not gonna gonna do the the right thing. You're gonna leave it up to quote unquote chance. By the way, I'm losing title on the clock. Elijah Dirksen, Daniel Rasby, I'm first getting this faith debate. We'll continue next week, 167 and a half hours of right now. Till then, God bless We had a really expended boot angel promo on that one, or did. We're really calm away. This video is sponsored by Bud Angel. That's what I was thinking the whole time. Are you tired of watching all this violence and gore and hitting the profanity in your movie? Maybe we can uh maybe we can send them and say, Hey, uh this this was a you mind paying us? Uh they're they're bankrupt. They they filed for bankruptcy to avoid the lawsuit. Because uh to because now they're gonna get a whole bunch of new subscribers. Oh yeah. And it was so evil. It's basically what Disney was saying and and Waterbrothers was saying we we want people to watch our bad content, our evil content. We want to force them to do that Now incidentally I don't know well where you guys the people in this room are on the uh continuation versus cessation question. But when you saw that makes you sound like a like a space. And I know he's a very good idea. And you're like immediate I'm a mild continuation. Okay, because you were like immediately, no no, I was like, oh, yeah. And I'm a moderate continuationist. Neither of us are sensational. Well, obviously God doesn't talk to people anymore. Or obviously God doesn't allow people to speak in a different language so that people can understand them anymore. Um in fact I've I've met people like missionary pastor that that he had the gift of tongues. What that means is he goes around preaching this But there but there is an interesting class which we could talk about at some point, but there's it's a questionable copy Paul talks about when you're speaking in the spirit. I know. But but he does say that if that happens, it's gotta be private, right? So you can still be able to do that. So one passage you can make the argument that uh he's But why do you spend an entire chapter speaking on something that doesn't happen? Well I think he's using a hyperbole in that section that's why I think it's possible. I'm not sure what you think about that, but I think there's a string of hyperbolic statements I think. I'm I'm willing for for any of those. Help me understand it because it it doesn't seem to fit with tongues in the rest of the Bible. Yeah, I I'm open to uh I'm open to the gifts continuing because there's nothing in the Bible that Overtly explicitly says they end. However, it says tongues shall cease. Um yeah. And uh now in many f other countries, especially in fear power cultures like Africa or South America, you're gonna see a lot more of the spiritual gifts, a lot more of the uh tongues, the um healings, those types of things. And I think a lot in a lot of those countries it's very legitimate. Um in the Western American particularly church with charismatic church probably most of the gifts that you see I would say are are not at at best they're not anything they're just um uh grants Sensationalists, but uh at worst they're actually demonic. Uh in in some churches I would say there's demonic under the guise of I know some I know some very charismatic people and I also know some cessationists who could bring them together. Get both of them together, that'd be the way to be like Pepsi Well let's invite those at the bank person to to speak in tongues We need what we need is a sensationist that doesn't argue. speak in tongues to a patient who doesn't speak the same language. There you go. That'll prove it to the same thing. But it's a fantastic to uh agree to such a circumstance. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me at WFMD. com, the Faith Debate page, or might be better and easier to go to householdfaith in Christ dot com. I know it doesn't sound easier. It's a lot more keystrokes. But once you get there, it's actually easier This is the one-stop shop for everything and anything involved with the show, with me, the church I'm involved with, and if you want to connect with Daniel Razby, the minister he's involved with, conquered by love. org, it's connected to through Household of Faith Inc. Christ. com. And he's one of the pastors, by the way, at the church that meets at Imran's house. And uh part of his extended family is here. Elijah Dirksen is is a seminary student. Uh he's a world traveler. Well he's a North American continent traveler anyway. And he just came back from Scotland so actually he went out of the country from Yeah I heard about that this past month, right? He went to Switzerland. It was awesome actually six months ago by the That's true. That's true. Yeah. Yeah. Not quite this month, but yeah, with John Knox sitting his church. Did you tell him hi for me? I almost had done talking with dad before. Oh I had to scratch that was one of my last Oh good. Alright, so I was I I have to say I was I was talking to Elijah about this topic ahead of time and he said I never experienced somebody s asking for an unspoken prayer request because he doesn't he doesn't go to one of those heathen churches. I'm coming in this topic almost completely blind. Yeah you'll see some background of what this is. You see it a lot on social media and you'll hear it in uh in some of the the like the big faceless churches where it's easy to hide. Like a house church like Household of Faith in Christ or or uh the House of uh the Church of You can't hide in a church like that. So there's no unspoken prayer requests. But in the bigger churches, you don't know each other that well, maybe, and and maybe it's an embarrassing thing you're you're struggling with or whatever, or you're just being unusually bashful. And you'll just say, would you pray for me? I have an unspoken and you'll ask them what it's about. Well it's an unspoken prayer request But if you can just pray for me. Please pray for me. So it's asking specifically. But you'll see it on social media. Please pray for me. spoken prayer request. I can't pray for you because what if your prayer is that give me the strength to axe murder my next door neighbor. One is there is a way you could say, well clearly God, this person is going through something. Please give them wisdom to follow you. Sure. You can pray a general prayer for their um faith in Christ And and i i if they're more specific, which some people are, some people will say, you know, and I've I've done this before too, where I say, Well, I'm going through something I don't really want to talk about too much, but there's something and I'm I'm having trouble being content with certain things that are happening in my life and so can you pray for that? Like I can you know you might get some detail, you may not get the whole story, right? And you can say, Well, I'm struggling with some some sin in my life right now that I've identified and I please pray that I'm be encouraged to fight this. If you could do that, and I think that's that's a little better. What's the benefit? I don't know. I mean you can you But they're not because they don't know what the battle is. It seems like the main moral question of this is if someone approaches you as opposed to if you have this this prayer request. 'Cause I I think it's it's perfectly fine to have some kind of prayer that's just on your heart between you and God that you don't speak out loud And that you can pray silently. Here's my opinion on the so we'll we'll break this into two pieces. It's a social media component, which is really what drew my attention to it most vociferously uh is it the right w right word to use there. Um inappropriate use large words by Troy Sco. And the um and then there's the church context, the prayer meeting, the church context. On social media, I'm telling you most of the time how it strikes me is it's a desperate plea for attention. Yeah. Yeah. My life is hard. Have pity on me. Have pity on me. It's like an inverse virtue signal. Uh right. It's just put attention on me, please. It's not even inverse virtue signal. It's not virtuous. Well it's because they were wise enough in the Okay, so it's a virtue signal then. Or uh I I'm being persecuted or I'm having going through a rough time or something like that. What ends up happening a lot of times it seems to me is somebody will say if you're friends with somebody on Facebook or you're following somebody on Twitter or I'm sorry, fascist book. Fascist book. But if you're, you know, if you're connected on one of these platforms, you'll you'll see their things show up in your feed, I think is a skilled positive called these days. I'm so out of it's probably not called that anymore. It used to be called in your feed. But anyway, you'd see stuff show up in your feed or on your wall, maybe it's called I don't know. Anyway, and I have a uh unspoken prayer request And then a couple weeks later, I have an unspoken prayer request, and then a few weeks later I have an unspoken prayer request, and then about six months later, I'm filing for divorce Oh, now I know what all those requests were about. You were basically setting this the foundation to have pity when your marriage dissolved, that it wasn't your fault, it was the other person's fault. Right, exactly. I I don't know, it just feels icky asking someone to intercede for you in doing And you don't need my and here's the thing. I believe that prayer is important. We should prayer pray for a variety we've actually talked about this on a recent Show a variety of reasons that we should pray. And so I'm not dismissing the value of prayer, the power of prayer. Power of prayer, I don't like that phrase. But anyway, there is a powerful thing that happens when people pray. Let's put it that way. And God will move in and use that to shape his people and to accomplish great things in and through his people. However, you, Elijah, don't need me to pray for you. You already have the preeminent intercessor of the universe praying for you, interceding for you continually before the throne of God. You don't need me to do it. I don't need you, but as a church. We're commanded to pray for one another. It's one of the one another. But so you can come up alongside, right? And share in the struggle. I can't share in the struggle with you. And that would be my issue. Well that's the that's the whole thing. And that I agree. That's that's the problem with it, not the asking for prayer. Asking for prayer is a very matching. Absolutely. And I think pray for my husband, he's cheating on me. And I don't do that on social media. But I think I think it is not only a good thing to do, but a a I I think God honors it maybe even more so than you just praying for trying to do it all by yourself with God and it it you shouldn't be intelligently believed. Church church is a community. It's a body that works together. So while it's it is certainly true that you don't need other people. God doesn't even need you. God can just fix someone without even you asking them. But but God commands us to act in a certain way. It's like saying, well, you know, God knows and has already elected who will be saved So why about the witness? Well no, you you gotta command us to witness, right? So same thing. In God commanded us to pray, and we God commanded us to ask for prayer from other people. So we We do that. In fact, God told um Job's friends, um, you know, ask Job to pray for you. I'll listen to him. I'm not listening to you and I don't like you right now. You know, but if even if they have been believers, I think that would have would have been something that they should ask Cain, please uh you know, please pray for So that's I think asking for prayer is not the problem. It's it's not being willing to say what it is about and it's because it's embarrassing, whatever. Well if it's embarrassing, well then go talk to whoever you can talk to privately. If you don't want to say it publicly, maybe you can't. Maybe some things may be too embarrassing to talk to everybody in the whole world about, but talk to somebody. And if you don't have anybody that you can confide in that you trust that that much, then you need to be part of a congregation where you had you can open up to have that that level. And a a lot of this may depend on on the heart of the person asking the question. If it's I want everyone to know this mate, which it seems like that could be the case It's a way to grab the prayer in a wrong reason. think you've persuaded me it's a form of virtue signaling that you're some sort of a spiritual person by putting on social media. And the other thing it does when it's not on social media necessarily, when it's in a prayer group or a church setting or something something, your boy, you're sounding and maybe even feeling spiritual, but letting yourself off the hook for any accountability Because maybe what you need prayer for is you're really tempted to uh have an affair with somebody at work or you're you're having a hard time uh That's one of the big dangers of it being unspoken is that maybe speaking it would allow people to come alongside and help them through it or give them the right directions like, hey maybe you shouldn't divorce. And the other thing is you're you're robbing the situation of the opportunity for God to be glorified Because if Daniel comes to me and says I got an unspoken prayer request, will you pray for me? I'm like, sure. God, give Daniel wisdom and whatever the heck you know he needs to do the right thing to glorify you. Amen. Right now? Okay I'm not tray better than that, right? But that's fine. So he says, pray for me. I've got a really critical business decision to make, and I'm really unsure, and I've already tried casting lots, but the dice were broken. So I'm just not sure. I really need wisdom and determinment. So in that case. And then when you make the decision I can celebrate with you and God gets the glory for helping you arrive at a decision. detail. I could say, hey Tori, I have a business decision to make, wait for that we make I make the right decision. I don't have to tell you, well it's between merging with this company and declaring bankruptcy and also So th this I don't have to give you all the details. Right. I can say, well, this is the same thing. But when I see you next week at church. You can ask me, hey, how's it been? Hey how you say you know what? I appreciate your prayers. I've made a decision and I feel really good about it. And I'm like, praise God. And the answer is a prayer. That goes right back. You can't do that if it's an unspoken thing. That goes right back to the body of Christ and how we're supposed to live with each other. We're supposed to Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. We can't do that if we don't communicate within the body. And communicate that communication I think is is really important. So we know when to pray for someone, when to weep for someone someone when to to uh rejoice with one another and and build each other up and it helps people to know that others have the same kinds of struggle you have. If everybody's got these unspoken, we might imagine that there's 100 people in my church and they all have 100 different things that they're worried about But when they actually share what their unspoken requests are, you realize, oh, it's like the same four things divided e twenty-five people uh have, you know, one of the four, right, each kind of thing. And so, yeah, I I I I'm so I'm really struggling with this, so if you would, pray for me. Listener to the faint debate. By the way, I have some unspoken prayer requests. If you can pray for those too, I'd appreciate it. See the difference? So if that's you, if you if you happen to hear this and you're one of those social media virtuals say no, stop, please, don't do that I I think it is something that does that you are struggling with that you're too afraid or embarrassed to mention publicly, well then just don't say anything Anybody remember that old movie Bambi? Uh you know everybody's heard of Bambi. Everybody apparently until a couple weeks ago has heard of of Johnny Carson and say, Well no I have but everyone's heard of Bambi. Or even Jerry McGuire, right? Um so in Bambi there's this uh uh rabbit called Thumper right at the beginning and you remember what what he says And he says, If you can't say something nice, don't say nothing at all, right? So that's actually great a great principle. If if you can't actually legitimately ask for prayer From somebody, then just don't say it. You find someone that you can actually confide in that is a brother or sister in Christ, that's also a believer, right? Don't confide And I've done that before. I've been going through some Something where I share with a believer that I know, a brother or sister in Christ, whether it's a family member or a friend or somebody in the church or a pastor, and I say, I'm struggling with this, please pray for me. I don't feel comfortable with you sharing with this with other people, even in the congregation but just pray for me yourself and and they say sure I can do that and you you know you keep confidence. That's reasonable and it's certainly reasonable that there may be something that you don't feel comfortable sharing with But you can open up to somebody, but then open up about the specific thing. Uh to whatever extent. Because I thought they can give you counsel. Right. I think something that goes hand in hand with this is someone asks you to pray about something And then you say, Oh sure, I'll pray about that and then you forget about it. You know, pray right then. Yep. Unless there's it's something I I always I fall into. I say I'll I'll I'll be praying for it. I'm sure I think back, did I actually pray for for them? I don't think I did. Whoever shared this story on the show, you might know because you've been on a majority of the show's the last few years, uh Daniel, uh Elijah, uh unless I happen to have shared it on the show when you were here. Uh about Nancy Pelosi saying she would pray for somebody No. There was some tragedy. It was a few years ago. Probably right around the time maybe that you started being a regular on the show, Daniel, so maybe I I'm not sure if I've mentioned it. Anyway, and uh one of those talking head shows, and it was a father and a daughter uh being uh on on a a single-shot camera being interviewed by uh the talking head Head newsman and on a different screen in like in Washington DC somewhere was Nancy Pelosi. And so it's like a three-way screen thing. You've seen this set up on the Talking Head shows all the time, right? And there's some tragedy. I can't remember the tragedy exactly. I don't know if it was a hurricane hurricane or uh I don't know something something that Nancy Pelosi would care about. Mass shooting maybe right. Yeah that's something it probably was because that's the kind of thing Nancy Pelosi would come on to be guessed about, right? And so they're talking about this thing and it's this horrible, tragic thing. And the the the father's distraught, the the the teenage girl is distraught, and Nancy's opining giving her pearls of wisdom. And uh it's radio, right? You couldn't see my facial expressions. Uh so uh and she says in the in the towards the end of this interview, would it be okay if I prayed for you? She says this on the show, which is a little shocking to me as a viewer on Nancy Pelosi's gonna pray for this person on national television? I gotta see this. Well she's a Catholic, right? So now the dad is like, oh yeah, absolutely, if you would please. And the teenage girl, she's like thirteen years old, she's so moved by the gesture that Nancy Pelosi, who was then Speaker of the House, is gonna be I think she was speaker of the House The house, certainly a high-ranking Democrat official, is going to pray for her on national television. She actually starts to well up. She's about to cry. Her lip starts to quiver. She's so moved by this. And Nancy Pelot says, okay, then I will when I get home later or something like that. And all you could see the girl Like she felt i she was defeated and the dad looked like broken and unimpressed, like, okay. So if you're gonna say is it o first of all you don't have to say is it okay to pray for For you really. But if you're going to use that language, it's not wrong to say that language. Hey, but it might be if you have time, right? So is it okay if I pray for you? If the answer is yes, say okay, pray. May maybe even better would be can I say Can I pray with you? Right. Yeah. But don't uh it depends on who you're talking to, right? If you know the person's a believer, then yeah, hey, might I pray with you? Let's pray together If if you're if if you're not so sure they might be I mean we had uh a Christian couple over to our house. Um that my wife met uh the the wife end of the couple and uh they came over for dinner and we had some fellowship and stuff and um first time I had met either one of them and uh we decided that you know it was good fellowship, a good meal, good time. It just felt right about some of the things we're talking about During the time that we should end our evening with prayer. And so I prayed, my wife prayed. That was it. These were Christians, supposedly They they weren't comfortable praying. So y I can't assume that's anything that prayed with you. True, true. But e even even the gesture of let's pray together, I'm gonna be the the only one talking, but we're gonna be doing And I have done that not as often as I should, but I have done that and I gotta say it's usually a pretty powerful thing, even for the ones doing the praying. But oftentimes it for the ones being prayed for it's like wow you're like the real deal like you really believe what you claim to believe because you're actually being vulnerable with me and praying. It's also an opportunity to to to witness and you know Absolutely. Share the reason for the hope you have within it. I mean it's a to really be we should do it more often than than we do. We've got about five, six minutes maybe ish uh left in the show. I don't know that there's a whole lot more for us to say about about the virtue signaling with the uh un un un uh spoken prayer requests except for this. If somebody wanted to push back, because we're all pretty much in agreement, if somebody wanted to push back. And they're wrong. Probably, right? I can't for the life of me think of a biblical precedent for unspoken prayer requests. Is there something? I can think of I can think a lot of like keeping your own prayer requests in your heart Yeah, I think I think when you first heard the term you were thinking about. I was thinking like Hannah about Hannah or This when God when Jesus says go go and pray in your cause by yourself instead of openly or whatever, so you're not making a scene. But I would actually argue that if you're asking, like oh Oh unspoken that's actually is what is making you think. That's a that's like a public parasitical type of thing. So yeah, I can't think of any even any argument for why It would be the only thing that I I can see that where where pastors might uh feel like they can allow it in their congregations for people to say is because they don't want to put somebody in the spot, make them embarrassed or whatever Whatever. Okay, well then we're not going to pray for somebody unspoken. If you want to talk to me about privately, I'll be happy to pray for you privately about it if you don't want to share with the front of the congregation. But we're we're praying about real quick that we all can be around. I think As a pastor, if you're a pastor listening to this, take a firm stance on that. Say, look, I would love to pray for you. If you want to share with me what it is, if you just want me to pray, you can even be as vague as you want and say, God uh or Pastor, pray for me that I have a closer walk with God. That's fine. I'll I'll pray for that. But you need to at least say something that you want me to pray for, not just some random thing. Um if if not, you can talk to me privately and I'm happy to keep confidence as you're pastor And not share it with you. Uh and not share it with other other people, that's fine. We would encourage you to share with as much as you can about your your private life so that we can all encourage each other But that's I think what you should think. Your walk as a Christian is not a walk alone. It's a walk with the rest of the body. And walking and interacting with people requires commun If you're not doing that, there's some type of break in that relationship. And I also have had times when I have uh of my own accord voluntarily prayed for someone with what I knew to be an unspoken prayer request, but here's how that happened. You're talking to somebody or you're walking up to somebody, you see them, and you can just tell their demeanor's not normal And they're all like, Hey, you you doing okay? You look maybe a little downcast or a little preoccupied, you alright? Just have a having a rough time. Well, anything I can help with? Uh it it's something with my family, to be honest. I really don't wanna get into it it involves people that you don't really know that well and it it but it's a struggle and I I guess I I'm trying not to have a show but obviously it's show so I appreciate you asking checking in on me and saying, well you know what? I'll be praying for you. I don't know any more than that. But you know enough about this. Exactly. There's something weighing heavy on the heart. It has something to do with something that I I'm not really supposed to know a lot about because it's embarrassing to people that it's not my place to know. But I will I don't know what it is specifically, but I have a sense and I will pray for that But that's different than the guy walking up like got a lot of stuff going on. Unspoken prayer request. Would you pray for me? No. I'm sorry. I can't do that. Again, how do I know your prayer isn't I'm really wrestling with with whether or not I should ask murder myself my next door neighbor. Right. I can't I can't pray that God would help you in that matter. So anyway. Show's coming up uh on the docket. Next week we're planning to to talk about cremation and whether or not Okay, so we'll unpack uh his opinion on that next week. And uh the week after that, if things go according to plan, we'll be talking about Sand Samuel, the Old Testament prophet, and whether or not he was raised from the dead, as we have the uh the narrative described for us in 1 Samuel 28. So if you want to do your homework, listener, open your Bible to 1 Samuel, but not be raised from the dead at the last. uh at the last time. Yeah. Not not second Samuel and certainly not third Samuel. If you have a third Samuel, get a new Bible. So those are topics. Now we got like literally three minutes left. So I did this on purpose. I don't want to turn this is a show by itself. But we had an interesting little three minute chat in between shows about Continuationism and cessationism. So in like sixty seconds apiece, what's your general take on that? I I would say my position is a very mild continuationalist. I can't find any passage in the New Testament that says, well, God will never speak to these people again. will never allow someone to speak in a different language to reach a a tribe that wouldn't otherwise be able to hear them or something like that. Um I think a lot of charismatic Go too far, misunderstand what the sign gifts actually were. Um and I think they are a lot less pronounced than they were when we did not have a complete revelation. Okay. And and and I would I would I would kind of agree with that just so you're aware cessationists is often a lot of Baptists will be cessationists, um not all, but many Baptists will be cessationists. And they they'll they'll take a verse um in Corinthians it says, um whether what you have your tongues shall cease, me meaning they're not that important uh compared to love, uh and and and they will say, well that proves that they will ceased and in fact they have ceased. As soon as the canon was closed, God stopped working in miracles in that way with speaking in tongues and and healings and and stuff like that. Um I don't I don't agree I think that's that's a gross uh um uh mixed mischaracterization mischaracterization of what that passage is talking about uh and in fact I think the the Bible does strongly imply there will always be spiritual gifts being at work. I do think that most uh most is it may it may not be a great word depending on which church you think I'm including in this uh in this generalization but a lot of so-called charismatic churches I think are at best practicing theatre just the wrong way and at worst actually for other things going on. It's not just well you have great doctrine except you also speak in tongues and so therefore no. That's not what I'm talking about. But I I do think it's it's important. But I I've met people. Like I I met a pastor from India who goes around to different tribes in India. And he speaks the gospel, preaches the gospel in his own native tongue. He doesn't speak the language of these other people, but they hear him. And his whole ministry's been that way. That's what real speaking of tongues is, not just some random So I think if you're gonna uh practice spiritual gifts, d definitely read the Bible and see how they're applied and and do it that way. But I would not be saying that if if you're if you Preach that you have to speak in tongues in order to prove that you're saved, you know, and and otherwise you're not really saved. That's I I d I disagree with that. Yeah, and I think that um the uh It's important to make a distinction that uh nobody's a complete cessationist because there are spiritual gifts. We're talking specifically about a subset of the charasms, uh the the what are called the sign gifts of. But if you want to look that up and do some spell yourself, uh look specifically the sign gifts and are those still active in the church today or what does that mean? Um uh I don't have time to unpack like fifteen seconds left so I can't really get my full opinion on this. But uh it's not wildly different than what those guys had to say. I'd have some nuances I would add, but that's about it. So anyway, Elijah Durpson, Daniel Razby, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD, online at WFMD. com and Household of FaithInCrist. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless. To be perfectly honest, I think I agree more closely with cessationalists than I do with most charismatics. Like there there's a di uh discussion between like Michael Brown and Sam Storms that And uh who's the guy the cessationist? And I was nodding a lot. John MacArthur? No, it wasn't John MacArthur. Justin Peters. Justin Peters, yeah. Okay. Yeah, that whole strange fire conference. Yeah, I was listening to that discussion, I was agreeing with Justin Peters most of the time. Well, as Ben Shapiro is fond of saying, two things can be true at once. Correct. Charismatic can be practicing the gifts in the wrong way. And the gifts could still exist. Those things can both be true. Yeah. Um and yeah, I would I would agree. Now I I do know and I fellowship with because I don't think this is something to dis fellowship over. I fellowship with people regularly who would argue that if you're not evidencing these spiritual gifts in your daily walk with Christ, then that's like one of the main fruits of salvation and you should really look carefully to see if you really are saved. If you're not actively speaking in tongues, both privately and publicly, and you know, uh healing the sick and raising the dead and all that, if you're not doing that that then you probably you know have s there's a suspicion about your salvation. And they wouldn't most of these people wouldn't go far as as far as say that, well, you're dead But they would say, Well, I I have my doubts if you're not speaking tongues that much. Um it's like something you should immediately do as soon as as soon as you receive the Holy Spirit. Uh and and I have a problem with that theology I don't think it matters because even these same people would agree that what saves you is is Christ's blood and and the resurrection, not uh speaking in tongues, speaking just And we both agree that if you're not showing fruit, that's probably a a reason to think that you might not be saved. But the Bible says only some people will have the gift of speaking in tongues. I I agree, that's a great remote of that, and that's why I don't believe it. But I again we we talked about Troy this mentioned that I mean you can fellowship with a wide variety of people you We need to make sure the gospel is correct and and and I will say inerrancy of scripture is is really key. Um but you have some really and we have some very wide variety of doctrines we would disagree on, but it doesn't mean We're not brothers of Christ and so it's it's a function. We might even k uh start this show with a little bit of some of the things that left over from last show just because I feel like there's a lot more you guys want want to say and we'll see how it goes. I don't know how many we'll get to. Welcome to Fake Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Elijah Dirksen. He's a seminary student. He's uh He's traveled all around basically from like the Mississippi River ish region all the way over to Scotland and parts in between. Uh and he made a pit stop here in in Frederick, Maryland. Big world traveler. And um Daniel Rasby, uh he doesn't do as much world travel, I don't think, but uh uh he spends a lot of time in his car, I know that. Enough time to take wrong turns on occasion. I understand. Um but we'll leave that story for another time. Uh you can find his ministry and his family's ministry at Concordby Love dot org. He's one of the pastors Daniel is at the Church meets at Imran's House. And I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. We're going to be talking about cre cremation uh today, but real quickly, just to put a button on a couple of things. I meant to ask this question last week and I didn't. We're talking last week about unspoken And I can't believe I forgot to ask this question. It feels to me like that's a a newer thing. I don't think that Christians were going up to each other with unspoken prayer request 150 years ago. Maybe I'm wrong, but I don't get the sense. If I'm right, do you think it's a modern invention? I do. But even that not everything is a very important thing. So it's possible. I don't think it was a widespread movement like it maybe it is now. And I do feel like you're you're on the right track. It probably has to with the mega churches and and and more more than specifically mega churches just the general idea of of not being in close fellowship with and and this is something I think even most smaller churches get wrong in the way run church these days. Even if a pastor you're if you're a pastor you only have a hundred people in your congregation. How many pastors are there, even if you're preaching the gospel every Sunday? Even if you you're reading the Bible and you're and you're uh you're you believe in the inerrancy scripture and all that you get great sound doctrine. How many of these pastors of and and if your pastor listen to this, examine yourself, are you Are you actually shepherding your flock? Do you actually intimately know the lives of every single one of the people that go to your congregation? And if not, then what are you pastoring. And the answer is a clear note. You're not supposed to be just a preacher. You're not supposed to be just a preacher. If you're only a preacher, that's not a pastor. A pastor is a shepherd. You should be s Shepherding the flock, you need to know the flock in order to shepherd them. From my understanding, pastoring is about ninety percent shepherding and then ten percent preaching. But most people approach church very differently. And most seminaries are They're not teaching necessarily people to be shepherds, they're teaching them how to do great word studies and create good doctrinal arguments and then have a great sermon and then also maybe evangelic If you get around to it, but not shepherding and discipling the flock, and there's really not a lot of discipling going on. They may assign somebody to disciple somebody. Oh yeah, you mentor this new believer. Well, okay, that that's fine But you need to be the one leading, and and everybody should know everybody in the congregation. If your church is big enough that everybody doesn't know everybody, like on a first name basis, with everybody in the congregation then I would say it's probably too big. Yeah, and I don't know what that number is, but at some point you hit that number. I think churches up to a hundred. You you can probably know everybody by name and have some relationship. And maybe even two hundred and big families count. You need as I think the pastor should know all the kids' names. Should every member know all the kids' names of a huge family if there's a bunch of big families? To some extent I'm afraid of the thing. Over time, yeah. I was somewhat joking we have a lot of little kids Sorry. But but but in seriousness, maybe I think you know, I don't want to put people on a guilt trip. So if you've got several big families in your church and you've only been going to that church for a relatively short amount of time But within a year or two, you really because they should have been over to your house and you should have been over to their house and you should be praying for them And if you don't know their name, you're not praying for them. So within a year you probably should know all the kids' names. But also within a month or two, no. But also a and as far as discipling, it's not necessarily the pastor to be discipling the kids. That's the parents' job. But the pastor should have an intimate knowledge of all the ins and outs of what's going on in the family through conversations with the parents And I I I'm very much in favor of that structure where the pastor is discipling the the men in the church and the men are still leading their individual families. But that doesn't mean the pastor has no say or has no uh bit of advice to give you know with the kids and all all that. I I am I'm against Sunday school and and teaching kids or discipline kids separately apart from their parents. But so just to kind of clarity c you know clarifying so b in in answer to your question then of about kids, Elijah, I would say at least you need to intimately know all the uh adults in the congregation that that that are professing to be believers and that's that's who you're gonna be disciplined, for sure. Yeah, at a minimum. But I I I agree with the spirit of where you're coming from that the you know that the parents Parents need to be discipling their children, but I don't think to the exclusion of the pastor being involved in teaching and training up and discipling. They're they're shepherding the entire flock. Everybody who's showing up for church is is there and the pastor should should be at at the very least should know their names. Right? And the pastor doesn't have a year to learn the names. The pastor should learn the names of the kids very, very quickly, should make it a point to know their names like immediately so that the very next week we It it needs it needs to be a purposeful action that the pastor takes because you want those kids to feel like they belong and they're welcome and that that you care about them and you can't remember their name. So you've got to make yourself flashcard something, but between one Sunday and the next or one Saturday and the next, whenever your church meets, you've got to you've got to commit those names to memory. This is one one re Reason I believe so strongly in the house church movement and I'm so against buildings. Not because I can point to a verse that says a building is unbiblical, and not because I think that there aren't any biblical churches that have buildings, there's plenty that don't mean houses that are very biblical churches. But uh I I believe that once you start to focus on well we need a building 'cause we're too big to fit in the house. Well maybe you're too big to be a church then too, right? There's a i in the there you we we just we we just mentioned there's probably a bleed over where you're too big to be in a house but not too big to be a church. But that's not a very large um not a very wide margin. Once you're too big to be in a house, it's gonna be very quickly if you keep growing that you're gonna be too big to adequately Disciple the flock. Well, I I think you could have a a church structure that could handle a lot of families, uh a large amount of people within it. It just needs More elders in my opinion. Yeah, it you need more elders but and and aca and accountability and and and structure within that eldership uh so it's it's possible and there are some very large churches that I think are are seem to be very one uh biblically inefficiently. But you do have a danger once you get big to to have to start treating it as a business and trying to grow the business rather than you know I think that puts a bow and then some on our uh unspoken prayer requests thing from last week. We also ended last week's show, I uh asked uh the the two guest panelists uh to share really quickly their view on cessationism versus continuationism uh because it came up in between shows and I thought they did a really nice job over representing their views in a very succinct way. I thought, oh, that might be if we have time, we have like three minutes at the end of the show, might have time to do that. And sure enough we did. But in fairness, I didn't have a chance to share it. I I'm not trying to put some spot and then I Not that anybody cares what I think about this. Uh I think that uh I've as I said last week, these guys are kind of waffling somewhere in the middle, neither full hardcore cessationist nor full hardcore continuum. But to be clear, I am one hundred percent of continuous. I believe none of the gifts have ceased and will never cease until the cross of the case. of the American churches that practice gifts specifically is unbiblical. So that that's what I would say. So here's here's um broad brush strokes. I think that we would have a lot of help uh in in this uh discussion among believers if we would uh use the word languages instead of tongues. That would make it clearer I think what the Bible is really talking about there because I think it's talking about languages. It's not talking about um guttural sound well they they would say it's angelic languages though but still a language no no the the charismatic when they're it would still be it would still be a language it would have some sort of syntax it would intelligible at some level even to the l to the angels. Now I'm not so sure I'd buy that argument by the way, but it would still have to be hey language, otherwise it's gibberish. I don't think they it I think most of them believe that If the angels have their own language, it's not different. But if you hear the people that speak in tongues, they don't all necessarily sound like they're speaking the same language. But for sure. this a spiritual image. Why couldn't any more I think that I think that would really help. I think that designating some gifts as like spiritual gifts generally versus sign gifts specifically I think is helpful because then you can start to make a biblical argument that leans in the direction that Elijah was going in last week, which is okay, whenever these particular kinds of gifts show up, they are attestations that the person speaking is truly representing God. This is an apostle. This person knows what they're talking about. This is somebody who can heal someone. Therefore what he says must be true. This is someone who can uh I speak Russian. I know he doesn't speak Russian all of a sudden he's speaking and I'm understanding him. Like, okay, that's supernatural. What this guy's saying has credibility behind it And to your point, uh last week, Elijah, it's before we had the what we consider to be now a full canon. So we we we get the authority and the proof of the authority from does it uh accord with God's revealed written word? Absolutely. But the the fullness of God's revealed written word wasn't available yet. And so what other proof she got for me? Well how about if I speak in a language that I don't know that you can understand understand. But what might that surprise you? You know, what if I heal your, you know, uh lame since birth child? Would that persuade you? Things like that. Now I agree with Daniel that I can't there's no ironclad argument as far as I can So here's what I think. This is kind of where I am for the moment anyway. I've I've mushed around this issue for years. I think that if the Bible does isn't clear that they stopped, we need to be open to them still being available. However, if it seems true, and I think it is true. that the Bible has these gifts show up at key times for key individuals for key moments in the historical narrative for the Church of God's people. Then we shouldn't be expecting them as everyday normal run-of-the-mill of occurrences, they should be special rare wow situations. And so if somebody's uh in the jungle of Africa And they all of a sudden can supernaturally speak Swahili or something, whatever they speak in the jungles of Africa. Um I'm open to that possibility and I would not automatically discount somebody's testimony is saying that they did that or they saw somebody do that, I'd be open to that. I'd be a little bit suspicious because there's so many charlatans, but I would not discount it out of hand. But most of what passes for the gifts, the sign gifts and the their usage in today's American church is highly problematic. It's um it it's akin to superstition and uh it's cultic and it really makes me nervous that people don't know their Bibles well enough. So that's so anyway in full disclosure that that's all that. So now we've got about let's see About fifteen ish minutes to talk about cremation. Is it a sin to have a body cremate? It doesn't take even that long to cremate somebody, right? How long does it take? I don't know how long. A few minutes probably? I've never been cremate made it before. You don't say. Would you mind emitting yourself and then come back and report it? Let us know how to mix up. So so I have a little I think I think my opinion on this is controversial among Christians. By the way, the answer to that question probably depends on the intensity of the heat. Oh right. I think my opinion on this may be controversial among Christians Because I think most Christians having not thought about the issue much would just say, Well, well, why not? I mean it's cheaper than burial, might as well do it. I actually do think that it matters. And you know there there's a there's a good case you can make to say, well the body doesn't matter. Once you're dead, the soul's not in it, who cares? It's not there. Well to one e on one extent is on the one hand that's true. To some extent, yes, your spirit's no longer there. Once you've died, you're either in heaven or hell, right? Hopefully heaven, because you had a relationship with with Elizabeth you were you were erect and you were chosen and predestined. We talked about this a few weeks ago. There was a two of discussions. Well anyway, hopefully you would have loved it. What you do with it? Well You could make that case except that the Bible talks about burial as a really important thing, to respectfully deal with dead bodies And not to just flippantly deal with dead bodies. It does talk about that very specifically. And it's it's shown that it was very good and honorable what was done to the body of Jesus and to make sure it was in you know, uh prepared properly and and wrapped properly and placed in a good place and and and it's not just because he's our Lord. There's all throughout scripture these examples and You know, even they brought the bones of of uh uh Joseph out of Egypt to bury them in the right place when we finally got there. Like they saved them. Right? They didn't lose them. They wanted to make sure we buried. It's not a superstitious thing This is a godly thing. In fact, Ecclesiastes makes a really big deal. Remember that passage that says if you know if a man has a hundred children and he lives many, many years So people think, well that's a great life. But these two things are not there. He didn't live a he his days are not filled with good. So that's a That's a pretty bad thing. And also he wasn't buried properly. Well then it it might as well be miscarried. This this life was not worth anything. Right? So, yes, I I realized that one of the things that they were saying was bad about us life was that he didn't have good children his life. So that that's definitely a big thing. But equally listed in there is that he wasn't buried properly. Like that's a And we I know that you don't necessarily gonna get all your doctrine out of Ecclesiastes, kinda like in Proverbs, not getting commandments necessarily out of Proverbs Like you do out of certain passages. But they're general good like principles and and it does seem that God does place importance on burial as opposed to other ways of treating dead bodies. So are you in agreement or disagreement? I would need to know what is the actual question that we're discussing. Is it Is cremation a sin or is it preferable to be buried? The specific question is is it a sin? I would say no. And then um and are you saying it's a sin or you're just saying it's not preferable, Jenny I'm saying it's strongly unpreferable to the point where I wouldn't say it's a sin. I don't I bec and the reason I wouldn't say it's a sin is because I don't see any commandment in scripture that you must always very but but many cultures many pagan cultures have rituals in death having do with fire and burning bodies. That is not the way that Israel was wa uh wa uh was uh uh practicing and it's not there's never example given of burning uh a body in scripture that is given in a good way. I don't even know if it's mentioned at all, uh but most uh many cultures around the world that have rituals with burning bodies and it's usually an occult type ritual. So is it it is a um spiritual type of ritual and I think that's so I know there's there's a very strong Christian tradition and going back through Jewish tradition as well of bearing Bury all the bodies. To the point where when the Romans would capture the Christians, they would burn them when they either before uh either to kill them or after they've been killed and then cast their ashes in the Tiber to kind of thumb their nose at God, yeah, try being resurrected now type of thing. Um kind of like they did to create The n the name of the state of Palestine to someone who knows the Jews. Probably. Probably. kind of mis misunderstanding resurrection in in my opinion, but um 'cause God doesn't need all of your your ashes to be together or your entire body to be together or necessarily buried to be resurrected. Um I don't like Daniel said, I don't think there's any specific passage that sa that dictates how you're supposed to be buried or how you're Just remains are supposed to be disposed of. But that being said, I think that burial does provide a great picture of our lives. We're buried with Christ. And then we'll be raised on the last day. that that symbolic picture um of my life. And that might not happen. I I might get burned at the snake or I might get lost at sea or something like that. I'm still gonna be raised, hopeful um Lord welling. I I believe I'm a Christian. Um and so I I I'll be raised on the last day, regardless of whether I'm buried or not, but I want to provide that picture Yeah, so I don't think it's a sin, and I'm not even sure that I'm convinced it's particularly preferable. Uh I do agree uh when Daniel's talking about we need to have respect uh for the body, respect for the the the the dead person. I don't buy into um except if they're an evil king and kin and you can cut off their fellows in the king or you know I don't agree with the sentiment that you hear so often at at uh present day funerals that's say, you know, well, he's not really there, she's not really there, it's just their shell. No, that's really them. It's not all that they were. It's not it's not fully them. They were everywhere the w there's a spiritual component to us as well. So our spiritual uh aspects are really us. But our physical body is really us too. We're not just gonna be raised as a spirit. Job said I'm gonna see my savior with my eyes, with my physical body. So I think that um yeah, so I think that to just discover the body doesn't mean anything. I agree. We we don't want to go there. We need to have respect and and and honor and and and appreciation for I mean I did it with my pet dog for crying out loud when my my my dog we had her for seventeen years and uh She finally breathed her last, and it broke me up for I mean, I was really emotional for weeks after that. And in that moment, she's dead. I know that she's dead. And I'm still. Petting her, caressing her, talking to her, kissing her. Right? She's dead. Why? Because it's still her. Like the the life force is gone, but the the body is still there. And so I think it's totally appropriate. If you're at the hospital a loved one dies in their hospital bed or in their h you know, or they die at home or whatever, and you see them that is not a violation of the the of the commandment that says don't talk to the dead or whatever. You're you're you're not that's that's that's not what that's talking about. That's not creating witchcraft to try to bring and we're gonna talk about bringing back sample from the dead. So that's that might be good sample I don't know if we have time on this show or not. Um yeah, like three minutes, four minutes, so maybe not. But that that's that's definitely something. But I I do think just as a general Christian principle, yes, you should you should have respect. Not res Respect for the dead in that sense necessarily, but respect for the body I mean, respect for the person who's creation of God. I I will say you brought up Ecclesiastes. I and I only know this because I just came back from a sermon workshop where we're focusing entirely on Ecclesiastes, but that passage talking about you're not going to be buried, it's t I think it's more talking about you're not going to be remembered They're not going to have that that marker telling people about you. Um that was a point I was actually going to get to. So like we don't have burning, uh but we do have other cultural burial practices in the Bible. We have embalming And that's not condemned. It wasn't in fact Joseph was involved. Right, exactly. So it wasn't the the stereotypical uh Israeli burial. Even burial as we do it today wasn't what they were doing even in Jesus' Jesus wasn't buried down in the ground, he was buried into a tomb in a wall. Right. Yeah, so that's I was gonna you're stealing all my good material here. So we've we've got examples of People being buried in tombs, being buried in the dirt, being embalmed before they're then buried somehow. On the other side we have cultures, pagan cultures, that will bury someone in the ground, they'll dig a hole and put them in the you know a lot of of the uh the uh natives to the American continent, uh pagan to the core, and yet a lot of them have their ancient burial grounds and stuff. So I don't know the cultural argument. One story about them not having kind of bury somebody and that I ended up really working out well for that guy. Um passed the moment to Elijah and he just got to throme there and he came back to like was Elijah or Elijah. Elijah Elisha. Elisha, yeah. Okay. Yeah, so uh if you don't know the story, look it up and it's a really cool story that Elisha had died and and his bones were there in the in in the And then and then they were gonna bury somebody else years later and and they got there was a raiding party that came around, bandits or foreign army or whatever, so they didn't have time to bury him, they just threw him in the same Now this is probably where a lot of people get their uh talisms and it's like, oh you see it just touched this or touch this you know iconography Yeah. So uh I mean it it dad has ha what do you do with that? That's that's like maybe a whole nother topic we could talk about, I can argue with you because clearly God has worked in that way in the past, not only with Elisha, but with was it Peter Uh or Paul sending his handkerchief different places and people touched it and he got healed? Like I don't remember that story. things so we don't have to carry over thoughts into next week's show because that's always a little bit awkward. Sometimes it's it's good to do it and it's I think appropriate and fun to do it. But in this case I think we're going to need all the time we can get to talk about same being raised from the dead next week. So uh I think that for me it comes down to the the attitude of the approach. So if you're gonna be like, ah he's dead, just throw some dirt on him, that's not an appropriate burial either. If it's uh uh they're not really it's just a shell, it's not really a person, but well who cares, let's just let's just throw them in the oven and cremate 'em, who cares? That's not the right approach. But if it's we're gonna do it honoring and respectfully and we're gonna do something honoring and respectful with the ashes, then we're we're paying homage to the person, remembering them. We're in step with what's being taught in Ecclesiastes. I think that's the important thing because ultimately You know, we come from dust, we return to dust. Cremation is just expediting that process and ha and instead of it taking decades and decades and decades, it takes minutes So the process is saying and it also begs the question about the martyrs who were burned at the stake. Do they have a more cursed kind of uh situation because they didn't have a barrel because they were burned to ash? at the stake. They had an honorable death. They were martyrs. And so I there's all sorts of ancillary things that swirl around the question. Uh if it's merely practical and I'm too cheap and I want to spend the money, then your attitude might need to check. But if it's like, hey, with the person's wishes to be cremated and we're gonna just I think that's a that's the same as a burial in my mind. good. I think it it symbolizes good things. Aerial does. Um and so I I think it's a good tradition. I don't think it's a sin not to do it though. And that'll be the final word. Elijah Dirksen sneaks in at the end at the final buzzer. That wasn't me buzzing an answer. That was being the final buzzer. Anyway, also Daniel Rasby's on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening. The death and resurrection, supposedly, of Samuel, or not resurrection, the conjuring from the dead, is next week on the Fake Debate, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless. By the way, are we being bugged by the world's most obvious spy? Yes, that's I think that that's the uh okay. Oh that? No no the the thing. Oh yeah, these are new microphones. The old ones want kiffuts. And so this is actually his for no for the license. I gotcha. This is actually Axe 1912. This is the first time we're using these by the way I hope they're working. And that's o also I think where they get a lot of icon iconography. Uh-huh. Oops. That's wrong. For some reason I I I trust you. I just for some reason I didn't remember it. What's the weird birth? Nineteen twelve? Yeah. What's the topic? I'm sorry, I was sorry. But that still fits within the idea of the specialness of the sick. And the evil spirits went out of them. Interesting. Huh. So the you know, he's he's going through and and healing people and it's like, well There's so many people to heal. Let's take this to them. Take this to them. And that's really that's a dagger to the present day American charismatic Pentecostal movement because you don't see people taking like Benny Hens hanging handkerchiefs to hospitals and healing people. Oh yeah. Right? If if you had consistent uh healings that were done, you would know about it, right? It'd be on the front page of the sp of the newspapers will There aren't newspapers. It'd be on the headline banners of all the websites, you know? Absolutely. Well except that godly things often don't get publicized If all of a sudden like a hundred people were miraculously healed at John Hopkins Hospital, you don't think they'd report on that? I don't know. I uh as jaded as I am, I think they would. And I'm pretty jaded. They wouldn't maybe give credit to God. They would just talk about there's some weird anomaly. They'd give credit to the doctors or something, I don't know, but the hanger Yeah, we hear about it. Oh, that's like violating the COVID protocols, I believe. Handkerchief. Bad. See that's where they got the idea. Should put the handkerchief around your face and you get healed from COVID. I knew there was something good in the wrong about that that I was missing. Oh, there's the death of Satan. I figure I probably better open it up for this next time. Yeah. All right, here we go. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930. WFMD. Thanks for spending part of your day with us, whether you're listening live on the radio or later on podcast. We certainly do appreciate it. If you want to connect with the podcast, you can do that at WFMD. com or you can also go to household of faith in Christ. com. I know it's a mouthful, but that's the name of the church I pastor, Household of Faithinchrist. com. And from there, you can link to all my social media accounts. I've got like, I don't know, eight or ten of them. Um you can link to all the faith debate stuff. I can do some other uh uh podcast oriented ministry stuff, one of them's called Decorating Date Night, you can check that out. If you want to check out Daniel Razzi, he's one of the panelists this week. If you want to check out one of the ministries that he and his family He didn't. His family found it and he's involved with. You can do that. You can link there. It's uh conquered by love. org. Uh and I don't have anything that links to um to our other guest on this week week show Elijah Dirksen. But I'll tell you what if you want to get in touch with him, go to household the faith of Christ dot com. You'll find my email, my phone number and everything is there too. Text me, email me, whatever, and uh I can I can pass along a message, I can get you in touch. Only if you're a fan. What was that? You can only do that if you're a fan though So if you're spinning ceaselessly in circles, then you are allowed to message me about Elijah. If you bought into the woke agenda, the green agenda, and you're you're all about you think you're gonna solve the world with windmills, uh then you can text me or email me. And connect with Elijah. So anyway. Alright, so let me see if I can find it. Here it is. There's a uh passion passage in the Bible Uh 1 Samuel chapter 28. No. So the setup here is that uh Saul is a king and uh not to be confused with the Saul who became Paul in the New Testament, or became known as Paul in the New Testament. I don't think he really changed his name. One's a Hebrew name and one's a Greek name. It's the same name, basically, in the New Testament. But anyway, there's a king in the Old Testament named Saul, uh, and he did some bad things And so God says, yeah, you know what, I got nothing more to do with you. Thank you very much. And Saul doesn't like that answer. So he says, huh. Maybe I could go to like some witch I know there's one in Endor, and maybe she can conjure me up somebody that can get me back in God's good graces. He tries to do an end run, and so he goes to this witch in Endor and uh sa and And she says, What do you want from me, dude? Because he disguises himself so she doesn't know but he's he's King Saul, so she calls him dude. She says, So what do you want from me, dude? And you read for the message to me. And and and and dude says, Oh, I'm so glad you didn't notice I was the king. Uh yes, I would like you to conjure up for me the now deceased prophet. She still doesn't know he Samuel. And she still doesn't know that he's a king at this point. Right. But she says, why would you want me to do that? Because the king has made conjuring up spirits to do all this necromancy stuff illegal. You want me to be killed? Why she's worried about that, she could just conjure herself up, it seems to me. But anyway, that's an aside. And so he says, No, no, trust me, it's okay. So she says, okay, so what do you what what do you want me to do? And so here's where I'm going to pick up. This is verse 11 of 1 Samuel chapter 28. And I'm reading, I think this is the end. N-E-T translation. I just picked a random translation. Actually the N-E-T is an okay translation. It's not one of the bad ones. It's a pretty decent one. And they have excellent footnotes. They have some of the best footnotes of any Bible out there I will say that. Anyway, so this woman replied, Who is it that I should bring up for you, dude? You sure about that translation? And so the dude said, Bring up for me Samuel. The woman then it says here, when the woman saw Samuel she cried out loudly. So she's really surprised She actually conjured him up. What kind of witch is this? She's not a very self-confident witch. And she says to uh Saul, Why have you deceived me? You are Saul! Now how she goes from not knowing its soul to knowing its all is left to the imagination here. Uh so theory anyway. So the c oh, okay, what's your theory? skip the rest of the time. So the king says you're you're enjoying story time. So the the king then says the now drag drag clean story time so I'm all I'm all for this so yeah it's um so that yeah It's uh the king now, so he's not dude anymore. So the king said to her, Don't you be afraid, but what have you seen? And the woman replied to Saul, I have seen a divine being coming up from the ground. And he said to her, What about his appearance? Oh, should I get a better translation? I don't know. But let me try. Um NASB That was verse what, eleven, twelve, thirteen, where was I? It's Elohimus, the word for God. Let me see what it says here. Hmm. Let me see what the footnote says. divine being or God is the footnote. So the word there is Elohim? Yeah the word is Elohim. I just did a word search on that on that word. It is it is Elohim. Elohim in Masarek. Okay, but clearly it's not meant to be God God. Elohim is a generic is a generic word or name for a God. So lowercase angles are Elohim. Yeah, lowercase g in this case. That's why I think some of these translations went with divine being to avoid the confusion because they put the word Talk about a dude moment. Dude! So anyway, uh so now I'm in the uh NASB ninety-five uh mixing and matching translations An old man is coming up and he is wrapped with a robe, and Saul knew it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground and did homage. Now it's curious. Let me go back to another translation. What is it you have the King James up? It says he bowed himself. Did it say that he knew it was or what how does it say that far? How could he know? I I I I I've got to look at the the uh the Hebrew there and and look at the Dujit as well and see. The author knows. Well the author knows. But this is a narrative describing So I I I don't know. He's realizing or making it a a really good guess or whatever. Anyway, so it goes on from there and uh and and and It says and Samuel said that the same thing. Samuel said to Saul. Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up? And Saul answered, I'm grateful you distress, blah, blah, blah. And then Samuel says, yeah, but God told you to get out of town. So get out of town is end round around God's will doesn't work. So he tries to conjure up. So so Do you think this is actually Saul? Do you think it's actually the Spirit of God? Sorry, Samuel. But do you think it's actually Samuel? Do you think it is? Maybe Elohim is God, and it's God taking on the appearance of Samuel to say, I already told you once, I'm not telling you again. I'm done with you. And these are the things. Or even the demonics I until someone presents other evidence, I I I can't really see it as anyone Okay, and you you're in agreement? So I I think the Bible calls him Samuel. It doesn't just say he looked like Samuel, it's that And Samuel said. And the Bible is inspired. So it says, and Samuel said, not and the being said, or and the spirit said That they all thought was Samuel. It says, and Samuel said. So I think it's pretty clear that Samuel actually was there. Whether he was there in body, in spirit, somehow, whatever. But it does say Samuel was saying. Well, it says he was a uh and Elohim, so it wasn't his body. It was Edmund Spirit. But he yeah, so you looked like a person though, sort of. Right. So now the other question though that comes up is first of all, how is that possible? Did she bring him up, did God just send him to use this as an exam as a as a uh excuse to talk to some again or whatever because and then if she didn't do it she well she was shocked to find out that she cries out. I mean I I I think a a a really Good translation seriously would be like she screamed. Like she is like she comes under the mood. Yeah. What do you think it is? I think what made her scream was she realized now because she's she was in the spirit world, she was she wasn't actively in the spirit world when he first came to her, so she didn't know he was the king. She was shocked to find out he was a king. She knew because she got herself opened up spiritually and and and got some kind of notice that this is Saul She wouldn't how else would she know that this is Saul? She's like, Oh you're Saul, you deceived me. I had nothing to do with Sam unless God torah now I don't think necromancers commune with the dead. I would say that they commune with demonic, which is either she was a a huckster and a fraud, or she was communicating with demons. And that would be what she was regularly. Why are we commanded not to communicate with the dead if it's not possible. No no no no one no I'm not saying it's not possible. I'm saying there wouldn't be a command not to communion with the dead if it wasn't if it was possible wasn't possible. Right. So it's possible to community it. Correct. As evidenced in this passage. Well so then why why do you say necromancers can't or don't ever? Well now wait a minute my position is in the That they don't do it ever. I think the majority of time they're communicating with you. Is it a clear to talk to the dead, or is it a or is it a or is it a sin to try to talk to the dead And I'm not asking for the city just says don't don't talk to the dead. It doesn't say necromancy I I'm not sure how it I'm not positive, but it's uh I spent a Necromancy is necromancy actually successfully conjuring the dead, or is necromancy the the dark art of attempting to it would be the second option. So it doesn't have to be successful. It doesn't necessarily have to be successful. So I'm not sure that that we know that I'm a hundred percent sure that the Bible would say that it's possible. So my opinion would be even if it isn't possible to talk to the dead. Which I think you could talk to the dead as evidenced by this passage, but normally when you call upon the dead, you're calling upon demonic forces. Whatever ends up talking to you. not a trick or an illusion, then it would be a demon, most probably. Um and in fact that demon may be able to show you things or proofs or evidences that he is whoever you're trying to talk to potentially because he was there at the time and knew or inhabited that person's he's a powerful demon who has knowledge Yeah. So if it is Samuel, and by the way, I'm somewhat ambivalent by the way I'm I'm not saying it's that it's definitely Samuel, and I'm not saying It's definitely not Samuel. I'm open to the possibility that it's not Samuel because of these other difficulties that I have a hard time screwing my head. It's it's it's a sin to to uh to engage in necromancy And here we have a supposed successful necromancy empowered by a godly person. And that is uh sanctioned by God because this apparition Actually gives a message from God. I would say if if if you want to take the position that it wasn't actually Samuel, it was some demon. It may not have been a message particularly from God either then They make you say whatever you want. You can say, Well, you're gonna die today. Just like all those false prophets in in um for Ahab uh said, Well you're gonna die to The demon claims God as as his Lord. Over and over again though. Yeah, but he's but I mean the Lord, the Lord. It it's over and over again in his message. Yeah, but but that's also those prophets of uh Ahab were saying that too. The Lord God would would uh Adam I Yah Yahweh Adam you know um uh i i is so is gonna is gonna deliver him into your hand, they're saying that, eh, absol Speaking as if they're from uh from uh talking about God. Now the the Oh go ahead. I have more to say about about Samuel. So I I have my doubts. Believing as I do that this was Samuel, I have my doubts that she actually brought him up. I think if she had the power to bring anybody up, it wouldn't be somebody from heaven, it'd be somebody from hell. Uh most likely it wouldn't even be a real person to be a demon. So I think I agree with you that that would be one reason why she was surprised. I think when the whatever happened happened, she gained some additional knowledge because she now knows this is Saul and she's confident this is Saul. Why would she know this is Saul based on seeing Samuel because Samuel comes up? That doesn't tell him it's Saul, it just tells him well Okay, God's involved now. There's something really weird going on. But that doesn't tell her who Saul is. So the only way is is she got some kind of revelation by a demon or by God uh you know, telling her that this is Saul. So that's why she was surprised. Or somehow Saul that's not explained. The narrative gave himself away. Maybe he gasped in a way that she recognizes what we don't really know. The Bible, particularly in the Old Testament narratives, there's a lot of biblical shorthands You know, there's a story that uh describes an hours long scene in those two verses. And it's like, okay, we gotta figure an awful lot of stuff out of those two verses. So a lot of stuff is a biblical shorthand, so I'm not a hundred percent sure that's it. of God and it's God saying, I'm just gonna raise up Samuel's spirit to to give this last prophecy to to Saul. I don't think you can say that that's a sin or even a necromancy at all. Because isn't God going to raise all of us? Are we gonna all be speaking to the dead at some point? This is before that. And it seems to go against what's it and he says to her, why have you disquieted me by bringing me up? As if she's the one doing it. Why have you disquieted me by bringing me up? Um that is the d the difficulty with it. Actually no, he says he says that to soul Samuel said he talks to Saul, which would be consistent with the idea that he's being brought up by God and not necessarily by this this witch. And if the idea is that, you know, Samuel or this entity that we're like believe it's probably or maybe Samuel. Uh if he's coming to um warn so off of his bad ways or to bring a message from God And say it seems to be hard to a hundred percent make that jive with um Luke. Um Jesus said that the the dead aren't gonna come back and warn. Think right, I think it's even stronger than that. Like the dead they can't come back and warn the living. So this would seem to go against that. So you have to harmonize that somehow. Now we'll say the the strongest argument in favor of it is Samuel is the text says Samuel said, Saul saw Samuel. Like it says his name, and that's in the narrative parts, and it seems like, okay, the the narrator, and if this is God's word, then God's a narrator There's a human author too, I get that, but um but is it I I I I'm not in light of all the other And I've only mentioned a couple, there's more. Of the other issues that come up. Is it possible that this is some sort of a uh literary device in the narrative And it's not we're not we're supposed to understand that it's not actually Samuel because it couldn't actually be Samuel for all these reasons, and so it's a literary device. Is that possible? I don't know. It it would it would seem to at at least to my looking at it, if the inspired writer, who can't lie, it's completely infallible, says it's Samuel, it would take a lot of extra context for me to say, well it's not actually Samuel. Because at that point isn't it lying to you if it says it's Samuel saying these things? Isn't it publishing false information? It's Samuel said this when it's meant to say it's demonic entity. Yeah, I don't think it's it would automatically have to be lying to me 'Cause it could be if it is alliterate, and I'm not saying it is. I'm just I'm I'm there's so many this is a very the passage isn't complex, but the implications of the passage are incredibly complex And so trying to make all of that fit the biblical, broader biblical teachings is challenging. So the um A solution to it not being a lie would be the perspective from which the story is being told. So if it's again that's a literary device, it's a literary device and it's giving us as those who are in the room were seeing and reacting, it's it's helping us bringing us into the moment. That's possible. I'm not saying that's what's going on, but I'm I'm open to that possibility. The other big thing that that I hear people saying against it being Samuel is where he's coming from. He's not coming back from heaven, he's coming out of the earth. So he must it must be some kind of demonic spirit which he doesn't have his body in heaven anyway. Correct. And it's just his spirit. It's it's not it's not Samuel's body. It's Samuel's head. likely that doesn't necessarily have a lot of bearing physically to directions here on earth. And also there's a whole theology and doctrine about whether the dead were actually in heaven or whether they were in Hades until Christ. Correct. And I I would be one of those who would who would say that there was a a location of paradise within the heart of the earth in like a separate compartment in in Hades. And that that was actually a physical place in in the center of the earth. In fact not a physical place, but a spiritual place where spirits go. In fact I I think there's there's an interesting uh uh comment about the bottomless pit when it talks about a bottomless pit. Where is a good place to have a bottomless pit? The center of the earth because there is no bottom. It's And there's psalms that talk about people going into the deepest part of the earth when they die. Like there's different compartments of this paradise area. And so this would go off into eschatology, so I'd maybe not expound on this too much. But so there is another par about the same opacito It's first Samuel 15. After Saul disobeyed God for the third or fourth or tenth time, or whatever it was, Samuel said, uh No, he kills Agag, and then he says Then Samuel went to Rama, and Saul went up to his house. And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death. Nevertheless Samuel mourned for Sam Saul and the word repentant that he had made Saul king over Israel. That's a whole nother topic. Why is the word repenting of things? Uh you know, if if God doesn't change and God doesn't change his mind, you know, why is God changing his mind here? Change his mind for killing Isaiah and and all this it's kind of hezeke and over the Yeah, Hezekiah, sorry. In the book of Isaiah, Hezekiah. That's actu that might be one to talk about. People have that question. Well why does God make mistakes? anthropomorphic language because that's really what that's about. So I'll make a note about that. Yeah. But uh God repents maybe would be a good phrase to into include in that note just so we can remember what specifically. Um so that verse is interesting. Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death. Well whose death Um because Well probably Saul's though, right? This was the day of Saul's death. When he saw him again. So that's the that's if if that's true, if that's what it means until the day of Saul's death, that implies that it really was Samuel that came to Or maybe it just means that till for the rest of his life he never saw him again. So is that what it means? And I think that the the the the the the gist of the narrative is hear this broader story is that you know God's done with Saul. I have nothing more to do with you. I'm not you can you can use the the uh uh you can cast lots if you want. Use the Urman uh Uman and Thurman as a plug them as wood. They can't talk a marble cloud. My servants I thank you. Is that the actors or something? You can try to use an actress. You can you can try to go to the prophets, you can try to do whatever. Well I was saying this is might may actually be an actress, somebody who pretends to communicate And then all of a sudden you have something to do with him by having Samuel stuff. Like that would be a reason to scratch your head like that's interesting. Well God says also In uh in in an example in a passage about prayer, uh he says that you should keep praying because of the woman that kept asking the judge, even if the judge was unrighteous And it is just a message that said, Hey, you messed up all that time ago. I'm I'm I'm not turning my mind. I'm still gonna judge you and it's gonna be tomorrow, basically Now the narrator is telling us that, you know, they saw Samuel, Samuel said whatever, but the words that come out Well Saul perceived Samuel. Well, you're right. Yeah. He's because he said well you're given the impression that Saul doesn't see him at all. Because he has to ask the old lady. So old lady But then he does who do you see? He does commune with And then the lady says it's it's an old dude wearing a robe. She doesn't say it's Samuel. Exactly. was saying was because it it says and Samuel said. Right? So if saying Samuel said And that was the point before that is the by by far the the strongest argument is the the narrator is saying that but then there's all these ancillary issues That are like really complex like holy cow, how do we make sense of all this? I'm I'm I'm open to the possible I haven't I don't think I've ever taught officially or preached on this passage Uh but boy this would take a lot of study time to get ready for it. Make sure I handled it, you know, well. But just the doctrine of Hades, where is the spirit of Samuel coming from? That would take a long time to discuss. Because that that'll be my opinion of what the first resurrection is, is the the Old Testament saints being released from this area of paradise in the heart of the earth up into heaven In fact though, what happened when the curtain was torn was people came out of the graves and walked around on the earth too. It wasn't it wasn't like they just went to heaven then. So how do you do with that too And how many of them it's as many bodies of the saints. But only the saved ones then I I I think that's the one. Well I would say it's a different resurrection at that point. I would say that the the resurrection the MCM that's a good thing. That is a miracle of happenings. That does a miracle happen as he died Christ is the first fruits of that that particular resurrection harvest. So three is so we've got just a few minutes left. So let me see if this is a decent synopsis and you can react to the synopsis I think the overwhelming consensus among uh Christians, uh teachers you know, scholars, what have you, is that it is Samuel, but there is a I don't know if it's significant minority, but there is a noteworthy minority that would say no, it's not Samuel. Um and I think that both opinions from my perspective, I think they both can be respected. Uh even if you say, Yeah, it probably is Samuel, I'm not gonna call the person who thinks it wasn't Samuel a Herod check. I don't think I would go that far. I think we can say that. I think we can all agree necromancy bad. Absolutely. So we're we're saying that. And um No matter how we're seeing whether it is Samuel, isn't Samuel, Paul I was being playful before, but seriously Paul um Paul Saul is trying to do an end round. He's trying to get his own way after God said no. not gonna happen. And here you see you can't end round God. If God says that's it, that's it, you can try everything you can try all the dark magic you want it's not going to work. So those are some things that are true regardless of whether it's actually Samuel or not. And the other questions are related to it, I think, are really cool, interesting functions. Deep dive kinds of questions. If anything, we've talked about this hodgepodge kind of a mess of a show because there's so many things going on. Pick one and study it, examine it, and see if you can learn and and and learn other things about the Bible in the process. So that's the things I think are takeaways from this episode. But any any strong disagreements? I think about covered it. Alright, well then we're gonna call it we're gonna call it a day. Look at that, we got plenty of time for extra music and everything. Last couple of weeks I think we didn't really have any extra music. I was so late on time. Elijah Durksen, thank you so much for taking time from your seminary studies to join us. Daniel Rasby, thank you. Thank you for listening to the Us on the Faith Debate here on News Radio. 930 WFMD. You can find us at WFMD. com and Household of FaithInChrist. com. We'll be back to continue our dialogue on some other matter next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. Till then, God bless. Alright. Those are some good shows I think. Yeah. Huh? Alright, the streams are going long enough probably. Somebody's watching at this exact moment moment. I don't know who you are, but God bless you. Um you have any questions or comments on what we talked about, put them in the comment section. I I always try to respond to uh well if you swear at me I may or may not respond. But uh anyway, till next time, God bless