Well good evening. I bring to you today greetings from Household of Faith in Christ. My name is Troy Skinner, I'm a pastor there, and I also host a radio show that's been on the year for a long time here at Frederick I'm not sure I'm recognizing every single face that's here today. So nice to make your acquaintance. uh after we're finished praying and worshiping God. Today, uh by the way, if you want to get ready for jumping into the first uh hymn in just a moment, is the hymn of number 53, all people that are doelled. Before we do that though, um want to give you a heads up about what we're covering in the sermon today. Psalm 100, which is uh one of the old-time great rock operas and uhads. And uh actually wrote a promotional blurb for the message today. Here's what I wrote This joyful love song of gladness and thanksgiving gives us words and attitudes for the proper praise of God, not just anyone, but our God, the God who made us. This Christian is God who has remade us. This God has a claim on our lives because He is our Creator. This God has a double claim on our lives as Christians because He has paid for us at a great cost Himself. This wondrous, spectacular, and seemingly far away, God calls us to himself. He invites us to come deep with him where he lives, to see his face, and to call him by name. Not just any name, but his personal name, a covenant name, Yahweh. The name with no vowels. The name so magnificent that generations of God's people refused to utter it allows. And so we're not even sure exactly how to pronounce it anymore. To name the borders on being impossible to translate, but we often settle for the translation of I am. This is the God we come to praise together. This evening, as we do so in delight and obedience to his invitation to corporately praise him. And so looking forward to this evening's reunion of God's family. I pray our time today will be profound and So those of us who are able to stand and sing our first hymn of meeting in hymn number 53, all people that unearth do dwell. Oh, it's watched and remember to be well. We are in the world. And all my students is winning praise for Hey big is gone and I'm growing up a student and screen and what I think so I thought of the training. Oh maybe seated. If not, then when we sing again in a moment, it'll sound familiar, I'm sure. So this time there's usually at least a person that has an announcement to talk about the uh the the life of ministry here at Garfield Chapel. Always the same person, so remember exactly Thank you for being here. I just want to um announce our optimal speaker. Um that thank you. We appreciate you being here. Next week we have Gary White who will be speaking. On the 15th, we have Greg Quintrell. On the 22nd, we have Patrick Sullivan. And Christmas E, we have our 57911 services. Theresa, go for it. Go for the LR. Paul Letterman at 5 o'clock. John and Mary Change. Jamie at seven and nine and um Jeffrey Child's at eleven. And then also we will call whole service On Sunday evening or Sunday morning for January or February, and we'll start back the first Sunday in March. And I just wanted to take a minute to thank the people who came and um helped decorate for advent. It was a fun time yesterday. We had a young man on board yesterday and he had a little paint from the folder. I think he saw something he wanted to try to see, but it was fine. Okay. I think I have an announcement was left for me if I'm understanding this correctly. There was a note saying that this uh apparently pocket knife was found in one of your keys. Oh, so you know who we're on to? Yeah. Oh it's yours. Okay, well make sure I'll make sure I keep it then. starting my wit as well. So I will uh make sure that I get that to you before the evening is out. So that that note, that announcement take it then immediately. See that? So we're gonna have the um offerings and the collection taken up now to support what happens here at Airville. In conclusion of that, we'll be singing very similar tunes. The Baptist. So at that point everybody who came again and would stand In the meantime, I'd ask you to be thinking about everything that we do here this evening is a worshipful act, including our giving. So this is an act of worship. Whatever it is, it's a file after an average. Father, we thank you that you were so good to us, that we were able to give back to you a small portion of all the goodness you We ask that those who are responsible for being stewards of this money would be filled with wisdom, that would make good God-honoring choices with it, and continue to bless the lives of For those who call out to you as Lord and Savior, and that we would recognize that our act of giving, as I mentioned a moment ago, the scheme that we you do your word read, your word proclaimed. In fact, every aspect of all of our lives is to be done in service and worship to you. Help us to maintain this Attitude always. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Jesus. Amen. And in a more intimate gathering like this, it really can be the prayers of the people. So usually Teresa was comfortable opening us in prayer She's nodding. So she'll open us in prayer. Um and then each in your turn, those who feel comfortable and led to pray aloud, uh you're encouraged to do so. Uh so we pray silently, but this great Blessing and hearing the prayers of others slide aloud. When it seems to me that everybody who's going to pray aloud has opened closes in prayer. So we can decide to Father God, you are the air we breathe. When we breathe in, we we breathe the syllable ya. Boy, you are here. Thank you, Lord. Thank you for bringing us together and um I I just give you praise, Lord, for family times during this Thanksgiving and holiday season that families can be together and uh worship together and be in your your love and your grace. Thank you. Well, we thank you for your goodness and mercy and for your many for us. And we thank you for our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, who made and makes this relationship possible. And we thank you, Lord, for our redemption. We pray for our Dear Heavenly Father, I give thanks and praise for the opportunity to worship tonight as beautiful chapel with my dear friend Lisa. Um I couldn't think of a better thing to to do with her than to honor you and share it in the glory I also lift up T here who um you know his desires God to go back to his home country of Ethiopia idea to do mission work and to bring the gospel of Christ and to um serve the in particular the the women And orphans, the the victims of all the atrocities going on there in Ethiopia. I pray, dear heavenly Lord, for you to open the path for him. for the fighting to stop enough where it's safe for him to travel and to fulfill his mission in life. In your son's name we pray Thank you, Florida. Thank you so much for all the things that you did for us, Lord, what you did on the cross for. But you loved us so much that you sent your son. Thank you so much for that. I just asked you to be with Death, my friend, that Just doesn't know which way to turn, doesn't have you, Lord. She's miserable. And I just ask you to touch her heart, Lord, in a way that she hears your truth She hears it from me, she hears it from things that I send her, and she listens to books that are me. I just praise you so much that she said, Oh my god, give her a gift of the life Bible or thank you for that because you know it's not be at that point that she would accept that. Does that should be with her health lord? With everything going on She's just basically so much like the Lord. She needs you so much. She needs that type of love and that peace in her life people. Touch her heart in a way that she'll know that it's from you and not from anybody else. In Jesus' name I pray. Father, I just want to thank you for this first Sunday of Advent as we prepare our hearts and our minds to celebrate the coming of our Savior Jesus Christ. Lord, I thank you for this time. And she says, I pray that you will let the your presence be felt by those who are struggling at this time with losses or just not having enough of the things that they need Survive. Jesus, I pray for those people. I would like to lift up Alice, my mom, who's dealing with her pitch, and I would pray that that meant so that she can be Out of breathing and moving freely and stay tuned for my puppy Chad and he's been sick for the past couple days and today he had blood in his clean as a session Or to keep employed home and help depend on what's going on for our Lord, and just take care of the Lord Jesus and love and so I He's such a good spirit for what he's been through abuse and I thank you that he's in my life for And I can show him love, Lord. Love that he's never had before. Just help him because Lord Jesus. Be with him, Lord. Thank you so much for him. No, it was the name of Jesus. Oh, we'll come before you suffer invitation. Acknowledging your greatness, an attitude of appreciation, and parts are reduced to awe and wonder. We praise you for your work of creation, your work in individual lives and recreation. Redemption made possible. possible by the God man Jesus Christ to find ourselves in a transitional weekend now. entering into the beginning of the Advent season. So much to be thankful for, so much to be praised for, and every must admit that we do not do these things. So we ask that you would strengthen and encourage us in these matters. And Lord, we have people Who have great authority in our lives and some of them we've never even met. So we pray for the government leaders all across the world, particularly those in our own nation. that you would fill them with with uh wisdom. Those that do not know who you are, they would come to know, they would bow to knee. And those who do know you as were to say that they would treat you as king and depend upon the inner infallible voice sufficient word And we asked for the leaders within the church too give them wisdom and courage. You'd have all your people press in to study the scriptures to learn them in deep detail and to apply what is learned in our lives and to share the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ with a lost and wanting world. We thank you, Lord. That you dwell with us, that your spirit indwells your people. We thank you, Lord, that you are patient, that you've forgiven us and And we thank you, Lord, that we have an opportunity like this to come before the very face of our Maker. And say that we love you. You because you first loved us. In Christ's name we pray, Amen. Standing on the promises, then those who are able to stand and stand, it's inappropriate to stand and standing on the promises. And we know the promises of Christ like me. Do we do the lady that you bring that is free? The promises would go on every day, every day, everyone the promises would come on a few seconds. Everything on the promises of God And beyond the promises of Christ loves more to be an internally Promises of God is my speaker, sending me I'm standing on the promises of God. I mean all the promises I cannot fall, listen every moment in the spirit so resting in my rest I hold in all Standing on the promises of God, standing, standing, standing on the promises of God, my Saviour. All but maybe he sees it. So I'm gonna open tonight's sermon with a two-line play, and I'm gonna beg your Forgiveness of my meager acting skills. I can't wait till I move out, then I can do whatever I want. Until then you're under my roof. So living by my rules. Words like this have become almost cliche. Scenes like this stand behind popular teen runaway songs and teen ante novels and teen rebel movies. These talk tunes and books and motion pictures, they resonate because of the theme that rings all too true and hence it become cliche. Things often become cliche because there's an almost universal truth. At the very least, an all too common shared experience, it gets repeated and repeated and Repeated and this cliche is found in the Bible too. Of course it is, because all of our lives Scenarios find expression and representation in God's Word to us. No matter where you are, God's Word can meet you there. And what's spectacularly encouraging is no matter where you are, God's word can lead you to where God has called you to be. And so we arrive at this evening's text, Psalm 100. Invite you to find it and turn there so you can follow along with the message today. If you can bring your own Bible, I think there are plenty of scattered through Sanctuary. So grab one of those, I'm home one hundred. Begin with the title A song for giving thanks, so grateful praise is another way of translating that, by the way. Shout for joy to the Lord all over the earth. Worship the Lord with gladness. Come before him with joyful songs. Know that the Lord is God. It is He who made us And we are his, we are his people, the sheep of his pasture. Enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. Give thanks to him. Praise his name for the Lord. Is good, and his love endures forever. His faithfulness continues through all generations Psalm 100 is a hymn. As a hymn, there are those who would say that it was primarily written for what times are good when all is well, when we're leading the charmed life. No cares, no worries, no struggles. I don't disagree. Generally you have the system, let the good times roll. They're celebratory, celebrating God's work of creation and his work of redemption. A typical hymn in the Psalms will invite us to praise God and give us some other reasons that God is praiseworthy. And thus affirm our faith, and this leads us to give God more and more praise yet again. In those moments that we feel we have descended life's mountaintops. A hymnic song will almost always perfectly capture our mood, will fill us with a swelling love for and a confidence in God. But what about the other woman in life? What about those seasons in our life that are characterized by the child shouting, I can't wait till I move out, then I can do what I want And the parents bring me back, fine. When you're 18, you're on your own until then you live in my house, under my rules. What about when we're not atop the mountain, but are in a valley, a deep, dark valley when life's surprises are not pleasant. Remember a story from, I think it was probably a decade ago now. A child in Hayerstown just up the road. was killed three days after his 90th birthday. He apparently Some left over a piece of burden cake. He's punished for it. Although he'd be beaten to death by one of his parents. As a child was living under my roof. Living under my rules Dying on those rules, which said, there will be no more birthday cake for you. Ever. Even when this sort of situation is our situation, do psalms speak to us Even the songs are glorious hymns. Yes, they do. In heart-changing ways, even as we will hopefully discover by the end of today's methods. Let me take a moment here to provide some context for Psalm 100. Because you might think that all of the psalms simply stand alone. They're not necessarily connected to any of the other psalms. In a sense, this is true. You can absolutely open your Bible, even kind of haphazardly if you want, and you can find the start of a song randomly. And in reading it You can take in a word of the Lord for your soul. That is true. But if you think that all of the psalms simply stand alone and are not connected to any of the other psalms, well then you also are wrong The songs have been arranged somewhat strategically. There would appear to be five books of Psalms, correlated five books of Moses. There would appear a couple of psalms that serve to introduce this collection of 150 Psalms and Psalms. And it would appear in Psalms 93 through 100. Form the theological heart of the Psalter. So the arrangement of the Psalms it does seem to matter at least so much. And So the psalms surrounding a particular psalm, they they appear to help us to understand more fully the context of a particular psalm. And therefore, more fully the understanding of literature Psalms. So this is the question, right? What are the psalms before and after Psalm 100 all about? Well, interestingly, six of the seven previous Psalms have an emphasis on God as king. He is royalty in a cosmic way. And the one psalm among those seven that does not highlight God's cosmic kingship highlights God as Judge. And God as judge is a major emphasis, not incidentally, to the following three Psalms. Psalms 101, 102 Now I find this interesting. Not only interesting, but helpful to driving home the magnificent message of Psalm 100 See, from Psalm 93 to Psalm 103, we have a string of 11 psalms. Ten of them want to be sure to tell us that God is a Royal judge. He is king. He is judge. He is ruler of all creation. He is judged of all. He is powerful. His magnificence is of magnitude is rather mystifying and unimaginable. Do you feel it? Over everything that is, God is ruler. Over everything that happens, God is the one who determines whether it is right or whether it is wrong. He makes the rules for all. He stands above in all. He is bigger than Leviathan. He is bigger than Baal. He is bigger than the boogeyman. And he is certainly bigger than us. He is unapproachable in his holiness, righteousness, and power. Transcendent. He is way, way, way up here. We are merely low creatures We're way, way, way down here. Yeah. And then We read Psalm 100. This is a psalm. It's all about this huge and amazing. God and yet it is an intimate and personal song of invitation. Yes, God is Transcendent, so utterly beyond us. And yet God is also imminent. So utterly Among us. We have a God who is the one true and only God. And he has given us a personal name by which to call him. I am the name Yahweh, the personal covenant name of God revealed to his people. Yahweh. You walk up to a person, you begin to know them by asking the name user, right? Hi, my name's Troy. What's your name? Some suggest that in revealing your name to someone, you relinquish some power over to that other person. There's a little bit of truth, I think, in that. If you share your name, it does make you somewhat vulnerable, doesn't it? Who's calling? Who wants to know? Parents, grandparents, great grandparents who might be here this evening. Have you instructed the small children in your life not to share their name with strangers? I hope so. You don't let these little ones run around with their shirts and broker with their names all emblazoned upon them, do you? If you do, I hope they'll maybe consider retaining that. Ladies, did you ever once upon a time maybe hang out on a single social scene and have some strange guy come on up to you? uncomfortable? If so, did you easily divulge your name? You might have even lied about your name in that situation, right? I remember a time I was probably about 20 years old or so. I was at some tourist location with my longtime best friend Scott. Yeah, we did touristy things. Went to the Wax Museum and we uh played arcade games and we some jump through. Okay, we lots of junk foods. And I'm still carrying that jump through on my way to the museum. And we entered the haunted house. Wasn't very big, certainly wasn't very elaborate, but I'm telling you, it was the scariest place I have ever, ever had. Well, I know why. You see, Scott and I were working our way through this magical maze of horrors and we're talking to each other as we're doing it, rather than use that what we're seeing, you know Not thinking a whole lot about it. We're using each other's names. Hey Scott, you see that? Wow. Yeah, true. That was really scary. Well, over the final third of our pass, we had to go past some uh knucklehead, likely earning minimum wage by wearing a Freddie Krueger mask and some zombie style costume. And it might have been rather laughable. Except we have to call it out our names. Really? New her name was I didn't even know it was freaky. I was absolutely petrified I was in college and I was about to wear my hands. No, no. I'm not even kidding. Wow. Because his other college age kid were in some hope he outfit was calling out, oh nice God, I'm going to give you. Oh my gosh. You know the moral of that story is don't give your name to just anyone. Especially Greeks who are working their way through college and abundance. But seriously we don't give our names to just anyone for all these sorts of reasons. Our names are personal, they're they're pregnant with importance. You know, you might say their name can even be something that's kind of Intimate, you know, I have a special pet name for someone that's kind of special between you, right? That name is only known by the one or the people who are close Closest to you. And from God who created us, this intimate name is Yahweh. And Psalm 100 uses the name Yahweh four times. In just five verses, the personal name of God is given to us four times. Amidst ten other psalms heavy on the transcendence of God as the king and judge, we have the Intimate Covenant Main. of God used four times. Now it's harder me to really feel this in our English translations, which uses the word Lord. Even with the L-O-R-D in all casts, it doesn't always jump out at us. This is the name Yahweh. In the Hebrew word, I gotta tell you, it almost jumps out paying attention. And something else that jumps out in the Hebrew text is the fact that there being so much repetition of the name in such a short passage. Because you see, in translating Hebrew into English, it sometimes requires using two or even three English words to capture the meaning of just one single Hebrew word. So the words account are English Bibles can be quite a bit higher than the original Hebrew text. Well, in Hebrew, Psalm 100 contains just 36 words. The end of the hyphenated words. 36, that's it. Of these, four are the name Yahweh. That's more than 11%. On average, every ninth word is the name Yahweh. Or maybe it's just me. I I found this kind of astounding. Now, whether you're astounded like me or not, the facts are illuminated. They tell us something about this psalm. Psalm 100 is about our personal Creator God. Not some abstract notion of God, not a concept Sexual or theoretical God, not a flitting or faraway God, but rather a God who calls us close to Him. So close, so very close, King and Judge I want to give you an alternate amplified translation of Psalm 100. This is my translation of the Hebrew. English is to help draw you more deeply, hopefully, into the fuller meaning of this beautiful song. As with any language, there is a range of meanings from the semantic domain for each and every word. And this is part of why we will find multiple uh definitions for words when we look them up in the dictionary. Now very often the meaning is typically the same In that general sense, but there are nuances, there's differences, there's kind of a range of how to understand the words that we use. And so we might here is phone one hundred translating the same Hebrew words but using some Different nuanced alternatives in English. This is Psalm 100 beginning with the title, A Psalm for a Sacrifice of Thanksgiving. Raise a war cry to Yahweh all the earth. Serve Yahweh with jubilation. Come before the face of him with exaltation. Know that Yahweh is God. It is He who made us and not we who made ourselves. We are in paternal relationship with them. We are the flock of the seed. Enter his gates with a song of thanksgiving and his homestead with a community sacrifice of praise. Confess to him and praise his name with sacrifice. Thanks. For Yahweh is good. His love endures for eternity. His covenant faithfulness continues from generally Generation to generation. Ellen's more with an injected commentary along the way A psalm for a sacrifice of thanksgiving. Have you ever considered the sacrificial aspect of giving God our thanks? Raise a war cry to Yahweh, all the earth. Oh, war cry, because he is king after all. Serve Yahweh with jubilation. Worship him by serving him. Come before the face of him with exaltation. Oh, how personal to come before the face. Oh Yahweh. Yahweh. God. And what are we to know of him? It is he who made As all of the surrounding Psalms have said, He is transcendent We are in paternal relationships with him. In other words, we are Yahweh's people. We are within Yahweh's clan. We're part of Yahweh's family. We are the flock of his being God's commitment. Enter his gates with somebody of thanksgiving in his homestead with a community sacrifice. So come inside this dwelling place, not praise, but with joy. Thanks. Praise. Confess to him and praise his name with thanks. And we know his name: Yahweh! For Yahweh is good. How good? It love endures for eternity. Now eternity that can seem like such an abstract concept, kind of like a mathematical determined infinity. But then the same thing is repeated in personal terms, in earthy terms, where it says his covenant faithfulness continues from generation to generation. So you know it's not just any kind of We are in covenant with Yahweh. We're bound to him in a personal way. From generational loved ones. The generation of loved ones. That's the king I want to serve. I will gladly raise a word. Cry for this ruler. How about you? Verse one invites us To shout for joy. All of us, everyone. Right to the end of the verse, verse 1, it says, all the earth is invited to shout for joy. Not just the Israelites, you see, the Gentiles too, the entire earth, all the nations. God has a passion as king of the universe to bless the nations. Praise God for that. Because I imagine that's pretty much at least almost all of us in this room. We're from other nations, the Gentile world, not the Jews. The ancient Near East people of the original Twelve Tribes. And who is it to say that the whole earth is to shout for? is Jesus. Of course. Because keep in mind, as we continue here now, this song it's about our Lord and we name of Jesus Christ. And verse 2 commands us to worship. We're to worship by serving God. And how do we do this? We obey Him. This is the guy who's king, judge after all. But notice that we're doing this with gladness. Oh, how can we do this with gladness? Worship as we should. We We don't serve and obey as we should. We stand before the judgment of the king, and we have to admit. We must admit we're guilty. Where is the gladness in that? Well, again, remember, this psalm is about Jesus. He is our Lord to be properly worshipped, to be sure, and he is our Redeemer and our Savior, who has accomplished this worship. for us. And so now we can with absolute gladness come for him face to face. Jesus did this for us. Because I think we have one thing's rejoice of God. Verse 3, definitely the middle verse of Psalm 100, but it stands at the very center of what the Psalm is communicating to us. First, know that God is the Creator As we've talked about already, he is bigger than us. By a long shot, he is bigger than us. Right? By a long, long, long shot of the longest short sorts of long shots. He's better than us. He made us. We are but mere creatures. But he's also told us his personal common name. He's Yahweh. He calls us his. He scoops us up in his arms and he says, mine. He loves us. He cares for us. He protects us. He's our Good Shepherd. And who is the Good Shepherd? What is the human name that we call out when we are addressing? The incarnate Good Shepherd? Jesus of Nazareth. We are his, and so we can enter his gates. We have access to his holy presence, his temple, his dwelling place. Take the Jesus. We enter his courts, the courtyard of our righteous, everlasting judge, and so we praise his name. So it says in verse 4. Praise his name. We praise you, God. And we thank you. We praise you always. We praise you, Yahweh. God has proven himself over and over again to be good, to be loving and faithful, and never more so than in the person and work of the Son, Jesus Christ. And so we know his character. We know that he has been, is, and ever will be good, loving, and faithful. Forever. Through all generations. And Psalm 100 becomes clear as we examine the passage that through these words we are addressing Christ as our coming to the Lord. is Christ that we are praising, worshiping, serving, thanking. He is the creator. He is the King. The judge. It also becomes clear as we examine a passage that the Psalm 100, Christ is voicing the Psalm for us. For all of us Corporately, he leaves the shouts. He is shown the way to serve God, to worship Him as He should. And we And enter Yahweh's personal place to stand before the very face of God. Because Jesus has gone for us and has prepared the place. Interceding for us by the power of his blood. Shed for us Christ has made for us the trespass offering and sin offering for our atonement The brain offering, the burn offering expressing devotion and complete surrender to God on our behalf. And he has made the peace offering, the thanksgiving sacrifice that this song calls us to. He has done this for us because we have grossly failed to do this for ourselves. We have been two obstinates. God has welcomed us into his home, but we stubbornly refuse to Worship, praise, serve, obey as he calls us to. He is not some mere small Tribal and deity, he is a the God of all. He's clearly the one in charge. But we too often send the fight as we did perhaps that somehow we know more than he does. You know, if only God understood better, you know? But maybe he once knew, back when, you know, he took on human flesh and human nature and walked the earth. Maybe he knew then what it was like to be me, but that was a long time ago I mean, 2,000 years, even for God, that's got to be like half a lifetime, right? In other words, if we're honest with ourselves I have to admit. Too often we tell Yahweh our personal loving Father. I can't wait till I move out. And I can do whatever I want. And God has every right the one ruling over us to say, fine. You're on your own. But instead, he says to the Christians, You're under my roof. And you're my family. And I love you and I care for you and I will discipline you because that is what's best for you. But I won't let go of you. I have adopted you, and so now I look at you and I look at my eternal and perfect son. And you are co-heirs with him. What is his is also yours because this son of mine has done what it takes to make this so. He is righteous, and the heir of God should be. And he has shared this righteousness with you. They live the human life, living by my rules. And now you are set free to do the same. You're set free of your guilt. You're set free of your shame. You're set free of your absolute inability when relying on your own strength. By the power of my spirit, you are set free to serve, to shout, to sacrifice, to sing, because you are my sheep, and I am your shepherd, you are my people, and I am your God, whom you may call. Yahweh. You see some hundred It's a hymn for everyone, everyone who believes in the one true God anyway. Psalm 100 is a Him and him our holy times are good, then all is well, when we're leading the charmed life. A Christian, regardless of your life-specific circumstances. I remind you. Today's fears and worries are temporary. We're leaving chunk life. And there are struggles, I don't disagree, right? I have. We all have them. But we know the day is coming. We know that day is coming. Here we have our afflictions of the moment. The reminders that he is coming. Jesus is coming back. Our King is coming back to righteously rule over his kingdom. Our judge is coming back to send all things to the way he always intended them to be. But no more tears or mourning. No more loss or loneliness, no more sorrow or suffering, no more crying or pain, no more doubt or death, no more fear or shame, no more, no more, no more Jesus, our righteous representative, is coming back. Yep. He's never failed to keep his word. He gave us his word that he's coming back. And so right now we do have the privilege of sharing in Christ's sufferings we will spend up, in God's perfect timing in accordance with his eternal plan, we will embrace more than just the gist of But the good times roll. We will celebrate. And we can now celebrate. Yes. Celebrate God's work of creation and his work of redemption. Psalmati has invited us to praise God. And it has given us some of the reasons that God is praiseworthy. And thus it is affirmed our faith, leading us to give God more and more praise again and again and again I'm not going to leave anything a chance. I'm going to ask this question. Do you not yet know this mountaintop experience? So maybe you pretended to have gotten the mountaintop experiment past. You're fearful now of coming clean, terrified. What will other people think? Hear me admitting that I've been faking for so long Is the idea, even the mere idea of having captured a mood of swelling love and confidence in God? that is escaping to me. Have you perhaps said some things, negative things about God in the past, say some horrible, disgusting, dishonoring things? So now you believe that you deserve only to live in the valleys, those deep, dark valleys, going from moment to moment in isolated agony. Hardly even surprised anymore at the unpleasantness of time's passage. Maybe you can stand guilty of having beaten to death in our nine-year-old child. Or some other episode of your past that in your heart is just as great and trust. This is you, please hear me. Even when this sort of situation is your situation. Psalm one hundred says This glorious hymn is for you. I'm telling you, it is in heart changing ways, even. Has it changed your heart? Or is it beginning to change your heart today? Has God's Holy Spirit moved you to a place where you just suddenly seem to know? You just simply know Jesus Christ has died for you. The God of the Father, God whose people can call by a personal covenant name Yahweh, has called you to Himself. You're almost suddenly feeling surrendered to self, trying to do things on your own. Your own strength, realizing maybe for the first time, or perhaps at least in a new way, that you are not your own God. Realizing that you didn't create yourself, someone else did that. And understanding now that this someone else is Yahweh, and he is your God. Hey, he's always been God, but now miraculously you know him And you hear and you know even better. Again, what they can granted, if this should happen, it should be you this evening. Then, oh welcome, brother. Welcome to God's covenant. family. Welcome, sister. Welcome to the ones whom Yahweh calls my people. And if this is you, well come find me after the service, you know, and we we will embrace in the embrace of love. And that embrace can't be a hug if you're talking But it can also be the embrace of the hand and then a handshake if that makes you feel better, whatever. Whatever makes you feel comfortable. The point is, don't keep it to yourself Alright. Let me, let others celebrate with you. Celebrate with a shout, a war cry to the Lord. Our King, our Christ. And don't feel like you're off the hook and you've been a long time believer. You need to be sharing this good news with everyone all around you all the time. Perfect opportunity with the same upcoming, I guess the current at MCs now that we've entered into. People have these things on their mind. Perfect opportunity. It's like you need an excuse so you you can get a month. Every year around the time that the excuse will put this good use. That's great. Father, we thank you that you are such a good God and gives us great reason to rejoice. You feel our heart Hearts with joy and gladness, helping us to sing, to be blessed by the presence of your spirit, to grow and trust in you, honoring you, delighting in you, rejoicing in you What you have done for us and are doing through us in both our head and in our heart. We ask that you would hope us to always recognize that the entire canon, all the scriptures, tell us about our need for you and how that need for you He is met in Jesus Christ. We thank you for this truth you're humble by it. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Oh we're gonna light a candle before we see one tournament or transitioning into atmosphere. Is that what we're maybe thinking? Yes. Yes. Usually we have um an ad then candlelight and liturgy and apparently it's not here. So I'm going to take it upon myself because um I loved what you said. Yahweh is king and he's coming back. And and the whole point of the advent season is to prepare our hearts for that. Sometimes people think it's like they're writing for Christmas. We run around by tips and light up our homes and make things pretty But really we're preparing ourselves for Christ to come back. So the first candle of Athens is the candle of hope. And I love the scripture that says The Lord says, For I know the plans I have for you, plans to prosper you and not harm you, plans to give you hope and teach you. So that the first kingdom of Advent is a candle of home. And I'm just gonna light that and say I am. Everybody got it? Number one thirty. Good. Yeah. Already seeing it or two of the other. Sweet Ashworth, joyful and joyful. It doesn't look good. Lord, let us go to war. Your mind now let's go to war. Your power let us go to war. Oh, yeah. Oh 35, we better go into another. Remain standing for the final meditation here and then we'll uh see the outer leaders and close as well. So I pray that God's blessing would be upon you if you would experience what it is to know And that his face will shine upon you, and I pray that you'll be emboldened by the power of the Spirit to share the good news with that lost and only world out there enter. The mission field that surrounds this chapter. Job by hand. Merry Christmas. There it is.