Well hello. We are about to uh go live in well we're live on stream, but we're about to start recording the shows that will air actually months out from now that you're getting a real big sneak preview of the shows we are going to be recording this evening are going to start airing in April of twenty twenty five. God willing and price doesn't return before then. So it's good that we're streaming this live now since then you get a chance to Uh I don't know what that sounded like for you. I apologize. I dropped the microphone. That probably was not pleasant. My apologies. These are very slippery, these microphones, I gotta say. That's what I was thinking about. He does it he does it very well. Alright, here we go. Yeah, I actually I can put some for bigger ones and I can I can remember. He makes fun of course. Hello, friend. Thanks for spending part of your day with us here on the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of FaithInChrist. com joined this week. We've got the band back together. Imran Razvi and Daniel Razby. They co-pastor of the Church Meets at Imran's house. They're also involved with is that a little too loud for you David Yeah, sorry. We were trying to do a mic check before, but I only did it with the music, not with my blasting voice into the mic, so I apologize. You stuff better now? You didn't need those eardrums, did you? Uh hearings overrated. Anyway, Imran uh and Daniel Razby. Uh I think I mentioned uh the church, but they also have a ministry that was founded I don't know, twenty ish years ago probably now, Concord by Love Ministries online at Concordby Love dot org. And David Forcey, the one who can't even hear me right now because his ears have been blown out of his head. Uh he's also a pastor in the area of a house church that meets in uh it's kind of orch they meet in different locations depending on which family wants to host uh that week. And he's LA. Yeah, I didn't thought about that. Like it's it's you can start to grow and expand, you get some people that are living, you know, different continents even, uh what are you gonna do? move everybody around each week. So call now and send your dollars to your local gift. Not to uh send not local gift to David Morsey. Or your non-local church. So if somebody promised they'll send you money, Troy, would that be a covenant promise if they sent you money? What what are you trying to signal me? I don't know what that means. I'm I'm I'll just come over and adjust my own level again Yeah. The skill too loud? Is that better now? May I either I have sensitive ears or these headphones are especially uh might be both. Yeah, could be. Alright, so now we got all those niceties out of the way. Hopefully we're good for the for the duration. Um if you've listened to this show with any regularity over the last several years, then you've noticed something that happens quite frequently. You know, David will say something, or more often Daniel will say something, and we're like, ooh, that's a really interesting topic. It's not exactly something we have time to get into right now. We'll table it, we'll write it down and we'll come back to it. And usually because you're too afraid to time that my w wonderful genius uh um statement choice. Well that goes without saying that that's a given thing. So um but seriously I h you know you have these comp you have theological discussions with people often enough and you start to know, okay, this is not a three minute conversation Right, right. This is gonna be at least a half hour. Maybe an entire evening. You know what I mean? Like you don't know. So I was like, okay, w we only have like Twelve minutes left in the show. He just brought up something that takes us a week and a half to talk about. I'll write it down. We'll get to it someday. And so today is one of those days. And we actually are going to do a series of shows kind of under the umbrella of things that have to do with covenant. Old covenant, new covenant. So what that means for the old covenant sample for the uninitiated. Sometimes the the uh the uh Um the vernacular that people are more comfortable with or more familiar with is you know the Old Testament, the New Testament. So the Old Testament saints or the Old Covenant Saints and the New Testament Saints or the New Covenant Saints, that sort of thing. But there are a series of covenants in the Bible. All of them very important. I would say they're all actually interconnected in different ways and they kind of build So before we can talk about specifically what it means to be the covenant people of God and what some of the signs of the covenant are and that sort of thing We maybe need to define our terms. So that was the the the logic for today's topic. Covenant, what say you? So who wants to go first in taking a stab at at at what would the Bible how the Bible would um uh d defines the right word? To me a covenant is a contract. And as a lawyer I think of a contract as an agreement between it's usually between two or more peop the people or four groups of people and both sides are promising to do something of value for the other side and that's what makes it a enforceable contract by uh legal standards, if I promise Troy to go build you a house, but you don't promise to pay me to do it, you can't hold me to my promise, legally speaking, because you aren't you weren't also giving me. But if If you're gonna pay me even a dollar for it, then now you've paid something and I've paid I've promised something, so we're so that's an enforceable contract. So generally in the law, anyway modern times, if you have a covenant in order to m make sure and enforce that the common that is followed, both sides are giving up something. David, what do you think about that? Uh well I so I I I think Yes. Contract is is probably fine. I I would say it's a um a covenant is is the establishment of maybe a particular kind of relationship. Um so uh where yes something is going to be yeah and and sort of the the the rules of that relationship if you will. Um so uh you know we definitely think of marriage as a a covenant uh between two people. Um And it all so and and it and it is a the establishing of a marriage of a husband wife relationship. Um so I you know, I I was I was thinking about this a little bit ahead of time I was thinking of you know, is it like a is a covenant like a a promise? And that certainly is, you know, an element to that, like to a contract, right? With the contract, it's your each side is promising something. But it also establishes a a a point of connection between those two parties. Um you know built built around what is And I think I think what makes some of the covenants in the Bible unique in just in terms of contractual language Which is that in many cases, or at least two or three cases, God is making a promise and man is not. And God's basically you know that that would be the exception to the rule as far as whether it's enforceable, I mean as far as who's enforcing it. God's gonna enforce it on himself, is the fulfill his own promises. But there is no promise needed by man in order for God to keep his word 'Cause God is all good and all powerful and and and never lies. I mean the Bible says he cannot lie. Um and so what God's says he's gonna do something he does it. Yeah that's it's something unique I mean I think even the you know on the human side of things like like the you know when God makes a promise that when he makes those covenants where it's you know him saying like I'm gonna do this uh the the part of the other side the other side of the relationship is you know like Okay, like I'm I'm gonna receive it. And and God is sort of laying that out, saying like, okay, this is what it's gonna look like. I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna give you this, and you're gonna receive it, right? Like to Abraham Um you know and and and I mean even you know as uh like the salvation is is referred to over and over as a as the as a free gift, right? Uh like in Romans. And so, you know, our our our part at at least at least it initially at least the the beginning and and ultimately I think throughout you know is we are we are recipients uh we're we are just on the receiving end Yeah, before I jump you have anything you wanted to uh say in the response Cimeron to either what they said. Because I I've got a couple of things I want to say. Maybe they'll spark a thought. I think there's some connections certainly to covenant and contract. Uh but I don't know if I would put an equal sign between them With I think they're within the kind of the same bailiwick of of of thing, but they're a little different. I think da uh David was was touching on some of the things I would say that are different. Uh there's a little bit more of a relational aspect When you think about covenant versus merely contract, like if you enter into a business agreement and you sign a contract, how many times you hear, oh, it's only business, right? It's just business. Don't let business stand in the way of friendship. You know, it's it's you know, just the way it is. But a covenant At least the way the Bible is putting forward uh a biblical idea of covenant is it's not merely a transaction, it's not just a contractual agreement, it's not Um you c I I would say a treaty could also fit somewhere within the same milieu of ideas as well. Treaties, covenants, uh contracts. I think there's some overlap, but I don't think they're exactly the same. And one of the things is um dramatically is that personal side of things. And this is where the exception to the rule that Daniel was bringing up is, you know, we're both entering into a contract because I've got my quid pro quo and you've got your quid pro quo uh and in a covenant not necessarily um I think in the Bible though covenant is more of a promise from God and also a description of who he is. And so it it kind of uh bothers me when people say, well that's the old covenant and it's new covenant. That's old God and new God. God doesn't change. And so it's a fulfillment of some of the promises he made and it hasn't changed though. And so I think a covenant in in the biblical sense is more of a a promise from God and a description of who he is, relationship like you said, to us. Who what's his relationship to us? What and and how can we take it advantage or uh use that relationship in a good and and godly way. Now I mentioned treaty as well, I think uh I'm not sure if I I could I thought about this in advance so right now popped in my head. So I don't know if every covenant in the Old Testament is uh would fit under the confines of a Caesaran vassal Treaty. Are you familiar with that uh that phrase? Yeah, and there's kind of this there's there's sanctions, right? There's the the promise of protection and then there's sanctions if you don't live up to what you're supposed to do as my sub king kind of thing. And I think a the the at least some, if not all of the covenants in the in the Bible kind of fit within that as well. And here's where the part doesn't feel like the exception to the r uh Like there's an exception to the rule. I don't think there is an exception to the rule, but here's why I don't want to just call it a contract. Because the biblical covenants are there is a quid pro quo But God fulfills both sides of the equation. He does his part because he's God. He keeps his promises. God cannot lie, as Daniel said We are sinners, we fail all the time, and yet he fulfills our side of the contract too by taking on human flesh, right? The sun contains on flesh and offers himself up and so there is a well two sides of the agreement but God actually fulfills both sides. So and that's what happens with the covenants in the Bible. Yeah but also in the Old Testament. I mean he has a covenant. It he tells us the good, what he will do if if we follow him, what the Israelites follow him. And then he also tells us uh what he's gonna do if you don't follow. So it's a covenant on both sides. And so the Israelites, so long as they are keeping him as God, they have all the blessings, that's what God says. And then if they choose to worship another God, then he will punish them. And so it's a promise on both sides. As you said, it's a both a promise from God, and uh there's consequences for that promise. So Now not all Christians everywhere through all of time have agreed on exactly what all parts of the Bible should be considered covenants. So I don't know if we want to get off on that. That might be a whole separate question. should be considered covenant. For sure. Okay. So this goes in the direction I was going to go. So what are some of the places that we would say the Bible saying, okay, this is a covenant, that's a covenant? Well the the very first one uh agreement in the Bible s is where when he created man, he said, you know, don't eat this tree and if you do you will die and They did and they died. So that was that was a now that's an example of where the word covenant doesn't appear. So that's where f some people disagree on that. Maybe people start with Noah. After Noah, God said he would not destroy the earth by uh water again, next time by fire. Although it doesn't say that there, it says it somewhere else. Um Um so that that would that was the promise he made to Noah. The fancy word is Noahic coven covenants. Yeah. But that was also one sided covenant. There wasn't anything Noah had to do to receive uh that God wasn't going to destroy the Um well uh I mean maybe. I mean I think it it makes us think okay what is uh what's what's different about when the word covenant use is is used and when it's not so uh like with Noah right when God makes that promise. He doesn't. Um God basically just says, this is how it's gonna be. Right? Like this is what I'm gonna to do. Man is always gonna be evil and so I'm going to not uh not destroy all of man Mankind in the same way like I did, right? And and so it it it's also interesting like with that. So one of the things I think we see with covenants a lot also is there's a there's a sign of the covenant, right? There's some something uh given to like symbolize that that covenant exists, right? Or that that promise exists. Uh right, like the the rainbow that God says, okay, like like so that but this is the sign of my promise, but I don't I don't know that I would even categorize that as a covenant, because he's not saying there isn't like this uh Um I mean maybe in a super broad sense of like this is God saying this is my covenant with like all of creation, right? In in the same way that you know that God that you we would have to say, okay, um when God says to Adam, all right, like like on the day you eated this you're you're gonna die. Uh uh you know if you do and so um there's like that that is like a promise, right? As in like, hey, this is what's going to happen if this other thing happened. Sounds like a threat to the property. But but I I I mean y with is there like a Right yeah yeah. Like it's but is there is there like this. And so that is a that's the establishment of something between God and Adam and all his descendants, right? Adam and all who will come from him kind of deal. Um there are rules, there's laws, you know, there's proclamations, there's promises, and not necessarily all of those would fit within the confines of what we mean by covenant, and this is why we have the the discussions and debates about you know theologians like to argue about you know this is one of the how many angels can dance on the head of a pen kind of questions that that people go round and round on. Um the the Adamic covenant it could be the covenant of works which is kind of what uh Daniel's talking about with you know, if you eat of the tree and y y y you you obey and things are you live, and if you don't obey then you know bad things will happen to you. Um but also a lot of people will say you you had a covenant that you've sometimes heard the phrase cut a covenant. We're gonna cut a covenant. You ever hear that I'm getting s a couple of blank looks, also some nods. So it's not that common in the vernacular anymore, but if you read a lot of theology books and stuff, it's not that unusual and even in the just the everyday common vernacular sometimes like old school lingo you would hear somebody say, Oh we're gonna cut a covenant. Uh and it's different than cutting a rug. Cutting a rug you know Um but they they called it cutting a covenant because cutting was involved. You know, blood was shed. Uh even like pagan rituals would do that, like becoming blood brothers, you know. kind of thing where you cut the skin and you blend the bloods. And so when uh Adam and Eve sin, and then there's the the the first uh I would argue the first mention of the gospel promise and In Genesis, uh where um you know, the the serpent's gonna strike the heel and the heel's gonna crush the head of the serpent. The seed of the woman is going to be the rescuer Which is which is a another kind of like promise that God makes. But there's no blood is shed because God kills the animals to make to make uh coverings for Adam and Eve, and we says he gives them uh um Well, I I think there's an implication. Anyway, so those are some of the the ingredients. And I we're laying all this foundation because we're we're heading into what will probably be the primary topic for next week's show has to do with circumcision. The covenant David mentioned that you know covenants will typically have some sort of And the circumcision is the sign of the covenant made with Abraham, uh the the you know, the uh A lot of people think that that's kind of where the covenants start. They don't want to count the the other covenants before that as biblical covenants. And I I don't want to get bought down unless you guys find that really fascinating, we can hash those sorts of things out. I mean to me I I just keep coming back to the contract and and I know you you're you're saying well a business contract doesn't have a relation well I don't know. I mean you You should put your heart in into it and and Jesus says your yes should be yes and your no should be no and you should actually mean that from your heart and you should treat everybody in business business as well as you would treat friends and and so on So I don't I don't really see a conflict there necessarily. It feels to me it feels like yes, there's a relationship aspect to it. I think b both things can be true at the same time. I I guess the r the reason I was making that distinction is technically I guess you could say that my wife and I have entered into a contract, right? A marital contract. Yes. But that feels so clinical. Yeah, because you're in the West. You're in the West and the East is not that way And the easy contract is more relational. We went in Western culture we we we don't want to s it feels too sanitized that way if you say, Oh it's just business. But marriage has always been in fact first and foremost a contract, even more So should we start calling it the old contract and the new contract? I mean that's that I think contract is probably a more applicable term in modern English than covenant or Testament because it has a more uh close meaning in today's language to what is actually being conveyed. I I would I I I would feel comfortable with you using the word c contract, but adding the the caveat that yes, the relationship is very important because we seem to have lost that part of it in the West, uh you know, modern culture about uh that But also when you say old covenant and new covenant, you're kind of implying that the old covenant's no longer there, that it doesn't have any effect anymore And I think that's the end of it. Yeah. So I I don't th I think there's an old covenant, new covenant, but I think it's a fulfillment of the old covenant. It's not a new covenant in that it's different God, it's a totally different personality relationship. It's solved the major issue of our relationship with God But it is not a new promise. Right. But it is a um you know, it is a replacement of the old covenant. I don't think so. I think it builds on top of Well, I mean that's what that's what Hebrews talk But Jesus himself said I didn't come to abolish the law, I came to fulfill it It wasn't a a an abolishment of the old covenant. Right. Well yes, but once but once it's fulfilled, it's it's over. See I d I don't agree, and I don't think Hebrew says that either So that that's gonna be an interesting topic. That's probably gonna be one of the key uh uh elements of next week's discuss discussion on circumcision is my game Yes. Yeah, I think that, you know, you think other language in the New Testament is uh I do not give you a new c command, and yet I give you a new command. Right? Like back to back thoughts. Uh is that that John Uh where is that? I don't know. I'm I'm drawing a blank on where in the book. But the idea of yeah, so what's old is what's new in a sense. So yeah, we're not throw I would agree that we're not throwing away the old. We're not merely New Testament believers. We believe in the entire canon, the old and or the the Hebrew texts and the Greek texts. Let's put it that way. Yeah, that's that's a different debate. See, this is what he does. Now we have to write that down. Okay, how many books in the canvas and and bring on bring a Roman Catholic point? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Everybody in this room would would would identify with the the Protestant canon. So uh yeah, but I totally lost my uh my what my train of thought was. If you remember what I was talking about? Yeah, we we're not one one testament Christians, we're entire Bible Christians. Yeah, so we want to be careful that we're not jettisoning the Old Testament. Or in the language of Andy Stanley, we're not unhitching from the Old Testament and only hitching ourselves to the the New Testament. Because the reality is, and we've seen this with Andy Stanley, by the way, if you unhitch from the Old Testament, it's only a matter of time before you unhitch from the New Testament too. Uh i there's no intercalation. Well we have Adam then what's the need for Christ? Yeah, y you you need both. But the point is there What's old is what's new. There is this new thing that's kind of a replacement. I don't that word is a really a lightning rod kind of a word. I don't know if I would use the word replacement. I uh we gotta find a better word because I think I agree with David. But yeah, but there's a better word than replacement. But there it there's there's a there's a a a a new expression, something that's fresh, that's added into the mix, that is such a game changer that it's it's new It's not like the old. There's something that's new about it. And that something is someone. The person and work of Jesus of Nazareth. That is what's new And everything finds its fulfillment in that. Everything before that was pointing to that. Everything since then is pointing back to that. That is what's new. So I would argue that he was in the old as well, but he's revealed in such a more profound way in the new that it's dramatically new. Now David's I thought we were gonna be in some agreement but he's kind of rolling his eyes up into the sky thinking like, okay, can I I agree with this or not. So maybe we're not gonna maybe next week's show is gonna be particularly interesting. I don't know. What w what is it you're pondering? I'm curious. Uh well, I so I I know like in in Hebrews there's you know old covenant is referring to and like and Paul does this in other in Corinthians uh as well, right? Like you He refers to the the old covenant uh specifically being um the the law in particular. So not everything in the Old Testament. Um but the Mosaic Law. Correct, yeah. Yeah. And so uh so I I I was just trying to think in my mind, okay, well, you know, what what is actually meant by by new? Mm uh new as in fresh or new as in replacement or or a more complete understanding of what always was uh a new understanding A more complete understanding of what always was is is how I would describe it because I mean as Hebrews says, the blood of goats never could take away sins. And I think that's that's very important. So because there's other things that God says, Hey, you should do this if you're following me and and I'll bless you and so on, that doesn't necessarily have much to do with salvation. Salvation it has always been the same way, which is through Christ's blood, even prior to Christ being born in our timeline from our perspective. Maybe and We have to wrap this up here a second. We'll pull pick up this thread next week. We talk about circumcision, which is one a uh a sign of a of a covenant. And so we'll have plenty of opportunity. I'm wondering if this would satisfy like if somebody puts out a a newly published version of an old book and it's been slightly edited or reformatted or whatever. It's the new revised edition. It's the same book but it's been it's new. It's the same old book but it's new. Or Tide, you know, they have their commercials, new and improved, but it's still the same old stupid laundry totally and something. Neither of those are useful. All right. So we're we're ending on a very unuseful note then. Uh David and Daniel, give me a hard time. David Forcy, Daniel Rasmi, Imran, he was quiet, so he and he's on my side as far as I'm concerned. That's the way we're we're wrapping this up I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. Find us online at householdfaithinchrist. com and WFMB. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from let me check my watch. Yep, right now. God bless. Actually I did say that there's the same comment and that's what uh bothered both you and David. Yeah, it's violent story. The Bible doesn't change the same It's a fulfillment of the first cov of the old cov Covenant. That's why that's why I don't like New Covenant and Old Covenant. I I like the colour. Like not not like it. You have to like it. No, I think it's a it's a mistranslation or misconception of of that um as a new or different or so I mean the Bible says he's he's gonna make a new covenant with the house of Israel. That's actually in Jeremiah. Um right. And we're in Hebrews eight uh is quoting that, a new a new covenant. Uh he has made the first old. Uh now that which decayed and waxeth old is ready to vanish away so This is the part you're talking about. But my and and so I don't I mean, Jesus says this is the new covenant of my blood. This is the new covenant of my blood, correct. Right. Referring I I think to Jeremiah. Yeah. And then that's a police building. So to you clear a nearby smart and think I'm speaking from For uh in one neither of us are saying those words don't exist in the in scripture. What we're saying is contextually there's more to it than just the oldest dawn and uh we don't believe it's actually gone in that sense that you're interpreting it. Um based on the rest of that of of the Hebrews passive. So we'll read it more in context as well. I don't know if that'll be what uh Do you have the uh do you have the text thread where I talked about what the topic was gonna be for this one? I'm gonna actually end up probably tossing to you because I can't remember exactly how I said what I said and you can just maybe during the show read it. Okay. We can spring into that problem. Okay. That one's pretty simple. In a a future one I might not be able to remember. So is it is it uh replaced? What was it? Circumcision replacement Is circumcision done with, replaced, still best to continue? Gotcha. Okay. I can try to remember that. If I can't remember it have that ready. Yeah, okay. I'll give this a shot. Here we go. Here's a question for you. Is circumcision done with? The new circumcision. Replaced? Or Still best to continue. Still best to continue. Still best to continue. That sounds like a good topic for a show. Or is it required for salvation? Can we get can we get that one all agreements? Sure. Well. You know what? I think we've we've stumbled into a topic for a faith debate program, let me tell you. I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you for spending part of your day with us here. Um Daniel Rasby was the one who was helping me clarify what the topic Maybe could or should be. And then Imron jumped in, Imron Razme. Daniel and Imron are co-pastors of the church that meets at Imran's house, and you can find them online at conqueredbylove. org because they've got a ministry called Called it by Love Ministries. And David Forsey, he uh he's still Luddite, does not have any sort of real prominent web presence. So if you want to he's such a Luddite, he doesn't even know what a dictionary is. So David Forrese is a pastor in the area as well of uh of a uh house church that meets at different locations depending on Who wants to host that week? And if you want to get in touch with him, find out where he's meeting, if he's meeting somewhere near you, and you want to check him out, just get in touch with me and I'll put you in touch with him. And uh the easiest way to get in touch with me is go to household of faith in Christ. com because that's the name of The church that I passed for household of faith in Christ. So I don't know if you said my name, I'm Troy Skinner, just in case I didn't, now you know who would have sent your hate mail too. So circumcision. If you listen last week, we were talking about a covenant. What is a covenant? And we had, you know, some interesting covenant conversation about that. And there was more to be said, but I kinda knew we're gonna be going in the direction of circumcision as as a sign, a a primary, prominent sign in the old testament of the the old covenant. Do we even like that language anymore after last week's show? And and what role, if any, does it have for the new covenant, if we even like that language anymore? Um so and I I just want for those of you who d who were here last week but were not here in between I want to be make it clear I concede the point that the Bible uses the phrase New Covenant or New Testament. Jesus says this isn't this cup is a New Testament or a new covenant in my blood. And Hebrew says, quoting Jeremiah, this is you know, God has made a new covenant, uh you know, instead of the old covenant. So th those phrases are used. Our disagreement is more on how they're applied to Christians and whether there's any part of the old covenant or most of it or all of it that still also remains, even though there is new covenant as well. disagree. Um no. I'm not presuming. I know this is the question of circumcision will actually put a fine point on discussion. maybe I'm wrong, but I'm I'm assuming we can all probably agree that circumcision, the physical act of circumcision, um, does not save you and is not necessary for salvation. Um I think we would all agree with that uh point and I I'm stating it very simply there because I think the more I expand on that more we might have some disagreement. But um I think there again that does seem very clear In a lot of scripture that it is not necessary for for salvation. Um and circumcision is not what saves you, nor should you be rushing to get circumcised having become saved necessarily Um there's a passage in it. So we talked about that. We started last week's show kind of with the idea of so what is a covenant? Matt Walsh here in our approach, but what is circumcision? So who who wants this um I forget who won first last week, but is this a PG rated or PG thirteen rated show? Uh there's a is a physical cutting also part part of the use typical language, you should be fine. The physical cutting off of the of the foreskin of of of a man or a boy, um uh specifically. And if you don't know what a man or a boy is, then you are on the wrong And I mentioned Matt Walsh, so yeah, watch his movie. Dictionaries are called make sure it was published at least ten years ago in the dictionary. Right. That is that is that is a cutting, it does involve blood and it was commanded to be done eight days after every boy is born in uh Israel or a originally it's children Okay, we have just a small clarification. We're talking about the biblical circumcision. There is a lot of uh African Muslims that actually do female circumcision that is not at all biblical and it has nothing to do with God's uh promise. And even the the uh circumcisions performed on males today a lot of people will choose to do maybe for medical reasons. Or, you know, tradition, family tradition, cultural reasons, whatever. The w the way they do the procedure now, my understanding is it's not precisely exactly what was happening, you know, 2500 years ago Uh the procedure is a bit different. Uh outcome has similarities obviously, but it's not it's not precisely the same thing. So for what it's worth I throw that in. But yeah, I think Imran's point of clarification is hugely important. So and what was the point? Like why why would there need to be this cutting of the foreskin? Well it it Seems that there there's uh several times God says he wants to make uh the children of Abraham a peculiar people. He wants to make it obvious and clear who who is his is and who is not. And that's one sign where you can you can tell. And I'm now I don't know. That that's an interesting question, right? It's not like people are going around undressing for each other when they meet strange So how are you gonna tell right away if somebody's of the circumcision? But I think it is it it was something that was commanded to to be able to separate um Abraham and then by extension Israel Israel or the children of Israel from the rest of the world. I think yeah, Ned, I think there's a whole lot going on there with uh with why why circumcision uh uh in particular I I think there's elements of um uh I think there's elements having to do with like uh like like procreation right like so your the your your children uh are coming from this part of you in essence right as a as a male Um I think there's elements of like the the man is the is the representative head of the family and so that's why It was the males that that were receiving circumcision. Um I I think it also even goes back to uh um back to Eden in that when there was sin, there was an and there was a realization of of uncovering and exposure. Uh right, so they they realized they were naked. Right? They realized that they were not covered. Um and so then I think there's also connections to uh you know language that has to do with uh um with covering, right? You know, like uh like Jesus uh being our like he he is our our covering, right? Uh because of our our sin, right? And so um so I I think in some ways right like the the circumcision um yes like it th there there's a whole lot of things that are that are instructive about it and that God's you know God's people beginning with Abraham are being are being reminded of and And and you know, every every day. I like that background. I think that's there's there's a lot there I agree with. And I would point out too, regardless of where you come down on the um religious reasons, if there remain any as a Christian to be circumcised, if there remain any, which which we're kind of discussing here, regardless of that, I do think there is a lot of data that supports the idea that medically and health wise it is a good idea uh to be circumcised. There's there's been some studies about, you know, significantly significantly less uh rates of cervical cancer, for example, among um women married to circumcised men. Um and a number of other, you know, uh cleanliness and sanit sanitization type of uh um possibilities that uh and this is kinda what I feel about a lot of the old covenant commands, you know, w the the food laws, for example, pork is generally not as healthy as beef for you know, as an example Um it's due to a a number of reasons, you know, uh and so a lot of what God commanded Israel to do is this is to separate Israel and it's to make it clear Europe my chosen people and also to show you you love me and and you're obeying what I tell you to do and so on and so forth, but it also happens to be good and healthy to do. And I think there is some merit to that. I mean God designed the human race, he designed all of us and he should know what's good and healthy for us and you know the things about like wash your hands after touching a dead body and all that is these are great things to do. You can't you shouldn't just say oh this ceremonial well we shouldn't have to do that. Don't wash your hands. Washing your hands is a good thing to do. So there's that aspect to it and I think uh you could come to the conclusion as a believer that whether it has anything to do with uh religious reasons or not, it's probably good to continue the pack. So that's the last question you had in the beginning, Troy. Is it best to continue? And I would say yes, regardless of where you end on the debate about circumstances And before we head down that path too stridently, I want to add one more um element that I'm surprised hasn't come up yet, and I to me I think it's an important aspect of what's going on. When we talked about last week with covenants and um you know cutting a covenant and uh oftentimes blood being involved in the uh entering into an covenantal agreement. And so there's a there's this bloody uh ritual, if you will, that is a sign of the the covenant. So there's that. And there's a both and on the symbolism with the cutting off of the foreskin. On the one hand we talk about uh I think both David and Daniel uh made mention about being set apart uh as God's people, separated from the other nations. And so the the there's some Symbolically, there's this cutting off of the foreskin, is you're being cut and cut off and set apart as a holy people unto God. But there's also the covenant sanction that's implicit So it's a both end. So it's a I think it's a really intricate sign that we have. I think what also ties into that is the eight-day aspect as well. Okay. So that ties into the being separated from God. Right, so we don't know exactly what day Adam and Eve sin, but we get the description of the first week and then the next thing is Adam and Eve sin. Right. So they're separated from God. So we'll just call that the eighth day. And then we also have uh right, like Jesus completes his leak, he rests on the Sabbath in the grave and then he rises on the eighth day, the first day of the new week. And so in that same sort of along the lines of what you were saying, Troy, like it the even the eighth day after aspect points towards both the separation from God and the uh the being set apart for God. So that's the voice of David Forcey, and you're about to hear the voice of uh Daniel Rasby on Troy Skinner, and in a moment I'm sure you'll hear from Imran Rasby as well. to pay you back on that and wh why the eighth day? Obviously there's many spiritual reasons which you just outlined, uh David, and there's also happens to be a medical reason. If you were gonna pick a day in in your life to be cut there is no day that you have more vitamin K in your body naturally than the eighth day of your life because you were born with you had some extra from the from your mother and you're starting To produce and the body overproduces so that on the eighth day you have a surplus of vitamin K and then you shut down the production to lower back down to normal levels so you have better clotting ability on day eight of your life than pretty much any other time in your life. So I designed that on purpose, right? This is not by accident. Yeah. We have an intelligent designer. And just on the uh Uh I I I think it's an important uh thing to keep in mind. You you're kind of saying this before, Daniel, is that um right, like the the more that we the that we learn the more uh what God has already said is is supported, right? And so it's not like I I I would say, you know like Like you you can you can start from okay what's the healthiest thing to do? Let's do that but ultimately right like we should start with saying okay what is just what does God say to do sure and And you know, if it ends up being healthier, great. Yeah, I I find it very interesting also that a lot of times people forget there are two aspects. There's aspects of the flesh, an aspects of the the of spiritual and we have to look at it from both directions and God does things that are both spiritual and related to the flesh because he he is both and many times we will miss one or the other and you know, I've got a friend that everything is spiritual. Nothing in the flesh matters at all even. And I think that's taking it a little bit too far because I think it has it for both. But we are in a spir spiritual battle and there are spiritual things that we have to be aware of. And the circumcision does that have a spiritual so when Jesus came he clarified in the circumcision of the heart now not of the flesh, does that eliminate the the need? And and a lot of people will say, oh it was replaced by baptism and maybe we'll get into that. But that's a very common thing to say is well baptism is the new circumcision. So you do need to be baptized. It still doesn't save you because if you get saved and then you die before you get baptized you still go to heaven. It's not the bapt But you should get baptized to show outwardly that you have joined the chosen people, the the God's people, right? Um and you know, whether you call yourself the new Israel or or Or just the church or whatever it is, you've you've joined this new covenant and the outward showing of that is baptism. Now that's a physical thing that you're doing. Um and So they say, well, this is instead of circumcision. But both circumcision and baptism, they're outward showings of something spiritually that's happening. And you can get circumcised and not be saved, just like you can get baptized and not be saved. There are many people that have done that. Um and and so I I don't feel like either one of those is best to stop or do necessarily to their own end. And you have to focus on the heart. You are a child of God based on what your heart's relationship with God is, and these other things that are outward showings are are to show to the world, look, here what is what I am, I am a child of God. So d um to to clarify, um, because you've leaned in this direction a couple of times, I think it's time for us to kind of just burst through the doors and start going there. So are uh are you uh of the opinion of uh that circumcision is something that uh followers of of Christ must do? Uh must is is probably a Strong word. And I think if you come to Christ as an adult not having already been circumcised, there's definitely a passage that says, Are you are you are thou called being circumcised, seek or being uncircumcised, seek not to be circumcised It also says, are you called being circumcised? Seek not to be uncircumcised. And there were Jews, I think, at that time who were actively trying to repair uh the tissue to make themselves appear uncircumcised, and people still do that today probably with reconstructive surgery. So that it's not don't try to undo it or or do it specifically because of salvation. And I think that was that was the error of the the church early church in Acts fifteen, um talking about, you know, you must be circumcised. Unless you're circumcised, you're not part of us. And there and and there was some condemnation from the church fathers about that saying no no this is not about circumcision this is about the relationship with with Christ and and his blood is covering our uh us but the circumcision i is is somewhat irrelevant to that, but it is part, I would say, of what God asks believers to do. I think it is is But you're making a distinction between circumcision and baptism though, right? Because if I said uh followers of Christ must get baptized, your answer would be different, I think, wouldn't it? Yeah, maybe. Um uh uh again, it is a spiritual thing, whether you're circumcised in your heart or you're baptized spiritually, that is that is still a spiritual uh aspect that's the sp far more important. So I I don't quite as much. So you put it in the pastoral context, maybe this will help clarify what I'm trying to ask because I'm probably not asking it very well. Somebody new joins the church and they come from a you know distinctly pagan or Muslim background maybe or I don't know. Muslims do they circumcise their men? They would consider themselves children maybe. I know. Hindus, they I don't think they circumcise So somebody comes from a Hindu background, they join the church. congregation, one of the things I'm going to make sure is have you been baptized? And if they haven't been baptized, we're going to talk about, okay, well, if you're going to claim to be a follower of Christ, we've got to work towards getting you baptized. I I I can't even imagine. Uh it it's Daniel Had you been circumcised. But I guess you're saying you should ask that question if they have them, you should say, Well you need to get circumcised. circumcised but if it came to a discussion you might say like you know like when you have a when you have a an your next son like you should probably get him circumcised. Yeah that's basically what I would say is I'm I I I I I would have a conversation, I'd say, well you should pray about if God's needing to be circumcised. I think that was that was it's probably a godly thing to do, but it it is very clear, I would say, from scripture that it's not required uh to be a believer and yes you should be baptized. But I think it is clear when you have a baby that yeah, circumcise them. See now I I don't agree, but I know from body language, at least I think I know from body language that David also doesn't agree, so I'll give David I mean so the the the circumcision was uh it the circumcision issue in the in the New Testament church. Um like the that was like the the the tip of the the iceberg or or maybe just like the the name given to uh essentially like the the the the Judaizers right so the ones saying if you're going to be a follower of Christ you have to become a Which means you have to you have to be circumcised and you have to keep all of the law. Right. Right. And And and Paul I I think the reason why Paul cuts it off at circumcision, right, is he says, all right, he says like no, like you there's nothing else that you that you have to do in order to be a follower of Christ, right? But you have faith in Christ and that's and there's nothing you can add to it. Faith produces a desire and and and a yearning to follow God and to to do good works. And I think God has outlined for us in in in the Bible what He does expect of His people uh and and I I I don't believe that ever changed. So I think in fact even in Acts fifteen when James writes the letter and James they talk about they they bring all these things these things to to the church in Jerusalem and they say, What should we actually be circumcised? And they said, Okay, hold on, uh time out. No, you don't need to be circumcised in order to be saved. However, make sure you do these four things. From fornication, from things sacrificed to idols, uh from blood, and I think there was one more thing, but let's call it three things for now. Do these and you know then you'll you'll do well. And then he sends them away. Nobody's thinking that these are the only three he didn't even include doesn't even include murder in that list, right? So these are not the only three things you should not do as a believer or do as a Um right, so but what does he say as an asai, he's he's when he sends this letter, he says, because Moses is read every day in the synagogues Meaning these people they're now followers of of Christ. They're gonna want to know who Christ is and they're gonna learn the law and then they're gonna want to follow follow some of these things we because they love God so much, not because doing it gets them saved. But they are gonna hear and be discipled. But he's saying these I I I I get the impression that these are some specific contentious points that they were saying hey these people are eating food sacrificed idols and it's causing uh us to really appear to to to be worshiping demons and you need to kind of there there was a specific context we said they said we have uh and theft and other stuff. I I think abstaining for blood isn't abstain from eating blood, but abstain from violence. The the draw the drawing of blood. Maybe. All the other ones are um all all the other ones in the in the uh well I guess fornication wouldn't be either. Um so yeah it could could be. Could be. But it i there there is there certainly are more laws that that that Christians should follow besides whatever James put in that letter. And and he includes the phrase like because Moses is read every Sabbath in the synagogue a as if like that is relevant in the conversation. So I get the impression that he's expecting them to also learn other things about the law and then be convicted that they should be doing these things. So the point is that it doesn't save you and I think that was And I think we don't want to stretch that uh argument too far and say, because it doesn't save you, therefore never do it, because Paul even says in Romans, Now shall we sin the Lord So the grace may abound and God forbid. But what does he say next? I would not know what sin was except for the law. Well, if the law is of none effect, then who cares what the law says. But the law tells us what sin is, therefore the things of the law not doing them will be a sin. So I do think it is uh i i it is good and Then then we would also have to follow that by saying, okay, in the next chapter of Romans, he says we're uh We're we're we're we're dead to the law, right? The the law is like a a dead husband and now we're married to Christ. So what what does that mean, right? If we're no no longer bad to the law. Well we were a slave to the law. We're no longer slave. No, he d he doesn't use that language. He says slave to sin. He says uh and and then he then when it comes to the law he talks about the use of the marriage language New in other words like so so it's it's uh and and and maybe that is there, but uh just their right in Romans he makes that a distinction. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I mean it's the next chapter about the the marriage and a and death. Now she's loose from the law of her husband. And though that law no longer condemns us. We are we are free to to to be in you know married to Christ. Um now we don't get circumcised uh at any point in human history to be saved. So what was the point and purpose Well and that and I think that's that was the whole discussion is look circumcision didn't never save you. It doesn't now, it didn't before. Right forget about it. But it has a role, it has a purpose. It's not just separation. Separation and and and c clear distinction of who is the child of God. Well think about this. It's it's separation. And and as we talked about it, you don't walk around naked. So how does anybody know the child circumcised or not. But I think a woman would know if she's gonna lie with a man, if she's married, you're gonna know if this is a Jewish person or not a Jewish person, right? Is this a man from Abraham or not from Abraham? And so I think that was a separation really for the creation of uh progeny of the children of the of the generations. That's really what the circumcision was for, to keep the race pure, to keep keep them uh it's really tied to the law, but it never really saved. It was a separation. And uh we're uh and it's it's said over and over again that that never saved us the VMware there was a separation. But now we don't need to do that because I think there's no you can, but that's not going to save you because it at that point And all this other stuff about Jesus dying for your sins and stuff, it doesn't count unless you're circumcised because it's only for the circumcised. It said no, it's not it's for the Jew and We're gonna have to you know continue this conversation next week so there's so much more that that really needs to be said, and uh we'll see. We're gonna be also talking about whether or not the Holy Spirit and dwelled the Old Testament says the way they do the new Tesla stands, but that might have to even wait another week. I don't know if we'll get to that next week either. So I think we've uh Sh must, we've all agreed it is not a must, but whether it's a strong should or whether it's irrelevant has it been replaced. My point asking the question I asked a minute minute ago was I think that the that separation is tied to the covenant and this this circumcision is a sign and a seal of uh that that separation and that covenant. So that that's what I was driving at will pick up that thread on Next week's show. Imran Razby, Daniel Razby, David Forcey. I'm Troy Skinner. This has been the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find us online at householdthefaith in Christ. com and WFMD. com. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless. I don't know what the heck that is. Yeah there's a lot that was left on said. Do you agree that we should do you didn't say a whole lot yet? Uh it was mostly me and David talking. Yeah, I think there's I think there's a lot more Yeah. You haven't said what you really think? No Uh uh. I've been I've been I've been I've been picking at the premises because I think we have to That's how you get to get to your conclusions. Um one thing I I think we definitely need to talk about is uh okay. So the law the law is good like like Paul makes that super clear like he keeps going back and saying the Romans like like no like the law is good it does good things Uh like it like there's nothing the law isn't bad because it shows us sin. It's not uh right, it's not it's not bad because Because Christ has come now. Um so I I think it's important we we at some point have to talk about okay like so what what What is he talking about if it says the law? Right? Because I'll I'll draw a hard line and I I think we all would and say like okay like there's no need for for priests and tabernacle and sacrificial system. Uh I don't think that's at all what Ezekiel's referring to, but there is a temple and and that would be an abomination. And whether that's the end times or not, like the question is what about now? Oh sure, but I'm gonna jump back in because this is probably for the show. Not just for the stream. You're important, but you'll get the you'll get it either way. Just no bonuses this week. Yeah, well bonus material. Good day to you. Thanks for spending part of your precious time with us here on the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household. the Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. And uh Imron Rowsey is going to jump in. And Troy wants to know between last week and this week, did you get circumcised? I think that's what you call projection. I think Imron wants to know. Asking for a friend. That's it. Anyway, we're off to a rip roaring start already. You've been drinking. What's in that water bottle right there? If you were on an ice week show, you heard us talk about circumcision and we swear Yeah. That's Daniel Razi jumping in and you know, uh he had an accidental pun last week. Nobody said anything. There was an accidental pun that David Forcy had last week Uh he said something about the and that's why uh the Apostle Paul cut it off right there. But he also talked uh earlier about uh about um he used the word tiff for some reason. And I thought that was an unintentional pun. But he was he was making such a serious point I didn't dare guffaw or interrupt. So yeah, I mean if if you can't have fun talk about circumcision, you're never gonna have fun So we I talked about briefly my opinion on the thing and we didn't really talk about either Troy or David's opinion on this. So Troy you didn't talk that much last time, so Can you go ahead and give us a question? I make a brief statement. I am curious what is your what is your opinion that's a good idea. By the way, let me just reset real quick because we we started a new show and this is the second week on the same topic, so I've we've got to just reset just a little bit. So we were talking about uh covenants two weeks ago and uh circumcision something the Christians should do because in his mind we need to be obedient to that uh uh command, that that law in the Old Testament. Yeah, and David wasn't necessarily seeing he was picking at the edges of uh there were a lot of uh undergirding premises behind the comment uh and views that Daniel was putting forward and David wasn't attacking the argument directly he was he was kind of going after some of the premises So I knew that David was disagreeing. I wasn't sure exactly what his disagreement points were going to be, but he and I are going to be kindred spirits to a certain point. But based on the the uh Uh attack on the premises that David made, I think we might disagree for slightly different reasons. So I'll be curious to hear what David has to say, and then I'll jump in because I might disagree with Both uh Daniel and Daniel. You see Daniel and Daniel. Oh Daniel and David. I'm gonna disagree with Daniel twice. I'm doubling down on disagreeing with Daniel. Um but I think Kim Ron for the most part agrees with Daniel's position. So and he was most vociferous last week, and so he's kind of He's the representative for that side of the argument and now we're gonna hear David's side of the argument. Well, uh I mean again, I I don't think it's making an argument like a you know, we can It's a it's a it's a pretty uh long and involved discussion. Uh but I I think where I where I land is that um circumcision uh is a is a fine thing to do. Um I I do think there is some that value there uh uh i in that it is a uh a reminder of our our uh our family ties back to Abraham. Right, so uh in that Like I'm I'm saved the same way that Abraham was, which is by faith. Um right, like I'm and and Abraham was circumcised many Like years and years and years and years and years after it his faith was counted to him as righteousness. Right as he as as you track through Genesis. And so um but it is it is a reminder to to me of and I think not like like there it's good to have um family culture, family traditions, right? Like in in the broad sense. And I think this is it that circumcision is a good uh household of uh not not household of Christ like your your house church was but household of Christ as in like the people of God family sort of tradition to remind us that uh that we that that we are children of abraham right because of our our Faith in the uh the the same the same God, right? So for you there are more reasons to be circumcised than just because it medically must be be healthier. Yes. Okay. But you would would you counsel against getting circumcised if you if the person is doing it because they are convicted it's part of the law and they should be following that. Oh yeah, a hundred percent. I'd say if you if you think if you if if there's any if there's any part of you that thinks that circumcision is uh like adds to your salvation no no no in the sense of being more saved or no no I I and I'll agree with you there. Right. If that's the reason that you would do do it then definitely don't. But um I about in between that. So if if I were to tell you a you know I'm let's say I I I come to you as a as a in your church and I say Pastor, you know, I'm I got saved. I'm I'm not I was not circumcised, but I I know that it has no bearing on my salvation, but I am convicted that I want to do what God wants of me, just in general. is a thing to do, so can I do that? Yeah. I I I would because I would say lest you know, especially if you're a new Christian, lest you know, this possibly at all be a confusion for you or cause you We should be circumcised now. I'd I'd say like I'd still say, you know, I think that's kinda weird. I don't think you need to do that. Um but I but I would say like if you you know if you have a a A son, right? Like if you father a new son, I I think that would be a fine thing for you to go ahead and circle Similar to what I said. New family tradition in a sense. Right. Yeah, I mean I would agree with you in in some for example, circ being circumcised or not being circumcised is not a sin. It's a separation. It's a desire to be part of Abraham's family, to be separated. Okay? So on that note, if somebody came to you and said, Hey I I You know, I just got saved a month ago and I've been convicted to follow what God's commands are and He says I d I shouldn't steal and I want to stop shoplifting 'cause I've been shoplifting all my life. Obviously that's a sin. So you say, yeah, you should not do that. Yeah. Okay. That's sin. But w outside of the the obvious sins, you know, God recommends some things. He says you should do this, you should do this, you should do this. It's not a sin. He doesn't say one way or the other. Why would you counsel somebody say a God said we should Right, it's not a sin. Hey, like You know, like less less you can use uh so on that was there anything else that's not a sin that you would count somebody against, not doing that as traditionally done in uh Israelites. Yeah, prob probably everything. I mean I I would say okay like you know like is it sin? Stop doing it. Like So how do you determine whether it's a sin? What what is your metric for determining whether a command that was given at one point to somebody in the Bible is a sin versus a command only for that person or group at that time. Um because if you look at the the book of Leviticus for example You got, you know, sacrifice this bull, and then the next verse is, you know, don't sleep with your sister, and then the next verse is, you know, this and they're they're very what you might call obvious Obvious things versus more obvious ceremonial topic. Like they're all mixed in. It's not easy to just say, hey, this chapter is about this topic and this chapter is because people I've seen people try to say, oh, the ceremonial law. But it is kind of all mixed in so what is your metric for determining whether something is Yeah I mean it it is and it isn't like they're they're pretty clear like sections. Um there are some sections where it it does seem like there's a like there's like here and and here's like a little random list of other things, right? Like but that's there's maybe maybe one or two two of those. There's not many of those at all. Um yeah I mean I I I think I mean I think it comes down to pressing in to Yeah, like it's uh you know, like we need to we need to press into the law and say, okay, what are the wha what what do these things tell us about God's character and how does that you know, what does that mean for you now? Like, so I have a I have a different context to put on it and it's different spin and this maybe maybe you're gonna cut me off Troy and tell me Maybe you're gonna say stop and we'll we'll we'll handle this in another uh episode. But I do think it's relevant because we have on our list I know they talk about different different worldviews as far as guilty or shameful or or fearful, you know, as far as ye ha how you view salvation and and and how they are they're all actually roots of all those things, there's uh different aspects of salvation are emphasized more depending on your culture. And I would say in the West we're very black and white here. Everybody has na a natural desire if you're with Raised in the West, usually you have a natural desire to you this needs to be either right or wrong. There's no in between. And God's gotta tell me what to do or what not to do. And it's gotta it can be either one or the other. It can't be both, can't be halfway in between, there's no one exception. Whatever, we want it to be black and white. And we understand there's things that aren't black and white, but it annoys us when that happens, right? We want it to be very clear what you should always do in certain situations. I guess I'm not a Westerner. Guilty is either guilty or not. But I live in the gray. I I yeah. But more so but more so, you know, you want if we think of thing we think of things in terms of right or wrong. Is it a sin or is it In the East, they think of things in terms of um purity and not being defiled or dirty and and and and and embarrassed um and shameful is how they would call it. Right uh is what they would call it. And and so it's a lot of those ceremonial things, it's all about being clean, being pure, being um wash, those types of things. That's the it's not that it is wrong per se as as a sin. It's not that you need to be punished because you didn't do this. It's because you're dirty and you feel filthy. It's kinda like if you if you You get covered in all this bacteria in the sewer and all this and you feel like, ooh, icky, I I need to get this off. You're not gonna go to hell 'cause you didn't get it off You really feel like you should get this. at least one, if not a couple of shows, just to that, you know, honor, shame, uh guilt, innocence, you know, that sort of a thing. Uh that's where I would I would fall on it. But this kind of relates to just on that note and a little bit of advertising just a couple of weeks we're we're having a conference that uh those that may be interested may reach out to us. Yeah, you can reach out to us if you want. This is one of the things that's in on my uh heart to to talk about and So if you have more uh in fact I'm writing a book on the subject, I I really uh have a heart for unifying believers from different cultures and and and learning from each other on how we interpret the Bible based on that but the the reason I brought it up and I know it's a very much longer topic Troy but the reason I bring it up is that's kind of how I view circumcision and a lot of the other ceremonial laws, the cleanliness law Right. So you're saying somebody who's uncircumcised as a male is unclean. More than they're in the sin. Not in sin. It's just you you want to be more pure because then I would kind of put you in that category. Kind of like washing your hands, kinda like eating the right foods and and those types of things There actually certainly are medical health aspects to it, but I don't mean physical health. I mean like spiritually you you you feel more clean uh uh be before God that way, you have the right clothes on. No, you're in the wedding feast with the right clothes on. And it's not it's not just that Jesus paid the penalty and the punishment for all your sins, he also covered us and made us clean in him. So anyway. Um just wanted to reset real quick. As uh I was waving to get David's attention and I interrupted uh Daniel's flow of thoughts. I apologize. But since we paused anyway, uh that was Daniel Rasley just sneaking, uh sneaking in a plug for their uh conference or event they have coming up Well if you go to conquered by love. org you can get their contact information information and so you could find out uh what's going on with that. So that was uh Imran Razby who was uh chiming in on that. And I do want to pivot to David uh Forcy and get his reaction to what Daniel was just saying about the not about honor shame because that's a whole separate but about the the clean unclean versus you know sin not sin like I would disagree. Do you disagree that somebody who's not circumcised is unclean Uh so so I I I think I think there's um a lot of this that has to do with The the the individual and their um the it I I don't know if I want to say like the you know, what their particular what their particular faith struggles are right so um you know like I would also tell somebody if they are uh if if they are you know you know, an adult male who wants to get circumcised, I would also I would say, Hey, you're not sinning by being circumcised and you're not sinning by getting circumcised unless unless you're doing either one for the wrong reason, right? So so I I I think that's uh like that's a that's a that's That's actually a big part of the conversation, which is which is why I would say, you know, like I brought up, like, are you a new believer? Like, you know, like you you should give this some thought for a while and make sure that you are not wanting to get circum circumcised because you think that will add to your salvation or keep your salvation or whatever. Right, right. So so somebody who's been a believer for a really long time, you know, uh m my conversation might be different with them, you know. But again it's gonna depend on you know, okay, what what are you know, me asking them of like what are your thoughts? Like why do you want to do this? Like what does Does it mean to you? You know, and then my counsel would would vary based on that. And that's probably a good uh a good uh generally a a good way to follow it. In fact I think we may be in some agreement because I I I think I mentioned last week something to the effect of I might not push you to hey you need to be circumcised, but y you I might recommend that you circumcise your kids, for example, as they as you get born. Um that that then I know you you wouldn't even qu quite go that far, but you would you would you just mentioned a few minutes ago that's much more reasonable and less weird to you to say, hey, as a Christian I decide I'm gonna circumcise my boys, not just because it's healthy but because there are good spiritual benefits from it. Uh uh but uh again having nothing to do with salvation. Again it it's a dedication of your of your family to to God So this family is following God and we're we're giving some kind of outward and and a lot of people would do would view infant baptism as a similar um thing to that. And maybe maybe I was I was uh in a roundabout way giving back to okay, I w I would really wanna know from someone and and have a conversation with about them. Okay, what what do you mean by clean? What do you mean by feeling clean. Right? Like why why is it that that makes you feel unclean? Why do you have a desire to feel clean, right? Is it Right, and if it's just that you want to feel clean, right, are you are you making your uh uh are you making your feelings right the the ruler of your decisions here, right? Like if that is the the sense of things. So that does that does that make sense that that's that that's my wrestle there. Right. But and the thing is that's kind of what I'm getting to as far as the way people think of clean and unclean in the West versus the East. It's it's it's more deep than just like a feeling of being clean. It's it's kind of wrapped up in your identity. You are more clean or or l less clean by doing certain things or not doing certain things and it's not just on a spiritual level, there are physical aspects to it. Um but that what you just said right there is actually strikes at the core what my big concern would be, actually If if if they're if they feel more clean, more presentable before God, spiritually, physically, because they do that, you know, if righteousness comes by the law then Christ died in vain. I mean right so doesn't make you more righteous righteous before God. Yeah but I have to really toy if if at all makes you feel cleaner than you're saying that Jesus is dying did not make you clean. That's really all that makes you clean. There's nothing else that can add to it. And if That's what the issue. See, I'm I'm gonna be a little bit different in that. I'm gonna say, well, I would like to know more about this person that I love. This God that loves me so much that he died from me. I want to know more. What is he like? What is he dislike? And how can I be more pleasing to him? Is circumcision going to be more pleasing to him? Maybe, maybe not. Uh why did he say That you should have it circum have you should be circumcised before and now in in Romans and Paul says you shouldn't be circumcised. Is it because God changed his mind? Does he change? Or is it because he's saying no Circumcision was to separate the Israelites from the rest of the uh make them to show them that they're holy, they're separate and and and different. And that's not a requirement to be saved. Jesus blood covered all and that didn't have anything to do with it. But if you love me, you you should do my commandments. And I commanded you should It has nothing to be safe. Yeah, I mean I would I would I would have difficulty saying that there's a commandment uh to be circumcised circumcised. Um I was other than the Bible saying it's a commandment to be circumcised? Well this is kind of what you said to me last year. No I don't I don't know that it it does. Um I I you know you'd also have to go of like why does Paul say neither circumcision nor uncircumcision is anything, but only circumcision of the heart. So so let me yeah let me concede a point for the second time and this week. Um and let me clarify, I think uh I I chose my words in uh not very carefully uh about queen of Unclean. Uh I do agree fully that Jesus uh blood and washes us and makes us totally and completely clean. Right. Okay. One of the ways that we are are there's a physical representation of being clean that goes along with that, just like there you know, baptism is a washing, right? You're you're washing so circumcision I view in that same sort of um vein, it is a physical representation of a spiritual truth that has already occurred. Um so that's not it's not that it makes you more or less clean, but it is it is a an outward showing of being clean and there's a lot of other purity type laws that show that in the Old Testament. Um and I I think those are very important a they're i i they're important in a different way than than what you would call sin uh rules or rules about sins and things and and I think that that's the kind of the Eastern versus Western mindset that they view them as important not for the same reasons. But again, you're you are washed in the blood of Christ. That is what makes you clean. I'm not sure what I'm saying. Before you go into that, I just wanted to Clarify. Genesis uh seventeen verse ten it says, This is my covenant which ye shall keep between me and you and thy seed after thee, every man child and ye He shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be a token of the covenant betwixt me. So it's a command. It's not a suggestion, it's a command. Abraham. Right. Right. So of of physical lineage. Thou and I see it after the in their generation. So would you say then that a uh ethnic Jew who becomes a Christian But had never been circumcised because their family was so secular, they never did that, should now be some become circumcised because he is uh genetically of that seed in Abraham? Because it does say for you and your generations Uh no, I wouldn't. So then what is the point you were making then? Uh because I I think I think this ties into the the New Covenant, and I think that's part of what the is meant with the New Covenant, right? In Christ's blood, uh is there's um it is the in in essence there is uh an undoing and and and also right like we read in you know as as Paul is sort of fleshing out what it means to be a a Christian now. Like all all are children of Abraham, circumcised or not. And so now there's it like there's there's no longer that lineage physical lineage uh distinction anymore. Again I agree with you, it's not not a uh a it's not uh it's not gonna save you but I wanna come continue reading. It says and he that is eight days Shall be circumcised among you, every man-child in your generations, he that is born in the house, or bought with money of any stranger which is not of thy seed, he that is born of thy house, and that is born And the circumcised man, child, whose flesh of his four ten is not circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people. He hath broken my covenant. So it is actually a command. You said it wasn't a command. It is a command. Right, but not to us Okay. And we'll grasp it into the seed of Abraham. But but if you take everything that you just read, you would have to say that unless A Christian today, and I think this is what the Jews were struggling with, right? Is they read that and they said, Well, what if you become a Christian, right? Unless you get circumcised, you are going to be cut off, right? You are you're not in Christ, right? And and that's a New Testament struggle that Paul resolves. But I again I would agree with you in that it is not going to save you But if God commanded it, then why not do it to please him? Not to be saved. Because good Jesus already saved you. It's a question of to whom did he command it. Well, but it sa it does say you and your generations Everlasting. So again, if if it's about whom did he command it, that that covenant that God is making is everlasting. Right. The the sign of the circumcision is the sign of the everlasting covenant, not that circumcision I think there's another show coming up on this topic. Um the last book you heard before mine, well well the one that wasn't laughing that you heard before mine Mine was Daniel Rasby. The one you heard laughing was David Forcey. Also heard Imran Rasby. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Thanks so much for spending part of your valuable time with us. Do not take that for granted appreciate it very much. If you want to connect with this show on podcast or any of the other shows we've done, the easiest way to do that is go to household of faith in Christ dot com Everything involved with the ministries I'm involved with, including this show, are linked to there. So until next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless. I'll do this as quickly as I can. Hold on a second. Oh Yeah, I I when I when I saw the thing I I thought we might spend more than more than one shows on this. Well I can't probably gonna be the whole evening just about throw competition. That's totally fine. Yeah. I think I mentioned So these are all kind of related topics. Alright, let me uh go back I so it's gonna take me like thirty more seconds. Anybody need this rust or anything like that? How many more shows do we have? Five? I think there's only two. We still have three. I was hoping I was hoping to get five. I was hoping to get five done, but no. Uh it's about eight thirty now. I if if we were to somehow be able to squeeze two more we'd be done at nine thirty. Is that work or is that too late? That's fine. That's fine for me. Okay. Save my seven, that's okay. Um We're we're all mature enough to handle that not being able to have the last word. If we forget something, it's okay. Our salvation is unaffected. I'm still saved. Whether or not David agrees with you about being circumcised I'm just gonna maybe I'll bring it up in the show if it comes up. But um on uh the cleanness thing is interesting. Um because uh I think that the reason for the clean like the rituals having to do with cleanliness in the Old Testament were to remind you that you are never clean You're always unclean. You always need cleansing. Right? So that's that's so so not the the the point wasn't so that I can be clean. But the point is never gonna be I'm always dirty. And you're never gonna be no and that's the whole that's the whole doctrine of original sin. And that's why it's part of my own. So if some if somebody said like I want to get circumcised so I can feel clean, I would say like you're never gonna be clean. Don't even do it then And that's why I said I I I s I'm sorry, that's that was a very poor choice of words I I fully concede that. You were totally right. I'm I'm uh wrong in insofar as that was the understanding of what I was saying. Um I came across This is a faith debate. Thanks for spending part of your day with us. I appreciate it. My name is Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. Online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com Joined this week by Imran Razby and Daniel Razby. They co-pastor a church called the Church that meets at Imran's House, and you can find them online at concordbylove. org And David Forcey, another pastor in the area of a of a house church, it meets in different locations depending on who wants to host that week. So maybe he's gonna be meeting near you someday soon. Who knows? He barely has any social media presence. So you've got to go to my website probably, contact me, and then I will get you in touch with David if you're so inclined. We've been talking the last few weeks about covenants and the last two weeks specifically about the covenant of circumcision I really was thinking that the discussion on covenants wouldn't take a full show and we would begin to talk about circumcision pretty quickly and then we would need at least a show and a half to talk about circumcision. We ended up needing a full show to talk about covenants and still left a lot of stuff on the table. There's a lot more to be said, but we limited ourselves to one show and we've needed more than one and a half shows on circumcision because now we're entering the third show on circumcision specifically. So uh who knew? Huh? This is is there is there anything that you wanted to go back to with with Covenants? Oh well not not right now. Because we've got too much momentum and energy going on the circumcision side. A lot of the things are There's so many accidental puns, doesn't I say so many things being fleshed out uh as as a result of this conversation. Before that before we get to that. Yeah. That's the voice of Daniel Razby by the way, and the voice before that was David, so you can know the players. David said something off-air which I think was very very interesting and very good. No, it was it was great. Because we talked a lot about cleanness and the idea of some of the laws being about sin and some of them actually being more about being clean and and and those are two different concepts we don't want to mix them up so much but but uh and and and somebody might feel that they should be current circumcised in order to feel more clean and I I chose that word very badly last time and and inquired that could be a sometimes a good thing. It's not a very good thing. You're not gonna be queen because of that. You've got queen only in the blood of Christ. But what you said off off air, David, is something about The whole purpose of the clean new laws, yeah. Right, yeah, and that's why like that's why they were over and over again kind of things Right. So that's you wash yourself again. Right. Again. Because you're you're you're always unclean, you're always dirty. And in that right, like you're always sinful, right? Yes. I I i coming back to the cultural differences, people from the East I think often have an easier time with the concept of original sin than people in the West do. The because they're they they can grasp the concept Well because of the way I was born or the because of the way of my ancestors I'm always dirty, I'm always in a bad spot because of Adam. Well you get offended. How dare you say that I should be punished for something my grandfather did? That wasn't me. I shouldn't it even says in the Bible Because those cultures are becoming kind of meshed together with evil So that's that's one of the which is a good struggle between those you know. So so that that's good thing. But I agree that's the whole point of the being clean, it's it's the the At the same time, those other things to to to clean ourselves show out And I think I see you nodding your head, you at least agree in in sp 'cause some of the words can include person. Well one one thing that uh you know came to mind when uh David was talking is you know what's really interesting is when some Someone in Israel was unclean. They were separated from the body of believers or the Israelites till the evening, right? They ha they but they came back at the end. So it's it's like It's sort of like, yes, we're all unclean until Jesus came and cleansed us, and now we can re enter the body uh as belie of believers. Right Yeah. So Troy, can you uh lay out for us what your thoughts on circumcision are? Yeah, well th there's a number of things that have been said that I would uh I would agree with. And uh we can code the show in the other. I think it'll become clear what things those are without me having to spend time rehashing them because, you know, we only have so much time on this show. Uh until the day that they expand and let us have like four hours a day Right, we can just unpack these things for hours on end every single day, which would be like a dream come true as far as I'm concerned. So if you're listening, you want to donate to that, I'm sure we can buy four hours of time. I kinda like the name of that. That's um there's so many things that that interestingly we've done two full shows on this topic and there's certain things that haven't been said that I would have expected to be said like early on, so that's kinda surprising. So yeah, well let me say I I'm not sure if this is one that I would have expected to be said right away, but I think it it's something that helps tie some things together. Um again getting back to the idea of covenant and covenants having a sign. Like the the Noahic covenant, the sign is the The rainbow, right? We have these signs that go with the covenants, um, generally speaking. And the sign from the covenant with Abraham, the promise made to Abraham, the sign of that covenant God was making, um, is the sign of circum circumcision. I would argue it's the sign and seal for uh the the we don't like the word old the the the the Hebrew history of God's people uh and I think we have a sign and a seal for the Greek uh text uh history of God's people as well. So that's I I just gotta use old and new from now on if that's okay, Imran. Iran's not a fan of the old and new but it's It's too convoluted. As David so everybody point out pointed out, those words are actually in the Bible, old and new. We might define them differently, but they are in the Bible, so we're not gonna So anyway, I I bring that up because the the sign of uh of the covenant, the the cutting off, and I mentioned this a couple of weeks ago, I think think it was a couple weeks ago, that there's uh there's kind of a a both and going on there. There's the you're you're cut off to be holy, and if you aren't gonna be my people, you're gonna prove to be adulterous then you'll be you'll be cut off in a negative way under condemnation. And so the cutting has a has a twofold significance, symbolic sympathy significance And I'm bringing that up again because that symbolic significance is fulfilled in the person of Jesus Christ at the cross. He is cut off from among God's people, takes the shame and the guilt of all God's people upon him and is cut off. And so there's that aspect of the sign and symbols circumcision that's fulfilled there at the cross. And of course then he's he's resurrected, demonstrating he has victory over all, including death. And so he's now representative of being the perfect Israel, the perfect people of God. And so I think the crucifixion of Christ is the fulfillment of the sign and the seal that are promised and talk about in the old testament. So I don't think that God changes. I think he's saying what was going on in the Old Testament is pointing forward to the cross of Christ and it finds its fulfillment there. And so now we have a new sign and see So this is why I was getting at a couple weeks ago when I said so would you say that a person who's a belief believer who wants to join your church, have you been baptized? And they say, no, well we need to work towards getting you baptized because as an obedient follower of Christ, you need to get baptized. If they say that they're uncircumcised, that's already been fulfilled with the cross in Christ. I'm not gonna shed any tears over it, I'm not gonna sweat over it. It's like I would say that if they want to get circumcised Whatever. I don't think it's a sin to get circumcised, but to David's point, these last couple of weeks, the motivation for wanting to is hugely important. And if they want to get circumcised for the wrong reasons, I'm going to counsel them not to. Um interesting to me anyway. Christian, you say, have you been baptized? They say, No, I haven't. You say, Well we need to, you know, we need to work at getting you baptized. What I'd probably say is why not? But anyway. Well that's by my first question. Why not? Maybe I'm not sure. I think the church's right response is all right, well we're gonna baptize you then. Right? Like if you haven't been baptized, you believe in Jesus? Okay, we're gonna baptize you then. And if the There's, you know, if they say no, I don't want to be baptized, well then there's more discussion, right? But I I say that because um because starting with Jesus saying go into the all the world and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them. Right. So I think that's a good thing. I would take a uh in practical s s situation like I would take a more laissez-faire approach because I don't want to be on the offensive saying we're gonna go get you baptized. I would like to see them come. Come to be baptized, ask to be baptized, require and instruct them on the importance of it and why it's obedient. And then they'll say, oh, well then I should adopt I shouldn't I? They don't. That's a test. Here's what I'm not so sure is uh is is biblical about that, right? Is because now there's we're saying okay like now you have to come to Jesus twice. You're almost saying like okay you you know you believed and and now you now you have So is that is that different then from your two year old that comes to you and says, Daddy, I'm a Christian now, I'm a part of J God's family because Jesus died for my sins and rose again And you're like, wonderful sweetie, I'm glad that you're part of God's family, because you don't want to burst her a bubble and but you're not you have some doubts in your heart of whether she fully understands what Yeah, I think so. Yeah. I uh that that's that's where I've moved more and more over the years is so you wouldn't wait until your sh Sure that they're genuine in what they're I there's uh to in in scripture I don't see there ever there ever being a time when And they say, let's wait until there's fruit of repentance before we baptize. I'm not so sure that you know the church over time for whatever reason got into the if you read church history, you see it People that became kind of junior partners uh in the body of Christ and they weren't baptized so they had to go through this initiation, this catechism, and sometimes that would go on for one, two, three years. It would go on for a long time to make sure they were with the real deal. Well, you know, and and I'd I if if your concern is yeah, we have to wait till we see all this Fruit and stuff. No, it's a matter of obedience. So if you're gonna say that Christ is your Lord and Savior, and we know that the sign and seal of that promise is baptism I'm gonna instruct so this is where I was going. I'm gonna instruct instruct them on the importance of it, and I'm gonna hope they're gonna have the reaction that the eunuch had with Philip and say, Oh well what's to keep me from getting baptized now? And then I'm gonna do it right then. I'm not gonna wait. schedule a time. Now if they were to s now if if if I I will say this, I would make this caveat. If they say I would like to get baptized right now, but I w this is such a momentous thing, could we do it this coming weekend's fellowship gathering so that my body of fellow believers can be there and my wife can be there because I'm I'm having coffee with you right now and I I would like my wife to be a part of the I think I'd be okay with that. Well I've I've also become more and more of the opinion that uh yeah so I I don't think it's like uh okay well we need to go in the bathroom and like throw some water on cold water on your face so that you know You know, if you die. Don't you know? Yeah, yeah. Um you know, I I my my thought is, you know, at the next available uh worship gathering opportunity I would agree with that. Right. So I would that's that's my thought. That's what I was trying to talk about now. Yeah, I mean that's physical baptism and this the spiritual baptism that Daniel bring up in a bit, but I I have a question too. There's a church that uh you know, I'm not gonna mention. It said, Well, I don't care if you've been baptized before, but you're gonna be baptized into our church. Yeah, I don't agree with that Yeah, I don't I don't buy that. Or you're making it like a I don't know I I I don't know the pastor that does Yeah and I can't be sure that they were uh you know uh having good doctrine and and beliefs about the the way they were baptizing and so I I need to make sure it's done properly. So let me read that again here now. Okay, so so so you say that, but but what about a Mormon that comes to you and he was baptized? In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, they said those words. Would you rebaptize him? I think the answer would probably be yes. Yeah. Uh huh. No, I wouldn't rebaptize him, I would baptize him for the first time. Okay. Sure. So so that's I think the this other what this other pastor was saying that I heard I I I I'm on your side, I disagree with him the way he was saying it anyway, but he would probably say, Well, how is that different? Because y you know, you you get I mean I you know I I think it's sound basically like is it you know like D did they do they believe in like the basic creed? Like, okay then. Yeah. But even having said all this, you all agree that baptism Is not gonna get you in heaven. It's the person who died for your sins. So whether if you get baptized or not is really not a relevant must-have or must have Right. No, I think it can be because I don't think that we're saved by uh knowing the right things or even doing the right things because Christ knows goes and does all the right things for us. However, if someone has such a hardness of heart that they are rebuffing every attempt to make disciples to train them up in the truth of God's Word and they just refuse to be teachable. That's a sign that they're actually they don't have the the the faith that they claim to have. If they're completely unteachable and you say, look, this is the sign and the seal of the thing you claim to have. And Christ is his word is telling us We need to do this. And you're going to say, no, thank you. Like that tells the an awful lot about the condition of where you are. At that point, they shouldn't be baptized because they're not a believer. That would be my opinion. I would do want to pivot that. By the way, let me reset the show. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner Uh the person who was closing that question was Imran Razvy. You've also heard David Forcey and Daniel Razvy chiming in as well. Let me finish my my thoughts on this and then then and if we need a fourth show on this topic, we can certainly do so. Come on Sure that some of the sure I'm assuming that some of the things I say might spark some need for uh further discussion. Um none of us have mentioned so far the examples of Timothy and Titus Which is surprising it hasn't come up yet. So for those who don't know, Timothy going back to circumcision. Yeah, uh Paul had two guys that were under his uh uh tutelage that were uncircumcised and he'd make a decision for each of them And he had reasons for both. In Timothy's case it was stole that because he was going to be speaking in a more of a Jewish context and he didn't want that to be a stumbling block. You know what? Let's remove that problem. Let's get you circumcised so that you can talk about the gospel and not get bogged down And with and with Titus it's because people were insisting that certain people needed to be circumcised, he's to make a point. He's like, you know what? Titus isn't going to be circumcised. And church history, I again it's not script But tradition anyway of church history is that Titus was never circumcised during his entire life. That's what we're led to to understand and believe, and he went on to be a rather prominent uh bishop, if you will, pastor a huge leader in the church. And so with Paul telling Titus to be sinful or to remain somehow in an unclean position, I those are interesting examples for And this has been the crux of David's point, but he didn't appeal to Galatians chapter five, which is surprising. But his appeal a couple weeks ago was if if somebody wants to get circumcised, but they want to do so for the wrong reasons, I'm gonna say no. And the reasons that I would say that's the right position to take as a pastor is because of what Paul writes in Galatians chapter five. If you think that you need to get circumcised in order to have uh more favor from God to uh add to your righteousness somehow, if there's some sort of requirement here that you need to do. If that's your motivation, you know what? Let's not just cut the foreskin Let's take the whole foot nanny off, right? Let's go for it. Let's castrate you, right? Let's let's emasculate you. Because if you think I'm I mean, even other than circumcision, right, this is with any any work right. If we think that we need to add anything to our salvation, we're saying you know, we we're not we're not trusting in Jesus for our salvation. We're trusting in Jesus Jesus plus which is no longer Jesus. Right. When we talk about you know adding to our salvation, I know that that that's a totally fine phrase, but I think a finer point on it is Adding to the work of Christ, right, who won for us our salvation. Right. You need to get circumcised so that Christ's work will be effective in your life. Like that's not the gospel. Right. So Well I mean that's a different point than we were talking about whether you should desire to be civilized. I mean in Galatians two it says But neither Titus who was with me being a Greek was compelled to be Now that's what the a lot of the Jews were trying to do, is trying to compel the new believers to be circumcised in order to make the th the Jesus saving race to be effective or whatever. So this is not a compelling. So we're we're talking about two different things. Uh and we're not saying you should be compelled to be circumcised, because obviously you shouldn't be. In fact or um argued against being compelled. But if you love someone, you want to please them, you do what they want, you do what they're asking you to do, like If I go to my Chinese friend's house, I take my shoes off. Is he gonna kick me out of the house if I don't take my shoes off then he won't serve me any tea? No. But I take my shoes off because I love him and I want to respect what he's at Is it a sin? Is it is gonna break my relationship? No. So it's not gonna make any difference in our relationship. Because of the plan made earlier about the the the sign and the seal of circumcision being fulfilled in the person and work of Jesus Christ at the cross, I think what God wants of his people is recognize that that's true So yes, you should be circumcised. And guess what? You are in Christ because you're in union with Christ and He is of the circumcised. He is the ultimate Israel and he is circumcised in a cosmic sort of a way in his death, burial, and resurrection. So I'm not sure. And so you need to trust in that and not on something that was part of a ceremonial aspect of the law. the old test. So I would say the same thing, but I'd throw it back on the uh subject of baptism. You know, you you are baptized in Christ spiritually. I mean what does John three say? He that is born of water and of the spirit. The water of birth was what was the coming out of your mother's womb. That was the first one The second one is a spiritual baptism. It's not a water baptism. You might get washed and kind of show people that you did the what's happening is the spiritual baptism. You're born of the spirit. That's the the whole the whole point. And so it is really just about the spiritual aspect that was done in Christ. So baptism just as much as circumcision is not about the outward, it's about the inward. But I guess my point is in the Old Testament, that's pointing ahead to the cross of Christ as well. And now it's pointing behind. Right. And so that circumcision that was taking place is this is the sign and the seal of what is hoped for. And that is now fulfilled. Glory glory. But if we keep Passover, well maybe i I guess you don't probably, but I keep Passover to remember what Christ uh did not only in Exodus, but also in Matthew, and also will be done in in the in the end. We're looking backwards to that same thing. But the baptism hasn't uh baptism is a sign and seal of what has been fulfilled. But baptism itself isn't what's fulfilled. You follow? Baptism is looking back. Circumcision is looking ahead. So what is looking ahead to something that ends up in the only be looking ahead? Why can't it be looking back? Why can't he be circumcised? Because he hadn't been crucified yet. He hadn't even walked the earth as a circumstances. Why can't you be circumcised now looking back? Because it it it symbolizes a time before Christ came. It symbolizes a a th the the burden of of separation from God which is So that you know, okay, uh new the new covenant in Christ is uh pretty much always tied to the the spirit, the coming of the Holy Spirit, right? And being united to to God by the spirit right spiritual baptism. Right. And so um so yeah and and and I you know again like that is sort of how how Paul talks about circumcision as well is it's it's you know no you're you're you're you're going backwards right looking backwards back is different Different from from going backwards. Right? From saying it's almost like saying, I live in a time when Christ has not yet come. That's what circumcis circumcision represents, right? Like for me it doesn't represent that. For me it represents looking back to the remote. Okay, well I'm I'm trying to say what does the Bible say it represents, right? Like we can think about it however I was saying that Paul is pointing out that People who think that that's what it represents are wrong to think so. That's not what it actually should represent. Uh it doesn't it doesn't represent uh uh you know, we are we're not going back we are looking back to what Christ did on the cross. When I say I'm circumcised, not only in the heart but in the flesh, then I I am I'm in in the uh a family of God, I'm part of uh his his family, I am a child of God because of what Christ did at Calvary. He not only died but He his blood was shed, he was ashamed and and insulted and beaten for us, and then he rose again and defeated death and conquered everything. And I'm remembering that. Because of that I get to say I'm a child of God, I'm in his family. Now I'm gonna act like it. So I'm gonna be doing the things that make it obvious that I'm part of God's family. So one of those things is circumcision, another one of those things is you know, the the the Ten Commandments or baptism and these other things that we do to symbolize, hey, we're part of God's family, so we're not taking the name of d the Lord in vain. Yeah, yeah, and and I I think it's important to say, okay right, but but what circumcision points to is a uh uh it it points to that that that is it Familial lineage uh belonging, right? And so the the big thing with the new covenant is right Hey, it's not just those who are of Abrahamic descent, but it's all those who are of a faith, whether they're of Abrahamic descent or not. And so now Now there are no outward physical markings to the body that that symbolize uh our connection to Christ is we do have a seal on the foreheads uh sometimes I'm talking about now I'm gonna let uh David and Daniel uh Uh Forcy and Razby respectively have the final word there. I'm Troy Skinner. You also heard this week from Imran Rasby. Follow us online at WFMD. com or Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Only shows end up making their way to podcasts as well. So if you're interested in This discussion on circumcision. We've done several shows. We're going to do one more next week on this topic as well. And that will happen about 167 and a half half hours from now. God bless. I don't know that there's a whole lot more to to fresh out that we haven't either convinced you in this area, but we've talked about all the relevant points, I think. Uh unless you think there's a lot that's that hasn't been said. Yeah. Well there's at w At least a couple of things I can think of that haven't been talked about and whether that'll spur more conversation. And if they don't, then we'll pivot into our uh uh Harry Potter. I think there's there's definitely more on baptism 'cause I think the Razvis believe more in circumcision than baptism. And he walks out now and the mic dropped Either baptism nor circumcision will save you. That you love the Lord your God until his commands. The stream's still going. Yes, it is. All right, that's good stuff. Uh I think that's more than That's there, that's there. So I'm gonna save the other three major topics obviously probably just for our next recording session because those will probably take at least five shows and we probably won't get That's the impression I get anyway. Yeah, we might be able to cover two of the remaining three topics in one more recording session, but some Only we will find out the ratio is not five. Yeah I don't think we can get to all three of those in one, but uh but it's I I think if we do a lot of qualifying up front, but They could be brief. Well the qualifying is it takes all the time. Well yeah. So uh all right, here we go. This is the Faith Debate. Thanks for spending part of your day with us here. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith Debate. in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Joined this week by David Forcy, Daniel Rasby, Imron Rasby. Uh if you want to connect with David, you've got to connect with me and I'll put you in touch with him. If you want to All four of us are pastors in the area and we've been spending the last several weeks now talking about the covenant of circumcision. This is like an old school moment for me. I've been doing this show for over twenty twenty years and it's been a while I think when we've gotten into the nitty-gritty down and the dirty on one topic for a a month at a time. Like this is a whole month now of shows on one subject. That's kinda cool to me. By the way, things can change and I'm not entirely sure I've got the calcul the uh calendar figured out exactly. But if things play out the way I think they're playing out, happy Mother's Day. Because you know I'm all about the m the Hallmark holidays. My life revolves around the Hallmark calendar. Uh so because I'm a good American. Circumcision. Circumcision. Well all mothers need to know are you gonna circumcise your babies uh or not? So anyway, so we've been talking about covenants in general and And then more specifically circumcision, this is technically the fifth show uh on the general topic and this specific topic of circumcision One of the things that I'd like to say that I haven't said yet, and I probably should have said earlier, obviously, we're all brothers in Christ. There's been some dis Disagreement, some rather firm disagreement on some some of the points of clarification on this topic. And yet I would argue that this fits squarely within the realm of what some people call audiophra. That's uh from the the Greek, I think it has to do with the inconsequential thing that aren't necessary for salvation. They're not the gospel. They're not gospel issues. And so we can have differing opinions about circumcision to a certain point and and have uh have no worries. I think the difference and to the certain point which is the very first And I try to get that out of the way right away. Circumcision doesn't save you, never did save you, can't ever save you, and it doesn't add to your salvation or make you more saved. And we have to agree on that, otherwise we don't agree on the gospel. Right. Um but then we can disagree on how important it is to be circumcised or even whether Christians should generally be circumcised um for other reasons than salvation, but uh but we we should agree on how you get saved and what that entails. Now we want to be in obedience to our Lord, right? We must be in obedience to our Lord. Right? as new creatures is to be in obedience. So I think it comes down to if you think that being circumcised is an act of obedience or not. I think that's where we have some disagreement here because I don't think that refusing to be bapti uh baptized will be a mark of disobedience. Refusing to be circumcised, I don't think is an act of disobedience, but I get the feeling that Daniel would think that it is, perhaps, and that Imran might agree. I I that's that's the sense I'm getting. I would it's a little harsh. I don't know if I would use the word disobedience. Oh, because you we were talking about command language. It's a command, it's still effective today, so if you disobey a command you're disobedient, right? It's a command in the clean uh clean, unclean, uh you know washing type area m more so than the than the thin the black and white you know right and wrong type uh of thing and and that's that's kind of what I was getting at in the different cultural understanding. Um Yes, it's a command, but you're not in sin for not doing it. It's just Oh well that bullet is a bowl can of worms for me. If it's merely ceremonial or nearly merely uh for a time or whatever That's one thing. But if in that context it's a command and you say no, well the the saying of no is a sin. Sure So uh it sounds like you would categorize it sort of in the same way that you would categorize like uh celebrating the Passover. So, right, like the Israelites are commanded to keep the Passover. throughout all their generations. And I'm an Israelite because I'm grabbing the tree of of Israel. Me too. Also also I happen to be of the seed of Israel and and Some of my uh uh mixers genetics genetically. But but that's not why I say I'm of Israel. I say you're of Israel because I'm grafted in as as a believer. Right, yeah. So grafted He said his heart was grafted in. He knows him better than we do, so I'll take his word for it. Right yeah. So uh you know, uh so I I do think that that begs the question. Right. So then like is uh I it sounds like you would sort of have this category of things that are um like good and helpful practices like that honor God. Right. They they honor well, right, if if you do them for the right reason. So um you know, so the same it and maybe like baptism Uh I I know your understanding of the Lord's Supper is it's just Passover. But it's not I was sort of I was saying that it's that it's commanded to do at Passover. You could also Okay, right. And there certainly is uh uh uh the implication in other parts of the New Testament that the church was also celebrating other times. But yes, definitely a pistol. same category of there they're really good things to do. If you don't do them, it doesn't mean you're not saved. Uh your silly sort of thing. is something you should do would be the weaker brother. And so I don't know what I would do as a pastor on that. to offend them, try. Yeah, I thought yeah that that that that the weaker brother thing only goes so far I guess but um well the the whole point of the weaker brother is you're not in being in their face saying, look what I had the freedom to do in Christ and you're so weak Y you're you're not rubbing an in your face and causing them to top. Like you like you should read your Bible. You should get together with other believers, right? Like would they do all of these things fit in that same category to you? Maybe. Maybe. I mean I I kinda view it more of the what you would call ceremonial laws, I would call purity or or clean type of uh uh of laws, and this kind of falls into that category. As opposed to what you would call moral laws, which uh it i is is a more of a sin per se. By ceremony, uh just to be clear, you don't mean like ceremonies uh surrounding the sacrificial altar or the tabernacle or the priests. You you mean I mean what what individuals are commanded to do Not the the corporate uh priesthood. Not the priesthood. Right, yeah, like like it in in Old Testament law, like things that washing hands after touching a dead body. Right. Uh it went after Uh inner course, you're unclean until the evening. Right. Um wait seven days after the period. Like the don't eat pork before you don't eat pork. Don't eat Raw meat with the blood, uh don't strangle, uh you know, drain the blood uh by by by cutting the throat, those types of things. Those are all clean type laws. And there's there's there's not i it It's it's not shown as in a in a light of this is this is a sin. It's more of now you're unclean. Now you can become clean now, but there's a way to remedy that you can become que Now ultimately, as you mentioned, very rightly so, we are really clean in Christ. That fulfills you know that that portion of it that makes us clean, but that doesn't mean these other things are of no importance, that there's still important to be clean uh and uh physically but also to show with the physical representation of how we are also clean spiritually. And that's that's why I would I would This is different from like the feasts, which is not necessarily a queen thing, this is just some other thing. God says you should do this, and that would be more along the lines of yeah, these are good things to do and we we should do the But even that is, you know, Paul speaks against that too, Talk was some people recognize, you know, uh days and months and seasons. I think these people were adding a bunch of other uh feast days Isn't he talking primarily in the context of the Judaizers though? Yeah, but the fact but the fact that he you know that circumcision is like the centerpiece of of that whole discussion that the and teaching that Paul ha is having and does makes me think it's from it's like everything that the Jews were doing from Abraham hand toward, right? Because there's there's hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years of circumcision without a law, give it, right? And so Well So so I I I think Paul's Paul's saying starting with circumcision, exactly all of the law that God gave and everything else that was added to the law. Now weirdly enough, there were long stretches of times when nobody was getting circumcised I mean take the forty years in the desert, right? At the end when Joshua goes in, he circumcises all the men. Like they hadn't been circumcised for forty they were forty years old now. Circumcised. None of them, even though they this was the time when the the the pillar of cloud fire and clouds were there in the tabernacle. This is one of the closest times Israel is walking with God. So that was very uh it's that t if if you read it, it's kind of jarring it takes together. Well one, it shows you how how stiff necked they were. They they refused to go and take the promised land And so they remain stiff-necked as a generation. But also, I think there's potentially an argument made that they weren't to be circumcised because they had been cut off. They weren't entering the promised land land. You are a lost generation. So don't even circumcise yourself. I don't I'm not sure that I mean God wanted Moses circumcised because they were no longer a holy people set apart from the other nations. I mean even Moses didn't circumcise his son until God Right. That apparently was a contention between him and his wife. They were they had some time disagreement about whether they should be circumcising is is the implication to get But my point is there's all sorts of times in scripture where like otherwise godly men had not been circumcised and there wasn't any practice of circumcision, even like the past Passover. Was it Josiah? It's like they hadn't kept the Passover in three hundred years. But well right. But but my my point was circumcision was God gave circumcision as a practice practice, right? Hundreds and hundreds of years, then God gives the law as a practice, right? And then as time goes on the you know the Jews add more and more uh basically add new feasts, they added the traditions of men. Right, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I would argue those laws. Hanukkah is added, right. Like you have all these other things. And I think Paul, by going all the way back to circumcision is saying none of that. See I see I disagree. The reason I disagree is is is uh I don't get the impression that most Moses was the inventor of these laws, not uh not Moses, I mean obviously God, but I don't mean that these laws in the Mosaic Covenant started with Moses either. I think they were keeping those same sort of things beforehand this is something Mitt God's people already knew. Maybe. But it's it's not written down for us to know that. And it certainly wasn't happening before circumcision. No one knew which animals were clean and unclean. He had to in order to take them out of the army again. Fair enough. That's interesting. Um But Abraham was a count. normally don't at that point. Or just in in other some other way, clean your own clean. I mean the purpose in that case I think was to sacrifice. I don't get the impression no one was eating any meat necessarily before the flood. Yeah. Um but but he certainly knew the difference between clean and unclean animals. outward practices that are given. And Paul goes all the way back to it to say you know, it actually actually what matters is the faith that Abraham has before even circumcision plus all these other things and therefore they're just outward showings of that we're following God because that's what God wants us to do. And the Jews had gotten the wrong impression they thought that's what saved them and Paul said, you know, the if if Paul wrote Hebrews, which I think most people certainly did, I I I'm not 100% convinced this it's not kind of relevant here, I guess, but Assuming Paul Hebrews, Paul says that um the blood of the ghosts never did take away sins. It's not that it used to or sometimes did and now doesn't it never did and never could. Absolutely. So even when they were doing it, and that's why I I hesitated when he said, Well do you mean you should do the y you you do see and he say you're I'm assuming you I mean you can't you shouldn't be sacrificed either. No, I I agree with you we shouldn't be doing sacrifices in that in that sense. But what I what I'm The reason I hesitate is other than the sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving. But even even if even if we were to do them, they wouldn't save you they would only be in this case looking back to what Christ did. And it just just as the proper way in the past to have done sacrifice. And and see I I think that's why there's a there's something of a of a reset because the the practices that are given in the New Testament, uh so uh communion, Lord Supper or whatever you want to call that, and baptism, they they they both have a connection to what Christ did, but they both look to the future, to his coming again, right? So Paul says we know that every time, you know, we eat this bread, we drink this cup that we proclaim the death until he comes. Right, yeah, and and then baptism is you know, it does symbolize our it symbolize our death with Christ, our resurrection with Him, right? That resurrection that we then look forward to. in the future, right. So I I I I think the I would say that neither of those are new things. I mean the Lord's Supper, what he's eating the the the thing that he's eating and th and drinking is the Passover meal, which was already being done. He's just saying here's an an additional context to it. Right. The baptism is a washing, which is just another of the many, many ceremonial washings the Jews were doing So they're nut the outward sign of either of those is not new. Neither of those outward sides are new. So I I think my point is essentially I don't know that we should do any practices that don't point towards Jesus' next coming. If there's any practices that don't point towards that I'm not sure that they're just going to be able to do that. So okay. So so in the word supper, what does he say? By eating his bread and drinking his cup You do show the Lord's death until he was right. So we are looking backwards to that. And all of his descendants looking back to Adam, the sin there, right? And looking forward to the coming Well uh to me it's death is all one. But uh so so does that I I think and you know whether we end up agreeing or not, I I think I'm I'm sort of selected solidifying what my understanding is of what makes Christian practice what it should be now and the things that we that actually that don't that don't are need kind of neither here nor there Right. And I want to say what I really like about what you just said is that this talk, this argument, this disagreement is solidifying where you feel that you are. That's That's what iron sharpens iron. That's why we should have these discussions, especially if we disagree, so that we can be more sure of where we stand and what we believe and what God is talking to us about. So I I really appreciate that. One of the things that uh that you had brought up and I wanted to say that is that you're talking about, you know, Abraham was given the covenant, uh you know, he was righteous before. But what about Th Sodom. That I mean, was that one of the Ten Commandments? You know, you shouldn't Sodomize. But they were punished and it's Yeah, yeah, yeah. So so I I would also totally separate out uh um what is essential moral law and what is religious practice. I would I would I would separate those two things entirely. And so uh and that's and that's what and in my opinion that's it that's a west versus east separation. And uh it it is totally it's a lot of people. Then then you think we should still sacrifice it to At the tabernacle. So that's not a Roman. Because God destroyed it so that we would know that all those things had come to an end. Absolutely. So let me let me just put it this way. So Daniel is my son. Okay? He's a Razby. And he goes through a a mud pile and comes into my house with his Boots are muddy, dirty, muddy. Um, should I let him in the house or should I kick him out of the house? Well he's still gonna be in the house. But would I prefer him to have his feet cleaned first? Yeah But am I gonna kick him out if he comes in with muddy feet? No. That's kind of what I feel about circumcision, okay? God's not gonna kick us out of heaven. He's not gonna say you're not saved. He's not We're part of his family. But it's a it's a s something he had said, yeah, you to separate yourselves, be circumcised. Even the people that you buy, even the ones that are not of your uh genetics, circumcise them. Okay. What is the purpose? Just to show that uh Jesus is gonna be our circumcision? Okay, yes, great. Let's celebrate that and say yes. You know, I it's interesting, I don't know that there's ever a command And for uh anyone like even in the Old Testament for anybody who is says uh who is outside Of Israel like a God-fearer. And even and that carries over even the New Testament, even the God-fearing Gentiles were not circumcised, were not getting circumcised. Unless they got bought by the Israelites or they got taken into the family. Well, right, but then they then they were a part of their household, right? Uh if if that was the case. And so you know, then it wasn't uh Yeah, and and so it it you know but if they weren't part of a a a Jewish household, they weren't getting circumcised. Old Testament or New Testament? I would say I want to be part of So so get baptized. If you want to do something that symbolizes that. That's the New Testament practice. uh uh even even more obviously uh yeah outwardly a child of God just because because I am inwardly a child of God and I want the world to know that so I I think it dishonors God to confuse the two things though. But I'm not conf I I would say I'm not confused. I'm doing it because I love him. I'm not doing it because it's gonna save me. I'm not doing it because it's gonna gain difference in my s in my eternity. But I do you because I feel that God at one time or other has said that and God doesn't change. So if he said that you're uh anybody in this family, anybody in this family is it should be certified, whether you buy them whether you uh conquer them and bring them into your family, they should be circumcised. Okay. So yeah, that's not gonna save me, but I'm gonna do it because I love God. So I I don't think the logic holds up in at least one way that, you know, if God if ever God commanded it then then we like and he doesn't change then Well like we're still in the the garden, like then why were why were sacrificial laws like put in? Like there's there's certainly demands where Gus says do this for a specific time and it's it's very clear that this is for But in the case of circumcision like we read last week and this you know I mean it says should be everlasting for all your generations. So and then you said well yes for Israel's generation. And so then I said, well, then if if an Israelite is is a believer today they should they be circumcised? And you said no not necessarily if you are circumcised in heart then you are an Israel. Right. So it's he's doing away with circumcision there. So so is it's not should should not be in your flesh everlasting like it says in Genesis? It doesn't say in your heart for everlasting, it says in your flesh everlasting. Well it says it says it's an everlasting covenant, but it's symbolized in your flesh, in your descendants, right? In definitely descendants. Those are not the words that are in the Bible. Um so r read the passage again and the words. I mean it does it does it does seem like it it is something that's that's That always for all the generations and his arguments about circumcision. But he doesn't. Circumcision and all of the law does not cease to be of uh of value or use, but it never did save us and never will, so salvation is separate But now that you're saved, yeah, keep God's commands. Because you want to honor God and please God. So that's that's what I get from reading Hebrews I I I think that's a an Eastern cultural imposition upon scripture. No, I I agree. Scripture was written in the East, not the West But uh you can you can still have uh It's actually written in the ancient Near East, but anyway. Sure, your your lens which is which it which I think is what Paul was telling the view the Izers at the time. He was saying no, you're imposing something on Right, and I I agree. They were posing, you know, a a requirement for being uh a uh a self you being saved or being in in the family But the says he wouldn't even know what sin was except for the law, so if the law doesn't exist then we don't know what since I would just like to say for the record that when we uh were about to begin this week's episode of the show, everybody else and it was like I'm not sure there's really a whole lot left to talk about to do a whole nother show on it. And I just want to say, if we wanted to, we could do yet another show on it Right, I I was right for the record. I'm not too proud to say I'm proud that uh that I was right about that. Yeah, there's a l there's a a heck of a lot to be said. Um I have so many more things I want to say about uh Uh for the most part, the big points ha have been have been uttered. I would say that uh I I think I would have phrased a few things just slightly differently than David, but in large measure he was representing uh a big part of my my view on how to un interpret and understand the Bible on this point, so I didn't feel like I had to jump in a whole lot. Anyway, I think it's been a fascinating four or five week discussion on this topic. I I I applaud you gentlemen for for doing it with intelligence and with graciousness. Two things we're sorely lacking in today's culture. Imron Rasby, Daniel Razby, David Forcy. They are the three panelists on today's show. I'm Troy Skinner. If you want to connect with the Rasbees, go to concordbylove. org. If you'd like to connect with David or me, you're going to have to go to my website, my church's website, Household of Faith. Faithinchrist. com, that's household of faith in Christ. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless. Yeah but that was a very good thing. I really appreciate that, that you have now have a better, more clear understanding of where you believe. And that's I think that's really why believers should be even Especially when we disagree to really do that and not cut off relationships, but really, hey, what does the Bible actually say? And then let's consider it. And maybe it'll make your stance even stronger than it was, or maybe you'll say Well maybe I'm gonna study that and think about it. But either way you're gonna closer as I so I love that. And I wanted to make sure we emphasize that that don't cut off relationships with people just because they disagree with you. Yeah. Relationships that cause you to Absolutely. Okay. If that stops the video then it was only for the last time. Okay, yeah. Some if the video got interrupted because my battery's running below and it gave me the alert and And past history tells us that when that happens, it interrupts the uh it says that Sherry's maybe still watching. Hello Sherry. Anyway, if you have any comments or questions, leave them in the comment section and I will get to them later. Probably