I'm Staff Weathercaster Tim Livingston. It's Success Happens on 930 WFMD, a discussion with leaders who share their pathways to success. Success happens with With your host, Jen Sherlton. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Success Happens. Happy, happy new year. What an exciting day. It's It's sub zero out there. Oh my goodness. That was ridiculous. I have to tell you, coming in into the studio today, I spilled my coffee because I refused to carry it. in a lidded cup, you know. My husband says, you know, why why do you do that? Put a lid on it. Anyway, I didn't and I spilled and it froze on contact. It was so cold in my car, it froze on contact. So but anyway, it's great to have you all here with us And um you know, uh e every year at the beginning of the year, and this is now we're going into our well, three years now, um, that we're that we've been doing these new years and I think about what do I want this new year to represent? What do I want to create as kind of a theme or if you will, a mantra to live by and something that's worthy of pursuit. And we're gonna talk a little bit about that throughout the day today. But uh you know For me, you know, last year we talked a lot about integrity. When we came into the new year, it was just so clear to me that we had to take on integrity and the lack of integrity that was everywhere in uh we saw it a lot in politics, but you know, it it's in business, it's in families, it's in it's in relationships you know, that that we really I think had a breakthrough actually last year. And sometimes when you take on something, what shows up is everything that's not that You know, all the times that integrity is lacking starts to show up in your face, right? So um I think we had some of that last year, right? We had a lot of integrity issues But what what the good news about that is it started to come to light. You know, we'll talk further about, you know, some of these issues and something near and dear to my heart. the Miss America program, which is the latest and the greatest in the series of of uh tumbling bricks on that issue of of uh you know sexual harassment but but um and nastiness but Integrity was something that was so um not being attended to that now we're starting to pay attention to it. You're hearing it in the conversation, the public dialogue. communication right now is talking about integrity. And that really makes me excited because we often say in in a lot of the training that I've done is that without integrity nothing works You know, Lamarck Education is the place where I've done a lot of training and and they they often say without integrity nothing works. And it is so true because if you don't maintain a a high demand for around you and within you integrity. You know, just things start to break down. from relationships to I don't know cars if you don't get your oil changed, you know. So um so that was last year and I think I think we accomplished quite a b a bit and there's a lot more to do. But I invite us all to really deal with Where where can I up the game on my integrity so that I'm operating a high level of integrity? Because I promise you one thing, when you operate at a high level of integrity Miracles happen. Stuff happens. Things show up. Opportunities present themselves. People like you better. You know, there's some added Bennies, but Really take that on and I and I promise you you're gonna you're gonna see uh some exciting new uh things open up for you. But That being said, that was last year and here we are this year and how do we build upon that? And I and I and I looked around and I said, Wow, the level of nastiness is profound. You know, the rhetoric the um toxic environment in relationships in communities of people between communities of different communities of people And um I just happened to run into Roger Wilson. Shout out to Roger, uh uh new alderman for the City of Frederick last night out at dinner and you know, Roger's a Democrat, I'm a Republican, so what? We get along, I like him, he's a good guy You know, there's no need for this v vitriol that's been going on to really um divide us. And um we c you know, I learned from people who don't agree with me a lot. And frankly I think I can teach them a few things. Um so so that being said, I wanted to set up this show as an opportunity for us to really take on what I teach my son. Which is to be sweet and kind. At all times be sweet and kind. And if you're if you know Now there's opportunities to check in and say, I don't know, did I just do something that was sweet and kind or kinda nasty? I mean I when I'm driving I'm not the most sweet and kind, but but um you know, and we'll never get it right a hundred percent of the time. Um but I I have somebody who's gonna share a story in a minute uh about about this because I think I you know, we talk about paying it forward. There was a movie about that. We talk about random acts of kindness. And uh So that's my thing for this year. We're taking on random acts acts of kindness, being generous, being sweet and kind. And so I was thinking today uh you know, preparing for the show today Who could I invite to have come on that would be an example of that for me? Somebody who I really admire and respect who I've had the opportunity to work with, who I think is sweet and kind. And I invited Troy Skinner to be here. So welcome Troy. So you couldn't find anybody that actually fit the bill. No, but you are such an example of that and your lovely wife. And I Dina, and I and I think, you know, um what an opportunity for us to be together. You know, we started many, many years ago. here at the station and we've both grown and I probably about ten years ago maybe. And yeah, right. And so here we are all these years later and I could say that you were the person that gave me my opportunity to entree into radio. I'm sorry. But thank you. You know, I love I love being able to contribute to the thousands of people who listen to this show with, you know, my my silly little thoughts of random acts of kindness or integrity or whatever we're talking about. But I but I really do think it's a great opportunity to bring you in and and I want to talk about your show and some of the things that you've done. Um and but all in the context of creating a whole new vibe out there in our society. And I appreciate the invitation. It's uh it's good for me to have an opportunity at least once in a while to be on the other side of the microphone, so to speak. I'm usually the one that's kind of driving the bus when I do my show. Right So to be on the the guest chair is kind of a neat experience. So thank you for it. You're welcome. Even though I had to fight the bitter cold to get here. But but but did your coffee freeze on it on contact? It didn't. But um So so when we let's set the set back because some people may know you, they may not know you. You're the host of Face Debate on Sunday mornings at 9 a. m. Um you are a uh are y you're uh ordained? I am. Okay. So you're that makes you an expert on the subject of faith to a certain degree. I do think so. Um but you know it takes something to become ordained, so I admire that about you. And uh but I also think you're somebody who is an example of faith in action. Hmm. Yeah, sometimes a negative example unfortunately, but um Well you're human and we're all sinners, so absolutely don't be so hard on yourself, Troy. Yeah. Um I think that's a big part of trying to make a difference and and be a person of action in in faith and to be a person of integrity and to try to go about with acts of kindness changing the world with with what did you say, uh sweetness and kindness. Yeah. Um, is being self reflective and examining oneself and not just pointing at somebody else and saying, you know, I sure wish that person had more integrity. Right. Right. But looking at yourself and saying, Boy, I sure wish I had more integrity in that moment. I I know better. I should do better. And You know, that self examination, being self reflective. Not to self flatulate, not to beat yourself up unnecessarily. Right. But to be authentic with yourself. You know, know thyself. Right. Uh take the log out of your own eye before worrying about the splinters in somebody else's eye kind of idea. We all have plenty of logs in our eyes. Well, and I think y you know, your point of authentic is is something that is also fundamental to who I am. It wasn't always. You know, years ago, you know, y I was a Pom pom and I was a you know, it was Maryland and if somebody says, How are you doing? you say, I'm good and you just, you know, you muster it up, you know. And y we we live this layer of inauthenticity in life. Particularly on Facebook these days. Oh. Well and maybe sometimes you wish people would be more inauthentic. Facebook is is really two different uh parallel universes side by side. You've got the the one universe where everything is happy and pom-poms and if life is good and smiling pictures of family as if they never have a care in the world. And then there's the others that don't really talk about themselves personally, but they'll talk about things in the news, politics political figures, you know, uh famous Hollywood types or whatever, and they're bashing them. So it seems like people are negative when talking about others on Facebook. Yeah. And exclusively positive when talking about themselves on Facebook. And that's interesting. So it's it's these parallel tracks, and it's not healthy. No, it isn't. No it isn't. And I and I think, you know, I was thinking about this whole idea of being authentic and when is it in and I I have been known to say that I had one staff person, God bless her, she showed up like so morose every day. And I said, Look, I need you to bring happy perkies 'cause I you know, for the most part I show up happy perkees. Don't be authentic with me right now. Pretend you're happy. Pretend please. Please try. But um, you know, that that idea that um there are times when it's appropriate to, you know, put on our best face, if you will. and get through something. We do that with our children. If we're afraid, we never want our children to see that fear. Right? Yeah. You know? But um But so so so let's step back and talk a little bit about this idea of of of kindness. I I have a uh this idea of random acts of kindness. And I learned something yesterday that I thought was fascinating. So we're going to take a call right now from um Coller, are you there? I'm here. Okay. Um and this is Darlene. And Darlene, share with us your your experience yesterday that was a random act of kindness. Okay. Um I was getting in line to go to Starbucks and um there was a car on the side and she was had herself in a position that she really couldn't get in the line I let her in I don't think she realized I was in line as well, so she pulled in and we went through, ordered and when I went up to the counter the the young girl at the the booth there said the lady before you paid for your coffee. And I was just so touched. I was like, oh my goodness, that's so sweet. It made me feel so good. The feeling was amazing. So I said to the young girl, I said, What should I do? Should I pay for the lady behind me? Because that just felt so good. And At that point I had no idea what the lady had ordered, but it really didn't matter. It was passing the ceiling on, not the cost of whatever it was. And um so the girl just shook her head and said, Stuff to you. So I did and I pulled away and I felt even better and just hoping all day that Everybody kind of passed that on, so when everybody left to go do whatever they were doing for the day, they just had the nice feeling that I did when I pulled away Because it was just something so unexpected and it really lifts you when people are kind like that. And um, you know, I passed it on in hopes that everyone passed it on through the line. Isn't that great? I love that story That is such a great story, and I I invite everybody today who's listening to take on a random act of kindness. And let's see if we can pass it on You know, if you're standing in the in a in a coffee line, buy the coffee for the next guy. And it reminds me of a story I heard recently, so it wasn't me. Thank you, caller Sadly it wasn't me who had it who who did this wonderful thing, but uh somebody that was telling the story. Oh I thought you were gonna say, Oh that was me No, uh I wish, but They I mean it could be, I suppose. I could follow this example. That's right. So, you know, by the way, do you guys have a policy with the the the the men in uniform? Do they get a discount or eat for free or anything like that? I said, Oh no, they don't they don't eat for free. You know, we'll give them sometimes like a ten percent discount or something like that. I said, Well you know what uh put it on my tab, I'm gonna pay for them. So that was that person's act of kindness. And didn't want any credit, didn't want any attention. Well Uh the as the person was finishing up their meal, the police officers came and approached the table and said, Hey, by the way, what you did, we really appreciate it. There's so many people who don't appreciate what we do. In fact a lot of people hate the police these days and uh it really meant a lot to us that you would do that, so thank you. And he's like, I didn't want any attention. I actually asked the server to m be anonymous and the police officer, Well, we have our ways of getting information from people So there was somebody at the other end of the restaurant who overheard all of this and so when it came time for the person to pay their own bill, paying for the police officers their bill was covered by somebody else who said they wanted to pay for the police officers and saw that somebody else beat them to it so they paid for theirs. So there was like and here's the kind of the clincher The original person who paid for the police officers was white, and the person who paid for the white person was black So you've got the civilian showing love to the civil servant. Yeah. So there's there's that dynamic. Yes. And then you've got somebody of one quote unquote race. vernacular. Yeah. Uh showing love to somebody of another race. I mean there's so many dominoes in that story. It's a really cool example of how those acts of kindness can roll over. And I love what you're saying, Troy, about one human race. I mean, what happened? What happened that we all became so segmented? No, and I and I wanna say this, you know, I I'm Swedish. I'm half Swedish, which is, you know, explains a whole lot. Ask my husband. But um you know, I got part Viking in me. But um but this idea that um we can be um connected to a culture. Um an orientation to what co kind of composes us, if you will. But at the end of the day, we're all human. And I and I think that's part of this conversation is to make sure that we're we're really tuned into humanity as a single entity, not um you over there and me over here. Yeah, well, uh where does it start? I mean I guess uh y uh if you wanted to find a anecdotal story, you could go to the Tower of Babel where things got split in uh in the book of Genesis in the Old Testament, but uh just in the human heart with jealousy Uh and so we life is hard. Yeah, we live in a broken, fallen world where life is hard. Things are some people it's really, really hard. All of us have our challenges. You know, uh uh there's somebody who used to work here at the radio station that uh uh I think you probably would know. She hasn't been here in a long time, but I think she might have still been here when you first started at the radio station years ago. And she had a medical condition that nobody knew about for a long time. And finally the medical condition began to overtake her and she started missing a lot of time at work. And so when she came back to work, she was still struggling with it. Eventually, by the way, it it it killed her. She she died about two or three years ago. And but at this time she was, you know, in a uh a bloom of healthiness and so she came back to work. And I said, I never knew you had this challenge. It's amazing. And she said, Well, I want to tell you something. I didn't realize I have a special needs son. She said, I didn't realize that you had the challenges you have with your special needs son until just like a couple of weeks ago. And so we had this really cool dialogue, we learned more about each other's story, and from that point point forward I really learned a valuable life lesson, and that is if you think somebody else doesn't have problems. That just means you don't know them well enough. We need to take the time to get to know somebody and their story. Everybody has challenges. Somebody living in the big mansion on top of the hill who seems to have everything made. You get to know their story and they've got moments of misery. Just gotta take the time. And it goes the other way too, those that have what seems like a life of nothing but misery, get to know their story. You can maybe help them to find those nuggets. where they can have hope and hang on to the positives and the benefits that they have. Um it's a good reminder for us, you know, the uh those that are among the poorest in this country would be in the upper probably one percent of wealth worldwide. So even those that really have it hard, we can find something get a toehold and say, you know, as bad as it is, I can hang on to hope because there are others that have it worse. And those of us who feel like we have it so great can you know, can uh be knocked down a peg or two when we need to by realizing hey we're not all that all the time either. So it's it's a mix. It is. And I and I you know, I look at um the opportunities to contribute to others. We're going to talk about that when we come back. You're listening to Success Happens on Free Talk 930 WFMD. We'll be right back. Welcome back to Success Happens and I have with me today Troy Skinner who is an account representative here at at uh Clear Channel but but also a friend and somebody I as I said earlier I admire very much for being a a really good guy. And, you know, when we look at creating an environment and a culture of being sweet and kind to one another you know, it will take something to deal with ourselves repeatedly when we're not that. And and also to give ourselves some a break. You know, we're human and we're, you know, we're gonna make mistakes, we're not perfect And um and neither is the next guy. So, you know, cut them some slack. But I wanna go back to this idea that you said before the break of getting to know people. And I've often said you'd never know what people are dealing with. But you took it a so give them some room to be human because you don't know what happened to them that morning that made them react to that afternoon. uh in maybe a negative way. But, you know, the other thing is get to know people. That's the piece you added. I've kind of always stepped back and said, well, just let people kind of be how they are, right? But you're suggesting, wait, let's get interested. Let's ask somebody. Let's say how are you, really? Yeah, pressing in, obviously you don't want to press in when you're uh you know, not welcomed to press in, that's kinda creepy. Uh but making the attempt to press in Uh and seeing if it's received well and you can s begin to build a relationship. If someone's gonna give you advice, uh I'll I'll use you you and me as an example. If I'm gonna give you advice, if I'm gonna pretend that I have any sort of authority in your life to give you advice I had better actually have some quote unquote authority in your life, meaning that you I I need to know that you're going to hear what I have to say and it's going to mean something to you. It's going to carry weight, that my voice has authority in your life Yeah and if I haven't developed any sort of rapport and relationship in a dialogue where you truly get to know me and I truly get to know you, why would you listen to me And why should I expect that you're going to listen to me? So how am I going to be in a position to help you if you won't even listen to me? And I had a wake-up call with this a number of years ago. My sister was struggling with some choices she was making in her life, and I had move uh f farther away from her and our relationship wasn't as close as it as as it had once been. And I miscalculated the level of authority that my voice would carry and so I was trying to give her advice and she completely rejected it. And I was cold cocked like What just happened? And a good pastor friend of mine reminded me about this idea of the authority of the voice. Is does your voice carry any authority in her life anymore? And I thought, you know. I need to repair the breach in our relationship and build it back up to the place where I will hear her voice with authority and she will hear my voice with authority so we can help each other and build each other up. And so, yeah, we've got to know each other Yeah. Otherwise we're people on Facebook sniping at one another, making enemies. Yeah. Oh my goodness. Yeah, what a mess. So so when we look at this idea of um getting to know people, it also is incumbent I think on the person and I'm gonna take it to the other side of this idea of being able to help others pardon me, in need. And that is, if you are somebody in need, you may be have to be willing to ask for help Because you never know who can help you who's sitting next to you. But you have to know who you can trust. Well, there's a trusting. You said some nice things about me. I appreciate that. So that leads me to believe that if you were really in struggles and you couldn't find anybody else, you would at least feel like, well, my last desperate plea for help can maybe be Detroit, because I know that he's not going to try to take advantage. Yeah. But you're not going to call me if you don't have some sense that that would be true. Well let me let me take it to a slightly I g I in that instance I agree with you. I want to give you a different scenario Um, I'm sitting in we're down at the shore for holidays and uh Christmas and New Year, and I'm sitting in a restaurant with my mom having lunch, and this woman kept kept chatting with me who's sitting next to us. How are you? And and and we'd stop and then she'd start again. And she had a whole group at table with her and I thought, Well, I don't want to, you know, infringe on their dinner, right? But she kept, you know, talking with me I finally said, you know, God has a plan and we always I there's a reason we got sat next to each other. I turned to her and I said, What do you do for a living? And she said, I'm a social worker. I'm I mean no, I'm uh I'm a caregiver. I said, You're kidding me. I said, I work for the agency that works with this, you know, caregiving and I told her about the Commission on Caregiving, which is an amazing new organization and uh the a new uh iteration I should say. But the point being, here she was somebody that was in the world of my work and she says, Oh, by the way, the other lady over there, she's a caregiver too. I thought, wow, that's why I got sat here. You know, so I think sometimes, and I'm gonna leave it on this note, we're gonna go to a break, God has a plan. He puts us together with people. We have to be willing to understand what is the plan. Why am I here? Why am I in this conversation right now? And so on that note, we're going to take a quick break and go for news and weather. I'd like to thank our sponsors. Xerox Complete Document Solutions and Sweetie's on the Creek, which is closed right now, but will be opening back up in February. And you're on Free Talk 930 WFMD. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMB. com, a service of mobile tire guys. They come to you. Welcome back to Success Happens. This is Jennifer Charlton and I have with me today Troy Skinner. who uh works here at the Clear Channel but is also a radio host has uh faith debate on Sunday mornings at nine a. m. so you should listen to that and uh is is ordained. But, you know, as we sit here and talk, we're talking about life principles, some of which have a spiritual uh foundation. But I I was thinking before you know, when we went to break, we were talking about this idea of kind of grappling with, right? When is it uh, you know, we have to create a trusting relationship And when do we um frankly have random acts of kindness with maybe perfect strangers like our our uh listener who shared about the uh Starbucks line and opportunities to impact a life that maybe put before us to help in some way. And I and I think that there you know, I will tell you a very dear friend of mine today is somebody I met randomly many, many years ago when I was actually with the Commission for Women and we had the big rally, I don't know if anybody remembers in front of Winchester Hall. This is golly, I don't even remember. Um many years ago. And uh and this gal walks by with her son We start chit chatting and she is now one of my dearest friends. And um and you know, there have been many times that she's helped me and I've helped her. And and it has become a a a a trusted relationship, like you were speaking to Troy. Um and you know, I think As we grow older, you know, we uh for me at least, that list has gotten shorter, more refined and defined. Who are the people I can truly trust in my life? And you've been burned by too many of the ones that were on your list originally. Ooh. There's some people that it just had to go. They just had to go. But but You know, I do believe that people come f in our lives for reasons or seasons, right? You know, for long term, short term, whatever the case may be. And we have to figure that out as we go along with them in our in our journey called life. Yeah, there's uh uh a book by a uh gentleman named Dan Alexander who uh the book is called To Be Told and the whole premise and the idea of his book is that our lives are stories. uh like novels really and these novels are being co-authored by ourselves in partnership with God. And so who's really writing the story of our life? Is it God or is it me? And the answer is yes. And so if we think of our lives that way, and our life is this novel that we're co-authoring with God, then all these other people that are coming in and out for reasons and seasons are characters in our story. So it becomes important to try to figure out what is our story and then what's the backstory for those other characters. That's where the investing in their lives, taking the time to get to know them. Um Allowing yourself judiciously, you know, you gotta get to know somebody before you reveal too much. There can be a danger in this broken fallen world. So revealing too much too soon, they can take advantage. But You know, sussing it out and figuring out when can I be a little more transparent, a little more vulnerable with them, which will then maybe encourage them to be a little more transparent and vulnerable with me. And then you have true relationship, uh where you can truly You know, right before the break you're talking about uh uh meeting people that to describe their job uh as they were caregivers. Mm-hmm. We're all caregivers. Whatever job we have, we are uh responsible for caring for others. Like uh at at home, I'm supposed to be caring for my wife and my children and my home and and my neighbors' interests by taking care of my lawn and keeping the house painted and things like that. I should be caring for in work. I should you know my prime I host the Faith Debate show on Sunday morning, so I need to care about that, but I don't get paid for doing that. I make a living by taking care of my clients who are advertisers on the radio stations. Uh and over time some of these clients have become really dear friends where they've allowed themselves to become vulnerable with me. I've been vulnerable with them and I won't obviously say any names, but here's an a classic illustration. I had a client who called me, wanted to get together, wanted to know if I had time for lunch And I was like, uh uh yeah, I can make time maybe tomorrow and he's okay great. That'd be I'm thinking, man, he must have some big marketing initiative he needs to talk about. Right. And there was you know, five or ten minutes of kind of N typical at a lunch to have some small talk, but it was like an awkward kind of a small talk to kick off the lunch. And I was like, So so I cut to the chase a little quicker than I might because of of the awkwardness. I said, So what's what's the point of the meeting? Like why are we why are we having to do that? Yeah, He said, Well, I haven't told anybody else yet, and I'm not sure what to do. I've been having an affair. Wow. And I don't know what to do. Well So here's this guy cheating on his wife and then he starts crying. Oh and he didn't know who else and I think his relationship with me was such that We were close enough that he felt comfortable making himself vulnerable, but not so close that I was within his inner inner circle. Like I wasn't in his family. So you wouldn't be judgmental. Right. Or if even if I was, you know, I was a friend he could afford to alienate if he had to, and yet he trusted me enough that he could take a chance. And so But this comes back to you being a good guy and you have a trusted listening with this fellow. He felt he could trust you. Yeah, I mean I don't know how good a guy I always am but uh Oh, just take the compliments. I appreciate that. I I no I and I and I am. Uh um I think that he knew that I would take the time to listen. I think I demonstrated that over our history together that he knew that that would happen and he knew that I would listen. And he knew that I would be less likely than some others, perhaps that he knew, to be immediately judgmental. Now I will say this, um you talked early on about being sweet and kind. Uh I'm gonna broaden that out and say we need to demonstrate love. And sometimes love doesn't feel all that sweet and kind sometimes when it's when it's meted out. And so he's saying so what tough love Yeah, so he says so I don't know what to do. You don't know what to do, of course you know what to do. First of all you stop what you've been doing. Right. Right. What you're doing is wrong and you need to stop. Now that wasn't all that sweet and kind on the surface But it was the sweet and kind thing to do ultimately because he needs to correct a bad behavior and I told him he needed to uh not only stop but come clean with his wife. And he wasn't real keen on that And I said, you know, I'm a big believer that when two get married a teacher'll become one and you can't have a secret from yourself. You know everything that you know. And if you and your wife are one, she knows everything you know. You're gonna have to work through that and it's gonna create some short term turbulence is gonna be mighty yeah, mighty brutal. Uh but in the long run it will be what's best for your relationship because she's gonna know and you're gonna know that you're not keeping secrets from each other no matter how Horrible they are. Great advice, Troy. So well, it it turned out that it was because they're still married. Well and and guess what? And and y and Kudos to you for for being that straight in the conversation. Um, you know, I think it really takes an act of courage to be that straight. Um, but this goes back to that conversation about being authentic. You were authentic to yourself and your own principles and you were very clear on that line. There was no there was no glory line for you And so uh and and by the way I would have said exactly the same words and clean it up with your wife. Yeah, and that's an interesting point. That's probably not the the general direction that you want this show to go, but just as an aside, um that's a problem in our society uh right now about is there an absolute right and wrong. You know, because we live in a society where people question even the idea, is there an absolute truth? Mm-hmm. So who are you to say that having affair is wrong? Could have been his response. And I would have said, who am I to say? It just is. And that's why I'm saying it. I'm not making this up. I'm taking kind of this universal truth and applying it to your situation. And oh by the way, you wouldn't be sitting here crying in front of me if you felt differently. So so obviously you know there's an issue here. Well, you know, back to this idea of of creating um the opportunity to contribute to the lives of others. I wanna I wanna I wanna back up for a second and and and acknowledge that, you know, the last month or so we focused on nonprofits in the community, ways that we can give publicly Right? Now we're talking about ways we can give privately. And it may or may not be known to others. It doesn't even matter. Because I believe and I and I and I believe my life is a demonstration of this is that I have been blessed many, many, many times over. But I think it's because I've I've I've tried to be that person that that I've been called upon to be. You know? And um and when I can give I try to give. You know, when I can support somebody who's in need, I try to do that, whether it's with uh advice or coaching or uh you know five bucks or whatever that looks like, right? So um You know, I was in I had an episode this week and I ended up in the ER in inner city Baltimore. Were you mugged? No. No, I actually had a medical condition and uh and I'm better now, but I wasn't sure if I was having a heart attack, so I thought The brain's just gonna go get this checked. So just so happens Did they joke that at least now you know you have a heart? Well, no, worse they they scanned my brain. I said, Oh, that's what it looks like. And they found nothing, right? Well actually actually what they found He's showing me my brain on thing. That's fascinating, you know. And then I said, What is that little white spot right there behind me? I said, What is that? He says, Oh not to worry, not to worry. in your brain. I said you're thinking, uh that does not sound good to me, however he's saying it's no problem. I've seen enough medical shows on TV to know the white spots on scans not good. But then he says He says, I said, Well would that be the reason why I'm not good at math? He said, Yeah, we'll go with that story. But anyway, I'm in this ER And it's and it's Wednesday night, so it's coldest night of the year so far. And every person who was ho you know, homeless I mean you know, anybody who had no place to go, they were in that ER. And i they got slammed. I mean, they got slammed. And um I mean there was some addicts and there, so my husband's there with my six year old and I said, Stay out. Right. I'm sitting next to this woman and she says starts to go into the story about how she has staff in her blood. And I said, okay Check please. We gotta go. 'Cause I'm not getting staffed while I'm sitting in the ER. You know. But but I thought to myself As I was sitting there, here are all these people who are probably hungry. They're sick. You know, they're not feeling well. They're in the ER. They don't have a place to go. Uh and if they had a place to go they'd probably have money to get there. And I thought, what can I do? You know, and I thought of that, wonder if I could order like Papa John's and have it delivered, you know. But then I thought, oh well Jen, you'll I so I had this whole conversation I had, you know, you'll disrupt things and you know the ER won't like it, you know, I don't know these people. You know, if I was in Frederick I'd probably have done it. But But, you know, um, when is it the opportunity to act on these thoughts in our head to to to do for others? And, you know, how can we contribute sometimes to these folks who are you know, come into our lives. And and I will tell you I sat there w before I realized and thought further of it. We were talking about vape vaping. And how people do this thing and I I said, Why would you put that in your body? You know, it's not good for you and this, that and the other. You know, uh, you know, and I'm thinking, you know, the They obviously don't have those same views as I do because they put this stuff in their body, you know. Uh but maybe those words would make a difference to somebody listening. Yeah, that's all on a sliding scale, by the way. I mean we all put bunch of processed garbage into our food in in our in our food and then into our bodies every day. And we think nothing of it. So yeah, I mean I'm I'm not equating, you know processed corn syrup with uh with heroin, don't get me wrong. Right, right. But we all put stuff in our bodies. We kn we know better. How many times have you been at like some sort of office function and there's a bunch of like jelly filled donuts and people are grabbing them saying, Oh, this is gonna be so bad for my arteries, but it tastes so good. Yeah We do it all the time. Like we just say no. I have to tell you, I just lost twenty pounds, I'm not putting it back on because of a jelly donut. So So um I will say this in in answer to the question of you know how do you know when or how to how to res h how to uh interact with situations, my wife's better at this than uh than I am and I'm learning from her, but one of her big uh almost a mantra really is trust the leading of the spirit. And so if in the moment she feels the you know the the urging of the Holy Spirit to uh uh to have compassion and help somebody in a particular way, even even though we have those urgings, you know, those promptings by the Holy Spirit, sometimes we still ignore them. And so her thing is, you know, I don't always feel the spirit, but when I do, I need to be obedient. And so in that moment, if I feel like I'm supposed to help that person In spite of my reservations, I need to be obedient. I need to help that person. And not dismiss it as a silly thought. Yeah, like oh or well, yeah, I don't have time or I don't it's silly or whatever. Right, right, right. Well we're gonna take a quick break. You're listening to Success Happens. I'd like to thank our sponsors, VRC's Complete Document Solutions, and Sweeties on the Creek, and we'll be right back. It's all about your car. All in with questions to Dave Serial, beginning in less than 30 minutes, right here on 930 WFMD. Welcome back to Success Happens. This is Jennifer Charlton. I have with me today Troy Skinner. And I want to take a step back and kind of uh as we've been talking about creating random acts of kindness and being creating a world where we're all sweet and kind and respectful to one another, regardless of our points of view or our cultural, you know, uh backgrounds or whatever, right? Just we're all one humanity. So this kind of wrap up I think some of what we've talked about today. But I do in this you know, world today a l and and and back to this idea that integrity has been getting restored all over the place. One of the one of the things that's come crashing down is this um I'm gonna call it um veil that's been around sexual harassment in the workplace or um power and control, if you will, primarily over women by men in a work environment. Uh but not only that. Um sometimes uh less frequently it can be uh uh uh against the man, but mostly it's against the women. And of course you all know I'm a former Miss Maryland and and a coup a couple years ago I started reconnecting with with former Miss Marylands and they created something called Forever Miss Maryland. And um and it's a you know Facebook close Facebook group of former Miss Marylands. And so We have dialogue now and then and and it's nice to reconnect with women who have experienced what I've experienced because it's quite an extraordinary uh event that took place in my life. It changed my life for sure. Um But when this occurred, you know, we've been talking about ho Hollywood, I lived in LA. I I I have had people accost me. I've had people offer me stuff if I just did this or that. Believe me, been there did it experienced it. Um but when it came crashing down in the Miss America program, I thought, holy cow That veil has really dropped. Because you're talking about an organization that's about empowering women through scholarship funds. Whether they win the state title or don't, women who participate are put in law school, med school, educational environments to to pursue their dreams and make a difference in the world. And these are extraordinary women. Whether they make the state h title win it or or go on to be Miss America or they are somebody who competed once And and it's an extraordinary organization that has been suffering something we didn't even know about. Here I am, a former miss, and I didn't even know about it. Now, I knew that there were some issues. You know, they've had issues. But um that being said, I'm um I'm pleased to see that Gretchen Carlson's taking over as chair of the board of the Miss America program. She's an extraordinary woman. I think she will represent all of us well and and hopefully transform that organization back to its intended purpose. But, you know, when people exert power and control over another, and frankly, um there is and I'm gonna say this Because it it it it's tough to hear. But it's also incumbent on us, the victim, to be somebody that says, I'm out of here. I'm not putting up with this. Now, had I stayed, would I be famous today? I don't know, maybe. Maybe that was the winning ticket Famous. They have a show on Saturday mornings on WFMB. I'm famous. Yay. But but the point is, you know, there's this I th you grapple with this idea of power and control. And I and I think that um Uh we all need to work together to make sure that we're being authentic. We're not exerting power and control. This power and control is not authentic. It's That's a c that is very inauthentic actually to to push on somebody else so that I feel better about myself or my reputation or I look good or whatever. So um uh uh Or, you know, in the case of sexual assault, you know, that's all we know that's power. That's a power thing when somebody uh assaults somebody. in that way. So so d as a man, and we're gonna we're coming up to the top of the show, this is kind of a tough conversation, but I want I want you to know at some point I'm gonna have Charlene Wells, Miss America, nineteen eighty-five, who crowned me in Miss Miss Maryland in Hagerstown and I have reconnected after thirty years. And she's now Charlene Hawkes She's a wonderful woman. I l uh and uh she has agreed to be on the show. So we're gonna be talking more about this. But as a man, what is your thoughts about this? It's a very as you said, we only have a little bit of time and it's a very complicated issue and I might be a little contrarian with how some people uh have been talking about and thinking about this publicly, at least the stuff that I've been uh so I'm gonna put myself out there a little bit. Uh but I first of all I try to uh abide by a pretty um specific and clear moral standard. And so if men and women weren't involved in all sorts of outside of marriage sexual relations, a lot of these problems would go away. So what is that Clear moral standards. If people are only reserving the sexual intimacy for the marriage bed, then a lot of these problems go away. You don't have that story about Matt Lauer in his office with the woman in the chair. You know for example. So that aside, that that ultra, you know, moral standard thing and how that would clean up probably ninety percent of this. Um is still complicated by the fact that the power goes both ways. Um the men wielding power and influence because of their position and their uh at a particular level in their office or the particular level in society or they could take advantage of women sometimes. And they leverage it for opportunity for the woman. Right. Right. So there's that problem. And it's serious and it's and it's bad and it shouldn't be happening. However the women Uh oftentimes there are women who are playing the game in the reverse, realizing that they can wield an awful lot of power and control through their sexuality, knowing that men are attracted to their physical beauty or whatever and they'll p they'll leverage that to exert some power and control over the men. And then when the man sometimes will inappropriately respond to that inappropriate behavior from the woman The man's the one who gets in trouble and the woman that doesn't. And so I think everybody's got to own their own nonsense in that situation. It's it's very complicated. And the the um These pageants are it are an interesting case study because on the one hand they're all about uh empowering women, helping them to you know advance with their education through the scholarships and giving them a uh a a voice on a larger stage to talk about important things and that's all good but at the same time, you know, these women are um uh are putting it. Parading around at high heels in the swimsuit. Where they're objectified and they're saying, why are you objectifying me? Well why are you parading around in the swimsuit then? We're trying to have our cake and eat it too and it's it's so it makes it very complex. Well and uh you know uh as somebody who actually did that in front of forty thousand people, let me tell you, it's awkward, but but um but This idea of physical wellness and mental wellness and the whole person, I think, is the concept behind it And um and perhaps there is some uh modification that could occur in today's world. But I think at the end of the day, just because something looks good doesn't mean you should have it. Oh sure. You know, and that goes both ways, men and women, right? Right. And so uh but you know, all that being said, we're gonna talk more about this as we go along. And um, you know, I I wanna just leave people with this idea of be sweet and kind. Uh commit at random acts of kindness with no desire for any um recognition other than the feel-good that you give one another, give somebody and get out of giving. And um and and I also want want you to start taking on, creating a winning team. We're going to talk more about this in the coming weeks uh in the workplace. that allows us to to be successful in all that we do. And um and part of you know, I think about my husband, I thank him for the the support that he gives me to be here. So Thank you. Have a great 2018. And you've been listening to Success Happens on Free Talk 930 WFMD. Doing it off.