Local free talk continues on the weekend with Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMB. Conversations with and about local newsmakers. Broadcasting live from a palatial palace sitting atop Grove Hill on the west side of Big Brother City in the heart A Plantation County in a formerly free state where nearly 20,000 babies have been murdered in the womb so far this year. I'm Troy Skinner and this is Frederick's Forum. We're on the air at 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. You can enter the conversation by dialing 301-694-WFMD. That's 301-694-9363. Use that same number for the WFMD text line. How are you doing? If you're in a car right now on fifteen, you might might not be doing so good. I understand that there's uh I guess a nasty accident on Route 15 northbound. At the Jefferson Street exit or in that thereabout neighborhood, emergency vehicles on the scene, and northbound 15 apparently shut down. Kinda like the Frederick economy, the Maryland economy for a while, a couple months back. Northbound fifteen Shut down. So it's a parking lot all the way backed up, I imagine, well back into where you know 270 merges with 15. So you're gonna want to figure out another route there. Southbound, I understand, is slowed up. You know, got a lot of people slowing down to take a look at what's going on and that but it's getting through. So if you're southbound on 15, you're probably going to be okay, maybe a little bit late getting to where you're going. But northbound, not good. Hopefully, you know, it's it's mostly just uh vehicle damage and uh no injuries or loss of life or anything like that. So our our prayers Um pause for a second and have prayers for that. There we go. So we'll leave it in God's hands as we have to leave everything. So let me jump into what we're talking about today. First of all, I do want to thank you. Um I've been doing this show now kind of on a fill-in basis for a while. It looks like it's a you know a temporary permanent fill-in thing. I g I guess I'm now the host of Frederick's Forum. So thank you for having me. Thank you for spending your lunch hour with me on Saturdays, every Saturday noon till one. We get together. And I look forward to chatting with you here on the show. So you can do that again at 301-694-9363. But you also can connect with me outside the show. I'd love to do that. It could be in person at some point, you know, that'd be nice. Um you can do it on Facebook, parlor, you know, other such outlets. I mean the radio station has a website. You can connect with us that way. We have a Facebook page. You can go to the WFMD Wait uh Facebook page and you can connect that way. But I personally have a Facebook page, imagine that. Um not sure for how much longer. I'm I'm not gonna dump it anytime real soon, but boy, I'm I'm getting closer and closer by the day. I'm also on Mi Wee. Don't do a whole lot there, but if you're on MiWee, connect with me there. That that'd be good And I do have a parlor account now. That's basically an alternative to Twitter. I've never had a Twitter account. Don't intend to start intend to start now. So uh if you can friend me, you can follow me, you can connect with me, whatever the lingo is for the particular social media or anti-social media platform, that'd be fine. So that was first of all a heartfelt thank you for spending your lunch hour with me on Saturdays and particularly this Saturday. where we have um, you know, an extended break for Labor Day, celebrating, I guess, all of us hard workers and uh you know, recognizing the importance of the unions over the years, I suppose, is what it's still supposed to kind of maybe mean. But given how we have such a waning work ethic, I wonder if we should, you know, ditch Labor Day and replace it with welfare day or handout day or sit on your butt day or something like that. Of course that might be every day for a lot of people, so maybe we shouldn't celebrate it. So anyway, next thing on our list. I'd like to congratulate us. Yes, congratulations to us. Apparently, those of us in Frederick County We have achieved a census response rate greater than 75%. This is apparently outstanding. So I'm told. So kudos all around. Good for you, good for me. The question I have is though, how do we know the response rate? If three out of four have responded, that'd be 75%, if three out of four have responded, how do we know there were four to start with? Maybe there were only three. In that case we'd have a 100% response rate. You ever think of that? Uh it probably has more to do with the number of households responding rather than individuals, I guess, but how do we know that each individual, each household has been counted? Wouldn't that be maybe a more important response rate number? And and what about the homeless? Are they factored in somehow? Or are they neglected? Potentially uncounted? Forever? Just wondering aloud. If you happen to know how that works, you can give me a call, 301-694-9363. We can we can get educated together. Next on our list for today, well, we've spent the last couple of Frederick's forum shows on issues surrounding Frederick County public schools. Cindy Rose was gracious enough to be in studio guest last week and the week before that You know, the issues with Frederick County Public Schools are made increasingly interesting of late by His Royal Highness the King, Larry Hogan, doing an about face and telling schools that they should open up completely. So hey, at least the king is inconsistent, you know? I mean which is always nice. Anyway, talking about FCPS, the public schools, so much these past couple of weeks on the show. What that means is that we didn't get a chance to react to some other things, such as the ruling about the deadly attack at last year's Great Frederick Fair. Now I can only try to imagine. And I'm not just saying that. I mean, seriously, I can only try to imagine how the family of John Weed is feeling these days. Mr. Weed was cold-cocked by a 15-year-old and then spat upon by a 16-year-old as the man they had just assaulted was unconscious on the ground dying. And so here we are, almost a year later, John Weed is dead, having been murdered by a sucker punch. The legal process outcome was that the assailant pled guilty to manslaughter and was sentenced to long-term behavioral modification. And now the spitter, who is the brother of the attacker, he pled guilty to second degree assault and has been sentenced to probation. And Anger Management Treatment Program. To the family of the now deceased John Weed of Mount Erie, our hearts go out to you It doesn't feel to me that justice has been served. But I do know as a Christian that ultimate justice is always served, and so We have that and maybe you agree and maybe you if you happen to be connected to a part of the John Weed family, maybe you can agree and uh find yourself agreeing with that and can take some comfort in that. I I it this is I don't even have the right word for it. Ridiculous comes to mind. Again, we didn't have a chance to talk about this on this show, so if you would like to share your thoughts or vent a little bit or, you know, just wonder aloud with me what in the world is going on these days. Give me a call at three oh one six nine four WFMD three oh one six nine four nine three six three. Something else we didn't have the opportunity about which to opine these past couple of weeks is the Tattletale Narking that was done by David Trone. Who is the United States representative for Maryland's 6th Congressional District? Congressman Trone told on his congressional challenger, Neil Parrott, for having a birthday party. Now, in fairness, Perrot's party was a fundraising event, but it was an event where apparently some precautions against coronavirus were taken. Such as having enough space to be six feet apart if they wanted to. They they had face masks available for sale to anyone who didn't think to bring one of their own but wanted to have one handy. There reportedly were a bunch of hand washing and cleaning stations, and you know what? I'll bet several people thought happy thoughts and emitted positive vibes. But that wasn't good enough for David Trone So he ratted on Neil Parrott, saying that more, much, more, much, much more Needed to be done to stop the spread of COVID 19. And this is important because you do realize I think it's I don't know, ten thousand, eleven thousand people, something like that nationwide have died from COVID this year. Yeah, that's the that's the died from number. I know you're used to seeing the number that's approaching two hundred thousand, but that's people who when they died from cancer, motorcycle crashes, heart attacks, so on. When they died from these things and they also happened to have COVID nineteen, or at least were suspected of possibly having COVID nineteen, well then they got counted as having died with COVID, not from COVID, but died with COVID. So now here I am awaiting data on How many people died with ingrown toenails? It's a national crisis, don't you know? Haven't seen the data, but surely it's alarming. It might be, you know, several hundred thousand Americans have died this year with ingrown toenails And so it's a pretty big deal. Now I get it. I understand how the math works, okay? So I'm not your typical moron. I'm a rather unique moron. So unlike the typical morons, me, the unique moron, I understand that the six percent That's not exactly the best and fairest way to measure the deaths from the COVID-19 coronavirus. I get it. However, I don't care. I'm so beyond caring anymore. And you know why? You know why I don't care? You've done this to me. You've turned me into the moron that I am today. Congratulations to you. Because the other numbers we see, what is it? Hundred and seventy thousand, hundred and eighty thousand, I don't even know what the number is right now. I've stopped paying attention because it's meaningless. It means nothing. They could tell me it's a uh a a bazillion. I don't care. It's not true. They're literally counting people who died from a motorcycle crash who happened to have COVID-19 in their system as a COVID death. So the numbers ridiculous. Now is it 9,000, 10,000, 11,000? Probably not. I get that. But is it 170,008, 190,000? No. But do you get that? You who disagree with my perspective on this, do you get what do you get it? Can you concede the same point? The real number is probably, I don't know, forty thousand, fifty thousand, sixty thousand, maybe seventy thousand, something like that. That's probably that's probably the real number. And that's bad. That's horrible. That's a big number, that's bad. I get it. But as I said at the beginning of today's show, nearly 20,000 babies have been murdered so far this year, just in the state of Maryland alone. So even if COVID is even if COVID has has has ended the life of 170, 180,000 people, even if Compare that to twenty thousand babies in Maryland alone so far this year. So if you want to exaggerate And lie, really. It's kind of a loaded term. Maybe it's maybe it's not fair. Maybe you're just completely deluded and misled and you and you don't realize you're lying. But I think some actually know that it's misrepresenting purposely the numbers. And so in that case, it's lying. If you're if you're lying about the numbers on the high end, then I should be allowed to Lie about the numbers on the low end. Don't you think? Fair spare. Why isn't it fair If you don't think it's fair, you call me and tell me why it's not fair. 301-694-WFMD 301-694-93-63. And it's such a big deal that Frederick officials, this COVID thing, it's such a big deal to those that think that it's We should all be on this super high alert. They're going to start spot checking local businesses to see who is and who is not complying with the voluntary restrictions. And I'm going to talk a little bit more about that, but we're up against needing to take a little bit of a break from me talking so that some other people can talk and tell you some important things about important businesses that serve the local communities. Needs with uh with all sorts of services and goods. So pay attention and see if maybe when you have a need that these people are talking about Maybe you could uh patronize them and and give them some of your uh hard-earned cash before the government steals it from you. This is Frederick's Forum on 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. Dios and Alexa. Okay. You're always on 930 WFMD This is nine thirty WFMD is Fred Drick. Forum. I am Troy Skinner. Tomorrow morning I'll be hosting again the Frederick Faith debate right here on News Radio 930 WFMD. I do that every week, air Sunday mornings at nine. You can also catch it on podcast at WFMD. com Uh Jonathan Schweitzer and I are joined uh this uh this coming show last week, this week, and the next two weeks by John Harris, who really knows an awful lot about the cultural Marxism, neomarxism, neonasticism, all those fancy words. basically the stuff that has infec infected our entire society and has us thinking about running for the hills. That's what we're talking about tomorrow on the Frederick Faith debate, so hopefully you can tune in and catch that. But we've got people who tune in to catch this and right now we've got the people called in, so let me first See who this is. I think Mike and Frederick. I pick picked the right line. Is this Mike? Yeah, this that's this is me. Welcome to the forum. Thank you. I was just curious uh if Joe Biden ends up catching COVID so he doesn't have to debate Donald Trump. Are they gonna list his political career as a COVID related death? Yeah. Well well, you know Only if only if he you know can be counted as dead twice, because his career was already dead. So can COVID nineteen kill a dead man? That's the question. Exactly. You guys have a good day. Thank you. But I'm bumped. Thanks for the call That was short and sweet. Uh speaking of short and sweet, I have a feeling we had a short and sweet one here. This is Courtney in Iamsville. You're on WFMD. Hello. Can you can you hear me? Hi. I can. Alright. Tantalize us with your written insight. I'm curious if you know about this I'm just catching wind of it myself. There's apparently a Facebook group that has just been set up. It has, you know, over a hundred members from last I saw. Somebody messaged it to me, like took a screenshot of it It's a Facebook group that goes around, the individuals within this group will take pictures of people who are not wearing face coverings and shame them on social media. There's literally a group that has been formed to do this. They are um I'm not sure what their motivation is other than to be mean and nasty. Um, you know, I really doubt that they have the interest of that individual in mind when their health is concerned because they didn't I think take you know, that next step which is actually go to that individual and say, Wow, what's going on in your life? Is there a reason why you don't have a face covering? Do you have an illness yourself that prevents it? Or Do you think it's hogwash? Whatever. They're not taking that step. They'd rather just go behind their back, take a picture, and then put it on social media to quote unquote chain this. And that's really sad. That's kind of sad. Do you happen to know the name of the group? I can't remember it. Um like that. And I'm driving so I can't look it up for you, but I bet you somebody else listening probably knows what I'm talking about. It's kind of been circulating and it's just It's really sad. I don't understand why people feel the need to bully other people like this. It's just very, very sad because they've claimed their intent is to keep everyone safe And I highly doubt that. So you you're on the road, uh I mentioned at the beginning of the show that there's a traffic's a mess on fifteen. Are you in that neck of the woods at all right now or have have you recently been through that neck of the woods? No, I I'm actually on seventy um way past, so I'm thankfully out of that area. All right. Well, thanks for the call. I appreciate it very much. Safe travels Thank you. You have a great show. Thank you. Thank you. And you're a great call. And uh I wanna oops up I put her on hold instead of Releasing the call. How do I do that? There we go. Uh yeah, I want to thank her for that call. First of all, I'm going to give you the traffic update in two seconds as best as best as I know. And if you can give me better updates as the show progresses, we can keep each other informed. But I want to thank uh Courtney from Imesville for calling in because now if you can figure out the name of this Facebook group. If you're a former hall monitor in middle school and and you're kind of missing that opportunity to go tattletale and narc on on your friends uh in the h in the in the hallways of your school This is a Facebook group that could really fill that need in your life. Or maybe if you're like somebody's little sister, you know, or w or that that That younger whining cousin that used to like to run and and and tell on everybody when they were mean and did something that you didn't like or they they didn't play with you the way that you want to be played to. This is a Facebook Group is right up your alley. So hopefully you can find out the name of it so you can join because I want you to have a productive, you know, affirming kind of a life. That's that's our goal for you here on Frederick's Forum. Um we're up against the bottom of the aisle. I've Fred uh Profiter is going to be joining us here in a minute on Frederick's Forum to talk about an important thing that's that's that's happening, hopefully happening this month in Frederick County Alluded to it briefly in last week's show, but because we're focusing focusing on the school system, we didn't have a chance to get into any any details, but hopefully Fred can share some of those details about a gigantic issue. In my opinion, there are two things that are a gigantic blight on our contemporary culture. The biggest is murdering babies in the womb. And then the next notch below that, the second biggest, human trafficking. And so we're going to learn more about that in just a second. So it's coming up on 1230. That traffic update that I here's what I know. Bad accident apparently on fifteen northbound by the Jefferson Street exit. If you're heading north, uh as as of uh a half hour ago, parking lot all the lanes were blocked. And it was backed up like From Jefferson all the way, like I guess, from what I understand, to where fifteen turns into two seventy. I mean that's a pretty good stretch Um maybe a mile. I don't know how how b how big it was backed up. Maybe it's opened up now. So if you're happening to drive around here listening, you can give us an update, that'd be great. My understanding is southbound fifteen slowed down a little bit, but that it wasn't wasn't horrible. So Y you'll be okay. Anyway, we're gonna pause for a update on the news, both national, international, local, and all that sort of stuff, and we'll come back with your phone calls at six What am I doing? Where'd the six come from? 301-694. That's where the six came from. WFMD. 301-694-9363. I'm Troy Skinner. This is Frederick's Forum on Free Talk 930 WFMD and WFMD. com. I'm Troy Skinner on nine thirty L FMD is Frederick Forum. During the week you are invited to listen to Frederick's Morning Mayor, Bob Miller, for your morning commute. And then you're doing the afternoon commute thing too. Then on your way back home, you can listen to Mid Maryland Live. Craig Mitchell Tim May holding out that form. Taking your phone call. It's kind of like this show. Well there's two of them, only one of me That's not fair. Anyway, Bob's on in the morning and Tim and Frank are on in the afternoon every weekday here on Free Talk 930 WFMD and WFMD. Let's get back to the phones. I had mentioned that Fred Profiter was on the line and uh I think he's still there, hopefully. I didn't have a chance to check with him before the the news update, but you're still there, Fred? I am here. Welcome to the forum. Thanks for calling in. So yeah, yeah, I know a little bit about it. I think I might have saw it on social media, uh um from the uh Frederick County Conservative Club or something, and it's got Stop Human Trafficking in Maryland. Uh September 19th, 2020, the Frederick Conservativing uh Frederick County Conservative Club and the Tentacle are both, I guess, in tandem promoting this. That's all I know. So what else is there to know? And and if somebody wants to get involved, somebody wants to help, somebody wants to show up, somebody wants to give money, somebody wants I don't know what what what the need is, but what what's happening? All right, first clarification is that we moved the date back to October seventeenth rather than September nineteenth. Okay. Good to know. Eight in eight in planning, getting more people involved and hopefully raise some funds because it's gonna take money to a secure location, B uh provide security for our speakers And see get donations up for Save Our Children and Hartley House and other organizations that are uh work and art to protect our and our children. So October seventeenth is the that's a Saturday. Yes. And uh it do you have a time frame already kind of lined up of when this is gonna happen? I see on that day? Uh we wanna do it during the day. Probably uh like ten AM to five PM. Uh, make it a family friendly event, you know, with moon bounce for the kids and petting zoo, things like that. You know, that all takes money to put together. But right now we are we have run into a wall that we cannot find a venue that will handle two hundred and fifty people or more. Uh the fire halls, the carnival grounds, things like that are not doing anything until spring next year. Is that because of COVID nineteen lockdown stuff? Yes So they're not allowed to or they're just not comfortable doing it and they think they'd get in trouble if they did it? Um what I'm hearing is they're not comfortable with it. I mean and then the has the uh social distancing uh criteria that has to be met also. You know, tables can't be more than six feet, you know, closer than six feet apart, you know, which is totally ridiculous. Um So anybody out there has a venue. So none of the places that that uh we typically would think of for this, you know, the the places where carnivals are held, that those are all out I guess. The fairgrounds I guess is out Yeah, Baker is not doing anything till next year. Well the problem is it's gonna be middle of October, so we have the definite chance of rain or being cold or whatnot. So you need something inside. That would be preferred or someplace where we could pitch a big tent. A really big tent. Gotcha. Okay. Or if somebody has like a big old barn that can hold two hundred and fifty feet or something. Exactly. Yeah. Something like that. Um and so you need the space for the moon bounce and and some activities to make it family friendly. So are there gonna is is are there speakers that are gonna s line up or what's the what's the um Uh is it an educational event for learning more about human trafficking as it affects Maryland, as more specifically Frederick, or is it just It having a rally sort of to draw attention to the issue? It's uh educational event. Um education without action is waste of time. So it's gonna be educational, you know, how to spot it and then where to go i if you do spot it, you know. Um and it's not just children. Yeah, there are adults that are kidnapped and taken away and put into slave labor or or organs are harvested and these people end up dead. And it uh it happens through the uh what's called Bala, the G Violence Against Women Act the people who bring people into the country, you know, as uh wives and husbands And they get here, they disappear. Yeah, it's a total misnomer for people to say that there once was slavery in America. There's slavery happening right now in this country and nobody really wants to talk about it. Unfortunately. Who does LeBron James think is making his shoes? Yeah, it's slave labor in in China and they're mu most likely Muslims who have been To come in into China and and put into indentured servitude. Yeah, I don't think that being back to the event for a second, I don't think that the uh the idea of a tent would is really workable to you. I mean that'd be a gigantic tent that could that could hold two hundred and fifty, three hundred people plus moon bounces and stuff like that. I mean that's that you need a big top. Yeah. Well i i if it if it could be you know several tents Yeah, uh one for the you know, couple tets for the kids, you know, for like face painting and uh petting zoo and things like that. And then Another tent for the program itself. Now we're lining up uh speakers from Hartley House, from uh US Marshals Office, the FBI. Well it's gotta be a full pleasure. I wonder if you just mentioned Penn Petting Zoo. I wonder if the the zoo up on fifteen you know, would uh would would let you make use of the the the zoo grounds to ha have an event there. I'm try I'm trying to be creative, I don't know If you have big property or you know somebody that's connected to big property or you uh have a big tent company or connected to somebody who's a big tent company and you can help to troubleshoot this, I guess they should try to get in touch with with you or or somebody else with the organization. Fred, who should they talk to? Uh they can uh email us at info at Frederick County Conservative Club dot com. Um I have a phone number. Let me pull it up here. Okay. F Info Frederick County Conservative Club. Spelled all out, I guess, huh? Dot com. Yeah, it's all spelled out. It's a lot of keystrokes, okay. Uh I lost it. That's all right. Well well the f phone numbers are hard to remember anyway. Info at Frederick County Conservative Club dot com. That's pretty easy to remember. So info at Frederick County Conservative Club dot com, correct? All right. Uh I'll I'll give my phone number. Your phone number? Oh boy, okay. My phone my phone number. All right. If I don't answer, please leave a message My number's two four zero three four four four five thousand. That's your personal number? That's my personal number. How'd you get a five thousand? That's that's a good number. That's like a number of business we want to have. I uh I asked for a number that would be easy to remember. Good for you. That's crazy. I'm impressed. And things like that. That's that's a drawback to it. Ga oh right. That makes sense. And you probably can sell that number, so you can probably buy it from ya. Alright. Well hopefully you'll get to answer an earlier question. Yeah. That uh Facebook page. Yeah. Yeah, about the narc group. The people that narc on people not wear masks, yeah? Called Frederick Wall of Shame. Is that really what it's called? Yes. Is it really? Frederick? Yes. Wall of Shame. Frederick Wall of Shame. Or a household of parents. Now Well that would be your nickname. But seriously, if I go to Facebook and I and I put the search bar Frederick Wall of Shame, I'll get this group Yes you will. Oh my gosh. They even call themselves that. I mean, that sounds like a joke. It sounds like a parody, right? Mm-hmm. Unbelievable. Alright, well I appreciate that and I appreciate the information. Hopefully it'll get some traction. We can secure a a venue and maybe get some security lined up and We can help out get the word out and and help support the efforts that are being done by Save Our Children and Hartley House and other related uh entities that are fighting the good fight against human trafficking. Anything else before I let you go, Fred? Yeah, it's gonna take anywhere between five and ten thousand dollars for us to put us put this together and They can send donations to P. O. Box three four two two, Frederick, Maryland, two one seven zero five. Okay. Everybody's infoed up. Appreciate it, Fred. Thanks for calling in and uh and giving that information to me. Thanks for the time. Yeah, best best of uh you know fortunes to you on that. At the very least, in spite of these challenges to get the event off the ground, we're talking about it and maybe you were unaware. A lot of people I think are unaware that wait a what? There are slaves like in America right now? Yeah, they're probably slaves, you know, human slaves, uh sex slaves, probably in Frederick. Seriously. It's it's uh bad deal. Yeah, and that narc thing. So I'm gonna check that out later, I guess, and see who's on the Wall of Shame. The Facebook group. Frederick Wall of Shame. Yeah, so this fits right in with the theme of something I w w we've already been talking about that I want to continue to talk about. This whole COVID thing, the COVID nineteen and the Pandemonium about the people are so afraid and they want to mask up and want to make sure everybody else is masked up. It's such a big deal That now the Frederick officials, officials from Frederick, official people, like the government people, all right? Not just some random Facebook group, but the government is going to start spot checking local businesses to see who is and who is not complying with the voluntary restrictions. that the overseers of Plantation County have unilaterally placed upon their property. I I mean their constituents. It's imperative, you know. Everyone must wear their chains. I mean their uh face coverings If you're complying with all of this nonsense about the masks, can I ask why? The virus is nowhere near as deadly as the profiteers want you to believe. The masks don't work nearly as well, if at all, but certainly not nearly as well, as the propagandists insist on telling us. Slamming shut the economy, and now only allowing it to limp along, that hasn't worked in stopping the spread. Not the way the fearmongers advertised. And yet a huge portion of the masses Comply. And they insist that you comply too, as they comply People are doing what they're told, even when what they're told is wrong. People do what they're told, even when what they're told is harmful to themselves, harmful to their family, to their friends, to their neighbors People, they do what they're told. Why? Why? Because marketing works. That's why Maybe you don't know this, but you're about to find out if you didn't know. I sell advertising. That's why I make my living. I know you think I'm making a million dollars a year hosting the Fredericks Forum. It's about half that between you and me. But I make my living selling advertising. I sell advertising for WFMD and for WFMD's sister station, WFRE. And I also sell digital advertising and cause marketing initiatives and event marketing solutions and I sell these things and smart business people purchase these things. Because marketing and advertising, when it's done well, works. It works. You don't think it works? Well then explain why people believe that they need a mask that they don't need. And why they actually do put these masks on their faces even when they're alone in a car, alone by themselves outside. Advertising, marketing works. If you'd ever like to give me a call about that, let me know. Contact me at the radio station. Uh just call the radio station's main line, ask for Troy, and I'd be glad to hook you up and show you how advertising can work for your business. But back to the issue about the the mask and all this hysteria. You know what's going on? Here's what's going on. The proletariat has been manipulated By lies from the credentialed class, or should we call them the thilariate, to use the Maoist Communist, Marxist, neo-Marxist, neo-Gnostic language. And anti-social distancing, along with the ridiculous masks? Well, they'd become the opiate of the masses. Welcome to the slavery that socialism brings. So again I ask, why are you playing along? Seriously? It's not rhetorical. I seriously why would like to know why are you playing along? I was talking to friends last night. I was reminded of the um oh what's called the Emperor's New Clothes. Remember that That that child's book, that, you know, uh fairy tale, legendary, you know, kind of whatever they call those kinds of books, those those fables, those morality tales, The Emperor's New Clothes. Some uh spinsters literally, but also in I mean it in politically I guess too, rhetorically. Spinsters pretend to make clothes for the emperor and persuade him that they've actually made him clothes when they've made him absolutely nothing and then the cl the the emperor puts on quote unquote these clothes that do not exist. They're completely invisible because they're not there. There's nothing there. It's a lie. Total fraud. But he's the king. He's part of the credentialed class, you know. He's in charge, he's an expert, he knows. He's he's the ruler. We have to trust our ruler. So he parades himself down Main Street in his in the city that he rules, and everybody's looking on and and applauding and Oooing and eyeing over the beauty of his new clothes that do not exist thee, he is buck naked But people are deluded, they delude themselves, or they enter into the delusion willingly and live a lie and tell some young kid Who says that the the children can't lead the way? Some young kid who's got the guts and the wisdom to say, hey The king has an Audi like me. The king he's he's nude, he's naked. He's wearing his birthday suit. And then everybody's eyes are opened. When are our eyes gonna open? Why are we playing along? I I truly, honestly, I curiously would like to know the answer to that question. If you'd like to call in, you're more than welcome. You're encouraged. You're cajoled into calling in. 301 694-WFMD-301-694-9363. We've got one more segment left of Frederick's Forum And so we're going to listen to some of these remunerative announcements here so that you can learn how to help support the local economy by getting goods and services that will be helpful. to you and the life that you live. This is the forum on 930 WFMD. Frederick's forum on 930 WFMD continues. I'm Troy Skinner, your financial editor Chris Murray is talking with you next in about oh ten minutes or so right after the upcoming newscast for an update on all those world and local events Here on News Radio 930, WFMD, and WFMD. com. We've got about five minutes left. We can take some more phone calls. You can join the fray at 301-694, WFMD-301-694 And we've got somebody here that's joining the foray. I have no idea who it is though. Let's find out together, shall we? Hello, welcome to the forum. Who's this? Hi, this is Tom calling from Frederick. Well thanks for calling, Tom. What can we do you for? Hey, uh just to preface what I'm gonna say, I don't wear a mask Anywhere. That's the end of it. But actually, the average person wearing a mask believes that millions of people have died from COVID-19 Well what I'm asking people now is, okay, if millions of people have died, how come nobody I know knows anyone who's died from COVID nineteen There is not one person I know, none of my customers, nobody at church, no friends, no family, no in-laws, no outlaws. I don't nobody, me or nobody knows anyone who's died from COVID-19 So what's the problem? And I'm getting I'm getting no response to that. But literally, I don't know a single person who has died. So what's the problem? What are we doing Yeah, and I don't know what and I and and you're probably in the same boat as I am, and we're all in it together. It's hard to know what data to even try to get a foothold and believe anymore because it's all feels like it's a fabrication or it's an exaggeration or You know, but some of the stats I've seen suggest that the median age, and if you don't know what median means, it's different than average. You listener at large, if you don't know what what the median is, you know, the average is you add everybody's age together, you divide it by the number of people, you get the average. The median is Half the people are older than that age and half the people are younger than that age. And apparently the median age, uh at least in one reporting source, says that for for those deaths that are attributed to COVID nineteen, the median age is eighty Mm-hmm. That means that half the people who have died from COVID nineteen were over eighty. Now I love people who are over eighty. In fact we're spending time with uh somebody, a couple of people in our family I think this weekend that are over eighty and they're beloved and we don't want to lose them any sooner than we have to. I totally get it. But if you're under the age of really sixty five You have other things in your life that put you in greater risk than the coronavirus. And yet you don't stop to You mentioned church, by the way. Is your church meeting? Oh yes, no masks, no distancing, no nothing. Wow, no kidding. Well no masks, no distancing, no kidding No. Don't fooling around. I won't go to a church with m I'm not going to church with a mask, I'm sorry. Well now are you comfortable giving a plug for your church or you're afraid you'll get your church in trouble if you mention it? finding out who we are. Yeah, okay. No, I I I get it. Yeah, it's like an underground church movement now. Oh, we're above ground, but I I just don't want any advertising. Yeah, no, I I I hear ya. And you mentioned you have a business. Is did your is your business such that you don't You it's not a retail establishment so people don't have a massive money. They probably would want me to, but I don't. Gotcha. But that's it it it's a little easier for you in your business context to fulfill the requirements and dictates of the oligarchy uh and not get yourself in trouble as a business. So good good for you. L listen, I grew up during the Jimmy Carter administration, so I know about leftist tyranny and uh I don't have time to get into all of it, but I made decisions in my life that I was not gonna be subjected to all this tyranny. So thirty years ago I just started mowing lawns. Well good for you. I got sick and tired of the corporate tyranny and the government tyranny, you know, and I just happily fly under the radar. I'm enjoying my life. I've raised a bunch of kids and we're just it's no problem. Well awesome. Well if they ever kick me out of here, you know, uh I'm gonna come get a job mowing some lawns with you, okay? Yeah, I just come right on in. We actually meet people. We're desperate. Okay, I appreciate I'll talk you off to you, Garrison. Have a great rest of your day. Thank you for listening to Frederick's Forum on nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Be back next Next week at noon, noon to one, every single week, and on the air tomorrow morning from nine to nine thirty for Frederick's Faith Debate. Thanks again so much for listening. For those who called, I appreciate your contributions. Couldn't do the show without you. Well maybe we could, but anyway. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com. New Radio 930. WFMD Frederick. A connoisseur media radio station.