And we're on, I believe. Well, welcome, Saints. Those washed clean in the blood of Christ and those who are curious, as you're watching this on Facebook or perhaps on YouTube later, thank you for joining us We're going to be continuing our series on the first epistle of John today. So if you have your Bibles, you might want to grab those and prepare yourself by turning to First John. Chapters uh two and four are where we're gonna be spending time today. So you're gonna wanna maybe just have a thumb in those pages so we read those. Uh you'll be able to read long. We're going to open with a word of prayer in a minute and then we have a message. At the conclusion of the message, we'll have a discussion about the things touched upon in the message and other things that might So if you're hearing something in the message that's you know strikes a chord with you, that you have a comment on or a question about, feel free to include it in the comments. because we'll try to refer to that in the discussion portion of the evening. So without further ado, I see some people are beginning to jump on board. So welcome. Good evening. I know we're a couple of minutes We'll still be done uh by seven o'clock, no doubt about that, because we've got a son whose uh TV schedule he needs to keep, so we'll be doing that. Um One of you ladies want to open us in prayer. Gracious Heavenly Father, we just say Jesus, all to Jesus. All I am and have and ever hope to be. Lord, we give everything into your hands, just as we sang. We give this time together into your hands for you to have your way in it and through it. We thank you for bringing us together to be able to do this. And it is our pleasure for to surrender this time to you for you to have your way because you are good. and you only want good for us. We just pray, Lord, that everybody that comes and watches, Lord, that this good just flows out through them and everybody is ministered to it. exactly at their point of need. We ask, we invite your Holy Spirit to Lord to guide this conversation. And we ask you Holy Spirit to teach us. as you do so. And we thank you, Father, and ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Like I say, it's nice to have the whole crew here. Last week it was just us. Can't get away with too much of that when you're on Facebook. So um I'm gonna start by referencing someone that maybe you've heard something about over the years in the news, Westboro Baptist Church. I don't know if it rings any bells It's a group out of Kansas. They like to travel the country and they like to protest at the funerals of military men and women And people in this uh church, quote unquote, they think that God is punishing our nation because the United States Armed Forces allows homosexuals to serve in uniform. And so these Baptist quote unquote protesters hold up signs that say things like, God hates uh English cigarettes, if you know what That is. God hates insert derogatory slur here. Are the people who will hold up these sorts of signs and yell out these sorts of hurtful slur Are they Christians? Are their leaders preaching and teaching Christ? There's a unity church just up the road from where I am right now from where we are gathered here in our home. And the spiritual leader there have publicly spoken against this sort of hate speech out of the group coming from Kansas. In fact, she thinks it's hateful even to use the word sin. And so she won't talk about it, she won't use the word sin. And she tells others instead, instead of sin, they have errors in their thought. You steal from your employer, you cheat on your spouse, you murder a small child And she would say that these are all examples of error thinking. Our people who hold to such open-minded and non-judging attitudes Christians. Our leaders like the one I just described, followers of and ambassadors for Christ. Now how about television evangelists who are busy busy making a name for themselves by offering healings in exchange for what they like to refer to as love gifts. Or how about the preachers on the radio who guide people to believe that if they wish for something hard enough and have enough faith, then they can speak their personal dreams into reality. How about the men of God, quote unquote, who are on the bestsellers list, writing books about discovering and then tapping into that spark of the divine That you have inside of you, that we all have inside of us, because we're all divine, you see. As we work through answering questions like this, we might be tempted to a What has happened to the world? Things just keep getting worse and worse, don't they? Well we're going to read something from the New Testament. Something that was written back during the good old days. So if you have your Bibles handy, open up first 1 John chapter 2. We'll be picking up with verse 18. We'll be reading through to verse 29 and then jumping ahead to chapter 4. So beginning with 1 John chapter 2, verse 19. Verse 18. Dear children, this is the last hour. And as you as you have heard that the Antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists Christ have come. This is how we know it is the last hour. They went out from us, but they did not really belong to us. For if they had belonged to us, They would have remained with us, but their going showed that none of them belonged to us. But you have an anointing from the Holy One. And all of you know the truth. I do not write to you because you do not know the truth, but because you do know it, and because no lie comes from the truth. Who is the liar? It is whoever denies that Jesus Jesus is the Christ. Such a person is the Antichrist, denying the Father and the Son. No one who denies the Son has the Father. Whoever acknowledges the Son has the Father. Also. As for you, see that what you have heard from the beginning remains in you. If it does, you also will remain in the Son and in the Father. And this is what he promised us: eternal life. I am writing these things to you about those who are trying to lead you astray. As for you, the anointing you receive from him remains in you. And you do not need anyone to teach you. But as his anointing teaches you about all things, and as that anointing is real not counterfeit, just as it has taught you, remain in him. And now, dear children, continue in him so that when you He appears, we may be confident and unashamed before him at his coming. If you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone who does what is right has been born of him. And now jumping to chapter 4, verse 1. Dear friends, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirit Spirits to see whether they are from God. Because many false prophets have gone out into the world. This is how you can recognize the Spirit of God. Every spirit That acknowledges that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. But every spirit that does not acknowledge Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the Antichrist. Which you have heard is coming, and even now is already in the world. You dear children are from God and have overcome them because the one The one who is in you is greater than the one who is in the world. They are from the world, and therefore speak from the viewpoint of the world, and the world listens to them We are from God. And whoever knows God listens to us. But whoever is not from God does not listen to us. This is how we recognize the spirit of truth and the spirit of falsehood. The very word of God, those who have ears to hear, let them hear. We pause for a word of prayer. Father, we thank you for the truth of your word, that you've preserved it for us in written form so that we can study it and glean additional understandings about you every time we press into it. We ask that you would unclutter our minds and our hearts, you would have us be attentive and focused on what you would have us learn here today. We thank you for the presence of your spirit among your people. We ask that you by your spirit illuminar our minds, soften our hearts, change the trajectory of our lives to become increasingly more and and more and more like your son Jesus Christ. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. Now as we read from first John chapter two and then jump to 1 John chapter 4, you might be wondering, well, what happened in 1 John chapter 3? Still there, every Bible's open. You can see that for yourself. And if you don't have a Bible's open, I assure you, chapter 3 is still there. It has not been Excise from the scriptures. We just didn't read it right now. We skipped over it for now. We're going to circle back and cover it later on in our series on 1 John. Now if you've heard my previous messages, I think this is, I don't know, we had a half a dozen or so messages so far on 1 John in the series. I think this is message seven. Positive, I think it's message seven. Anyway, in those messages, you might have noticed as we're working our way through it that I skipped around quite a bit. I skipped around in in in cover all of the verses from 1 John chapter 1 through the middle half of 1 John chapter 2. Now in doing so we cover every single verse in that portion of scripture but just not necessarily in exact order. Well why would I do that? Well I'm trying my best in doing that to capture the chain of thoughts as they're Presented to us in this piece of literature from John the Apostle? Or is it authored by John the Apostle? That's a fair question Within the body of the text itself, it says nowhere who the author is. We're not told in the scriptures itself who the author is. However, the church has traditionally Accepted that John is the author. Of course, along with the Holy Spirit. John carrying along by the Holy Spirit, we can have pretty good confidence that this is the case. I have a lot of confidence in that. As far as I'm concerned, John is the author. And to be honest, there's very, very little debate about this among the scholars and theologians and the church fathers. No debate of any consequence really about that. We can we can Can be pretty settled that the Apostle John is the author of this portion of Scripture. However, there is a lot of debate, quite a bit of debate, bit of debate and disagreement over the structure for 1 John. One commentary that I referenced as I was consulting different sources to make sure that I'm on point with what I'm teaching here in in this sermon series. One of the commentaries it suggested that there were eight different outlines for first John. It's not that of a book, eight different outlines, and all of them could be right. All of them could be wrong. Now I doubt very much that that John himself started with a firm outline that he crafted and then wrote from there. Now I know that that maybe is how we were taught to do it when we were in junior high school and in high school, but yeah think about this, John, he did not attend government funded American public school schools and so if it's possible he wouldn't even be aware of such a practice. Regardless, anyway we look at it, what we have here is a beautiful, passionate, grammatically simple letter that has a few important points to make and it makes them very nicely, don't you know? The way it is referred to as a letter. Is it a letter? There's some disagreement about this. Some think that it's a written sermon. Some would say that it's a it's a paper responding rather academically to a series of questions that were challenging the church at the time. Now we generally generally we refer to this writing as John's first epistle, and epistle means letter. So maybe we could think of This as a a sermon or a paper that was sent along to be read like a letter. Doesn't really matter to our discussion today, but I felt Tyler Dean, we're not gonna watch Wheel of Fortune or Jeopardy tonight. We're gonna be all done with the TV, okay? So you don't have to worry about it. Wheel of Fortune is on. No, it's not on tonight. We're gonna be all done. Not in this house. It's not gonna be on tonight, okay? Oh Okay. Okay. So all these things I'm saying about whether it's a letter or not, or a sermon, or or an academic It doesn't really matter all that much for our discussion today, but I felt that I should bring this up at some point in our series on first judgment. and now seems as good a time as any, so here we are. Now back to my my point about, you know, why am I jumping around in 1 John? As we walk through these first few chapters. Well, the message tonight, actually, that I'm delivering right now is a pretty good example for us to consider You're free to disagree, but I think and I hope that when I am through, that most viewers and hearers of this will agree that there was a bit of a coherence and cohesion To what it is I'm saying. And you will, God willing, be able to recall the main points and even be able to apply at least some of them to your daily walk, to your daily practice to your life. And yet already I have jumped from contemporary examples from the American uh the modern American church landscape jumped from there to reading a long passage from an ancient document. And then I jumped from a prayer to thoughts about skipping around. And then to questions of authorship. And then to literary structure and literary genre. And then I jumped to the issue of jumping around. And in a moment we're going to be skipping to brief considerations regarding the historical and geographical settings as well as the intended original audience. So it's a lot of stuff. And I won't spend a ton of time on any one of these sections individually. and I will revisit some of the areas covered multiple times. So may God bless you in your attempts to try to outline tonight's message And come up with the same kind of outline that I would have had for my very own message here. And this is exactly what is happening in 1 John. At least this is how it appears. To me, Johnny has some things he wants to say, and he's going to say them by golly, and he's going to say it persuasively and passionately and clearly, even without an easy-to-discern outline. as its structure. If you think about it, this is how people communicate a lot of the time. At least it's been my experience. Maybe it's been yours too. Have you ever talked to somebody for a while For a long while and then you stop and you ask, wait a minute, how do we end up talking about this? So then you retrace your steps and you realize, oh that's right. We started out we're talking about the Kentucky Derby, and then from The Kentucky Derby we we started talking about sports vetting in general, and then we jumped to sports movies before bringing up that movie about the racehorse secretariat. And this caused us to then discuss that old sports Illustrated article that lists a secretary, who's a horse, as one of the all-time greatest athletes in history, which connected us to biological and anthropological questions that we wanted to ask. to discuss. And so then here we now find ourselves arguing over the merits of Darwinian evolution. See how that works? Does that ever happen to you? Happens to me. Now in this example that I just shared, we basically were talking about sports and animals, right? That was the the basic theme. We took several detours along the way, but they're all basically on those two topics. Now first John, it is held together way better than what I just described in that horse racing So praise God for that. But the point is that because First John does not have a tightly woven structure, at least not as Super easy to discern, I am grappling with John's words for us more topically. And the last half of chapter 2, Along with the first part of chapter four, present us with similar topical material. And that's why we're doing what we're doing the way that we're doing it. So is that clear? By the way, before we get fully back on track, I have to ask you something. Just a moment ago, I mentioned that I wouldn't spend a ton of time on certain things. So let me ask, how many minutes would a person have to stuff inside of a container before that container would weigh 2,000 pounds? Don't spend a lot of time thinking about it because that sort of question cannot be answered. It's really an idiotic question. It's a distracting question. It distracts you from what's important. And that is what the false teachers do. You see how That brings us all back around to our topic. Now I started this message with quick hitting examples of various types of false Christian teaching in modern day or what m maybe more accurate we call postmodern day America. I did this because you're Americans. You know, everybody in this room is American. I assume most people viewing online are Americans and and so that's my audience. That's where we are, it's who we are right now. So that's our context. Well who was John talking to? And where? Let's start with the the where question. Where was John? And where did the original Readers live? We don't know. Not for sure. You're likely familiar with the story. about uh John being banished to the island of Patmos near the end of his life. But most scholars and theologians are confident that first John was written Before that happened. Now there's debate, but if you wanted to say that John was writing from somewhere in Asia Minor, somewhere near Phrygia, for example, I'd be okay with that. And if you were to say that his initial readers were located in house churches around Ephesus I'd be okay with that too. Because it does seem that this particular area, which would become the core of what would be then be known as the Ottoman Empire Is a good cultural fit for the sort of heresies that John is blasting here in this letter. And by the way, if you prefer to refer to this land by its modern name, the nation Of Turkey, well, I'd be okay with that too. So let's tackle the question of who? To whom is our author addressing his thoughts? Well, he's talking to Christians. We know that. He addresses his dear children multiple times and says That we have an anointing from the Holy Spirit, true only for followers of Christ, and that we know the truth which remains in these readers. Because these readers, they have overcome the world. And why have they overcome it? Because the one greater than the world resides in them. Well, that's true for Christians. So the original readers, they're Christians. Well, all this is true for us too, if we're believers, followers of Christ. As students of John's teachings, we are his children. We have the Holy Spirit. The truth is in us. So we have overcome the world through the power of Jesus, who is greater than us. of the world because he made the world. And so when John addresses his readers as us and we, it is perfectly appropriate for us To think that we and us are the ones that he's talking to. Totally appropriate to apply it directly to our lives in our situation. But it's not totally as simple as that. It can be very helpful if we understand who the readers were almost 2,000 years ago ago, what was going on in their lives, in their communities. For example, what do you suppose was their price for a gallon of gas? What was their favorite television show? Do they prefer domestic or foreign cars? You ask questions like this and Start to think, oh, well maybe actually those people so long ago didn't have very much in common with us at all. And so this letter or whatever it is, it might not really be all that relevant to us. It was written to them were so different from us. If that's the case, well then sorry. Might have wasted your time here this evening. Oh well that's the end of the sermon. Thanks for listening. Close of the prayer name of Jesus Christ, amen. Now if I had handled that differently and tried to play that off as seriously ending the message, well then some could have been left wondering. Is he kidding? Is he seriously going to stop right now and confuse? Is this the end of the message? Well, as it turns out, actually yes. So I'm going to wrap up here. until we pick up at this point in next week's sermon. We're going to dive in next week more into the meat of what is said in the passages that we read here tonight. So, and we're going to tie together. with what we talked about with that uh unity church leader and with the Westboro uh Baptist folks and all and all of that false teaching and the warnings about the Antichrist. So that's what we're going to talk about next week in earnest, but I wanted to give you the background information about 1 John, which we hadn't done until date. I wanted to get that done here tonight. So let me let me close with a word of prayer and then we'll have some conversation. Father, we love you and adore you. We thank you so much that you love and adore us. your people whom you have rescued from the consequences of our sin. We thank you for the connection that we have with all the other believers around the world and all the other believers who have ever walked this planet. Those from many years ago, those from thousands of years ago. We thank you that you have a plan and a purpose for us, that we have confidence that you are in control of all things, and that if we are Willing to be obedient, that you will give us wisdom and insight and discernment by the power of your Spirit. And we praise you and thank you for that. You would bless our ongoing conversation here this evening. You would bless the hearers, the lives of everyone who is uh participating. In whatever way they're participating in our gathering here this evening. It's in the glorious name of your Son Jesus Christ of Nazareth that we pray. Amen. All right, so that's right around six thirty So that's the time. Any initial thoughts Alright, let me try a couple of uh thought starters maybe. So can you rem see if I can do a pop quiz? You uh remember some of the sort of uh some of the literature categories that some of the experts would place first, John I think there were three that were mentioned. Can you remember what three were? Um actually I can put me on the spot. No, um one of them was a letter. Right. Um another one was a prayer. No. No, close. So um sermon Sermon, yeah. And I can't remember the third one. That's right. Academic paper kind of a thing, like you're addressing specific issues. So, okay. Um two out of three ain't bad. Mm-hmm. Yeah, in a sense I wonder if how many of the letters in the New Testament could be thought of in that way because they were generally they were circulars, they were passed around and they would be read at gatherings, and I imagine that they were the the thrust of the the the the uh the content of what they were discussing and learning and teaching so well is certainly an academic letter out of the and all of these I think could be received as yeah so they're all If people gather around and they hear this read, and we know it's written by the power of the Holy Spirit, so the the Holy Spirit's words are being spoken and proclaimed, then that there's a s the the sermon aspect to that. So all these letters kind of fit that. I know that sometimes the academics have to quibble over these things. Why does it matter? It it can matter in the sense that um If you can properly identify the the the kind of literature that is, if you can identify the genre, that can help with interpretation. Not so much if the the the the difference between a letter and a sermon. That that there's a little bit less importance there. But if it's a historical narrative, if it's legal code, if it's poetry, if it's apocalyptic language Well you can see that those are very different kinds of literature and you would interpret them differently. You're not going to interpret legal code the same way you interpret a poem for a example. So one of the first things we should do as students of the Bible is try to figure out what kind of literature am I reading? And that can be really foundational and can can steer you clear of a lot of errors. And so that's why that's why the uh the experts, if you will, like to quibble over what kind of literature is this? Um do you think that there needs to be universal agreement on the structure? Of this book or any book of the Bible? Well, it's helpful when commentaries are written. It's helpful when sermons are preached. Otherwise There's no, you know, common denominator. I mean there has to be a standard of some sort of you know if this is you know for example when you're reading Revelation if you're reading that as um an account you know, a historical account. This happened, that happened, that happened. Well that's very different than reading it as uh poetry or as um I don't know what the word is. You know, it's a different genre of writing. So maybe I don't understand the question. Your your the question is should there be universal Agreement on what again? Um the way I phrase the question, you know, does there need to be universal agreement on the structure of a book of the Bible? On the structure or on the type? No, on the s on the structure structure. Was that the same? No, the liter no. Um the z the like I you could determine that okay the genre here is this is an academic paper. Okay And the structure would be okay, what's the outline for that paper? What's the what's the thesis statement? What's what's what's the opening introductory part? What's the point A, point B B point C, what's the conclusion? So the structure for the the paper would be an example of how the the genre and the out and the structure could be totally different well related but totally different things. I don't I don't I I I think to demand that there be a universal structure is uh is to overregulate. I think it's to um not allow the Holy Spirit to show you what he wants to show you. Um because all people of all different kinds of uh People of different kinds of persuasions, I guess. In other words, artsy people and more intellectual people. You're gonna have all kinds of people I think they're gonna kind of bring their bent to it anyway. Um and that might just they just might automatically approach it in a certain way because of just how they're wired But um uh even though that's probably true, um I think we Just let the just let the Holy Spirit speak to you. How what he well how he wants, you know, and don't and don't you know otherwise and uh i I think you might you might run into the possibility of quenching the spirit a little bit if you try to say, well no, you have to approach this. This has to be the thesis statement. Well Well why? Why the you know I don't know. You know, there's so much disagreement. There's not a clear So it's not going to be universal agreement. And so I would say that's okay. We don't have to have universal agreement on that. in a much tighter fashion where you can you almost feel like you can get inside the mind of the author and you can tell that you know this is the thesis statement he's proving an argument. kind of a thing. Okay. Whether there's universal agreement on that, we can quibble about it, but I think it is important for us to try to figure out what if there is a structure, what was the author's intent? And this This becomes important in today's context with everything that's going on in the world, um with questions about authorial intent. You know, the deconstructionist movement over the last hundred years or so would say that It doesn't matter at all what the author intended. It's whatever the reader brings to the text. And so if you have a billion people read the text, you could have at least a billion different interpretations and they would all be valid. All the equally valid. But if we understand that God is the author, the primary author who works through human authors as well in their own context, it's important to try to figure out what the author author intended in what was written. And sometimes or some of those clues and indicators can be what is the structure, how is it outlined? You know, where did how do the pieces fit together? Um you see the word therefore in scripture and you know that therefore therefore is connecting what's to come with what was just said. Like those those have to be understood together. You can't just pick up with therefore and ignore what came before. Or you can't just read what came before and stop. You know, that therefore, you know, there's pastors that said, if you ever see the word You know, it it's uh it's there to connect and so you need to read those things in c in connection. Well I think what you're I don't wanna assume this is what you're saying, but I can see why you're saying what you're saying to be important because there are some people who will take a particular scripture out of context and so that's what you're trying to guard against. So that I can understand. But on the same side I can understand what Angela is saying, which is I don't want to be so regimented and so rigid that I can't really hear what God's showing me in this for whatever season that I'm in or whatever. So I can see the merit in both. Right. And y and and and that's true, but we want anytime we we feel like we've gotten some truth from the word We want to be able to test our understanding against the whole of Scripture. And some of the ways we can test it is If s if some if you were to say, Hey, this this verse means this to me, that's what I've decided it means, and somebody comes along and says, Uh I'm not so sure it could even possibly mean That for you or for anybody else, and here's why. Because look, here's how it's structured, this is the kind of literature is, you can see the flow of the argument, this is how it's going, and within the whole context and scope of of that paragraph of of that letter or book of the Bible, of the whole of the canon, that all that in picture you can say, oh yeah that you're right, that doesn't seem to fit anymore. So yeah, we want to allow the spirit to move, but then we but we want to we then want to test the spirit that's moving us. Right, well exactly. Yeah, because God is a God of order. Right. So there is structure. There is is you know, form, so to speak. So there has to be that balance. I think you I don't think you can cling to any one of those without Ex considering the other. I here's one example of of of reading and just getting some information and guidance from God, but to your point, not building theology around So let's say you had two houses you wanted to you needed to choose from to buy and um you didn't know which one you supposed to choose, but you know it's important that you choose the right one. And then you're reading the book the Lord just literally just gave me this example. And then you're reading you know your new time of devotion with the Lord and you're reading in the book of Acts and you read where Paul um got where he um I remember after he got saved how he was walking on straight street? Okay. It just so happens that one of those houses that you were about to that you need to make a decision on. It it's on Strait Street and all of a sudden, wow, the Holy Spirit just spoke to me. Get the house on Strait Street. Right, right, right, right. Like use that. Right. So that's like the Lord just spoke a rhema word to you in that moment. But you're not gonna build a theology around it like Right. You can only you know if you're going to buy a house He can only be on straight street. You can only be on straight street, that's what the Bible says. Right. That that would be crazy. Right. You know, but somebody would try to do that. Sure. You know. Sure. And that's the point. And that's the point. So that's that's speaking to to Troy's point. You know, you know you don't build theology like in in a vacuum, you know, around something Right. But the Lord is able to use a specific specific strict uh scripture at a season in your life to give you a specific word Absolutely. And that's that that's the difference. Yeah, and the angel is in similar things that we can do. about making sure to test everything against the you know what scripture says for that reason. You know, we've I think probably if we're honest we've all been in an environment like that at one point or another in our walk. If if we haven't, we will. Because we're you know, we're sinners, really. You know, sadly. But Um so I have um maybe something that you can address and this popped into my head just because I understand what the Antichrist is And how there has been more than one and will be more than one. For someone who maybe doesn't understand who's watching, what is the definition of an Antichrist? uh to clarify you know the scripture would would seem to indicate that there is one who is the Antichrist like the preeminent final incarnation If you will, of the Antichrist. But there are many Antichrists that are in the world today and they've been in the world for at least the last two thousand years, right? So Um prototypes that you So somebody that is so you know Jesus talks about those who are with me are with me and if you're not with me, you're against me. You know, so anyone who's against Christ would be, you know, a opposed to Christ would be anti-Christ. And so anybody that opposes the truth of of the scripture that says that, you know, anybody that would say you can save yourself, you can rescue yourself. yourself you can do good enough, you can you can better yourself to your own practices and habits and and good hard work is at odds with the gospel message that maybe makes necessary the the complete, perfect, finished work of the life and death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. So anything that would diminish that is opposed to the message of Christ. And so that's an anti Christ message. Anything that would and so and of course everything that expands from that then is only the God man himself is able to perfectly fulfill The requirements of the law. So it requires that God Himself rescues his people. So anybody that would deny that Jesus is actually God would be Antichrist. Anybody that Deny that Jesus actually died on the cross would be Antichrist. And anybody that denies the resurrection of Christ, uh, and the ascension of Christ, and the promised coming return of Christ Christ uh would be anti-Christ. So all those central core tenets of the faith, the things that are unnegotiable, like Christians can disagree. We can agree to disagree on should the Lord's Supper be a weekly thing, a monthly thing, a quarterly thing, an annual thing? We can do we can disagree about that and still be in fellowship as believers and not accuse the other person of being antichrist. We can disagree even about, you know, things like baptism. Uh you know you know, can you bapt an infant, does it have to be an adult believer? People are gonna have strong positions on that and they're gonna be arguing for scripture and you know, have different views on how the end times is gonna play out. Or diet. There's there's lots of things about which we can agree, but there are certain things about which we cannot agree to disagree. If we disagree, then we're saying you have a false gospel of Alternative gospel, another gospel. And and and it's gospel because gospel means good news. Well if it's another alternative, it's it's actually bad news, it's not good news. News. Uh and so anybody that's advocating for some variation that changes at its core what the gospel message is would be anti Christ. And so like the way Westboro Baptist people that are bringing this message of hate. Well the gospel is not a message of hate, and so they would be antichrist. We're gonna talk about that some more next week. begin we're gonna talk about that more next week as well. But if there is no standard of righteousness and no judgment and if there's no sin, then there's no need for a savior. Right? If oh does you make a mistake, oh I made a mistake. Well, you don't really need forgiveness for a mistake exactly, right? Like what's the moral culpability in that? That's actually a challenge that we have in the church right now, we've talked about it a few times times on these these uh previously Sunday evening and now Saturday evening sessions, this uh you know social gospel or liberation theology stuff or the social justice movement within the church, it's an alternate gospel in my opinion, and you gotta be careful where you draw that line. There are some people that I think I think have begun to wobble and are veering in a direction that would be an antichrist direction. And if they're not careful, that's where they're going to end up and we need to be lassoing them and pulling them back as best as we're able to get them back on course. Otherwise they're gonna be one of those that John would say, Oh, they left us, which means they were never really bought with us to begin with As much as it seemed like they were. So we have to be careful that we protect and defend the actual authentic orthodox view of what the gospel is and anything that says other Otherwise would be Antichrist. And I don't know if I need to say any more about the social gospel thing or not. Do you guys know what I'm talking about? Because if you do, then our viewers probably do. Uh yeah, I think you're talking about that that gospelness that God is so loving, he he has no standards basically, and he just loves you so much, you don't have to be moral, you don't have to. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Right. He would never ever send anyone to hell. That's that's a big mindset that settled into the modern church. And and what's going on right now, a big move over the last few years in the church, the social justice warriors, what they're advocating for is basically a salvation by well What's frustrating is I wanted to say it's salvation by works. But the problem is it's there's no there's no possibility of salvation even by works. Like it's it's the worst of both worlds. And and it's passing uh through the lips of really prominent high profile up until recently faithful proclaimers So the true gospel message, and it makes me wonder what's going on. So you need to repent for things that you haven't done, but that others have done. They came before you have to re repent for your long dead ancestors, for example. But even if you try to quote unquote repent for that, you can't ever really fully ever repent from that. It's like a It's like a new original sin that you're just permanently stained and you just have to kind of sit in your lament and sit in sackcloth and a ashes forever. And there's no way out but what you need to do Do in the meantime is just work really, really, really hard to change things. But even if you succeed in changing things, you're still not going to be forgiven because the reality is you can't really ever f change things as hard as you can try. It's just it's really a horrible kind of a discouraging kind of a message, but that's passing for the gospel lately. And it's really frustrating. Right. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I know you're frustrated too, aren't you? Exactly. Yeah, we're gonna be out of it we're gonna be out done, we don't have to worry about it. No follow I think we said both times. Uh well some of these are tied more to next week's message than this week's message, but here's kind of a more open-ended kind of a question. By continuing in the faith, Christians can have assurance that God will keep his promise to give you eternal life. That's something we're going to talk about in Next week. So what's your reaction to this? By continuing in the faith, we have assurance that God is going to keep his promise. You know, I've read scriptures in which um I think it was Paul that was saying, you know, you can be assured that salvation is yours if you continue. If you continue. Um I think what he's saying, he's not saying you work to earn it. But what he's saying is you can't just fall away and be a total heretic. And and just because you call yourself a Christian now, you know you know you're saved no matter how you live, no matter what you do no you you know, and you have no conscience he's saying he even in First Corinthians he says test to see if you're really even in the faith. You know, see so he's it's not he it's not that he's saying you have to But what he's saying is you have to be real though. You have to be off authentic in your faith. And so that's what they that that's what and I I think some people take that to to mean that okay I've got to earn my salvation. That's that's not what He's saying. He's saying you've got to be real, you've got to be authentic. I mean, right here in this book of first John, John says, We know that everyone who practices stand practices So now we know who the children of God and who the children are of the devil are. Right. It's the people who practice. You know, not not the uh not the imperfect people who are sincere But the people who just lived the you know a life of sin and it's just their everyday thing and and you know they're not even trying. No regard, no no kind Conscience about what they're doing really. I think that's the best thing, isn't it? It's the um yielding to the power of the Holy Spirit because the faith we don't conjure up the faith. The faith is a gift from God. But to receive it you have to yield to the spirit so that you can receive it. So it's the in-pouring, the indwelling, not just one time, but over and over and over again. It's the turning away from the flesh to turn to the spirit. Paul says I die daily. Amen. Exactly. It's choosing every day to um to choose God and and and when and when you and when you mess it up that day you go I'm really sorry Lord we lost it today um and you repent Yeah, but yeah, yeah. It's that battle against flesh and sin. It's the battle because I'm still sinning. I mean I'm not Right. So it's it's not it's not that I've stopped sinning. It's just that I'm more aware of my sin and then putting and struggling against it instead of being like, Well, I guess I'll just I guess it's just another day of sin. Oh well. You know, it's that acknowledgement, repentance Which is not just turning away but replacing with then something that is godly. perfect but we get better. Right. And so you know I think we become more aware. Yes. Yeah. You know, so that, you know, and uh 'cause I know there's certain things that I really struggled with before. Uh-huh. I don't really struggle anymore. Mm-hmm. Yeah. And then there's other things where I'm like, wow, we never even realized that that was a struggle. For me is I'm like, oh, okay. Well that's a new one. No, I'm just aware of it now. Really nothing new. I'm just now God's like, okay Let's peel back another layer of the onion. Oh, here you go. Yeah, the continuing is the proof in the pudding. You know? Right. Say you're a Christian all you want. Yeah, but if you continue in the faith and that's evidence that what you've been saying that whole time is actually true. So are there any comments on there that we need to address? No, just people watching. Okay. Well we appreciate that. We're gonna uh we're getting up close to seven o'clock, so we're gonna wrap this up. You wanna close us? Sure. Heavenly Father, thank you so much that you are the auditor author and perfecter of our faith that really all we need to do is receive and believe in what you're doing because you're doing that finished work We thank you for the fact that you are faithful, even though we are um oftentimes without the ability to have faith. But it is a gift that comes from you. We oftentimes sin. I ask that you reveal to us our areas of sin so that we can continue in the faith knowing that you always provide a way out. You never ever tempt us beyond what we can without providing an escape. So we thank you for that promise. We thank you that Ultimately, although we still sin, we are saved. And I thank you for that as well. I ask that you would pour out your spirit upon us, that we would sin less than and less and that you would be glorified through our actions, our words, our deeds, more and more. May you be glorified for the rest of this weekend and then throughout next week. until we meet again and that you would protect us and deliver us from the evil one. It's in your name that we pray, Jesus. Amen. I have a thought starter c wild card question for you playing at home. If television had invent been invented two thousand years ago, so if there was such a thing as television two thousand years ago, what do you think the Apostle John's favorite TV program would have been? Here you go. Till next week's up us