Welcome to the Rethinking Revelation Podcast, where we engage the Bible and Christian tribalism at full speed like a map truck heading toward a deer and headlights. We are on a mission to discover and deliver the goods of God's Word to its destination with as few pit stops as necessary and as much coffee as is humanly possible to consume. If you listen to this podcast and believe and trust what we are telling you You might just find yourself unfriended, unfollowed, and uncompromised. What are you kidding? We got some awesome podcasts here. Welcome back to another exciting adventure of Rethinking Revelation. I'm your host, Travis Finley. This is episode 71. The Great Faith Debate. I was the guest on a radio program in Western Maryland called The Faith Debate, and it is hosted by a friend of mine, Jace Broadhurst, and a friend of his, Troy Skinner, and I uh did a series of uh episodes with them on eschatology of the New Testament. where we talked about a lot of the stuff that we've talked about here, but a little bit more detail. And uh so they asked questions and we discussed some terms that go along with um different uh thoughts on the end times. And so uh what you're gonna have here is the entire show without the commercials and the advertisements that were on the faith debate that was listed in their program. I've spliced it all together and so you got five segments of 20 minutes each. So that is 100 minutes. a pretty big show. Maybe I'll cut it in half. We'll see how that goes. But uh yeah, so uh sit back, enjoy, and uh as always visit us on Facebook, Twitter, and also get Give us reviews on iTunes. Wanna see you there? Interact. Ask those questions. Here we go When will the end of the world occur? Will it end at all? Or has it already ended in some sense? What does the Bible have to say about all this? The study of end times is also called eschatology, your word of the week What should readers of the Bible hold as their eschatological view? Should Christians scour the newspaper looking for clues in the headlines of daily events? Or have all of the end times prophecies of the Bible already been fulfilled. These are the sorts of things that today's panel will touch on on the faith today. On this show this week, we have James Blogger and me, joined by Blogger, Podcaster, and Seminary Trained Bible teacher Travis Finley. His podcast is called rethinking revelation. So what are we to make of the end of the world as we know it? Let me start with Jace and and just to lay out some of the the broad categories. Christians in America would fall into various groups. And I'll throw out some labels and you can help and and you can jump jump So we've got people that are dispensational, all millennial, post-millennial, you got pre-trib, post-trib, mid-trib, you got all these different things that people read the left behind see. series by Tim LaHaye and uh Jerry B. Jenkins uh and the Kirk Cameron movies uh and things like that. They're somewhat familiar with some of this. Um I those are most of them. Well I didn't throw up this people that will call a preterist view or or a partial preterist view. We never mentioned that one. Yeah, all of these so there are those who are futurists, you know. What is all what are some of the labels that we need to know about? And let's sort of flush those out a little bit and we'll narrow down. Well it sounds like you've already mentioned most of the labels. And what most people understand by last days or by the end of time is something future to us, something that we are waiting to happen. That is, Jesus will come back. You know, we're talking from a Christian perspective here. He will come back. He will either um you talked about Jerry Jenkins and LaHay, he will rapture his people, they'll disappear, you know, clothes will be left on the ground, airplanes will crash, all of those kinds of things. And that's that seems to be the popular perspective of how Christians understand things on that particular last day, whatever that day is. In this country anyway. In this country. Exactly. uh millennial, pre-millennial, there's going to be a millennium, a thousand-year reign of some kind, whether it's literal or not literal. These are these are all huge questions. But I and maybe we can talk about every one of those if you really wanted to do each of those things Um but I think I think when we talk about eschatology we need to be we c probably need to back up and say we're not talking about something that's going to take place in the future necessarily or only. We're talking about eschatology as as how as Paul would have understood it or as John would have understood it, since the last days have begun for them in some sense. The last days are what the king has has begun to rain. So eschatology, you know, a lot of Christians say, well, I I don't care about the millennium, it's all gonna pan out in the end. I'm a pan millennialist, right? It's all gonna pan out in the end. But eschatology bigger Yeah, thank you. Um Eschatology is bigger than something that's going to happen later on. It is an approach to understanding the Bible. All of the Bible is eschatological. We're all talking about what's coming. So for the prophets it's a you know it's an eschatological view that that God is coming back, that there's God is going to come and He's going to judge. He's the great day of the Lord. That's all eschatological. And that's not all future. Jesus fulfills a lot of those things. So for me eschatology is important not because something that's gonna happen in a million years or two thousand years or imminently, but because something that is happening and has been happening the last days. And I can get a lot more into that, but I don't want to in in a general sense, is there something that you would want to add, Travis, that would help us under understand generally what's being talked about with Esc eschatol eschatological views. Yeah, I think it's you can say it very well. Esc escala. It's it's early. I think that uh if we think about the Bible's teaching on on the end times um in from a traditional perspective. I'm getting close to the mic hello microphone. Nice to meet you. Um yeah, so so when we talk about eschatology uh in a traditional sense, I think most people think of how the world is going to end. And uh eschatology, we break those down into two Greek words eschatos meaning last, logos meaning the study of, it's the study of last things, but We have certain ideas in our minds that rule and reign our way of thinking, so that we have knee-jerk reactions and knee-jerk responses to, oh, I know what that topic is. And so a lot of the things that I'm going to say today I'm going to say without qualification because we just don't have enough time. Uh we just don't, you know. So I'm going to say things that are going to probably hit people people upside the head in a in an abrupt way that that will make things sound almost incredible. If you're coming from a traditional perspective, some of the things I'm going to say you you're going to think think what what is this guy talking about? I've never even heard this before. I'm already there. Yes, but but eschatology, so if we talk about what what I'd like to say about eschatology is this that If you want to define eschatology as the study of last things, I'll agree with that. If you want to say this the study of eschatology is the study of how Time will end. I'm going to agree with that. If you're going to say eschatology is how the world is going to end, I'm going to agree with that. The problem is what you mean by time and what you mean by world is not what I mean. And that's always the case on this show. I've been doing it it took me a few years of doing the paper thing to to to realize that it's all about defining your terms. Yeah. No matter what the issue is. And that's that's exactly it. And in and if you're if you're married or if you've been in relationships at all with people The the biggest uh segue into conflict is communication I mean I deal with this all the time with my kids. I say I I jump into the conversation and I say, Switzerland. You're yelling at each other because you don't know what she's saying What and what sh and what he's telling you, you don't and I and I'm sitting in the back and I'm gonna hear it. They don't understand each other. And that makes each other that makes people upset and angry and hostile and tense and so yeah, the whole thing is is communication. We have to define our terms. Seems like we're already expecting uh people Well I and I and I think that I would agree, and here's why, I'm gonna guess that the listener right now uh if they hold a end times view at all, the listener to this show probably is dispensational. Because that is the top Christian American view. That's what Hollywood likes to focus on. Those are the best-selling, you know, end times rapture kind of books and that that sort of stuff. And so m that's what where most people probably are. And I don't think any of us in this room fall into that category, right? None of us are dispensationalists. I'm a recovering dispensationalist. Okay. So well then I was gonna do it, but you'll do a better job. In like sixty seconds, you know what what is the I think it'll provide a relief, a backdrop of some of the talk about. Yeah. Well it it it again it goes back to biblical interpretation, interpreting the Bible's story. So dispensationalism deals with i if you want to go to the farthest, you know spectrum that throughout history from Genesis onward, God deals with humanity in certain ways. And when we see him deal with Adam, it's one way when we see him deal with Noah, Abraham, David, Moses, prophets, and Israel. God develops his relationship with his people. And so dispensationalism Talks about those different dispensations, how God dispenses his revelation, revealing himself to humanity. Dispensationalism, I think, I would say probably has a high view of Israel. Um and so the major tenant in modern eschatology still holds for now when you say hi view of Israel, you're talking about geopolitical Israel. Mostly. Correct? Well yeah, but but there's still the there's this idea that Israel is is still the chosen people of God and that there is a future for them. in our future so that God is going to bring back Israel into the fulfillment of the promises that He gave Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. So that in dispensationalism there is a parenthesis, there's this pause in history that was supposed to happen in Jesus' time. But because the people rejected the Messiah, and that wasn't supposed to happen, God had to have an alternate plan. And again, there's there's a wide spectrum of dispensationalism, progressive dispensationalism. I heard another term this last I'm like, what in the world? But so yeah. So dispensationalism then would be labeled in terms of their expectation. of eschatology still futures. That is, they still see in the future fulfillment of biblical expectations, and that is going to involve Israel. on a large scale. And then usually it plays out into into uh speculation about the tribulation. Will Christians be a around for what the system facialists identify as the tribulation Or will they be raptured away before the tribulation, during the middle of the tribulation, at the end of the tribulation? And that's where a lot of the debate among dispensationalists uh ends up I don't know if it's it's more of an intramural debate at that point, I guess. And it's fun, speculative, and it's makes for good uh exciting books with good chase scenes and you know, clearly to find good guys and clearly to find bad guys, you know that sort of thing. So um yeah I wanted to clarify again and just make sure I think we're on the same page, but I think there's a future for Israel too. But I think that Christians are Israel. So now before I get accused of being a uh replacement uh guy, uh I'm not saying That the church replaces Israel. I'm saying that uh Israel and the church kind of mean the same thing from my point of view, but that's not what dispensationalists would say. They would say that the They're talking about the the Jewish people, the nation state of Israel, the religious organization that is Judaism, that those identifying that's that sub group of humanity is going to have a reconnection with their lord. That's kind of what I understand the focus of the dispensational outlook. When they talk about the Jews are gonna be called back when Israel's gonna be called back that that's what they mean. Am I misunderstanding that? Is that fair? Do I have it right? Yeah, yeah, but I I gu I would take that back to the biblical story. They they they're reading the Old Testament with its central focus on this plot of land and this particular Group of people that received promises from God, that this particular way of interpreting the Bible doesn't see fulfillment happening the way they thought it was going to. So in order for God to be true and every man a liar, uh God has to keep his word. So that's the expectation is that Jesus comes on the scene, he proclaims the kingdom, and the response of the Jews at large affects the success of that campaign and the Messiah's killed and all of those so that wasn't the way it was supposed to happen, right Peter says to Jesus, you're not gonna die. What are you talking about? So it's all about expectation, but I think it's also all about presupposition. That is, what they thought was going to happen is based on what they understand the story itself to be about. So what you assume the story is about to begin with affects how you're going to interact with what happens either in your time or if you think it's in the future you know this is how we're going to understand these things when they come about. So it's it's all a matter of, I think, consistency in terms of how the Bible tells its story. That's the voice of Travis Finley. He has a uh he's a blogger and a podcast called Rethinking Revelation. Uh on Troy Skinner. This is a Faith Debate on 930 WFMB and Dr. Jace Broadhurst from Foolsville Baptist Church is here as well. Uh maybe you can uh sound uh a note on the the track of church history broadly over the last two because this this uh premillennial dispensational thing is relatively new kid on the block, uh meaning comparatively to 2000 thousand years. So what was what I I've always understood it was maybe talking more of a post millennial view. There were large slots of uh the church history that Do I have that right, do you think? Um I don't know the question I don't know the answer to that. I do then I I'm not a historian in any sense, but I know that this pre we do talk about premillennialism as coming on coming on the scene rather late. There have been it's not that the whole concept has come very late. There has been Philiism for a long time. So um you know, the early early patristics talk about some of those things, but it doesn't look like dispensational thinking that we have today. It doesn't look like this return to Israel sp specifically nationalist real this Zionist perspective. That is that's a relatively new thing on the scene. Um I don't know about the whether postmilenialism or other millennialism. Well what I what I would say right right I would go back and say that I think from early on the church was premillennial, historically premillennial. Now what you started your question with was the distinction between between dispensational premillennialism and historic premillennialism. And so the dispensational goes into a different aspect of um just the end times, but the whole interpretation of the Bible. So then post millennialism, I think, is going to be predominantly the church um perspective. If you think about uh post if you think about the Reformation and then post-Reformation era with the Puritans. They were post-millennial. And uh some people trace all millennialism back to Augustine. Um but I remember at least being Directed to understand that Gerhara's Voss talked about the nuances of millennialism in the early part of the 20th century. So they were tying that that distinction from post-millennialism into amillennialism, that transition that happened in the early part of the 20th century. And I remember in seminary being told that that was highly um the responsibility when the result of a First World War because post millennialism expected the world to get better under the influence of Christianity. Yeah I might want to jump in because we're reusing to recruit we're using both words and and I this typical person probably isn't all that familiar and I'm just using myself as a gauge because a number of years ago, you know, uh I wasn't the strange person that I am now and I wouldn't have known what's talking about. So as a general rule of thumb, we're talking we're talking about the pre post uh whatever millennial. We're talking about uh the anticipated return of of Jesus is normally what we're talking about there. So Jesus is going to return at the end of the millennium age, then that he's going to come post millennium. And so the post millennial view would be that things are going to get better and better and better until Jesus comes and is ushered into his eternal kingdom is I'm using very broad brushstroke, but I think that that's pretty close. And then premillennial is Jesus is going to arrive and then the millennium uh happens and all millennial means that there's not a a literal thousand year millennial period and and And uh it doesn't mean that there's not doesn't mean that there's not a millennium, but it means it's more of a spiritualized understanding of what the millennium is. And so we're talking about ah, pre-post. It all has to do with when Jesus is going to to be coming back. Do I get that pretty close? Well yeah that's that's a secondary issue. I think actually what we would what I would like to say in terms of what we should understand about millennialism is the kingdom Okay, so again, with with historic premillennialism and then dispensational premillennialism is an expectation of the presence of the kingdom. So that when Christ comes and he says the kingdom of God is at hand, he is going to inaugurate, he's going to start the uh the fulfillment of the Old Testament expectation of the Messiah. who's gonna uh sit on David's throne forever and ever. But that doesn't happen. And so then premillennialism says that we have to have the fulfillment of the pro of the prophecies of the kingdom And the millennium is that error is that time period. You know, uh Revelation 20 talks about the millennium. And so then Christ comes back before the millennium starts because You can't start without the main guy. So he has to come back before that, and then he starts the kingdom So in the very in the very uh basis sense, there is no kingdom of God right now in the in the premillennial dispensation. Right. And the pre-millennials have a tender like as we mentioned, the post millennials are more often Because of the presence of the kingdom though. So then they're so when you go into the into the post millennial aspect, right? They understand that Christ didn't just come and want to start something. He actually started it. He inaugurated the the kingdom and the there is a presence of the kingdom but it's not a full presence, it's not the full reality because if we look at the scriptures, the scriptures seem to intimate that there are certain things that still exist in our experience that the Bible says are not going to exist in the fullness of the kingdom. And so after the millennium, whatever time period that is, uh post-millennial and all-millennial both take the view that it's not a literal thousand years. In their, I think probably post-bullyers might have might have started out with a thousand-year view like they They have it. But but since a thousand years has gone to the right, you've got to adjust. When a thousand and one started and you're like, uh right. You know, we gotta adjust. In in contrast that the premillennials have a tendency to be kind of, you know, do Tuesday. That's where you see if they're you're looking for headlines stuff like, oh seeing these terrorist attacks, that's a sign that things are getting worse and they're gonna keep getting worse and worse and worse. And they're gonna get so bad that God's gonna rescue his people out of that. That's what uh pulling the people people out before the tribulation starts and all that kind of stuff. I think we've kind of hashed most of that out well enough. If you want to if you want to learn more, there are previous faith-based shows and talked about eschatology and millennial views and stuff in to find those uh in the audio vault on wfmb. com if you want. Or there's plenty of books out there. Maybe maybe Rethinking Revelation has an episode or two on this issue. I don't know But um but uh where do we all stand? Uh Jace, I'm guessing you're all millennial, but I don't know if I'm guessing. Yeah, that's a good guess. Okay. Yeah, um my teacher well interesting, we all have uh similar backgrounds in where we're coming from. But my teacher explains this this hope of the kingdom. He had an I and a C and a C. I'm sure some people remember that. I guess my own Right here. Um not for you, huh? The ICC, the inauguration, the continuation, and the consummation. So it's not, you know, we're waiting for this great day of the Lord to come back and we expect that you Jesus is the one, and Paul would say, yes, but it's this kingdom is is bigger, it's elongated. It's not it's not the way you expected it specifically. There's this, yes, Jesus is the king, he's crowned in his death resurrection, resurrection, his ascension. The idea of an ascension is that he has been raised to the right hand of God. So he's um he's been inaugurated as king. But then there's this this long phase, this continuation phase. Nice, easy way to put it. Um that we're all in right now. And it could be two thousand years, and I remember my teacher saying it could also be a million billion years. So So we don't you know it's not it's not it's imminent in the sense that it could be, but it's not. It might also be thousands upon thousands of million years. We're not we're not in the very end Or at the very end of the show. I saw that. I saw that look that you gave me. So we're gonna find out what Travis thinks next time, so you're gonna have to wait one other 167 and a half hours to answer that one I know. Just loves reading British theologians, and I'm just waiting for somebody to say right off. Revelations. Revelation. Let's turn to Revelations. After twenty talk about the Molation. We're so unkind. Anyway, let's let me reset here what's going on. This is the uh face to face and before we're not making fun of people who don't know the words that we know. Because they might make fun of us for not knowing the words that they know. That's a good point. This isn't this is kind of a nerd language here that we're talking. We don't we don't want to do that. We left you with a cliffhanger last week. We found out that Jace is all millennial. And we've talked a little bit about what that means. All millennial meaning that there's there's not a literal millennial period. spiritualized understanding of the millennium and in some sense it might already be here in other senses it might still be coming like we don't but our millennialists don't want to get pinned down the way already and not yet oh yes and full disclosure I would fit into that camp as well so um and we tried that uh last week the try Is a recovering dispensationalist. So that means he's no longer a dispensationalist. So how do you identify your your end Times view. How do I identify my end times view? I think that I would term myself a post-millennial preterist. In my opinion, in my in my opinion, I have a lot to learn. Right, yeah, alliterations. In my opinion, all millennialism is post-mill- wait, are you going to pontificate about post-millennium preterism? Oh doing the PP thing. Could you outline it in the three point bullets? Um millennialism, in my opinion, is post-millennialism infiltrated by dispensationalism. Oh. Wow. Okay. Okay, that's my critique because I I came out of dispensationalism. I grew up in a independent fundamental Baptist church in California and we were dispensational. And I began to change theologically in the 90s and grew into a reformed covenantal uh understanding but was all millennial and then in the early twenties is that what we say the early zeros I don't know what that look the early part of this century the early Yeah, but that's too much. Yeah, it's too much. I've heard people say twenties. I've heard off twenty sixty season of it weird. Anyway, in the early twenties, I was a flapper, you know, and uh Al Capone came in. Um yeah, in the early 20s I was a part of a of a Sunday school focus in a in my Presbyterian church in the in the PCA, the Presbyterian Church in America. Because we had a preterist in our congregation, a man who was saying things about the end times that we wouldn't have said. And so my pastor wanted us to have have a um a panel discussion. So uh my pastor because he was PCA he did the all-mil. He gave me the post mill. We had a friend who did the premillennial distinctions and then this gentleman that was uh the preterist. So in that study I as I studied postmillennialism, I became a postmillennialist. I was like, well I can see this stuff. This stuff makes a lot more sense. I like the way it sounds. Nope to Jace the pastor. Be careful what you assign someone's rights. And I still didn't even consider preterism really You know, I when this guy d gave his presentation, it didn't do anything for me. But I guess the seeds were planted and um the the more and more I read scripture, the more and more in different ways, I would come across what I call theological speed bumps. And that is that when when you if you think of reading the Bible as driving in your car and you don't see something in the road and you run across it and it jars your your car, you know, it's a speed bump. Or you can think of it as a theological hiccup. Your breathing becomes irregular and you start to hiccup. And I think, I would think that you guys have this experience. even for yourself. When you read a passage of scripture, you look at it and you think, I don't I don't get this. In in the way that I think about the Bible or the way that I've been taught, this doesn't make sense. My my school. Yeah. And so and so it's uh those I we need to pay attention to those in my opinion because I think for me at least. Those were indications that I was on my way to changing the way that I understood scripture because I was I felt like scripture was saying this and my tradition was saying this and I'm gonna be deciding tradition or scripture. So that's okay, so I'm postmillennial preterist. Um I have a view of postmillennialism that is that um I believe that Christ came to not simply offer the kingdom, but he brought the kingdom. He established the kingdom. And the kingdom has a presence in the world today through the church, through God's people, and that is going to have a positive effect. in history. And we can talk about historical um benefits, you know, about how how Christianity has inf influenced the world. Um and uh Um but as a in the traditional sense the pre-mill, aw-mill, and post mill views of the New Testament still see certain expectations that they don't feel found fulfillment in Jesus' time. So you think that the millennium is now Uh yeah, I I'm still up in the air on that. I I'm I'm still reworking a lot of my paradigmatic shifts. So I don't have everything nailed down. I'm gonna say I don't know to a certain But I thought I understood you to say that Jesus when he came ushered in his millennial reign at that point. Well yeah, I would I would say he he ushered in the kingdom. Whether or not we want to call that a millennial reign, that's another discussion. So there could be something else on millennial radio. Okay, so when you look at the millennium, as far as I can recall in in Revelation twenty, we have the declaration that those who were beheaded for the testimony of Jesus Christ and because of the Word of God, they came to life and they reigned with Christ for a thousand years. So there you okay so we have to talk about well what is that? They came to life, they reigned with Christ for a thousand years By the way, how do you understand the thousand years? Do you think it's gonna be a thousand years of the extended period of time? The predominant language in Revelation, this is why my podcast is called Rethinking Revelation, because it's not just about the last book of the Bible, it's about the entire corpus from Genesis to Revelation. I believe, this is how I've started to say it in my podcast, that the entire Bible is apocalyptic. Okay. Now the word apocalypse comes from the Greek. You're not meaning that as far as genre, you're talking about that it's all focused at on the end. Is that what you mean by that? Okay, let me let me get to where I was gonna where I was gonna go and see if that helps flush it out for you. Uh the word that we get um of revelation, when we call the last book of the Bible Revelation. Revelation. We get that from the first word in the Greek text, which is apocalypsis, which is apocalypse transliterated from the Greek to the English. It's just taking the letters and putting it in English it's apocalypse. Well what did that mean? It means to reveal. It means to disclose. So if we understand all of Scripture as God's disclosure of who he is and what he's up to, all of the Bible is disclosure. Sure. and they think of that as a genre, whereas you know fantastical imagery and that sort of thing. I I would say when we if we were gonna talk about genre, we would say, well Daniel is apocalyptic. Isaiah is apocalyptic. And And uh, you know, Zechariah's apocalyptic, the prophet's apocalyptic, okay? But then there's also, interestingly enough, you get a you get a bleed of the j of the genres. The psalms are full of apocalyptic language. Yeah, sure. If that always means Psalm eighteen is is a is a psalm where David is um escaping from Saul, and if you read that, if I if I read that out of context in a Sunday school class in just said, okay, what do you think this is about? Didn't tell Moses Psalm, whatever, just read it. They would say, I would venture to guess, that's talking about the end of the world. But it wasn't. It was David talking about his experience with Saul. Right. Okay. So and then when you get into Matthew, or the Gospels, but Matthew in particular You have some interesting things going on in Matthew 23, 24, 25 that we label j in a genre of apocalyptic apocalyptic because it's talking about the end times and if that's related to the prophets then that's apocalyptic I'm not comfortable necessarily, and I'm not a scholar, but I I don't hold to the necessity of talking about genre in terms of the pilot. This is narrative, this is poetry or whatever. Because I don't think that's important. Well, okay. But you have see you have the j the genres cross over. They they they cross over. You have narrative, and within that narrative you've got apocalyptic if you want to talk about crazy symbolic wacky language and then you've got poetry in narrative In history, in gospel, in biography. I mean it to me it just it just all blends together. So for me, I haven't found it helpful. Well let me jump in because we haven't we're about halfway through this episode, we haven't reheard from Jace yet. Let me reset it and give Jace a chance to because I do want to hear us about the about the genre. So anyway, this is the fake debate on 930 WFMD on Troy Skinner. The the voice uh that has been talking about the apocalypse apocalyptic genre and that sort of stuff. Uh is Travis Finley. He has a podcast called Rethinking Revelation and Dr. Jace Brockhurst is the pastor of Fool's Bell Baptist Church. And um I'm yeah, I would jump in, except I think you're probably going to say a lot of the things I might ask. So what are some things that you would say or ask of uh about the importance of as a Bible reader, as a student of the Bible, to to grapple with the form that you're that you're immersed in, you know, whether it be law or historical narrative or Right. And and my guess is I even though I was giving Travis a hard time there, uh I'm sure he does recognize that there are genres to even distinguish. He just said that they bleed into one another, so they be become unhelpful I guess in some in some sense. So I I I find them incredibly helpful because of the bleeding, because I noticed that certain texts um may be pulled in from other places. That's why it's very helpful to me. Like, okay, so now we have a poem in the middle of history. Where did this poem come from? I want to know why this poem has been brought into this particular context. Why Why did Paul choose this poem, this song? Why does um you know why does Adam say, bone my bone, flesh and my flesh? Why did that little song show up in there in a largely narrative form? So these for me these mean that they've been pulled out of other places probably. And so they become incredibly helpful to me. And of course the difference between and I my guess is you would see the same thing. The difference between a proverb genre and a law genre. Um that's pretty significant to know that you're in different genres. So when we're dealing with her interpreting things, we want to say, okay, law, thou shalt not do this, you know, apodictic or casuistic, however, that's just that thou shalt, but other laws are very those are good words. Yeah, never mind. Let's back off of those. Law. Let's just stick with a basic Apedictic law. Thou shalt not kill. Right. That's English, I understand that. Yes, thou shalt not kill. Versus he who hesitates is lost, which is not a progress by these part. But it's a it's a proverb anyway. One is don't do it, and one is, you know, sometimes you do it don't sometimes don't do it You know, sometimes you hesitate, sometimes you don't. You hesitate this last um look before you leap. Two very different proverbs. You don't want to take those as law. That's what I mean by saying genre is very important to some people What he was saying, I think, very important. Something you say apocalyptic language or apocalyptic genre. You have apocalyptic genre throughout all kinds of texts. the place and Psalm 18 I hadn't even considered, so that's that's the way thing that so I I get what you're saying and I don't I'm not sure that we're disagreeing on that. That doesn't sound like uh are we? I don't want to take away any more time on on the squibbling and squabbling as not I answered. Because I didn't even get to answering your initial question. I got sidetracked but Okay. Well give us a chance to get Jason to the mix. Yeah thanks. But you're done now, right? I am done pretty much. I hope so. Okay, don't mind. I have nothing else left to do. Can we come back to me? Yeah. Uh okay, so I gave you the post millennial aspect. just in a in a broad stroke. But then the preterist aspect is preterite is the is the Latin term for past. Okay. In in Spanish, the past tense is called the preterite tense. And preterism is the interpretation that the I'm just gonna gonna go full bore, is that the New Testament is concluded. It's it's done with. Everything in the New Testament expected to happen has happened. It's in the past. And that's where at the beginning of the of this discussion I said I'm gonna say things that are gonna hit you upside the head. And one of the one of the first questions is what are you saying that Jesus isn't coming back And I'm going to say yes. He's not. So, because you have the expectation in the New Testament of the coming of the Son of Man coming of the Son of Man, the coming of the Son of Man. So we expect that he's going to come. But our expectation of what that coming is and what its purpose is determines what we say about its reality. And so then that's where you get what is comfortable in uh Christianity today is the partial preterist. The partial preterist says, look, we can see certain things in the New Testament that did happen. But there's a couple of things, those things didn't happen. So I'm only partially preterist. And then, so there's really two camps. There's a partial preterist, and then there is what is called a full preterist. Um I've heard more talk in in circles that the the preferred technical term is covenant eschatology. Um and that is a That we are understanding the eschatological end times expectation to be governed by the parameters of covenant and understanding what the nature of that is in biblical revelation. And they might not be called this, but there are non-premerists, I guess, too, right? But don't think anything happened yet that needs to happen. Well that's that's a right I I d ultimately everyone's a prayerist. Everyone is there's something in that Jesus came He was born. Okay, so there's preterism there. You're you're yeah, so but when but then if you were to to have a a timeline or or a you know a bullet point sheet of paper with twenty things on it that the Bible says is gonna have happen and you say this happened this happened this happened this happened those are in the past so everyone's a preterist it's just that that most people want to consider themselves partial because they have certain expectations of the future. So for instance, if you expect that Israel is going to be reinstated, you're a futurist, that is, there's still something in the future for us to look forward to. So uh uh a softer retaliation might be instead of saying so you're saying that Jesus isn't coming back Would be so you're saying that Israel is not gonna be reinstated? That would be something I would affirm as well. Israel is not going to be reinstated. Are you in in that group? Yeah, and I think his argument I mean it's very persuasive. I think we're all, in some sense, partial preterists. We all believe something So the book of Revelation, if you come from the American pop eschatological world, all of that is something that's happening in the future. And it's a timeline from chapter one all the way up through the to the very end and it's and it's moving in some sort of chronological order and that's that's not fair to dispensationalism but it's largely that. And I think revelation is probably a little bit different than that. There's a s there's a different structure There's at least some sort of progression, perhaps, but that it circles back on itself in some ways. So I mean the book of Revelation does speak about Jesus coming. But it talks about his first coming all throughout it. So the birth of Christ is is spoken of in the book of Revelation. There are things that have certainly happened in the Book of Revelation. So I would call myself a partial project I'm I'm learning whether I might be a full predator if we're about to find out. But when I asked the question, do you count yourself as a partial predators? I'm obviously all of us believe that some things have happened in the past Like we didn't call it so but normally, at least in my experience, normally what's meant by that is that in AD seventy some important fulfillments took place, but not all of the important fulfillments uh that are still to come and then that becomes kind of a a a touchstone important date in history than partial productists make partial progress make a big deal about that date just like full project I think 70% is very, very important to this whole conversation. Yes. Okay. many things could have and I I think you know the coming on the clouds of power is you know the fact that I mean even Tom lots of people are talking about these kind of things as as his first coming, as his coming in power or It's not something that's going to happen in the future. So yeah, I don't have a lot of information. The great thing about this is I have this belief, this non-millennial belief that I've kind of inherited from my seminary training. And of course I've read through Revelation since then. I've thought through the prophets a lot since I'm a Hebrew scholar. But the reality is I'm just kind of impaired of these things. That's the beauty of it of this is I I I wanted to sit down and talk with Travis and find out I don't I might be missing a ton of stuff and this there's hopefully some humility on our parts to come to this and say I want to hear what what I Wikipedia last night and it said you know full preterism is generally considered a heretical view. I was like, all right, so this is gonna be this is gonna be controversial Yeah, let me let me jump in real quick and say and say that. When I saw God. Well I'm just wondering, I'm I'm guessing you can't finish your thought in like 15 seconds. So how about if we uh we hold on to the thought and we'll start there in next week's episode. And we'll find out why Jesus isn't coming back. When will Jesus return? What are the indicators? Will he return at all? How do we know? Has he already returned? If so, in what sense? And what do all of these questions mean? mean for you. If Jesus is not coming again, what does this say about God, faith, the church, society as a whole? If he is returning but is uh yet to come, what does it say about how I should live my life and prepare? If he's already returned, what does it say about the world we now live in? What's next They're pretty deep theological and philosophical questions, so to help figure this all out, we've gathered together three very shallow individuals to chat about it. Well, I'm shallow anyway. I'll let Jace speak for himself. And we'll find out by the end of all of this uh which end of the pool claims our guest. A blogger and podcaster holding a master of divinity degree, I believe, right, is that correct? That's correct. From Reformed Theological Seminary. Uh his podcast is called Rethinking With Revelation Travis Finley. So last week we um we didn't have time for you to to jump in and because you couldn't prop uh uh possibly say in ten seconds but you need to to say. So the the floor is gonna be yours and then just five months uh off of that. Okay, so I talked a little bit about the transition that I took from where I started out as a Christian and what happened in the turn of the century with that Sunday school class. Um and so the the perspective that this gentleman brought to our church with preterism was considered heretical. That is, it's contrary to historic Christianity and it denies major, major facets of what we hold in terms of um understanding what the Bible teaches. So my problem became agreeing with with heresy. With heresy and and thinking, okay, I I am not Martin Luther, and yet I am I feel as though my conscience is being bound by the scriptures. My tradition says this is what the scriptures teach. I read the scriptures and I don't read that. What do I do? How do I respond to this? How does this so as I continued in my studies? I began to think, okay, I believe that the fulfillment of the New Testament is complete. If that's the case, how can I maintain the label of Orthodox and not heretic? And this goes back to what I said at the very beginning in terms of communication. What you think you understand by these terms affects how you hear what I say. And if we are not using the same language, if you are interpreting the Bible a certain way, and I'm interpreting the Bible a certain way The conflict comes with understanding each other. This this goes for for any theological discussion. I mean day the days of creation, infant baptism, whatever. You know, it's all a matter of this is what I'm saying, or I hear you saying this and whatnot. But obviously the big difference because you know work disagreeing about whether the this the days of creation are literally 24 hour days or or of an infant to be baptized or only a professing believers baptized. Those have always act at least been couched as inter rural disagreements agreements between believers. But if you say something like Jesus isn't coming, uh then I guess I guess you're gonna say he's already come. Uh that is like, whoa, wait a minute. So that's yeah so this is a bigger question than some of the other things, right? Or or have we just made a bigger question Okay. How how am I going to be able to say what I want to say in a way that makes sense and causes someone simply to want to consider what I'm saying. So I I try so many different ways of turning the prism so that I can I can come at it from a a different angle. If we look if we look at early church history and we say, look, this is the early church fathers believed this, believed this, or whatever, that's fine. They interpreted the Bible a certain way. How many interpretations are there? Lots, right? Lots. There are a lot of things that the early church fathers believed that we would disagree with. I think it was Irenaeus maybe that believed that Jesus was 50 years old when he died. Okay, so whatever. There's so many the I don't know the thing that I've come out of in from seminary is is a more loose uh um expectation and demand for people. I I I don't I I've changed so much in the way that I've thought about things, whether or not it's baptism or seven days of creation or eschatology. And the way that I've changed has enabled me not to have an expectation on you. That you've got I don't have it all nailed down. I don't have A, B, C, D all the way down the line. But let me ask how how uh things flow, what's some of the implications of your thinking now and how you process through that. So if Jesus is not coming, but he promised to come again, that means he's in your view, you've settled on he's already come. And I'm assuming that's in AD 70 with the uh The uh destruction of the temple. Yeah. Probably judgment on on Jerusalem and on uh the old system of of Judaism in Israel. That's right. Yeah. So what did that mean starting AD seven Um when I talk to Granny Smith, and that is that that's my that's my general reference to any cra Christian. Grandpa Joe and Granny Smith. You and Aegis. They re No, they're they're just the ones that you love. They're just so you just gotta love 'em. You just gotta love 'em. You know, they just say they just want to love Jesus and they just read their Bible. Um and so My my initial response is nothing changes. Do everything the same. Live your life the way you live it right now. Do everything the same. Continue on. Um that comes from my understanding of the nature of the kingdom, which is post-millennial. And but I I think that's jumping ahead. Let me go back to try to substantiate some things in terms of where I'm at in biblical interpretation. It's a well-known fact that two prominent theologians uh and philosophers in the 20th century believed the same thing about Jesus with different responses. Both of these gentlemen believed that Jesus was wrong. When he said that he was coming back because certain things didn't happen. Bertrand Russell wrote an essay, Why I'm Not a Christian. His main argument stems from Matthew 24, because Jesus said that within a generation, the sun and the moon and the stars were going to fall from the sky. Guess what? 2,000 years later we're still here. Bertrand Russell says Jesus was wrong. That's why I'm not a Christian Christian. A Christian by the name of C. S. Lewis said the same thing. This is the most embarrassing text in the Bible. Because Jesus was wrong. But I'm a Christian. Okay? I don't know what I'm going to say to anyone that's going to be the seed that that sparks their thought. But to me that was profound. Let me turn to James for a second. Do you think Jesus was wrong? Uh no No. Okay. That can travel. Yeah, yeah. Good answer. Good answer. eschatology because it's all related. There's a difference between what the Bible says And what the Bible means by what it says, that's interpretation. Everybody interprets the Bible. When Jesus says that after the tribulation in those days, the Son The sun will grow dark, the moon will turn the blood red, and the stars of those heavens will fall. What does he mean That's what he said. But what does he mean? Bertrand Russell and C. S. Lewis thought he meant the physical cosmos. If that's what he meant, then yeah, he was wrong. Because that didn't happen within the generation. But then again, if we want to make sure, and so C. S. Lewis and Albert Schweitzer, they wanted to defend Christ. They wanted to come to his defense and say, okay, he can't be wrong. We we don't believe that the Messiah can be wrong. So what does he mean? And then you get the dispensational approach, which is uh uh I think pretty much characterized by John MacArthur, where generation gets redefined. And so you have to then it this is what the text says, but this didn't happen, so then what does this mean? In fairness though, I think that there's there are recurring examples in scripture where there's an unfolding where things don't happen in exactly the sequence of the time and Expected. I mean that was the case with Jesus as he walked the earth. The Jews of the time were expecting a deliverer from Roman Pression and they didn't get it So were all those prophecies totally completely misunderstood? Were those prophecies in the Old Testament? Yes, they they those Jews were wrong. Okay The book of Daniel, Jeremiah. So couldn't C. S. Lewis and Bertrand Russell be wrong? No, they are wrong. C. S. Lewis and Bertrand Russell are wrong because they think what Jesus said was this when what he meant was that. So they are misinterpreting his words about the sun and the moon and the stars. He does say is happening now. What do you call it? Right. It's here. Right. So there's part of it was then there Yeah. And yet some of it was still in the future distant. So that only I would say this to interrupt you, only because there was another day ahead of Jesus and then another day ahead. We don't know when these things are going to happen, but whatever. But you're you're right to highlight the fact that Christ comes on the scene. And what I'm going to say is that's the expectation of the prophets of the latter days And Jay said this at the beginning. I think he mentioned something about the last days, and they thought that Paul said some of the last. Yeah, they were in the last days. Okay, we have to pay attention to those terminology Because what happens is G. K. Beale redefines the last days. It's not this terminal event Beale says stuff that drives me nuts. He says stuff, it it appears as though Isaiah thought that these things were going to happen in a single event Yeah, that's right. That's right. But then Beale goes on to redefine and reinterpret the New Testament to accommodate for what I think is a false paradigm, the already not yet. The already not yet, in my opinion, if we want to be technical, lasted for 40 years. Jesus comes on the scene, and for 40 years there's an already not yet of the overlap of this age that Paul was in and the age to come, that which followed Paul. There's an overlap. Now you're saying that because your your view would hold that Jesus did come back in AD 70s So that would be the end of the overlap of the age. For those who don't believe you back in 8070, then that 40 years would be continuing on until now. Correct, right. Right. Okay, so then that goes back into our d our definition of term So let me let me say with um let me reset real quick. This is the Frederick Bay debate on uh Frederick's News Radio 9 WWFMD. I'm Troy Sinner. Our guest is Travis Finley. He's a blogger and a podcaster. He has a podcast called Rethinking Revelation. And Dr. Chase Broadhurst from Foolsville Baptist Church, he's the pastor there. I'm trying to listen and learn. Because I feel like you're almost about to say things. Like we're almost there, but you've not actually Like so if it's not the the moon falling out of the sky, star what el you know, turning blood, etc. , what is that? And I'm sure you're gonna say I I would I mean I I recognize this. These are stock phrases for the end of time, for the end of whatever they understand to be time, they're at that particular time. That they're not literal events taken So that therefore all these people are wrong. So what what is it referring to? It's referring to destruction of Jerusalem? Right, I know. Okay, well let me say it let me say it this way. Okay The Bible is written in three different languages. Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek. That's only three-quarters true. You left out uh old King James English document. Yeah, yeah Right. Uh no, yeah. I'll I'll bring that up in a second. Um that's only that's only three quarters true. It's not fully true. There's another quarter that has to be understood. There is a fourth language that the Bible utilizes that spans all three of those different categories of Hebrew, Aramaic. And that is the language of symbol, topology, and of type, of figure. Okay. That language is the queen of the Bible because the Bible uses it from Genesis to Revelation. We say things like this all the time, but we don't think about the ramifications and how deep it really is. We say things like, you better not read the New Testament until you've read the Old. Yeah, but that's huge. Huge. Huge Okay? So that if I read the Bible, if I start, if I if I'm a new Christian and I'm given the Bible and I say, where should I start? Well just start reading the book of John. Okay. There are categories and theological concepts and paradigms that John uses and employs That the normal reader is who's never read the Bible before will not understand how he can read, for God so loved the world that he gave his wonderful only son. He can read those words. True, true. Yeah, there's there is a context. But I want to I I want to try to highlight the the profundity of of saying what you're saying. Don't you You know, don't read the Bible or don't read the New Testament until you've read the Old. I I would say don't read the New Testament at all Read the old, just stay there for ten, twenty years. Last week Jesus has been coming back, and this week don't read the New Testament at all. Okay. Jesus says the sun and the moon and the stars are gonna are going to be destroyed, what does that mean? I'm going to suggest that the previous revelation, that is from Genesis to Malachi Uses and employs that language so that that's what Jesus is doing. See, I coming from where I came There was a a huge I mean Marcionism is rampant in the church. Marcionism, right, is the Old Testament revealed this God, the New Testament reveals this God. And there's this sharp demarcation. division. That even though it's not that specific, that mentality still exists in the Christian church. Most people not in this room though, right? No. Right. Most people spend a lot of their time in the New Testament, reading the New Testament. Because they just want to know about Jesus. They just want to know about Jesus. And I'm not saying that too. wrong. But that that's not the best approach. Um all right, so let me get you back to the back to the main thing. So I because nothing you said bothers me even Okay. So if you're gonna read Revelation, um you're gonna read about the tree of life on on the side of the river and you don't understand what Ezekiel is talking about, the tree of life brings healing Okay. Let me let me say this. Let me jump in because time is so short, right? I'm not trying to be read. No, that's what I'm trying to get to. All right. Okay. To follow your example, but changing the metaphor. When John says, I saw a new heaven and a new earth For the former heavens and the former earth passed away. And I saw a city coming down out of heaven, right? All that image. Where did John get his idea of the new heavens and the new earth the new earth. He got it from Isaiah 65. Where did Isaiah get his idea? We have to keep peeling the onion back. When when people see in John 21, Behold, I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the former heavens and the former earth have passed away, and there was no sea, and they think physical cosmos. That's not what John was talking about. I will right now take a bullet for that. John was not talking about the physical problems. Where did he get his idea, Isaiah 65? We look at Isaiah 65. We read Isaiah 65. If you were, I would think responsible and just reading literature. And this goes into my um assessment and and possibly yours as well, the ramifications of our presuppositions. Those things that we take for granted those things that we assume right off the bat, color the way that we read the Bible so that we don't even read the Bible because we think we already know what it means. So if I believe in Revelation 21 that John is talking about the physical heavens and the physical earth, and then I look up cross-references in my handy-dandy Bible right there, and it says, oh, look up 2 Peter 3 And I look up 2 Peter 3 and I see that the heavens are going to disappear in a roar and the elements are going to burn with fire in an atomic blast. And I'm thinking, physical cosmos, I'm maintaining a consistent her. They're both talking about the same thing. I agree they're both talking about the same thing, but they're not talking about the physical cosmos. So let's go back. Where do these two guys get this idea? We go back to Isaiah 65. In Isaiah 65 we see that God says, Behold, I create a new heaven and a new earth. Well, if we stop there and we just think physical, okay, that's all consistent. Isaiah 65, 2 Peter 3, Revelation 25. But it's just basic to me. Do you know what the next verse says? Behold, I create a new heaven and a new earth. Basic parallelism. The next verse says, behold, I create Jerusalem. That right there tells you what the new heavens and the new earth is. He just said it. Behold, I created new heavens and a new earth. Behold, I'm recreating my people. Now we're getting somewhere. Alright. I gotcha. Hold your train of thought. For a whole week. You gotta come back next week and hang up for a whole week. You can do it. I'd have faith in you. Okay if we say a faith in you? I think so. Okay. Make sure the rolls are. Okay, that wraps up my time with Jason Troy with Frederick Faith Debate. Great time, good discussion, and good just made ten episodes out of that, but um all right, uh hang around until next time.