Before we launch in, I want to say what an honor it is to once again be asked to share what an awful responsibility it is. also to be asked to share uh God's truth with you this morning. Um especially today focusing on a favorite and admittedly emotional uh topic for me Chase introduced me, but he left something out perhaps because it's understood. But yes, my name is Troy Skinner. What he left out is I am a sinner, a horrible, depraved sinner. Saved by God's grace through the blood of Jesus Christ. And my hope is that today you will acknowledge that for yourself if you already don't right now. If you don't already know that to be true of yourself at this moment, my hope is that 30, 40 minutes from now, that that's where you will be. Please pray with me. Father, we praise you and glorify your name for who you are What you've done, what you continue to do, and what you will do in the future. We ask that your Holy Spirit open our hearts To receive your truth as you open my mouth to deliver it, I pray that you will keep me faithful to your word and make up for all the shortcomings that I bring to proclaiming the message of the gospel. Please put to rest the distractions facing many of us here today. We are here to worship you in fellowship gathered in this place. Help us to do both well, worship and fellowship. In the name of our one and only hope for salvation, we pray. In the name of your eternal Son, Jesus Christ. Amen Daddy, tell me what it was like when you were growing up. Mommy, read me a bedtime story. From the time we're children, we just love stories. And the best stories are the true ones, and especially those that still affect us today. This is why when you have company over Our young sons and daughters are so anxious to encourage mom and dad to tell those sometimes embarrassing stories about how they met, their courtship, their rush to the hospital when the kids were born They hang on every detail and they correct you if you make a mistake, right? Well what's your favorite story? Maybe it's Lord of the Rings? Perhaps Harry Potter? Star Wars maybe? Or is Jace? At one time my son Tyler might have said in answer to that question, Speed Racer. Now these examples are all fictitious, but not all stories are fiction, of course, and maybe you have a favorite story that is not fiction, like um the Reformation, or the story of the American Revolution, or perhaps a biography about life of somebody famous like Gandhi, and other historical stories that are re rooted in reality like that. Well, what kind of a story are we given regarding Jesus? This morning you'll hear about the greatest story ever conceived, and you'll hear a personal story that illustrates In an intimate way, how this greatest story ever told continues to be retold in new and wondrous ways. Even now, in the lives of those seated around you. After the message this week, you will know my family quite a bit better, and by God's grace, you will know in the marrow of your bones. What it means to be part of God's family. It's a powerful, powerful truth. And I have truly barely been able to contain myself In preparation for sharing this once upon a time with you so that your heart will beat stronger for the hope that is happily ever after. So if you would, please turn in your Bible to Luke chapter 2. And while you're finding this third book of the New Testament, I'm going to tell you about a couple of other passages. But you're looking for Luke chapter 2. But I'm going to reference now Matthew chapter one where we're given a genealogy and it's broken out into three sets of fourteen generations and these generations take us from Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to Judah, David, and Solomon, through Ahaz, Azor, and Joseph before wrapping up with Jesus himself. And then in Luke chapter 3, which is a chapter after the one I just asked you to find, we're given a genealogy that works backwards through 77 names, including Levi, Amos. And Judah, Boaz, Jacob, Isaac, familiar names, right? Abraham, Shem, Noah, all the way back to Seth and Adam before wrapping up with God himself. And then Luke chapter 2. Hopefully you found it now. That chapter begins in those days, Caesar Augustus Issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world. This was the first census that took place while Quinerius was governor of Syria, and everyone went to their own town to register. So Joseph Also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem the town of David, because he belonged to the house and line of David He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child. While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born, and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger because there was no guest room available for them. So what's one thing that we can gather From the list of forefathers in Matthew 1 and Luke 3 and this little story in Luke 2 about Jesus Jesus is a real life human. This is one of the reasons the Bible provides for us the genealogy and gives us details about his birth. Like you and I, Jesus has grandparents, great-grandparents, great-great-grandparents, and so on. They really truly existed. They were real people living in real history, just like Jesus, just like us. Now the stories about Jesus that are presented in the Bible as historical. He really lived in the real world. This isn't a story in a make-believe land once upon a time. It's a story that takes place within historical context. Like we just read in Luke chapter 2, it was when Rome ruled the political world. It's when Augustus was Caesar. It's when Quinerius was governor. Is it not some mysterious land far, far away? This is Nazareth in Galilee. This is Bethlehem and Judea. Just like us. Poolsville in Maryland. The Bible gives us the story of real people in real locations taking place in real time. Jesus is real. Just like you and I are real. He's human. He was born a baby. He uh grew and became strong, filled with wisdom, as it tells us in Luke chapter 2, verse 40. We're not told much about his childhood, but we're told enough to know he had a childhood. And we know that he lived as an adult, even from non-biblical sources like the ancient historian Josephus. And of course, we know about his adult life with some detail from the Bible. In the Gospels of the New Testament, we can see that Jesus lived a life much like ours He went to parties, where he turned water into wine. He needed rest, sleeping even during a violent storm on a boat. He ate and drank both before and after his resurrection. He felt stress, coining the phrase, perhaps never let him see his sweat, blood. He got angry over turning the tables and the money chambers and changers in the temples temple. And he cried more than one time. Of course, ultimately Eden died. Absolutely. Jesus is a man. This is what the Bible tells us. And most actually will grant this point, saying perhaps only that Jesus is a wonderful teacher and a great prophet. But in addition to this Jesus is the real life-giving God. The writers of the New Testament, they tell us that Jesus is God by his words, and show us that Jesus is God by his deeds. Matthew 123 tells us, in fact, that Jesus' name means God with us. And we see this demonstrated Over and over again. Three dozen specific miracles are recorded in the four gospels. We have twenty or so described in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. They're not all the exact same. All different gospel uh um miracles rather, because there is some overlap in what is called the the synoptic gospels. And then we're given uh uh eight miracles in John's gospel account. Most of them are unique to John. But I mean the point is God authenticates his word throughout Scripture through supernatural occurrences, through miracles. Like the plagues in Egypt vouch for what Moses was saying to the Pharaoh. Like fire from the sky proved that Elijah served the one true God. Like the great flood, the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, the tumbling down of Jericho's walls. The pregnancies of really old women. Jesus is the word and he authenticates Himself by his miracles. So what we see throughout the Bible, we see specifically with regards to Jesus. And this shouldn't be a surprise because the whole Bible is about Jesus. Jesus himself tells us this. The Bible is, of course, about God and his relationship with man, and this relationship centers on Christ. The Bible is about Christ. Now if you still have your Bibles open to Luke chapter 2, it'll be easy enough for you to thumb forward to Luke chapter 24. But in case you can't get to it that quickly, while you get to Luke chapter 24, I'm going to read a short verse from John's gospel account. In John 5. 39, Jesus says, You study the scriptures diligently because you think that in them you have eternal life. These are the very scriptures that testify about me, Jesus says. And now in Luke 24, we're going to read verses 27 and 44 together. Verse 27 says, beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he explained to them what was said in all the scriptures concerning himself. He said to them, This is what I told you while I was still with you. Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me. In the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms. Now, the law of Moses that refers to the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Old Testament, and the prophets in the Psalms is a shorthand reference to the rest of the Old Testament. So by this phrase, Jesus is talking about the entire Old Testament. We still talk this way today. Like if we say from New York to Chicago to LA, we're talking about the entire United States of America. So Jesus is talking about what was at that time the entire Bible. So consider: the Bible is about Jesus. What does it say about him? I mean how what does he say? What does he say about him himself Jesus claims to be God. Nineteen times in the four gospel accounts, he says that he is the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies, which point to God saving his people. Twenty-three times he calls himself the Son of Man, and this is a powerful claim on deity when understood in the context of Daniel chapter seven with the image of one like the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven. Sixteen times he says he's the Son of God. Thirteen times Messiah Christ Savior and only God saves. Twice he says that he's able to forgive sins and only God can do that. Three times he refers to himself as Lord, and dozens of times he says, I am, the name God announced to Moses from the burning bush in Exodus. Now admittedly some of these I am statements might be accidents of grammar. I am hungry, I am thirsty, whatever. But more than a handful. are clear claims of deity. Perhaps most famously we have John chapter eight, verse fifty-eight, where he says, Truly I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am Jesus says of himself that he is God. And he backs up what he says about himself with his miracles. And ultimately his death, resurrection, and ascension. Now the resurrection is sometimes said to be God's greatest miracle. We talked about this actually last week in uh Carl's Dug Down Deep Bible study. Sunday school. I like to say that the resurrection is God's second greatest miracle, with the greatest miracle being creation. I mean God made everything out of nothing, including time and space. And he brought order. Without him, there's chaos. What a miracle. Well the opening of John's Gospel tells us that Jesus performed even this, greatest of all miracles. John chapter 1, first four verses. And then skipping ahead to verses seventeen and eighteen, here's what we read. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God He was with God in the beginning. Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and that life was the light of all mankind. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God but the one and only Son, who is Himself God, and is in closest relationship with the Father, has made him known. From before creation, Jesus has been God. Amen. Amen. But I want us to remember right now, in earnest, in this moment, Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King. Right now. Right now. Back then? Yes. But also right here. Right now. In the future, yes. But also right here, right now Jesus is Lord, Jesus is Savior, Jesus is King, right now. Can I get a hallelujah? Now, I want to share a personal story from our family that helps to illustrate that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King today. My son Tyler was born very sick. One of my earliest memories following his birth This is his breathing, his entire body convulsed in and out so violently that his rib cage practically touched his spinal column. I wouldn't have thought it was possible for a human body to do that if I hadn't seen it with my own eyes. He was struggling to force down every breath, and he was failing in that struggle. Because his lungs weren't capable yet of doing their job. I thought for sure he would die within minutes He didn't. Over the course of a few days his breathing steadied, but now his skin had purple dots and was yellow. Really yellow. It's caused by elevated bilirubin in his blood. You might know this as having jaundice. Birirubin is the junk that's supposed to be cleared from your blood. Normal bilirubin count, I've been told, is something like 0. 00001. I mean basically zero. Now sometimes baby has a bilirubin count where it's one or two, maybe a more dangerous three or four. The doctors place these lights over the babies to help bring the number down somehow. Well, Tyler's Billy Rubbon was well over three or four. And it kept climbing. The liver is what cleans this garbage out of our blood, and Tyler's liver wasn't working. So it was Johnda's number. Kept climbing. Now the doctors could see how concerned we were, and they were concerned too, but they assured us that as long as his number didn't go into double digits, we'd be okay. And then it went into double digits. So then they explain, well, there's two parts to Billy Rubin, there's direct and indirect. And as long as the direct doesn't go into double digits, we'll be okay. And then the direct one into double digits. Now the skin wasn't yellow. It was green. Seriously, it was green. Sometimes he had this crunched up look on his face, he looked like the Grinch just told Christmas. Not easy being green. The Billy Ribbon climbed to well over twenty. And I asked the doctors, how high can it go? They didn't know. They said they checked. They couldn't find record of anyone ever having a Billy Rubin count as high as Tyler's was at that time. And it kept going up. All the way up to 30. 5. Tyler Hadoff. Liver biopsy under what liver surgery? Consultation with thought from medical experts? All across the nation. Nothing helped. We thought for sure he would die within weeks. He didn't. Kyler was sent home for the NICU after two months, and we thought for sure he was being sent home to die. To this day we're still convinced that that's the case. He had eight specialists who needed to see him every week, some of them two, three times a week. So we took him to several doctors' appointments a day Give him twelve different medications, and we had to feed him by using a syringe to shoot the food down the back of his throat. He was too weak to suck and swallow. He'd be back in the hospital in about a month. Yeah, biliary atresia surgery and bilateral hernia repair and hypostatia surgery and strabismus surgery and exploratory procedures and Gastrointestinal intervention for reflux and esophagitis and thrush and other issues, both serious and relatively minor. And because of this condition, he needed to eat every two hours. And we'd spend an hour getting his food ready and all of his medications prepared and then into his stomach with that syringe. Well, I'd spend the next hour cleaning up his projectile vomit. All day. Every day. Tyler was sick. Everyone thought for sure. He would die within months. He didn't. And the biggest threat to his life I hadn't even mentioned yet. Tyler had hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and pulmonary stenosis. His arteries way too narrow. The wall of his heart muscle is way too thick. Four times thicker than it should have been. He weighed five pounds and the heart muscle was as thick as that of a forty-year-old man. We developed a relationship with our cardiologist over these months and we asked him, please shoot straight with us for our sanity. We need an honest prognosis, and he wasn't comfortable answering the question. But he did. After some hesitation, he said, There's no medical reason why Tyler's alive right now, at that moment. And there's no way that he saw him seeing his first birthday and he definitely would not see his second. Tyler should have been dead in less than two years. He should have died. He didn't. Why God had a plan and a purpose for this boy born sick. Fast forward a number of years, we have a ten-year-old boy who still couldn't eat salad foods, everything had to be put through the blender first. He had recently learned to feed himself with a spoon, so that was good, but We prayed in the name of Jesus Christ with a dedicated circle of prayer warriors. And when Tyler was 13 years old, he finally was able to eat non-blenderized food for the first time. We throw a party. We celebrated this answer to prayer with all of our prayer warrior friends. We had the invitation blown up the poster size. Everybody who came to the party signed it. We had a frame that hangs in the front floor of our house. If you come to our house today, it's one of the first things you will see. God answers prayer and heals the sick. So the lung problem went away, resolving itself on its own, the doctors told us. The liver problem with the impossibly high bilirubin count went away in spite of the failed efforts of the medical community. Many of his physical and developmental issues were successfully addressed by highly trained doctors and therapists with unreal effort, love, and patience from my wife Dina, sustained by God's grace. And now he could eat real food. Not all foods, but solid food. Amazing answers to prayer. But there was still the ticking time bomb. His heart. The hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and pulmonary stenosis were not getting better. You saw specialists in in Orlando and New York, Syracuse, Buffalo, Baltimore, DC. The best in the world at what they do, and there was nothing to be done. Every few months he needed to see his local cardiologist, a beautiful Muslim man named Dr. Hassan Abdallah. And every visit Dina would say, We're praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And he'd smile and encourage. Then Tyler started having these episodes where he couldn't get his breath. You come into a room late at night panicked, turning gray. And Dina would hold him and Rock him and pump his arms and legs trying to get blood flow and take him into a steaming shower, hoping maybe anything would help him to get his breath. Dr. Abdallah has to see Tyler every month now. And every visit, Dina would say, We're praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah And the doctor saw second and third opinions sending Tyler to medical facilities in the region. And Dr. Abdullah stopped accepting payments for Tyler's visits and we didn't know why We found out later it's because Tom was dying. Dr. Cala couldn't bring himself to tell us. His heart was breaking for us, as Tyler's heart, after years of struggle, was ready to call it quits. This is why I couldn't breathe sometimes, why I turned gray. It was a heart failure. And there was nothing to be done. All of the doctors had exhausted all of the options that their training and their technology gave them. And yet Dina kept trudging Tyler to doctor visit after doctor visit. And after seeing so many alchocardiograms and EKGs, she was becoming an expert herself at reading them. I mean dozens and dozens of echoes where the doctors and technicians would explain what they were seeing and where the problems were and what a normal echo should look like. It was sort of fascinating, really Then it was time for another visit to Dr. Abdallah. As usual, Dina greet him saying, Praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And as usual, Dr. Balow politely smiled and got to work. As he performed the echocardiogram, Dina watched as usual, but somehow didn't seem as usual Yako looked different to Dina. And Dr. Abdallah noticed too. He kept looking, adjusting his view, double checking where he'd already looked. Kept performing the procedure taking much longer than usual. And Dina began to think she understood why. And the doctor turned to Dina and asked, Do you see that? And Dina said, Yes. It looked to her like the image of Tyler's heart. Doctor Bella removed his glasses like I think I need to here for a minute. And he wiped a tear from his cheek. Then he looked Dina straight in the eyes and asked, Who do you pray to? Now Dina's eyes were flooding with tears, and she answered, Jesus. We pray to Jesus. Dr. Abdallis said, Well, your Jesus has healed your son. His heart is normal. And they embraced and they shared a long cry together. And they rejoiced. Together. And what Jesus had just done. One of them having just been reminded of who Jesus is. The other one having just been introduced to who Jesus is. Now I know that this story seems utterly fantastic. But it is true. It is one hundred percent true As documented medical evidence that this really happened, I'm going to share with you a portion of Dr. Bella's medical report of Tyler's primary care physician. Now, we've had it framed And it hangs in Tyler's bedroom. Two pages. I brought it with me here today to share with you. When we get back, we'll hang it up back up on the wall. I'm not gonna read the whole thing, but I'm gonna read the parts I think you need to hear. I had the pleasure of evaluating your patient, Tyler Skinner, a 13-year-old young man with Williams syndrome. He had bilateral branch pulmonary artery stenosis and severe hypertrophy of the right ventricle. Since I saw him last time, he has done tremendous progress. He does not have any chest pains. He is more energetic. A 2D echo revealed the presence of normal segmental cardiac anatomy The systemic venous return was normal. The right atrium was normal. There was no atrial septic defect. The right ventricle was normal. Both arteries demonstrated normal color and doppler flow velocities. The left ventricle was normal in size the aortic valve was normal. The supravalvular aortic area was normal There was no aortic or supraarctic valve stenosis. The peak sescolic velocity across that area was 1. 2, which is normal. The aortic arch was normal. There was no patent ductus arteriosus. There's no precardial effusion. Conclusions. I am truly amazed at the spontaneous resolution of this child's cardiac findings. This is not what we expect to see in a typical patient with Williams syndrome. The natural history for the branch pulmonary arteries in patients with Williams syndrome is progressive worsening, progressive right ventricle failure and dysfunction. This patient currently does not have any cardiac abnormality. Looking at the other outstanding improvement. That happened to this child with no medical intervention at all. It just makes me feel miraculously miraculously touched That this thing happened. This child, as you know, was doomed at birth, but he will not live with multiple failures, and his cardiac was severe. At one point by more than one pediatric cardiologist, including myself, I only thank the God for how good this patient is is doing. Recommendations, normal treatment for age, signed. Hassan Abdallah M D. So let me review the basics of Tyler's story. Tyler was born sick. Radically sick. Trust in God, the only option. Our efforts, the medical community's knowledge, failed. But God had a plan and a purpose for this boy, riddled with sickness And when God healed Tyler, a Muslim doctor asked, Who do you pray to? Let me review the basics of your story. You were born sick. Radically sick. Hope in God. Trust in God. Your only option to rescue you from you being dead In sin. Your own efforts, even your own increase in knowledge, will fail to rescue you. But God has a plan and a purpose for you, riddled with sickness And so now as you reflect on your personal story of healing, I want to ask, who do you pray to? In whom do you trust? Like Tyler, all of us are born. sick, a death sentence hanging over us, and there's nothing anyone but God can do about it. Like Tyler, we must fight to persevere, to overcome, to allow others into our lives to minister to us with the gifts and talents that God has given to them. We're just like Tyler. All of us. Exactly the same scenario. Just minor differences in degree. Tyler's heart is healed today because Jesus is Lord today. If you are a Christian, then your spiritual heart is healed today because Jesus is Savior today. Christ's kingdom is advancing today, even to the witness of Muslim doctors, because Christ is king today. Jesus is Lord, Savior, King right now. Don't forget it. Don't neglect to proclaim it Now, before I wrap up, I want to address a question that might be hanging in the air in the minds of many. What are we to do with the fact that Tyler still has difficulties despite the healing of his heart? I mean he still has William syndrome and autism spectrum disorder. Well, we can see a connection between Tyler and ourselves here, too. In Christ, Tyler is 100% healed right now. We just cannot fully see it yet. As it's written in Hebrews 10, verse 14, it says, For by a single offering, he, Jesus. has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. I'm going to read that again. For by a single offering he has passed hence Perfected for all time, those who are being right now sanctified. In heaven, we will see Tyler's full healing perfectly Just like us in Christ, pure believer, we're already healed We can't get see the absolute fullness of this until we arrive in heaven. So don't be distracted by what your eyes can or cannot see through a glass dimly. The truth remains clear to those whom God gives eyes to see. We needed God to come and live on earth as a man to rescue us from being dead in sin, and he did this for us. He limited himself. He condescended to become man. The true God truly became man. And he is the Savior of the world. Today he is risen. Trust God, He loves you He made you. You don't deserve it. None of us do. There's nothing we can do to earn it. Just love them back. Love him back. Turn from your way. Trust his way. Love him back. Once upon a time, and happily ever after. And right now Jesus reigns. Thank you, God, for your creation. And for the trust that we can have in your never-ending wisdom in ruling over it. We praise you for your plan of salvation revealed to us in your written word and in the life of Jesus Christ. We celebrate the things that you have done throughout the ages and yearn eagerly for the consummation of your work in us at the time of the Second Advent. Please, Lord, slam open the eyes of our heart. Keep them open To the comforting and courage-inspiring truth that you reign in our lives and in the entire world. Right now, as Lord, Savior, and King. Praise be to your name now and forevermore In the name of your transcendent and imminent Son, Jesus the Christ, we pray. Amen.