Let us turn to the book of Genesis. Genesis chapter 5, verse 32. We begin to read at verse 32 down to chapter 6, verse 3. ten. In our evening service services, we are going through these early chapters from the book of Genesis. Genesis chapter five, verse thirty-two. Let us hear the word of God. After Noah was Five hundred years old, he became the father of Shem, Ham, and Japheth. When men began to increase in number on the earth, and daughters were born to them, The sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful, and they married any of them they chose. Then the Lord said, My spirit will not contend with man forever. For he is flesh. His days will be a hundred and twenty years. The Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterwards, when the sons of God went to the daughters of men and had children by them. They were the heroes of old, men of renown. The Lord saw how great man's wickedness on the earth had become Come, and that every inclination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil all the time. The Lord was grieved that he had made man on the earth, and his heart was filled with pain. So the Lord said, I will wipe mankind whom I have created from the face of the earth, men and animals, and creatures that move along the ground, and birds of the air. For I am grieved. That I have made them. But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. This is the account of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, lameless among the people of the Lord. of his time and he walked with God. Noah had three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. We end our reading at the close. of this tenth verse. In our study of Genesis chapters four to eleven, we were looking last Sabbath evening at that wonderful Old Testament figure, Enoch. who walked with God and who was no more, because God took him away. And we come now to the opening verses of chapter six And it almost seems that we have here a break in the narrative. It seems as if the story is suddenly interrupted. Because at the end of chapter 5. We are introduced to someone called Noah. He was uh the son of a man called Lamech, not the Lamech earlier in Genesis, but a different individual. And we read in verse thirty-two of chapter five that he became the father of Shem, Ham and Japheth. And then we meet Noah again in chapter six, verse nine, where we're told this is the account of Noah. And in between the end of chapter five and verses eight and nine of chapter six, there is an interlude. The writer turns away from the story of the different individuals. who were born and lived and died and what they did. And it it strikes us as strange. And yet, although it's an interlude, although it's a change, it's not a break. It's telling us some things that are vital for us to understand. We're about to think about Noah. Who was Noah? He was, above all else, the safe of humanity from the disaster of the flood. Noah was the person who built the ark and who gathered into the ark his family and living creatures and who preserved the In the middle of the floods of judgment. And the question has to be answered, why did God send such an appalling catastrophe on the earth? who has made the world, the God who is kind and good and loving, suddenly, to our horror, God decides to, as it were, wipe out the whole of creation, almost the whole of creation. Why does God do that? And before we begin to look at Noah's life, we need to have some grasp, you see, of what were the factors which led to God sending such a catastrophe. Is the purpose of verses 1 to 8 of chapter 6? They prepare us for Noah and for what Noah is going to do. And they show us why a flood was sent by God and the situation. Which caused it to happen. I originally planned to just spend one evening on these eight verses, but when I started digging into them a bit more deeply, I saw that there are a number of very interesting issues here and we're going to have to spend at least two or three Lord's Day evenings looking at these verses. There is the whole question of the total depravity of human beings which is taught clearly here. We have the whole issue of God changing his mind, God repenting and saying, I am sorry for what I have done. That's something that's very much the cutting edge of modern theology. And that's something we need to look at in detail. Does God change his mind? And we have the issue that I want to begin with this evening. And I've entitled it the message The sons of God and the daughters of men. And their reference is verse two. The sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful, and they married. Any of them they chose. So we want to think this evening about these marriages which took place between the sons of God and the daughters of men. And we have that by asking some questions of this passage. And the first and obvious one is what were these marriages? These marriages unusual marriages, significant marriages, they are noted in Scripture between the sons of God and the daughters of men. And this is an issue that has been made more complicated and more mysterious than it really needs to be. More recently, some new evangelical commentators who support the theory of evolution have come up with a suggestion, and you'll read it in some modern commentaries, that this refers to marriage between human beings and what they call pre-adamite subhumans. They believe obviously that human beings evolved from lower creatures, a type of monkeys, I suppose, and that at some stage in primeval history, God placed his spirit into one of these creatures, and this creature became a human being. But there were still, of course, many of the pre-Adamatic Beings on Earth. And these commentators tell us that this is a marriage between human beings and some of these survivals from an earlier stage of evolution. As several of us were talking about this at tea time, and certainly the text says the sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful. Now whether these supposed pre Adamite subhuman beings were terribly beautiful or not. I don't know. But I think we can dismiss that theory without any more comment. It's a complete and total absurdity. A much more traditional interpretation is that we are told here about uh marriages between angels and human women, between angelic beings and human wives. The sons of God are, we're told, are angels. And these angels, we're told, saw some beautiful human women and entered into a relationship with them, and they then produced the superhuman giants of verse. four. This was first taught, as far as I know, in a very ancient Jewish book that I mentioned last Sabbath evening, the book of Enoch, supposedly written by Enoch, although it was written many centuries ago. Later, and I quote from that ancient Jewish book. And it came to pass when the children of men had multiplied, that in those days were born unto them beautiful and comely daughters, and the angels saw and lusted after them. And said to one another, Come, let us choose wives from among the children of men, and beget us children. And they were in all two hundred. And the women became pregnant, and they bore great giants, and whose height was three thousand L. That's about two miles. So reads the Book of Enoch. And many, many very reliable commentators do take the view That this is a marriage between angelic beings and human beings. You would be surprised at some of the names. And certainly the angels in the Bible are called the sons of God. You read the book of Job, for example. Chapter one and chapter two, the angels are referred to as sons of God. But although this is a very historic interpretation, it's one that we have to reject. There is no suggestion. that angels are sexual beings in human terms. Jesus specifically tells us in Matthew 22 and 30 that they do not marry and they are are not given in marriage. It is impossible to imagine a physical relationship between a spiritual being angels are pure spirits and a physical being. So I think again Then we can dismiss that interpretation. I think, friends, the true interpretation is far simpler, far more relevant, and far more helpful. What Genesis is telling us here is that the godly descendants of the line of Seth married unbelieving wives from the descendants of Cain. Up to this point, the two Two lines in humanity have been separated. We have the descendants of Cain who went out from the presence of the Lord. And we have the line of Seth, those who called on the name of the Lord. And there was a separation between the godly and the ungodly, between the believer and the unbeliever. But at this point in human history, that wall of separation began to break down. And some of the men from the godly line of Seth took the initiative in marrying wives from the descendants of Cain. And again, we find in Scripture human beings. described as sons of God or children of God. Exodus four twenty-two. Israel is my firstborn son. Psalm eighty-two verse six. You are all sons of the Most High. 1 John 3:2. Now are we children of God? So what you have happening here are what we could call spirituality. Spiritually mixed marriages marriages between believing men or professed believers and unbelieving women. Marriage between the two lines, the two families of humanity. In one line of humanity, God's Holy Spirit has been working. These are people who are born again. They're regenerate. They trust God. They call on the name of the Lord. The other can be described as the daughter. of men. There is no regeneration in them. God's Spirit hasn't given them new life. And these two come together in marriage. Marriage then between the believing line and the unbelieving lie. Let's ask a second question. Why were these marriages undertaken? Why were these marriages undertaken? Well we can guess at several reasons. and they may well be true. Perhaps the the descendants of Seth envied the lifestyle of the descendants of Cain. All the advances in technology and culture and civilisation Seem to have taken place in the family of Cain. We looked at that some weeks ago. The great inventors and innovators, Jubal and Tubal Cain and so on. These were the people who advanced civilization. It seems that the line of Seth were a much simpler people. Maybe they looked at the culture and the technology and the sophistication of the ungodly line and they thought we would like to have that for ourselves. Perhaps they were frightened. It was a very violent period. This passage tells us in verse 4 that the Nephilim were on the earth. This word Nephilim is is is hard to translate. They're mentioned again in Numbers thirteen thirty three. They were seen by the spies who went into the land of Canaan, and they're described there as People of great size. Some of our Bible versions in fact translate the word as giants. And there are many traditions among the Greek people, among the Germanic peoples. There are many traditions that in in early human history there were people of great size. That is very possible. Human beings were certainly very different as they came from the hand of God. Than they are now. Adam had much more native vigour and energy and glory about him. But the phrases used of these people, heroes, warriors, Man of renown suggests strong, violent, cruel, aggressive men. Lamech was their hero, their prototype, that violent, arrogant, murderous. murderer who boasted of what he had done. We read in verse 11, the earth was full of violence. Maybe the believing people sought security. in allying themselves with the ungodly. Maybe they thought if we marry into them they'll not attack us. We'll have peace to live. Scripture, however, gives us what is certainly The main reason, and is not speculation. Verse 2: The sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful. the reason for many marriages. They fancied them. They were attracted physically towards them. They saw them, they desired them for their beauty and their comliness and that it was which drew them to marry them. The reason, the great reason why these marriages were undertaken was physical Attraction. And it's a tragic passage. Tragic that the initiative came from the godly line, the sons of God. They took the first step. Tragic that their marriages were based. On such superficial qualities. Matthew Henry said, they saw that they were beautiful, and that was all they looked at. God has not taken into account here. They married any of them they chose. So here are marriages between the godly family and the ungodly family on the basis of physical attraction. Let's ask a third question. What was God's reaction to these marriages? What was God's reaction to these marriages? And perhaps this is the most striking feature of the whole passage. This would come fairly low down on the list of wrongdoing in our world. People would not regard a Christian marrying a non Christian as something particularly evil or bad. In fact, even for some Christians it doesn't seem to be an important thing. But this passage tells us, now this is startling. This passage tells us that these intermarriages were the trigger which detonated God's decision to destroy the whole world and almost everyone and everything in it. These marriages were, if you like, the last straw. It was these These marriages, and we're speaking in human terms, which pushed God over the edge. It was these marriages which caused God to say, Enough's enough, I'm going to finish this. Look at what the scripture says. Verses 2 and 3. They married any of them they chose. Then the Lord said, My spirit will not contend with man forever. Then Because of these marriages. These marriages were the precipitating factor in leading God to decide to send a flood. God looks at these marriages and decides says, My spirit will not contend with man forever. Again, this is a phrase which isn't easy to translate. There are two possible meanings. The text may mean my spirit will not contend with man forever, or my spirit will not strive, will not wrestle with man forever, or it may mean my spirit will not read. Remain in man forever. Some of you will have that reading in the margin of your balance. My spirit will not strive with man forever, or my spirit will not remain in man forever. If it means my spirit will not strive with man, that means that the Holy Spirit will not keep on pleading with human beings indefinitely. The Holy Spirit will not keep on the wheel. Keep on urging human beings to do what is right. The point will come when God's spirit is withdrawn. He has been quenched, as it were, and God will not speak to their consciences anymore. The spirit is strong. with them, but he will stop striving. If it means as I think it possibly does mean, my spirit will not remain in man forever, this means that God's life giving spirit Will not remain in humans forever. They will die, and they will die more quickly. In Psalm 104, verse 29, the psalmist says, When you take away their breath, they die, when you send your spirit They are created. But in either case, the general meaning is clear. There is an end to God's patience. There is an end to God's patience. The Spirit won't strive with man forever. The Spirit won't remain in man forever. There is an end to God's mercy. There is an end to God's gracious dealings with human beings. Because he says man is mortal, or or more literally, mortal. Man is flesh. He is destitute of spiritual life. There is no point in continuing to witness to him. He's only flesh. There is no point in letting him live on and live on. He's not going to change. He's only flesh. His days will be one hundred and twenty years. In one hundred and twenty years, a terrible disaster will will come upon the world. Now of course, as we'll see next week, God willing, the flood was sent not just because of intermarriage, but because of human sin. Because of man's wickedness, his evil heart, his cruelty, his violence, his corruption. But the specific sin which triggered it. was the intermarriage of the godly with the ungodly. Now why was that so serious? Well simply this. It threatened the very existence of the kingdom of God on earth. It threatened his purposes. For humanity. It threatened the loss of identity of the godly. God had promised that in the fullness of time, from the descendants of the woman would Come the Savior of the world. And the people have to be kept separate and pure and holy and devoted to God, so that in the fullness of time the Messiah would be born and he would crush. The serpent's head. But if this process of intermarriage continued in a couple of generations, there wouldn't be any people of God. There wouldn't be any calling on the name of the Lord. There wouldn't be any faith. There wouldn't be any seed of the woman. There wouldn't be any any messiah. There wouldn't be any crushing of the serpent. Evil would have triumphed. The people of God are starting to merge with the world. They're starting to become like the world. They're starting to marry the world and the people of the world. They're losing their identity. They're losing their se And if God had done nothing, in a very short space of time, the very existence of his people would be lost. And my friends, be clear. of this in your own mind. We are the only reason this planet is kept in being. We are the only reason why the earth still continues, so that God's people may be redeemed and gathered in for glory. When God has gathered in all his people, when the full number of the elected Is brought in, this earth will end. All things will end. The earth exists because of the people of God in it. We are literally, literally, the salt of the earth. We are the reason why God does not destroy this sinful world in blazing anger. And here he sees the existence of his people threatened. God must act. He must act decisively, or all is lost. That's why when God sees these sons of believers Looking with desire on the daughters of unbelievers and marrying them, God acts in such catastrophic, decisive judgment. That brings us to our fourth and last and most practical question this evening. What can we learn from these marriages? What can we learn from these marriages. Well the the obvious lesson I hope is plain to us all. And it is that no believer under any circumstance Whatever should marry an unbeliever. That is absolutely patent and clear in the Word of God. In 1 Corinthians 7:39, Paul explains how A Christian woman has a wide range of choice in marriage. She says she can marry anyone she wishes, but he must belong to the Lord. Or as the U King James has it, Only in the Lord. And I say that particularly to our younger folk this evening, to those of you who are still unmarried. That is the clear requirement of God upon you only in the Lord. He must belong to the Lord. She must belong to the Lord. And we know that just as the descendants of Seth and Genesis six. We know that you're surrounded by temptations. We live in a world that emphasizes uh physical attractiveness. Those of us who are a bit older, we haven't forgotten what it's like to be young and our hormones are raging and we're attracted to people, we're physically drawn to people. And you will see many beautiful girls and many attractive, handsome fellows. who will have a lot about them that is admirable, good in many ways, but they're not committed to your Lord and Saviour. And for you, young people, they are forbidden. They are out of balance. Don't even begin a relationship with them. Don't start kidding yourself. Don't say I'll change them. Don't get involved. The temptation is strong. And this passage points out to us in a Sh this is why Gaul u sent the flood. It is a sh it is a very, very serious sin to enter into a close personal physical psychological Union with an unbeliever. If you're a Christian, God's Holy Spirit is in you. He has made you a new person, He's given you a new nature. Now to become one. with someone who hasn't got that unit. To join yourself to someone like that is bound to damage your faith. Now we're not referring here to people who have been converted after their marriage. That is very often the case. One partner in the marriage is converted. And Paul in Corinthians, for example, has much very helpful Teaching about how they must prayerfully and hopefully and believingly live with that person to whom they were already married. We're talking about a believer who actually initiates A marriage with an unbeliever. And again, I have in all honesty to be careful. And I have to acknowledge that in my experience God occasionally overrules such marriages for good. And I have known not many, but I have known a few Christians who have disobeyed God and have consciously disobeyed. Disobeyed God and have married an unbeliever, and then in very great graciousness and kindness, God has converted the person they married, and that person is now a Christian. But for every one person. person I know in that position, I can think of perhaps ten for whom that has not happened, whose own spiritual life has been ruined, whose testimony has been spoiled and whose children show no evidence of saving grace whatever and those children if they're not converted will s will end up in hell and they will curse their believing father or mother on the day of judgment and say, why did you marry an unbeliever and bring me into the world, into a home where Christ was not trusted, and I am now in hell and you're to blame. It has happened over and over again. And the teaching of this passage is quite clear to all who are unmarried. Make up your mind. Make it as a firm, settled result. Don't wait. Don't wait till you're attracted to somebody. And then start thinking and praying. Don't come. People have said to me, Well, I'm very friendly with this nonprofit. Christian boy, but I'm praying about it. You say don't pray about it. Just break off the relationship. You'll need to pray. You need to act. Speak to the Fellows especially Proverbs thirty-one verse thirty. Charm is deceptive and beauty is fleeting. But a woman who fears the Lord, she is to praised. That's what we want for those of you for whom it is God's plan to be married. That isn't true of all. Some were called to serve Him as single People. And they have their compensations and their blessings. But if it's God's plan for you to be married, this is our prayer for you. A woman who fears the Lord. A man who who fears the Lord. That certainly is the lesson of this passage. And just in a few words, surely there are more general lessons here. Surely we're being warned here about About the mingling of the godly with the ungodly. About the close association of believers with unbelievers. Surely we're reminded here of what Paul says in 2 Corinthians 6. 14. Do not be yoked together with unbelievers. Come out from them and be separate, says the Lord. And see how the verse ends. It's an echo almost of here. Come out from them and be separate, and you will be my. My sons and daughters. Sons of God married the daughters of men. God says, Come out and be separate, and you will be my sons and daughters. What a relevant passage this is. It's a simple fact that the ethical standards in our world of professing evangelical Christians are almost identical with the ethical standards of unbelievers. The divorce rate in evangelical Christians in America is exactly the same as the divorce rate in the rest of society. They are no better As husbands or wives. They are no more faithful. They are no more consistent. They are no more pure. Evangelicals are just as materialistic as non-evangelicals. Evangelicals watch the same thing. Television programs. They look at the same pictures, they read the same books. You can't tell the difference. The salt has lost its savor. And that's what provoked God's anger. His people were merging with the world and becoming like the world. We heard earlier this evening of church discipline. In many churches today, church discipline is non existent. The churches are filled with people who show no Evidence of being converted. And then people wonder why the church has no influence. Because the church has lost its identity. The people of God are becoming like the people of the world. There is no self. There's no distinction. You cannot tell one from the other. Very often the people of God are just as anti-intellectual as the people of the world. They're just as reluctant to read, reluctant to think as the people of the world. Very often that the professing people of God are just as tolerant of error as the people of the world. We have to take this seriously. When the people of God began to lose their identity, God took drastic action. Because there is nothing more threatening to the kingdom of God than when the salt loses its savour. And that's what we see today on a massive and widespread scale. And we need to take this to heart. We need to teach it to our children. We need to realise. We need to know what our children are being taught. We need to assess it. We need to evaluate it. We need, as my wife and I did of well not often, but on a number of occasions, if need be we need to go and see that error has stopped being taught and is replaced by truth. We're not to be hermits. We're not to cut ourselves off from the world, but the magnitude of the issues here is brought before us. We are strangers and pilgrims on the earth, and the cause of God depends. On the purity of the salt. So think about these professed believers who fell in love with the world and who joined themselves themselves to the world. And as God looked at them, he said, I will act. I will sweep this away. God may send floods of persecution. God may send floods of economic disaster. God has his ways of dealing with his unfaithful church. God can still purify. God can still gather a remnant. He can still divide the wheat from the chaff. Paul says to his converts, I promise you to one husband, to Christ, so that I might present you as a pure virgin to him. 2 Corinthians 11, 2. Let us keep ourselves pure for our husband. Amen.