Dear congregation, last week we left Noah and his family in the Ark, resting on the top of Mount Arat. You recall we looked at How the ark was lifted up. We looked at various facts and figures about the ark as it was carried on the waters and it came to rest. And in those facts and figures, I made reference to the uh size of the various uh or the the square area of each animal on an average to show you the sufficient size of the arc. Unfortunately I added one too many zeros in my math, and several of you have uh informed me of that when I said that there was a bed sheet size for each animal that actually was uh ten times too large, and I apologize. for that poor math. There was a smaller space than I said, but there was still, given the average size of the animal, the point is still true that there was adequate space in the ark. Well there on Mount Ararat, Noah and his family waited on God. And God who had shut them in was the God who must. open the door to let them out. Had Noah and his family acted arbitrarily or hastily, there could have been a disaster. They themselves or the animal Kingdom could have perished if they had gone before the Lord. God himself would have been offended. All kinds of things could have happened. But at the same time, Noah was not inactive in the ark. In fact, last week we saw God's activity. You remember that from verses 1 through 5. And in the portion we read to you, we read to you just now, verses 6 through 19, we see primarily Noah's activity. And that activity consists in six or seven actions of expectant faith. Expectant faith. And especially in this preparatory week, this would be good to examine together with you as we ask ourselves the question do we have that saving faith that we need to partake of the Lord's Supper not only, but is our Faith active? Is it expectant? Stephen Sharnot said, In prep pre preparation for the Lord's Supper, we ought not ask, do I have a wedding garment on only? But we ought also to ask, is it well? kept and brushed. Am I ready to sup with the Lord? And so I pray that this portion of God's word this morning, which focuses Focuses so much on Noah's expectant faith the Holy Spirit may use to raise within us a degree of expectancy to meet our Savior at His table. Text is the portion read to you, Genesis 8, 6 through 19. And I will read again at this time only verses 15, 16, verses 6, 7, and 18. 6, 7, and 18. And it came to pass at the end of 40 days that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made, and he sent forth a raven, which went forth to and fro unto the Waters were dried up from off the earth. And then verses fifteen and sixteen, and God spake unto Noah, saying, Go forth of the ark, thou and thy wife and thy sons, and thy sons wives with thee. And verse eighteen. And Noah went forth. And what follows? Well, our theme this morning is deliverance from the Ark. We want to look at two thoughts with you. First, Noah's Acts of faith. Noah's acts of faith. And second, God's command to disembark. God's command, that is, to exit or to leave. The Ark. Deliverance from the Ark. Noah's acts of faith, his activity of faith as he anticipates this deliverance, and God's command to disembark. Noah, as I said, shows a great number of acts of faith as he's waiting on Mount Arat. And the first of these you find already in verse 6. It came to pass at the end of forty days that Noah opened the window of the ark. Know what kind of window that was, if Noah had to remove a certain panel of wood or so. But whatever kind of window it was, or the details were like, it is true. Isn't it that Noah had an expectation? And in opening the window, he is anticipating the fulfillment of God's promise to him. Now it appears that the Ark had only one window, and that would make sense because it was built as a seaworthy vessel, and many commentators point out that that window was probably built in the ceiling of the ark, assuming that water would be Beat against the sides of the ark. And what a fascinating picture that is, don't you think? Of an ark with one window in its ceiling pointing to heaven. We don't read that the ark had a road. Or a mast or a sail, but just a single window looking to heaven. And Noah opens that window and looks to the heavens for all the help and all this hope, trusting in God with holy expectation. And you can believe that as he did so there was prayerful devotion on the part That is implied also throughout this story. Several of our forefathers have pointed out something very remarkable about this whole history in our text, with the re repetition of the number. seven seven days now you know of course already from former sermons that God has divided time into seven day periods and into the week that we know still today and that God rested on the seventh day. And therefore the number seven days often points to the Sabbath and points to a special time of rest and fellowship with God. And all throughout this history, you have this refrain coming back at you again and again, don't you? Seven days. Already back in chapter 7, verse 1, God said, Yet seven days, and I will call And then in verse 10 we read here that after seven days Noah sent forth a dove, and then he stayed yet another. seven days uh from the time of the raven being sent out to the time the dove got sent out and then when the dove returned he stayed yet another seven days and then we read in verse 12 he stayed yet another seven days and sent forth the dove again, which return not to him any more. Now, we don't want to speculate here, but we can assume, at least this much, can't we, that Noah and his family were worshiping God in the ark, and particularly on the Sabbath days, they were setting aside time to worship God in a special way. And that day in particular, no doubt, From the ark, there were cries and prayers and pleas to God to bless them, to bring them through safely, to fulfill his promises. And what these commentators say is something like this: couldn't B. Then all these references to seven days refer to the Sabbath, and then Noah let out these birds on the Sabbath as he and his family cried to Almighty God. Dr. Robert Kenley. He says we can scarcely therefore resist the conclusion that the Sabbath as dividing time by weeks was then known as a primitive institution, and that the sanctification of the Sabbath formed a part of the And then he goes on to make this beautiful observation. On the Sabbath, the dove brings to the weary prisoners of hope the olive branch, which is the assurance of rest. Well, however that may be, we may be sure that this repeated refrain of seven coincides with this attitude of devotion, this attitude of prayer, this attitude symbolized by one window open to the heavens. Noah and his family in the ark, even as they rest on Areth and await the further command of God, are storming the mercy seat of God. They are waiting actively On God. Surely that is a mark of grace, isn't it? Of every true communicant. Every true believer is one who knows what it means to have an open window to heaven. And especially on the Sabbaths, he knows cries and groans and supplications, and through the week as well, of course. As we seek to worship God, as we wait on him, as we expect his blessing and his benefication. Upon us. And so Noah here is a type of God's children in this sense that they too know what it means for the Holy Spirit to close all the other windows. in their lives until their only hope is in that exclusive scriptural window to gaze upwards to heaven, to God's right hand, to end in Jesus Christ as the object. of all my prayers and all my devotion. And friend, if you don't know that experience of being emptied of yourself and finding your window open to the heavenly Jerusalem and crying out Almighty God coming to him with prayers and supplications, even as you wait on him, you don't belong at the table of the Lord. God's people know what it means to surrender by hope and expectation, to use the window of prayer and supplication, and to cry out with Peter, to whom else shall we go? But Noah's second act of faith is also marked with great expectation. You read that in verse 7. He uses that only when To let out a raven. Noah wanted to know, of course, if it was possible to live upon the earth again. So he sends out a raven. That was a good choice, boys and girls. part of Noah. Because the raven is what we call a scavenger bird. That means he he eats dead flesh, the carcasses of dead animals. And of course after the flood there would be all kinds of these carcasses when the water went away. And the raven, we are told, went to and fro, back and forth. So the fact that it did return to the ark means that Noah knew there was Some dry land, and that there was food for a scavenger like a raven to eat. And yet the earth was not inhabitable yet for Noah. And his family, even though it may have been for a raven. And so Noah sends forth this raven as an act of faith, expecting God to fulfill his promise, but when the raven doesn't return, he recognizes that But as God doesn't command him to go out yet, there is still more waiting to do. And so he engages in a third act of faith in verse 8. He sends forth a dove from him, the Bible says. to see if the waters were abated from off the face of the ground. Now if you compare verses ten and twelve, you will notice that Noah waited Seven days it appears to send forth this dove. He did all these things in seven day increments. Now the dove is a very different bird than the raven. You know that boy. Boys and girls. The Bible calls the dove the dove of the valley. Compared with other birds, doves, many other birds, doves tend to habitat close to the earth. Yes, they make their nests in trees, but for the most part they eat seeds and grains that they pick up from the ground. The dogs like dry places. And so the dove was a good bird to send out to discover whether The whole land had become dry yet. And we read in verse 9 that that was not the case. The dove found no rest for the sole of her foot and returned unto Noah in the ark. So that means to Noah. Noah that there was no lowland, no exposed land that was yet dry, but it was still at least wet and muddy and dirty. And so Noah takes the dove back in, pulls her into the ark, and then waits seven years. Seven more days. And then he engages in a fourth act of expectation. Verse 10. He stayed yet seven other days, and again he sent forth the dove out of the ark. What is Noah doing sending these birds out every seven days? Well, Noah is not just interested in the day in which he might take a step out of the ark. But Noah has a promise in his hand. God would bring him through, and God would bring a new earth. And Noah and his family would establish righteousness in the earth. And Noah is a Longing for that. He's looking for a new earth cleansed by the flood. He's looking for permission to go out and to begin this work. And so this continual sending forth of birds. Shows Noah's expectation that God is going to bring a new world. And that too is a mark of grace, isn't it? God's people are expecting God to come. They're expecting The new heavens and the new earth in which righteousness shall dwell. By grace, you see. True believers have been separated from the first world that lies in wickedness. And like Abel. Abraham, they have been called out of the idolatry of this world. They have made a break with their old life and with the old world. And they are looking for a new world. They are looking for that great day of communion, eternal communion. And so Noah, looking for a new earth, is a type of a believer being weaned from this ungodly world, looking for the new heavens and the new earth. And you see, that too is an important mark of grace. God's people, every day on the Sabbath, as they gather in God's house, they are longing for heavenly things, yet other seven days, and they gather In God's house, looking for heaven, looking for eternity's glory, looking for the things of the world to come. You see, by nature we are of the earth earthy. By nature we don't have interest in these things. By nature, we we long for the world's ways, but when we are converted, we are strangers. We become pilgrims on the earth. See if you're born again My friend, this world passes away for you, as it were, inwardly before it perishes outwardly. And you become a child of God, adopted into a new family with new expectations. You're looking for new earth and so you're sending forth as it were prayers and cries unto God regularly, not just every Sabbath, every seven days in a special way, yes, but every day longing for the Lord to come. Some days that longing is greater than others, oh yes. But still, every believer can say deep within him, there is a longing for God. There is a longing for communion with God. The world It loses its glamour. It loses the attraction it formerly had. It loses its appeal. The sinful world is replaced by burning desires for God. So has Noah. He's glad to have the first world behind him and is longing for the new world, the second world. So a true believer is one who looks back on his sinful life. And looks back on the world around him and says, Vanity! Vanity! All this vanity! But I hunger and I thirst after things this world cannot give me. I look for a new earth. I look for new cannons. Communion with God. Well, friends, is that your life? See, the world's joy is multiplied when it's corn and oil and wine are increasing. the Bible says. But the believer rejoices when he has communion with God through Jesus. And the love of God is shed abroad in his heart. Then he feels like a stranger and a pilgrim on this earth. He seeks for another country. He seeks for the land of glory. He seeks for a city whose builder and maker is God. That city that houses everything He longs for God Himself, everything the new nature loves, perfection, holiness, communion. And he longs to be done with the day. In which everything he hates, which is attached to this earth, sin and the devil and the body of death, when these things shall be done away, and he will be resurrected with a new body, and serve God with new desires. So Noah's sending out these birds. Longing, longing, longing to to come unto a new earth. And so God's people send out cries and they they use the means of grace. They use the sacraments. And well, in all these things you see, even as they come around the Lord's Supper, they are sipping of the wine, they are eating of the bread, looking for a new earth, looking for the great day of the appearing of Jesus Christ, looking for the new earth. To live yet in this world, but also to enter that land of everlasting glory. The new Jerusalem come down from heaven. Well, what about you, my friend? Will you inherit the new earth? Why do you say that's that's precisely my question? When I look at myself and I see all my indwelling sin, and I I see who I who I I still am, and despite all the Lord has done for me, I I fear that I shall perish in this world. I fear like David, I shall perish one day at the hand of Saul. I shall perish by my own indwelling sin. sins. I shall perish in the waves of Satan's temptations. But when I look outside of myself, you say, then I find hope. I find hope in Jesus. But I'm afraid my hope is so small. Is it possible that for someone with such small marks of grace, when I hear preparatory sermons, I can't deny that I I have something of those marks of grand shirt. At least some of them. At least a little degree. But they're so small and sin still looms so large. Maybe it would be better for me to remain in my seat. Let it be for more holy. More converted people. Well, dear friend, we don't come to the Lord's Supper based on how big our marks of conversion are. We come to the Lord's Supper. Suffer. Because we can't deny that our only hope and our exclusive trust for salvation lies in the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, we all want more faith if we're believers. That's true. But even if you have faith the size of a mustard seed, you belong at the table of the Lord. My friend. And do not despise the day of small things. And that is exactly what God wants to teach us in the next verse, in verse eleven. came, the second time the dove was sent out, came back in the evening, and lo in her mouth was an olive leaf, plucked off. So no one knew that the waters were abated from all. Of the earth. An olive leaf. A small thing. Very small thing. But with a great message. And so you See, small faith has a great savior and a great message. The message was: there are dry places on the earth. The vegetation is appearing again. The trees and the bushes are budding again. New life exists. A new earth is coming. You see, olive trees don't grow in mountains, but they grow in valleys. And so Noah sees an olive leaf, and obviously he catches the message from the olive leaf. The waters have receded very low. Yes, the olive leaf itself is a is a verbal, uh rather a visual sermon to him. It's a token. A greeting from a new earth. It's a sign of God's favor. A sign that his curse is removed from the earth. It's a seal that God's curses. God will fulfill his promises that God is giving Noah an earth to dwell upon. So symbolic is this dove with this with this olive leaf that as you Know, boys and girls, a dove with an olive leaf in his beak is used today as a symbol of peace. But here it is more than peace, it is also a symbol of life, new life. It means a time of judgment is over. The flood is past. And so it is no coincidence, don't you think, that the Holy Spirit chose to descend upon Jesus at his baptism in the form of a dog. And the dove was a symbol of new life, so the Holy Spirit is a spirit of life. Oh, what joy Noah must have had when he saw the Olive Leaf. Small thing, but a sure foretaste of a new earth. There you have another mark of grace, don't you? A child of God, a true communication. It's one who knows times of forte, times of small things, times of olive least, times when I have a longing to To serve God forever without sin in glory. Times when I may triumph, even if it be for a few moments, over Satan, and may enter into the inner chamber of Jesus Christ and experience that his banner over me is love. Times when I may rest in the Father's bosom with all my worries and sorrows for Christ's sake. Times when by the Holy Spirit's grace I may take refuge to Christ. And find in him all my expectation. Times when I may say with the instructors in the Hylibird Catechism, Since I now feel in my heart the beginning, the Olive. The beginning of eternal joy. After this life I shall inherit perfect salvation, which I has not seen nor ear heard, neither has it entered into the heart of man to conceive, and that to praise God. God therein forever. This is your life, friend. Oh come. Come to the table of the Lord. And receive there what we may call, I say it, figure. Figuratively, the olive leaf of wine, the olive leaf of bread, the sign and the seal that one day, for the sake of Christ's suffering, You will be in the new heaven and the new earth where righteousness dwell. Wine is a small thing, one sip. The bread is a small thing, ordinary. common bread, one bite, but they symbolize great things. They symbolize a new heaven and a new earth. Now, this dove comes to Noah, the Bible specifically says, in the evening. In the evening. He comes simply. He comes in an ordinary way. comes with the olive branch. And what a picture this is of something contrary to what we desire when we think of the Lord's Supper. When we look at the Lord's Supper, We want something extraordinary. We want great things. We want them right away, first thing in the morning, so to speak. But God works normally with the ordinary, not the extraordinary. Ordinary sermons that work faith. Ordinary bread and wine that strengthen faith. And he brings ordinary sinners to their wits' end in themselves. long as they establish, try to establish their own righteousness and fail. And then when they come to an end, in the evening, as it were, God comes and delivers them and shows them Himself and gives the olive leaf, the promise of righteousness in Christ, the promise of a new heaven and a new earth. Well then Noah engages in the fifth act. Verse 12 says, he stayed yet seven other days. and send forth the dove which return not again unto him anymore. Now no one knows, but the fields and the valleys are clear. And still He waits. He's content to wait patiently for the Lord. His eye is expectant. His hand is is busy. But he waits on God. And what a picture that is of how a believer comes to the Lord's Supper. His feet come. His body sits. He waits. He meditates. He waits for communion with God through the Word, through the sacrament. And then Noah engages in his Act of believing expectation. Verses 13 and 14. It came to pass in the 600 first year, first day, the first month, the waters were dry, and Noah removed the cup. of the ark and looked and behold the face of the ground after three hundred and seventy-five days is dry. What a welcome sight. And Noah can now see for his own eyes that God has done great things for him. Reminiscent of what he did in his first words. In creation. For when God created the first world, he divided the dry land from the waters. And now in the second world, God divides the dry land from the waters. And Noah sees the promise with its physical eyes. That too is exactly what happens spiritually in the Lord's Supper. God sets before our spiritual eyes the bread and the wine not only, but also before our physical eyes that we may see the promise. us in the bread and in the wine and believe that God has done great things for us. As surely, he says As I give you this bread, look at the bread, see the promise. My body is broken for you, dear believer. As surely as you drink the wine, my blood is broken. Is shed for you. Oh, what a glorious God we have. A God who fulfills his promises. And in the Lord's Supper enables us. To see by faith these promises being fulfilled to his own glory. While Noah is believing and praying. And waiting and acting. God, who has been assuaging the waters, waits for his time. To speak. And verse 15 is a wonderful transition. It's so beautiful, isn't it? Noah's doing all these things, waiting. And then we read, and God. And God. It's time for God again to act. God sometimes acts painfully, slowly in our lives. No one had a Had to wait a long time. But he chose to wait rather than to run ahead of the Lord. He dared not open the door of the ark. Calvin put his So beautifully. How great must have been the fortitude of the man who, after the incredible weariness of a whole year, when the deluge has ceased and new life has shown forth, does not yet move a foot out of his sight. Without the command of God. Oh, there's another mark of grace. A believer, a true believer, is one was learned to wait in the area of of sanctification. He's learned to wait for Jesus on the clouds. He's learned to wait for answers to prayer. He's learned to wait on God, to work within him. the graces he needs. He's learned to wait. Have you learned to wait? On God. Now you must not confuse this with the area of Justification. Some people do that. They say, well, I have to wait on God before I can go to Jesus. No, that's not true. God, in the area of justification, calls every man and woman and boy and girl to repent and believe today. Other people say, well, I can't deny that I've repented and I've believed and I know something of my sin and misery and I have some hope outside of myself in Christ. And I long to walk in a way of gratitude and holiness before God, but I I don't have the special kind of experiences like I had, like my mother had or my grandmother had, and I I'm waiting. Before I come to the Lord's Supper for the first time, because I believe you need something extra special before you come to the Lord's Supper the first time. Where do you read that in the Bible? It's not in the Bible. It's not in our catechism. You know what our catechism says? It says, I think in the beginning of verse Lord's Day 28, that That God, yes, that Christ has commanded, Question seventy-five, commanded me and all believers to eat of this broken bread and to drink of this cup. Read that again. Christ says, commanded me and all believers, also olive leaf believers, believers of small things, to eat of this broken bread and to drink of this cup in remembrance of him. By the remembrance of how big or how small my experiences are, no. So this waiting must not be confused. You wait on the Lord at the table, you don't wait to come to the table. If you have the marks of grace in you. And you are commanded to come. If you know the basic marks, you'll hear about that tonight, of misery, deliverance, and gratitude, then you are commanded to To come to the table of the Lord. Not because you are worthy or because you are so converted, but because of am God. Because God comes, God invites. God draws. God speaks. God shows. Then it says so beautifully. And God spake. What a wonderful thing. Noah's been in the ark for 375 days. The last time you read of God speaking to him was in verse 1 of chapter 7. And the Lord said, Come! And now 375 days later, and God could well have spoken to him in a special way in between, but 375 days later, God says, Go, come with force. And go is also with force. And what a command that was. Here is Noah. 375 days confined in a one-window ark. There's there's of course smell in the ark. There's lack of fresh air in the ark. There's probably lack of light in the ark. We we don't know all the circumstances. But that must have been after a while, you see. This this feeling of confinement. You know what it's like if you're inside your house even for a while. One week, you've got to get outside. 375 days, and God speaks. The time is right. God says, Go, go forth, Noah. Go forth from the ark. You see, God was in the ark. That's implied by the language of go forth. All the time the floods were pounding that vessel, all the times that the light was not seen day after day, all the times the ark was being thrown about on the waters, and their hearts were Failing for fear, all the times God had seemingly been silent, God was with them. Go forth of the ark. What a lesson for us. All the times, dear child, Of God, that you are afflicted and overwhelmed, and it seems that God doesn't speak. He's always with you. And if only we would be still, we would know that God is a refuge for us. Even in the greatest adversity of life. He is a very present help in time of trouble. God speaks. And God, you see, always. Always goes before Noah step by step. Noah waits, God speaks. God lets us know what we need to do when we need to. Do it. God doesn't tell Noah, now 125 days from now, Noah, go forth. He waits. He's working lessons in Noah's life all that time. And when the time comes, he says, go forth. And that's what God does still today, in in a certain way. God doesn't reveal our future to us, does he? He doesn't tell us where we'll be in ten years' time. He doesn't tell us you've got to take a new job two years from now. Or you young people, you've got to marry so-and-so five years from now. He doesn't tell us distant things, but he guides us in present things. And today he speaks differently. He doesn't speak audibly as he did to Noah. But he speaks through his word every day, every week from this pulpit, and repeatedly through providence. We have so many advantages over Noah in this regard. We've got the whole Bible. You see, if we don't hear God speak, it's usually a sign that we're backsliding. Or some other problem is afflicting us. And sometimes then, yes, we can become spiritually lonely and we cry out, Don't we be not silent unto me, O Lord, lest it thou be silent unto me, I go down into the pit. But so often we make a big mistake. We think that God has to reveal to us a long distance in the future. We want assurance of the future. But God wants us. to walk by faith. The Bible says, Psalm 27 says, the steps of a righteous man are ordered by the Lord. One step at a time, you see. Our steps are ordered. The Hebrew word here is dictate. God tells us what the next step is. Thy word is a lamb to our feet. And thy word is a light upon our path. Boys and girls, when you carry a lantern, if you're camping, you carry a lantern in the middle of the night. It guides you a few steps at a time, doesn't it? You don't see your path five hundred feet away, but thy word is as a lamp unto my feet to guide me in the way that I should go. Well God commands Noah now to disembark. And God keeps Noah close to himself, you see. That's what we need in our daily lives. We need to be kept close to the Lord. Close to his word, remaining obedient even in little things, trusting that God will guide us in all things. Acknowledge me in all thy ways, and I will direct all ways. Thy path. Go forth. Go forth, Noah, into a new world. Go forth into a new earth. Well, what an encouragement there is here for the true believer. You see, God is preparing you, even though He doesn't speak it audibly, God is preparing you, dear child of God, for the Day when you will come to the Jordan and he will say to you at that time, go forth into the new heavens and the new earth. Go forth into Emmanuel's land. Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. And you see, the Lord's Supper is just a little foretaste of that, a little promise of that, a little a little anticipation. Of that one grand, glorious day when God's people shall be around the supper of the Lamb, the round table in the new Jerusalem, feasting on Jesus Christ forever. And forever and forever. Oh, yes, the day is coming. And God shall say, Go forth. And then with eternal joy upon our earth. We shall enter into the new world, no longer living by small things, no longer living by olive leaves of hope, no longer walking by naked faith, but then to see my bridegroom face to face. To see that lovely Jesus, of whom the last book in the Bible speaks so wonderfully, when it says that those who come out of great tribulation and have walked Wash their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb shall therefore be before the throne of God, serve him day and night in his temple, hunger no more, thirst no more, for the Lamb, which is an amazing. The midst of the throne shall feed them and shall lead them unto living fountains and waters, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. Next week, Sunday morning, you will not physically see Jesus Christ. But spiritually, through the sign and the Seal. You may anticipate a floodless glory, a glory where there is no more sea. A glory where we see nothing but Jesus. For the bride-eyes not her garment, but only the bridegroom's face. Oh, the glory that is to come. Dear child of God, do you not long at Times for the Lord to say to you, go forth. And enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. Oh, that great divine Senor Rutherford, he put it this way, O my Son. So how long is it to the dawning of the marriage day? Oh sweet Jesus, take wide and broad steps. Come, my Lord, come over the mountain at one stride. For I would desire no more from my head. Heaven beneath the moon, while I am sighing yet in this house of clay, than daily renewed feasts of love with Christ, but all for the day to be with him forever. Well, if this is our life, this is our hope, this lovely bridegroom has our heart, then he says to you, even this morning, go forth from your pew next morning. Sabbath and come to sup with me. Don't despise the day of small things. Let the olive leaf of expectant faith draw you near, and I will feed you the Spirit. food convenient for you. Dear friends, the real question of this sermon is this Do you live like Noah by expectant? Faith. That's what is happening here. Verse 6b, Noah opened the window. Verse 7a, Noah sent forth a raven. Verse 8a, he sent forth a dove. Verse 10b, he sent forth a dove again. Verse 12A, yet he again he sends forth a dove. Verse thirteen B, he removes the covering of the ark. Verse 18, and Noah went forth And that's beautiful too. Verses 18 and 19. If you look at it with me just a moment before we close this morning, verses 18 and 19, notice the parallelism with verses 16 and 17. God says in 16 and 17, notice Noah go forth of the ark, thou and thy wife, and thy sons and thy sons' wives with thee. Now look at verse 18. And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him. Verse 17, bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee, of all flesh, etc. Verse 19. Every beast, every creeping thing, every fowl, whatsoever creepeth upon the earth, went forth out of the ark. You see the pattern. Noah obeys God consistently. Consistently and precisely. And this has been habitual for Noah. He's been doing that for 120 years or more. He's been obeying God. He's been walking with God for decades. And so now he obeys God because he obeyed God previously. See my friends, if you learn to obey God in the bright hours, you will learn to obey him in the dark hours. And then when the bright hours dawn again, you will obey him once more. That is the lesson we learn from Noah. Noah must be a mentor to us in obedience. The best way to learn unconditional obedience to God is to get in the habit of unconditional obedience through the Word and by the Spirit day by day. You see, then we don't wonder, shall I come to the Lord's table or not? But then our question is, Lord, how shall I be fed at that table? How shall I remember thee at thy table? That's a deeper question. It's not just a matter of deep. Getting to the table. It's a matter of being fed at the table. Noah went forth. God says, go forth. Noah obeys. What a blessing to unconditionally obey the Lord. When we're in the midst of a storm, when we think things can end right, when no good can come from it, and we should only suffer loss. Remember, the God of the storm, the God of the promise, the God of the covenant, He fulfills his own word. come forth out of the sepulchre of our experience, out of our prison, into a new experience. Yes, into a new earth. Our expectant faith, dear believer, Shall not be disappointed. For the day will come here below when God will deliver us, and if not here below, when He will come one day to command us to disembark. From this world into Emmanuel's new heaven and Emmanuel's new earth. Yes, God remembered Noah. That's how this chapter begins. And that's what God fulfills. He remembers Noah by removing the waters. He remembers Noah by giving him the sign of an olive leaf. He remembers Noah by speaking. Go forth. And dear believer, God is still doing that for you today. He remembers you by removing your floods of impossibilities. He remembers you by coming to you in small ways, tokens of peace. And he remembers you most of all by speaking to you. Weekly, daily, weekly from the pulpit, daily through your homes, through the sacrament. He speaks. Oh, hear his voice. Hear his cry. Put your expectation nowhere else. Hope in God. You shall yet praise him, who is the health of your confidence, and your God. Amen