Good morning. Yes, it's true, sometimes the inmates do get to run the asylum. Thank you all for coming out. Some of you know me very well. Some of you know me pretty well. Some of you know me by name or face. Some of you this is the first time you are ever seeing me. So, let me introduce myself real quickly. Some of you might know me from the radio. I host a radio program called the the Frederick Faith Debate. Some of you might know me from being here at Mosaic or out in the community. Some of you know me because we're the family with Tyler. And we're going to hear a lot about Tyler today. We're going to hear a lot about Jesus. We're going to hear a lot about Tyler today because it helps us to understand more about who Jesus is and who we are in relation to him. I'm not going to give you a big biography about myself. The most important thing you need to know about me is that I am a wretched sinner. If you only knew. A horrible, depraved sinner who is saved by the blood of Jesus Christ. And my hope is that this morning, when I'm done, you will say the same thing about yourself You will recognize the truth of your sin, and you accept Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, washed clean by his blood. Before we go any further, let me pray. Father, we praise you and glorify your name for who you are, what you've done, what you continue to do, what you will do in the future. We ask that your Holy Spirit open our hearts to receive your truth as you open my mouth to deliver it. I pray that you will keep me faithful to your word and make up for the shortcomings I bring to proclaiming the message of the gospel. And put at rest the distractions that face so many of us today. We are here to worship you in fellowship, gathered in this place. Help us to do both well, worship and fellowship. In the name of our one and only hope for salvation, we pray. In the name of your eternal Son, Jesus Christ. Amen. Daddy, tell me what it was like when you were a kid. Mommy, read me a bedtime story. From the time we were little children, we loved stories, tales of long-ago ages and faraway places The best stories are the true ones, especially those that still affect us today. This is why when company comes over, our sons and daughters are so eager to encourage us. to share the stories of our how we met, our courtship, our rush to the hospital when they were born. And if your children are anything like my daughter Danny, or if you as a child were anything like my daughter Danny Quick to correct any mistakes you make in the telling of the story, hanging on every word. What's your favorite story? It might be something like Lord of the Rings or Harry Potter, perhaps Star Wars. There was a time when my son would have said his favorite story. Tyler, my son, his favorite story that uh a few years back was Feed Racer. Now his favorite story is Peter Pan. I think if you ask my daughter, she'd probably say pitch perfect. These are all examples of fictitious stories. Not all stories are fiction, of course. Maybe your favorite story is that of the Reformation or the American Revolution or a biography about somebody like Gandhi. Stories rooted in historical reality like that. What kind of a story are we given regarding Jesus? This morning you're going to hear about the greatest story ever conceived. And you're going to hear a personal story that illustrates in an intimate way. How this greatest story ever told continues to be retold in new and wondrous ways, even in the lives of those seated around you. After this message, you will know my family quite a bit better, and by God's grace you will know in the marrow of your bones what it means to be part of God's family. It's a powerful, powerful truth. To be honest, I have barely been able to contain myself with excitement leading up to this moment when I could share this once upon a time. with you so that your heart will beat stronger for the happily ever after that is the truth. If you have your Bible, I ask you to turn to it. Luke chapter 2. If you don't have a Bible, there are Bibles in the back. You can go grab one and read along in a moment. And if you do not own a personal Bible I understand that Mosaic allows you to take a Bible home with you and keep it as yours. So no excuse for not having a Bible and reading it. And while you're turning to Luke chapter 2, Luke is in the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, so it's the third book in the New Testament. While you're getting there. I'm going to allude really quickly to a portion of Matthew in chapter 1. If you're really quick at finding places in the Bible, you can go to Matthew chapter 1 now if you want. I'm not going to read there, but I'm going to point out that in Matthew chapter 1, we're given a genealogy It's broken out into three sets of fourteen generations. From Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to Judah, David, and Solomon, through Ahaz, Azor, and Joseph, and wrapping up with Jesus himself. And then In Luke chapter 3, one chapter beyond where we're going to read from in just a second, we're given a genealogy working backwards through seventy-seven names, including Levi, Amos, Judah, Boaz, Jacob, Isaac, Abraham, Shem, Noah, all the way back to Seth. and Adam before wrapping up with God himself. And in Luke chapter 2, it begins, in those days Caesar Augustus Issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world. This was the first census taken place that took place while Cornerius was governor of Syria And everyone went to their own town to register, so Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem, the town of David, because he belonged to the house in line of David. He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child. While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born, and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger because there was no guest room available for them. A very familiar story that most of us in this room have probably been been familiar with for years. What's one thing we can gather from the long list of genealogies in Matthew and Luke and from this little story in Luke chapter 2 about Jesus Jesus is a real life human. This is one of the reasons the Bible gives us genealogies. It gives us Jesus' genealogy specifically. It gives us the details of his birth as well as his why, so we can see that he is truly human. Like you and I, Jesus had grandparents and great-grandparents, and great-great-grandparents, and so on. They truly really existed. They were people living in real history. Just like Jesus. Just like us. Stories about Jesus are presented in the Bible as historical. He really lived in the real world This isn't a story in a make-believe land, once upon a time. It's a story that takes place within historical context. And like we just read in Luke, it's when Rome ruled the political world, it's when Augustus was Caesar, it's when Quinerius was governor. This is not a mysterious land far, far away. This is Nazareth in Galilee. This is Bethlehem and Judea, just like us, Frederick in Maryland. The Bible gives the story of real people in real locations taking place in real time. Jesus is real. Like you and I are real. Jesus is human. He was born a baby. He grew and became strong and was filled with wisdom, as it says in Luke chapter 2, verse 40. We're not told much about his childhood, but we're told enough to know that he had a childhood. And we know that he lived as an adult, even from sources outside of the Bible, like the ancient uh historian Josephus. And of course, we know about his adult life with some detail from the Bible. In the Gospels of the New Testament, we can see that Jesus lived a life much like ours. He went to parties. He even turned water into wine. He needed rest, even sleeping during a violent storm while he was on a boat. He ate and drank before and after his resurrection from the dead. He felt stress. Perhaps coining the phrase, never let him see a sweat. Blood. He got angry overturning the money changers tables in the temple. He cried more than once And ultimately, even died. Absolutely, Jesus is a man. This is what the Bible tells us. And most will actually grant this point, saying perhaps only that Jesus is a great prophet and a wonderful teacher. But in addition to this, Jesus is the real life-giving God. The writers of the New Testament tell us that Jesus is God by his words, and they show us that Jesus is God by his deeds. Matthew 1. 23 tells us even that Jesus' name means God with us. And we see this demonstrated over and over again. Three dozen specific miracles are recorded for us in the four gospels. We have twenty each described, twenty or so in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. They're not all the Uh there are this not all different miracles, although we have sixty combined, but there's some overlap in what are called the synoptic gospels. And there's eight uh gospel uh miracles specific for miracles recorded for us in John. Most of them are unique to John But the point is, God authenticates his word throughout Scripture with supernatural occurrences, with miracles, like the plagues in Egypt. vouched for the truth of what Moses said. Like fire from the sky proved that Elijah was worshiping the one true God. Like the great flood, the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, the tumbling down of Jericho's walls, the Pregnancies of really old women. Jesus is the word, and he is authenticated by his miracles. So, what we see throughout the Bible, we see specifically with regards to Jesus. And this shouldn't be a surprise, the entire Bible, we're told, is about Jesus. Jesus himself tells us this. The Bible is, of course, about God and his relationship with man. And this relationship centers on Christ. The whole Bible is about Jesus Christ. So some ahead from Luke chapter 2, if you're still there, to Luke chapter 24. While I get there, I'm going to read a short verse from John's gospel account. John chapter 5, verse 39 says, You study the scriptures diligently because you think that in them you have eternal life. These are the very scriptures that testify about me, says Jesus. And then in Luke chapter 24, we're going to look at verses 27 and 44. They say, beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he explained to them what was said in the scriptures concerning himself. He said to them, This is what I told you while I was still with you. Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me in the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms. Now the law of Moses, that's uh a reference to the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible. the prophets and the Psalms as a shorthand way of r making reference to the rest of the Old Testament. We still um in this phrase Jesus is talking about the entire Old Testament. And we still use shorthand like this. For example, if you say from New York to Chicago to LA You're talking about the entire United States. So in this phrase, Jesus is talking about what was the entire Bible at that time. Of course, the New Testament is all about Jesus. So consider, the Bible is about Jesus. So what does it say about him? Heck, what does he say about himself? Jesus claims to be God. Nineteen times he says in the four gospels. that he is the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies pointing to God saving his people. Twenty-three times he calls himself the Son of Man, which is Actually a most powerful claim of deity when it's understood in the context of Daniel chapter 7 with the image of one like the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven. Sixteen times he says he's the Son of God. Thirteen times Messiah, Christ, Savior. Only God saves. Twice he says he has the forgiv the uh ability to forgive sins. Only God can do that. Three times refers to himself as Lord, and dozens of times he says, I am. The name that God announced to Moses from the burning bush in Exodus chapter 3. Jesus says of himself that he is God. And he backs up what he says about himself with his miracles. And ultimately his resurrection and ascension to heaven. The resurrection is sometimes said to be God's greatest miracle. I like to think of it more as his Second greatest miracle with the greatest being creation itself. I mean, think about it. He made everything out of nothing. And everything he made He created the space in which to put it. And he brought order. Without him is chaos. Well, the opening of John's Gospel tells us that Jesus performed even this greatest of all miracles If you want to flip ahead from where you are in Luke chapter 24, it should just be a couple of pages of your Bible. John chapter 1. I'm going to read John chapter 1, verses 1 through 4, and then verses 17 and 18. And there we read, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and He was with God in the beginning Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and that life was the light of all mankind. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God, but the one and only Son, who is himself God, and is in closest relationship with the Father, has made him known. From before creation, Jesus has been God. Amen? Amen. But what I want us to remember in earnest at this moment is that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King. Right now. Right now. Back then, yes But also right now. In the future. Yes. But also right here, right now. Jesus is Lord, Jesus is Savior, Jesus is King right now I want to share with you a personal story from our family that helps to illustrate that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King today. My son Tyler was born very Sick. One of my earliest memories following his birth is is breathing His entire body convulsed so violently in and out that his ribcage practically touched his spinal column. I wouldn't have believed it was possible for a human body to do that if I hadn't seen it with my own eyes He was struggling to force down every breath, and he was failing in the struggle because his lungs weren't able to do their job yet. I thought for sure he would die within minutes. He didn't Over the course of a few days, his breathing steadied, but his skin had purple dots all over it and it was yellow. Really yellow. Caused by elevated bilirubin in his blood. You might know this as having jaundice. Now bilirubin is the junk that's supposed to be cleaned out of our blood, and a normal bilirubin count is supposed to be something like point zero zero zero zero zero zero zero one. I mean ba essentially it's it should be zero. Sometimes a baby is born with an elevated bilirubin and it's their their jaundice number is a one or a two, maybe a more dangerous three or a four. And the doctors put lights over the babies, and this somehow makes the the jaundice go away, the number goes down. Well Tyler's Billirubin number was well over three or four and kept going up. The liver is what cleans the garbage out of the blood, and Tyler's liver wasn't working, and so his jaundice number kept climbing. The doctors assured us that as long as the number didn't go into double digits, we'd be okay. And then it went into double digits. So then they explained, well, there's two parts to Billy Rubin. There's direct and indirect. And as long as direct doesn't go into double digits, you'll be okay. And the direct one is the double double digits. No skin with a yellow It was green. I mean seriously green. Sometimes he's have he would have this crunched up look on his face and he looked like the Grinch you store Christmas And I would go, it's not easy being green. Billy Rubin climbed to well over twenty. And that's when I asked the doctors how high can it go? They said, we're asking that same question. They checked the databases, they called around other hospitals and experts in the field trying to see what the deal was, and they said they couldn't find any record of anybody ever having a number so high. And it kept going up. All the way to thirty point five. Tyler had a liver biopsy, underwent liver surgery, consultation was sought from leading medical experts all around the nation. Nothing helped. We thought for sure that Tyler would die within weeks. But he didn't. Tyler was sent home from the neonatal intensive care unit after two months, and we're convinced to this day that he was sent home to die. He had eight specialists needing to see him every week. Most of them needed to see him two, three times a week, and so every single day we took him to doctor's appointments, two or three appointments a day. It was on twelve different medications. We used to have to feed him by using a syringe to shoot the food down the back of his throat because he was too weak to suck and swallow. He'd be back in the hospital in about a month. He had biliaryotresia surgery and bilateral herdia repair and hypospadia surgery and strabismus surgery and exploratory procedures and gastrointestinal intervention for reflux, esophagitis, and thrush, and other issues, both serious and relatively minor. And because of his condition, he needed to eat every two hours. And so we'd spend an hour getting his food, medicines prepared, and then we'd get him into his stomach with that syringe, and then we'd spend the next hour cleaning up his projectile vomit. All day, every day. Tyler was sick Everyone thought for sure he'd die within months. But he didn't. And the biggest threat to his life I haven't even mentioned yet. Tyler had hypertrophic uh let me turn this off. Tolerate hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and pulmonary stenosis. His arteries are way too narrow and in the wall of his heart muscle is way too thick. Four times thicker than it should have been. He weighed five pounds, and his heart was as thick as that of a 40-year-old man. We'd gotten to know our cardiologist pretty well at this point. We're seeing him pretty much daily. So we had a relationship and we asked him, be straight with us for our sanity. We needed an honest prognosis. And he hesitated, as doctors do when they're asked that sort of a question, but then he said there was no medical reason why Tyler was alive even at that moment. And he would likely not see his first birthday, and there was just no way he would see his second. He should have died in less than two years. And he didn't. Why? God had a plan and a purpose for this boy born sick. Fast forward a number of years, we have a ten-year-old boy who still couldn't eat solid foods. Everything had to be put through the blender first, pureed. He had recently learned to feed himself with a spoon, so that was good. We prayed in the name of Jesus Christ that, and with not just us, it was a dedicated circle of prayer warriors praying with us for years And when Tyler was 13, he finally was able to eat non-blenderized food for the first time. We threw a party. We celebrated this answer to prayer with all of our prayer warrior friends. Invited them all over it with an official invitation. We had an invitation blown up to poster size, and everybody who attended the party signed it. If you come to our house, it is one of the first things you will see. It hangs in our foyer as a constant reminder That God answers prayer and heals the sick. So the lung problem went away. Resolving itself on its own, so the doctor has told us. The liver problem with the impossibly high bilirubin count went away. In spite of the failed efforts of the medical community. Many of his physical and developmental issues were successfully addressed by highly trained professionals, doctors and therapists. with uh unreal effort, love, and patience from my wife, Dina, sustained by God's grace And now, after thirteen years, he could eat real food. Not all food, mind you. He still can't eat all food, but he can eat solid food. Amazing answers to prayer. But there's still this ticking time bomb, his heart. The hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and the pulmonary stenosis were not getting better. He saw specialists in Orlando, New York, Syracuse, Buffalo, Baltimore, DC, the best in the world at what they do, and there was nothing to be done Every few months he needed to go see his local cardiologist, a beautiful Muslim man, Dr. Hassan Abdallah. And every visit, Gina would say, we're praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And he'd smile and encourage. And then Tyler started having these episodes where he couldn't get his breath, and he'd come into a room at night panicked, turning gray. Gina would hold him and rock him and would pump his arms and legs trying to get blood flow and take him into the steaming shower, anything to try to help. And Dr. Abdallah then started asking to see Tyler every month And every visit Dina would say, we're praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. Then the doctor saw it second and third opinions, sending Tyler to medical facilities throughout the region. And suddenly Dr. Abdallah stopped accepting payment for Tyler's visits. And we couldn't understand why. We found out later It's because Tyler was dying. And the doctor didn't have the heart to tell us. His heart was breaking for us. As Tyler's heart, after years of struggle, was finally ready to just call it quits. That's why he couldn't breathe sometimes. That's why he turned gray. It was a heart failure. There's nothing to be done. All the doctors had exhausted all of the options that their training and technology gave them. Yet Dina kept trudging Childer to doctor visit after doctor visit. And after seeing so many echocardiograms in EKGs, she became an expert in reading them herself. I mean, dozens and dozens of echoes With the doctors and technicians always explaining what they were seeing and where the problems were and showing her what a normal echo should look like. And it was sort of fascinating really. And it was time for another visit to Dr. Abdallah, and as usual, Dina greeted him by saying, We're praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And as usual, Dr. Abdallah politely smiled and got to work. And as he performed the echocardiogram, Dina watched as usual, but somehow it didn't seem as usual. The echo looks different to Dina. And Dr. Abdallah noticed too. He kept looking and he adjusted his view and he checked where he'd already checked. Then he went back again. He kept performing the procedure and taking much longer than usual. And Dina began to think she understood why. And the doctor turned to Dina and said, Do you see that? And Dina said Yeah, it looked to her. Like the image of Tyler's heart was normal. Dr. Abdul removed his glasses and wiped a tear from his cheek, and he looked Gina straight in the eyes and he said, Who do you pray to? And now Dina's eyes were flooding with tears, and she answered, Jesus. We prayed of Jesus. And Dr. Abdallah said, Well, your Jesus has healed your son. His heart is normal. And they embraced and they enjoyed a long cry together and they rejoiced together at what Jesus had done, one of them having just been reminded of who Jesus is. And the other one having just been introduced to who Jesus is. I know that this story seems utterly fantastic. But it is true. One hundred percent true. And as documented medical evidence that this really happened, I'm going to share with you a portion of Dr. Abdallah's medical report that he wrote to Tyler's primary care physician. We've had it framed, and it hangs in Tyler's bedroom. I had the pleasure of evaluating your patient, Tyler Skinner, a 13-year-old young man with Williams syndrome. He had bilateral branch pulmonary artery stenosis and severe hypertrophy of the right ventricle. Since I saw him last time, he has done tremendous progress. He does not have any chest pains. He is more energetic. A 2D echo revealed the presence of normal segmental cardiac anatomy The systemic venous return was normal. The right atrium was normal. There was no atrial septal defect. The right ventricle was normal. Both arteries demonstrated normal color and doppler flow velocities. The left ventricle was normal in size. The aortic valve was normal. The supravalvular aortic area was normal. There was no aortic or supraarctic valve stenosis. The peak systolic velocity across that area was 1. 2, which is normal. The aortic arch was normal. There was no patent ductus arteriosus. There is no percardial effusion. Conclusions I am truly amazed at the spontaneous resolution of this child's cardiac findings This is not what we expect to see in a typical patient with Williams syndrome. The natural history for the branch pulmonary arteries in patients with Williams syndrome is progressive worsening, progressive right ventricle failure and dysfunction. This patient currently does not have any cardiac abnormality. Looking at the other outstanding improvement that happened to this child with no medical intervention at all Just makes me feel miraculously touched that this thing happened. This child, as you know, was doomed at birth that he will not live with multiple failures. And his cardiac was severe at one point by more than one pediatric cardiologist, including myself. I only thank the God for how good this patient is doing. Recommendations, normal treatment for age. Sign the sign of a dollar MD So let me review the basics of Tyler's story. Tyler was born sick. Radically sick. Trust in God proved to be the only option. Our efforts, the medical community's knowledge, fails But God had a plan and a purpose for this boy riddled with sickness. And when God healed Tyler, the Muslim doctor asked, Who do you pray to? Let me review the basics of your story. You were born sick. Radically sick. Dead in your sin, in fact. Trust in God, your only option. Your own efforts, your increase in knowledge fail to rescue you. But God has a plan and a purpose for you, riddled with sickness. So now as you reflect on your personal story of healing, let me ask you, who do you pray to? In whom do you trust? Like Tyler, all of us are born sick. A death sentence hanging over us. Nothing anyone but God can do about it. Like Tyler, we must fight to persevere, to overcome, to allow others into our lives to minister to us with the talents and gifts that God has given them. We're all just like Tyler. All of us. Exactly the same scenario. Just minor differences in degree Tyler's heart is healed today. Because Jesus is Lord today. If you're a Christian, your spiritual heart is healed today. Because Jesus is Savior today. Christ's kingdom is advancing today, even to the witness of Muslim doctors, because Jesus is king today. Jesus is Lord, Jesus is Savior, Jesus is King right now. Don't forget it. Don't ever neglect to proclaim it. Now there's a question that's still hanging in the air. That would seem the logical conclusion to the message, wouldn't it? But there's a question I think that might be hanging in the air for some people who are processing all of this diligently. What are we to do with the fact that Tyler still has difficulties despite the heal despite the healing of his heart and his other healings? He is still affected by Williams syndrome and autism spectrum disorder Well, we can see a connection between Tyler and our condition here as well. In Christ, Tyler is 100% healed right now. We just can't fully see it yet. As it's written in Hebrews 10, verse 14, for by a single offering he has. Past tense, for by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. It's done. It is finished. In heaven we will see Tyler's full healing perfectly. Just like with us In Christ, we are already healed, but cannot yet see the absolute fullness of this until we reach heaven So don't be distracted by what our eyes can see dimly through a glass. The truth remains clear to those whom God has given eyes to see. We needed God to come and live on earth as a man, to rescue us from being dead in sin. He did this for us. Limited himself, condescended to become man. The true God truly became man, and he is the Savior of the world today. He is risen. Trust God. He loves you. He made you He's offered you the promise of heaven. You don't deserve it. There's nothing you can do to earn it. Just love him back. And you love him back by repenting from your sin and obediently embracing what he tells you to do in his word. Once upon a time, and happily ever after. And right now, Jesus reigns. Let's pray. Thank you, God, for your creation, for the trust that we can have in your never-ending wisdom in ruling over it. We praise you for your plan of salvation revealed to us in your written word in the life of Jesus Christ. We celebrate the things you have done throughout the ages and yearn eagerly for the consummation of your work in us at the time of the second advent when Christ returns. Please slam open the eyes of our heart Keep them open to the comforting and courage-inspiring truth that you reign in our lives and in the entire world right now. As Lord, Savior, and King, praise be to your name now and forevermore. In the name of your transcendent and imminent Son, Jesus the Christ, we pray. Amen.