Good morning. It's always a wonderful experience to come and worship with you, and I want to thank uh Pastor Jim Eaton and the other elders, the rest of the church leadership, for extending the invitation for me to come and share God's Word with you this morning Uh it is an honor and a privilege and a responsibility that I uh uh take very seriously and hold very dear. So I I thank you for that. Uh and I thank you despite the fact that I'm if I'm going to be honest, I have to open with an admission and a confession. Proverbs 1922 says that what a man desires is unfailing love. Better to be poor than a liar. That's the NIV translation of that verse. My admission is that I quote this verse repeatedly, often saying that it's one of my favorites. And my confession is that I ignore this verse repeatedly. I didn't really realize that was true until I was preparing this message. As I studied the 20th chapter of John's Gospel, I was impressed by the fact that I have a problem. Lots of problems actually. Problems of idolatry. Problems I was blind to and problems that I now want to warn you of. Warn you of idols that are almost certainly in your life. As they are in mine. So if you have your Bibles, if you would, pick them up. Turn to John chapter 20. We're looking at verses 1 through 9. If you don't have a Bible with you, there are Bibles in the back And uh unless they've changed the policy, my understanding is that if you don't own a Bible, grab one of those Bibles in the back and take it home with you as a gift from Mosaic so that you can read the word at home as well as here at church John chapter 20, verses 1 through 9, the story of the empty tomb, one of the most famous parts of the Bible. And because it's so familiar, we might think that we know all there is to know about it. But if you're like me, this morning, we were in for a bit of a surprise. God's Word says to us, Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. So Peter went out with the other disciple When they were going toward the tomb, both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. And stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there. But he did not go in. And then Simon Peter came following him and went into the tomb. And he saw the linen cloths lying there, and the face cloth, which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded up in a place by itself. Then the other disciple who had reached the tomb first also went in, and he saw and believed, for as yet they did not understand the scripture that he must rise from the dead Can you pray with me? Dear Father, we thank you for your presence with us this morning. We thank you for the privilege of gathering together in your name to honor you, to praise you, to lift up your name, to be drawn by your Spirit closer to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We ask that you would clear our minds of all the clutter, the distractions, the the anxious feelings you might have brought with us here. We ask that you would make those dissipate so that we can focus clearly on your teaching. I pray that you would open my mouth to utter nothing but the truth, and in places where I'm inadequate, I hope that your spirit would would overcome. So that everyone here will be filled with the word of truth and would walk in it. In Christ's name, your Son Jesus' name, we pray. Amen. Verse 1 starts now on the first day of the week. That's Sunday, the day after the Jewish Sabbath, which was the last day of the week. This is the third day after Jesus Christ was put to death on the cross. Before he was killed, he said that he would give the sign of Jonah, who was in the belly of the whale, for three days. We read about that in Matthew chapter 12, chapter 16, and in Luke chapter 11. Jesus also said that he would rebuild the temple, referring to his body in three days. You read about that in Matthew twenty six and Mark fourteen and John's Gospel chapter two Jesus was indicating that he would rise from the dead on day three. This was day three But Christ's followers had somehow for the moment lost sight of this promise from Jesus. Verse 1 continues, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early. Matthew's gospel account tells us that there were two Marys. The accounts from Luke and Mark tell us there were two Marys and other women, even providing names. John doesn't draw our attention to these other women And that can cause some problem for people who want to compare the gospel and say, oh see there's errors, there's mistakes. But because he doesn't mention them doesn't mean that John doesn't know that the other women were there. In verse 2, we read, Mary reporting that the body is missing and we don't know where it is. We, as in other women that were with her. But John doesn't talk about these other women because he doesn't need to in order to make his point. And if you're curious, by the way, if you want to do a comparison, John also doesn't include the earthquake like Matthew and Luke do. It doesn't tell us if there was an angel who took the stone away, or that the Roman guards fell down in shock, or that Mary and the women were bringing spices. Matthew and Luke and Mark include details that make sense for what they're writing And John includes details that make sense for what he's writing. They each can't write down everything. Remember, John tells us at the end of his gospel account that if he wrote everything about Jesus Then the world itself could not contain the books that would be written about them, about Jesus But if you're still somehow, if you're one of those that's still somehow bothered by this selective use of detail, I'm going to give you a little scenario. So You get home from shopping and you say, guess who was at the store? And your spouse says, I don't know who. And you say, Julie. Now does your spouse think that it was only you and Julie at the store? No other shoppers? No employees? Why wouldn't you say something like, Among the 14 employees and the 73 other shoppers in the store, one of them named Sally, by the way, I saw Julie You say what is relevant to your spouse. And that's what's happening here. What's relevant for John is that Mary Magdalene was there. And part of what's relevant for us in that fact is that this increases our confidence that what John has written is authentic and true. Because if you think about it, John has created for himself a witness problem. The testimony of women back in that day in that culture wasn't worse than hilla beans Only men were seen as competent to provide witness, and you needed two of them. Not one woman, two men. So what was John to do? Alter the fact that women were the first witnesses of the empty tomb? This would ignore the example of Jesus. Who gives great respect to women. So John doesn't discount the women. Although I gotta say, perhaps to address the female witness problem, he's a savvy writer too, I think John does give emphasis later in this passage to the fact that two men, two males, raced to the tomb and witnessed it empty. But again, back to the problem of bringing up Mary. As we were saying, considering the ancient Jewish culture in John's day, women were not highly regarded. And in this particular case, we're talking about a woman Who had been demon-possessed. Not by one, by seven demons. Definitely a social problem for Mary. But John doesn't try to hide from these facts as he relates what happened. In fact, you would say he's highlighting these facts because he knows that there is no more male-female status distinction in Christ. And he knows that there is no more shame from the demon possessions in Christ when you're redeemed in Christ. Jesus had female disciples following him, and one of them was Mary Magdalene, and he loved her, and he loved the other women, in a way that the rest of society did not. And so now, shifting her focus from what John was thinking to Mary, what she's thinking, Mary is distraught. The man who had delivered her from the seven demons, the man who loved and respected her so much, he had died. And now his body was missing. And she cried. John tells us about her crying ten verses later. She had an idea in her head of what Jesus would mean for her. And that idea ended up In this moment coming up empty. Back to verse 1, which next says, while it was still dark, Now it's easy to gloss over this possibly just merely a time marker. John's telling us what happened and when it happened. There's no trouble with this as far as it goes. But thirty verses later, John writes that he has written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life. in his name. He didn't write a history book. He didn't write a newspaper article. He didn't write a blog titled Fun Facts About Jesus. He wrote a gospel so that we would know that Jesus is the Son of God and that if we believe, we have life in Christ's name. So with this as his purpose, why does John tell us it's still dark? John regularly draws stark contrasts in his writing, and a common contrast that he makes is that between dark versus light. The light versus dark is to be understood in John's writing typically as good versus evil, as understanding versus spiritual blindness. For example, in chapter one, John writes, The life was the light of men, the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. In chapter three, he writes, The light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. In chapter 8, Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me Will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. In chapter twelve, Jesus said to them, The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, Believe in the light, that you may become sons of light. And so you get the idea. Well, the very last time in his gospel account that John uses the word dark Right here. Chapter twenty, verse one. He says, It's still dark And it was for them from their perspective. Imagine the Jews have this long, rich history. From Abraham and Moses and David. But then they had to deal with wars and exile and Oppression. In the first century, when this story takes place, when this story is written, the Jews are being ruled under the ruthless Roman Empire. They wanted a deliverer. They were promised a deliverer in the Old Testament. And some of these Jews, like Mary and John and Peter, they thought they had found this deliverer in Jesus. And then he's arrested. That's not good. And then he's mocked and ridiculed. That's not good. And then he's beaten nearly to death. Definitely not good. What's going on here? And then he's killed on the cross. And so now Christ's followers, they are depressed, disillusioned, scared, in hiding. Everything has unraveled. They don't know what to think. Everything that could go wrong had gone wrong. All their earthly hopes had come up empty. They were in darkness. Passage continues through verse five. Mary felt the stone had been taken away from the tomb, so she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved and said to them, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. So Peter went out with the other disciple, and they were going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together But the other disciple outran Peter, reached the tomb first, and stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloth lying there, but he did not go in. So Mary Magdalene comes with them frantic. Peter and John run to the tomb. The body is missing. The tomb is empty. And I can almost hear them in my mind wondering, how in the world could have somebody stole the body? Can you put yourself in their place for a moment? What would be going through your mind? What would you be thinking? I think I know what I might have been thinking Might have been thinking something like, are you kidding me? Just take me to the asylum! Have me committed! Lock me up! I can't take any more. This is nuts. Everything I trusted in gone. All my hopes that Jesus would lead a political revolution, that he would teach everyone a better life, that he would something, anything, I don't know. It's all gone. All my earthly hopes, all these idols that I'd constructed, have come up empty The disciples were still in spiritual darkness, and so they saw the empty tomb And they saw nothing. I can empathize You know why? Because sometimes, as in every day, I know there was an empty tomb. And what I see too often is nothing just an empty tomb Empty. The disciples were hoping for earthly things, trusting in earthly solutions, knowing Jesus. is still full of angst. I have found myself hoping in earthly things, trusting for earthly solutions, knowing Jesus. and still full of angst. Just a few short years ago, I was hoping for earthly things in my employment. Had a pretty good job Lots of responsibility, lots of community respect, lots of ego gratification, lots of money. Not Bill Gates or Oprah Winfrey Money, but real money. I was keeping up with the Joneses. Back in my neck of the window, some people looked at me and said, You are the Joneses. And then despite my good performance, I was laid off. The hopes I had placed in my career came up empty. Also, place my hopes in the economy. I worry about it. I still put my hopes in the economy And I worry about it even after the stock market crash of 2008, which cost my father-in-law his entire retirement fund that he had with Lehman Brothers. They went bankrupt His hopes and his investments came up empty. More recently, I've placed my hopes in politics. During some recent election cycles, many of my candidates lost. My ballot question issues mostly lost. My faith in the electorate came up empty. Now there's a place there are hopes and candidates that won. But let me tell you something. I've had times when my candidates won too And my hopes in the government still came up empty. I've been in darkness. I'm talking about as recently as this week. Just like John and the other disciples. I place my hope in earthly things, and they came up empty like idols always do. Our passage continues with verses six and seven. Then Simon Peter came following John and went into the tomb. He saw the linen cloth lying there and the face cloth, which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with the linen cloth, but folded up in a place by itself. There are three interesting points For us to note here. Point one on our list of interesting things to note about verses six and seven is that I have assumed that the unnamed disciple is John. There is nothing in the text itself that says that it must be John. And there's been some debate on this question over the years. But the majority view of evangelical scholars is that the disciple is John. The two thousand year history of the church has pretty consistently maintained that this disciple is John The evidence we have says that the church fathers, the early church fathers, believed that this disciple is John. And as I read John's Gospel and the other gospels, I become settled that this disciple is John. So for all of these reasons, I'm very comfortable saying that the unnamed disciple was John, but if you might disagree, you know, later on today, come let me know. I'd love to talk to you about it. It would be good for us to share in an exchange of ideas. But now on to point two on our list of interesting points about verses six and seven. Has to do with the detail provided about the burial clause. Why does our author include the details here? Well one reason is because the burial clause were there. He's reporting what he saw. But another reason, in case you might be tempted to think that somebody stole the body, think again. Why would robbers steal the body and leave behind the valuable cloths? Now you might not have known that. Did you know that these burial cloths were very expensive? Very valuable. It's like somebody breaking into your house and leaving behind the safe. But even if they wanted to do that Be easier said than done. In the burial process, the way the the the body was riped uh wrapped with the spices and the balms, they're all mixed together and wrapped up in the burial process, the cloth would stick to the body as if it were glued there Remember the story of Lazarus? Jesus raises Lazarus and comes out of his tomb after Jesus brings him to life. That's in John Gospel chapter 11. Lazarus still had the cloths wrapped around him as he was walking out. The people had to help remove them. The cloth didn't simply fall off when he stood up. And note that the head covering in Jesus' tomb was neatly folded and set aside. What polite robbers this would have been. Now point three in our list of interesting points about verses six and seven actually connects with the next verse. Some have suggested That within a generation of Christ's death, there emerged this rivalry between Christian camps, those who were followers of Peter and those who were followers of John. The Bible doesn't say anything about this. But it's possible. We know from 1 Corinthians that there was a rivalry brewing between the followers of Paul and of Apollos and of Peter. Even today we can see some form of a rivalry kind of like this. Roman Catholic Church elevates Peter above the other apostles, claiming him as their first pope. If John intended to address this rivalry, he does so brilliantly. Mary Magdalene comes first to Peter, who runs out with John. But John arrives first at the tomb, having overtaken Peter. But Peter enters the tomb first As John waited before entering, but John is the first to believe after taking in the scene. So if any Christian is tempted to make an idol of any one of the apostles, pick a favorite apostle, and that's the one that I'm going to follow. John cuts him off at the pass. They're both first, in a sense. Recall that in verse 4 today, the passage we read today, that Peter and John were running to the tomb. Together. Now continuing with our passage, John 20, verses 8 and 9, say, then the other disciple, John, who had reached the tomb first, Also went in, and he saw and believed, for as yet they did not understand the scripture that he, Jesus, must rise from the dead. Then he saw and believed. At first, there had then no true belief. There was belief in idolatrous, idolatrous earthly things. Mary Magdalene believed in Jesus as a great healer, in her experience of Jesus casting out the demons, but trusting in merely that experience came up empty. And Peter had watched the example of Jesus and was energized by his teaching, often getting very emotional in his devotion, but just his emotion Wasn't enough. Came up empty. John had placed his hope in what he thought he knew regarding what he had seen, his knowledge of what he saw failed him in up until this moment came up empty. Their hopes came up empty because they were trusting in merely earthly things. idols, which are empty things. They weren't trusting in heavenly things. Jesus rising from the dead, that's a miracle. Miracles are heavenly things. But John hadn't placed his hope in heavenly things at first, and Peter didn't have hope in godly things in this moment, and Mary had been spiritually delivered from seven demons, and still, at least for a short period of time. She did not have hope in spiritual things. Are you like them? They have their minds on things that are on earth, not on things above. And this is contrary to what God tells us in Colossians chapter 3, verse 2, set your minds on things that are above. Not on things that are on earth. The disciples weren't doing this. Maybe you're not doing this right now But the disciples, they started doing this. And you can start doing this too Same way they did. Turning to the scriptures. Again, John chapter 20, verse 9 says, For as yet they did not understand the scripture. Earlier in John chapter 5, verses 39 to 40, Jesus tells us, You search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life, and it is they that bear witness about me, and yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life. Are you refusing to come to Him? Are you failing to search the Scriptures and find out what they say about Jesus? Your knowledge of Christ, like John had, is good. Your emotional connection to the Lord, like Peter had It's good. Your personal experience with Jesus, like Mary Magdalene had, it's good. But hoping merely in that knowledge, that emotion, that experience. That's not good. Learn from the Bible how to understand your emotional experience and education. And that's what the disciples finally began to do. Because that's what Jesus told them to do. Now when I began about thirty minutes ago, I quoted Proverbs 1922. What a man desires is unfailing love, better to be poor than a liar. I desire unfailing love. You desire unfailing love. But we all desire it in the wrong places Our paychecks, our reputations, our health, our friends, our families, they are all good things. But they are not God. When we treat them as we should treat God, we have set up idols. I am guilty of this. And the result is that I have set myself up to be distressed and in fear, just like the disciples were. Until they understood the scriptures. Are you like this too? The scriptures say that what we want is unfailing love, and this is true, but I have caught myself in a lie. I have too often placed my replaced unfailing love, the love that's found only in Jesus, and replaced this unfailing love with a desire for earthly riches. But as proverbs says, it is better to be poor than a liar. We're now in what some call advent season. There are Christmas trees all over the place. And these trees have given me a metaphor that now I'm going to give to you. My idolatrous hopes and dreams are like a big old tanna ball. Each branch is a different idol. One branch is a 401k. Another branch is my beautiful daughter. Another my wife. Your idol tree might have a branch for your grade point average, a branch for your football team, a branch for your house. Well, instead of getting rid of the idol tree at its root by going straight to Jesus, instead, I now realize looking back That when I lost my job a few years ago, I grabbed the axe of my own strength and I started chopping away at that idol that is the job branch And when the economy tanked, I started chopping away at the retirement fund branch. And realizing that society is headed down the wrong path, I started hacking away at the faith and the goodness of land branch. And I hacked away to time stealers like television and video games and hobbies. And I resharpened that axe of my own strength and I attacked every brace I could find. One right after the other and fell at a branch and another and another and another and furiously I went after those branches until I was exhausted. But I kept going anyway! And the more branches I cleared, the more branches I found And even if I could eliminate all of the branches, even if, what then? What would I be left with? I'd be left with a pretty ugly Christmas tree. And I'd be left with my own exhausting efforts by clearing the idolatrous branches. And my own effort will have become the idol. And as we know, idols come up empty. And so we come back to the tomb, the empty tomb. Empty. Is it just another false idol? If we come to the tomb looking for the dead body of Jesus, so that we might venerate it, so that we might weep over it, so that we might use it to remind us of all the things that Jesus taught If this is what we're looking for in this empty tomb, then it is an idol. If we come to the tomb looking for evidence that something supernatural did not happen If we're looking for an icon or a relic, looking for only Christ's example to us, then we're failing to understand what God has said about this empty tomb in the scriptures, and so it is an empty tomb. idle. But if we come to this empty tomb to be reminded That Jesus told us he would not be there if we come to the empty tomb believing That Jesus conquered death, at death he died for our sins, so that we can join him in glory If we come to this empty tomb knowing that the tomb is now empty because Jesus is now ruling at the right hand of God the Father. And if His Holy Spirit now resides in the hearts of Christians, then it's no empty idol. In fact, we might say it's not really empty at all. The emptiness of the tomb fills the tomb With evidence that God has fulfilled His promise. The promise to save us from our sin. Let's pray. Father, we in our own limited way Hope and wish and yearn to glorify, magnify your name. You are creator of all, you are savior of those who believe. Thank you for calling us to yourself so that we will believe. As we think about the new year that's dawning, as we think about our goals and our prospects for the coming year, as we jot down our resolutions Help us in that process not to construct more branches for our idol tree. Help us to have resolutions that are about things above and not things here on earth. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.