And I seems to be rolling. Well hello, brothers and sisters in Christ and those who are curious. Welcome to our Facebook Live. And if you're watching this later on YouTube, welcome. Speaking of which, if you do, go to YouTube. you and you search for household of faith in Christ, you'll find our channel. And you can subscribe and that way if you ever miss a Facebook Live broadcast and you want to scroll through my feed on Facebook to try to find Find it later. You can go to YouTube, or it'll alert you if you subscribe that there's a new video posted. So usually within a couple of days after we do this on Saturday evenings, you can find it on on the YouTube channel. So we're still in our series on 1 John, and I'm going to uh share with you something that I just stumbled upon that um was prepared a while ago when I was doing lesson On 1 John. And it says, Have you fallen prey to some of the teachings of Antichrist? How would you know if you had? Or put another way, how do you know that you haven't? So this week we're going to explore John's warning to us about these very questions are found in 1 John 2, verses 18 through 29. chapter four verses one through six so I encourage you to grab your Bible and and uh and mark them now. First John, not the gospel of John, first John. So it's a little I'm reading four. Okay, so Angela's gonna read chapter two, verses eighteen through twenty-nine in just a second. And then Dina's gonna read chapter four, verses one through six. I read them all last week, so I'm trying to change things up, give you a different voice. And if you want while you're opening your Bibles and turning there, you're gonna want to grab you know a a bookmark or something and turn to the Gospel of John chapter 15 because we'll be uh reading a portion of that later on during So Johnny told his disciples in the first century, almost 2,000 years ago, how to identify false teachers. And we can and we should heed these very same warnings today. Because Antichrist is coming. And as John teaches us, the spirit of Antichrist is already here. This is what John told the first generation of Christians, and if Antichrist was already on the scene nearly 2,000 years ago, then Antichrist Antichrist can certainly be on the scene today. In fact, you have seen Antichrist. Did you know it? So we'll see Talk about that in a minute. So, Angela, actually, if you wouldn't mind maybe opening us with a little word of prayer for this portion we're doing this evening. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for gathering. Gathering us together today to talk about how to protect false teachings. We invite the presence of your Holy Spirit to speak through us, Lord God. We are leaning on you to shift truth. We are not union to our own understanding. We pray, Lord, that as we speak, that you help us to say exactly what needs to be said. And to not say what should what should be left out. Help us work out to be your instruments of truth in teaching about this very important subject. We ask in the name Something that I want to say before we we continue into this. I know we we've got some people that are pretty faithful viewers of this. I don't know Who of them are. I just know that we have a pretty consistent number of views week after week, and I'm assuming it's many of the same people. If this is part of your habit, that is fantastic. But a couple of things. If you don't have a local church to which you belong and you're leaning on this as part of your your diet, it's fine as part of your diet, but this is not intended to replace you belonging to a local body. And so I'd encourage you to do so. And if you're within driving distance of where I live here in Frederick and you don't really have a local body you belong to or you want to supplement and be part of two bodies and you do one on Sunday morning and do another on Saturday Saturday night, that's fine. Um contact me via private message on Facebook or find some other way to get in touch with me and we can talk about you coming and be a part of what we're doing here so that you know What you see on Facebook isn't the only thing that happens. You know, we we s we sing praise and worship songs before and after the message. We actually had the Lord's Supper right before we started the the the video here today. So we're trying to To be the body together. And if you'd like to participate in that with us, you're encouraged to consider doing so. And if you're not going to do it with us, please be doing it somewhere. Okay? Um I guess I'll uh ha I guess Angel's reading first. So Angel, if you would read the portion from chapter two, it's first John chapter two verses eighteen through twenty nine, and then Dina will immediately read chapter four verses one through six. and we'll get into the message. Children, it is the last hour. And just as you heard that Antichrist is coming, even now, many Antichrists have appeared. From this we know that it is the last hour. They went out from us, but they were not really of us, for if they had been of us They would have remained with us, but they went out, so that it would be shown that they all are not of us. But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and you all know. I have written to you because you do not know the I have not written to you because you do not know the truth, but because you Do you know it, and because no lie is of the truth. Who is the liar but the one who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the Antichrist, the one who denies the Father and the Son. Whoever denies the Son does not have the Father. And who confesses the son has the father also. As for you, let that abide in you which you heard from the beginning. And what you heard from the beginning From the beginning abides in you, you also will abide in the Son and in the Father. This is a promise which He Himself made to us. Eternally Life. These things I have written to you concerning those who are trying to deceive you. As for you, the anointing which you receive from him abides In you, and you have no need for anyone to teach you. But as his anointing teaches you about all things and is true and is not a lie, And just as it has taught you, you abide in him. Now, little children, abide in him, so that when he appears, we may Have confidence and not shrink away from him in shame at his coming. If you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone also who practices righteousness is born Born of him. Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world. You know the Spirit of God, every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. And every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the Antichrist, of which you have heard that it is coming, and now it is already in the world. You are from God's little children and have overcome them because great Greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world. They are from the world, therefore they seek as from the world, and the world listens to them. We are from God He who knows God listens to us. He who is not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. This is the very word of God. He and she who have ears to hear, let them hear. Father, we ask your blessing upon this time today as you open our Hearts, our minds, that you soften our hearts and bend our will to yours as we hear your word, that we uh grapple with its truth in very real meaningful practical ways that it would convict the heart at the same time that it encourages the heart of the faithful. We thank you for the presence and the guidance of your Spirit, Father, we adore you for all that you do for us, particularly providing for us your very own Son and our salvation. And in his name, the precious name of Jesus Christ of the name of So we're in our series on 1 John, and last week I began a message that is really the first half of this message but uh spent most of the time talking about the background stuff. But I did open by highlighting what goes on among the the the legalists, the hyper legalists that would claim to be representing Christ. Westboro Baptist Church out of Kansas, for example, that protests all over the country with mean spirit attitudes. We talked about the Unity Church. uh represented right here in Frederick but also all around the globe, the unity movement that's that's about not legalism but licentiousness where they don't even like to use the word sin and they talk more about like error in our thinking and getting our our our thinking straight. And we talked about televangelists that seem to be motivated by greed. And we talked about people who have radio ministries that are preaching a prosperity gospel. Name it, claim it. If you only believe strong enough, then ever anything you might hope for can be yours, including the Mercedes-Benz in your driveway. Uh we talked about the bestseller lists, and it's amazing how these books do so well in New York Times bestsellers list that talk about the spark of the divine that you have within you. That you are divine, you see. And so that you're you're no different than the God If there even really is a God. Maybe we're all just kind of divine. And so that can cause some confusion because a lot of people in the church will embrace some of these ideas. And we so and we talked a little bit about that last week, but then we started talking about some of the historical background stuff that's important and how to process these ancient documents. that we have that represent the Word of God. And so we we address the question of authorship. We have good reason to believe it is the Apostle John who wrote this letter, 1 John. We talked about the uh the historical setting, the g you know, f shorthand way of thinking about it. It was in all likelihood written somewhere in what is now modern day Turkey to an audience was probably living in what is now modern day Turkey. We've talked about whether or not it's even a letter. Some people think it's a sermon, some people think it's an academic treatise if you will. Regardless of uh of that though, it was circulated like a letter, would have been read aloud in front of of gatherings of believers like a letter, and so I think it's fine to call it the first epistle which means letter of of John. We talked about what was going on in the structure, how it's a very difficult book to outline. One of the most difficult books in the New Testament or in the Bible as a whole to outline there's at least a half a dozen, maybe even a dozen or so legitimate ways to outline first John. That's pretty challenging. We don't want to get hung up on those things, I mention all of them because serious Bible students will try to wrestle with this. They'll try to figure out who was the author, to whom was he writing originally, what was the setting, what was going on in their cultural context, what is the main point and how can we figure out some of the subpoints uh that support that main point through the outline and structure of the document. We don't want to get so hung up on it that if we can't quite figure all of that out a hundred percent. The Spirit of God illuminates the mind of the believer and you can still understand it, but these are good exercises for us to have as we We also uh talked last week about how different life might have been two thousand years ago. And I joked about you know what kind of cars they're gonna do. like to drive or how much they paid for a gallon of gas and things like that because that is a criticism that we get that this is an ancient old out of touch uh document that we're studying and it might be interesting but it has nothing to do with us in the here and now. I mean so much has changed. And I even joked, well, joked, I I alluded to the possibility of of joking and saying, hey, you know what, since it's so out of touch Let's not even worry about it. Let's just end the sermon. Let's end the sermon series right here. It has no practical application for us in the here and now. And that if I were to have done that in real life And that would have been an awkward stop, right? An awkward end to the sermon, an awkward end to the series. But it wouldn't be that awkward for Some people. I said, well, hallelujah. Thank goodness you're admitting that this has no relevance to me here and now. There are people. You might know them You might know some people in your life that say the Bible it's it's really, really old and it's you know it's dusty and it can't be expected to be relevant to us today. It's quaint, but it's not applicable for our time as if the message of salvation isn't applicable to all people in all times. But it is applicable. So we are going to continue with the message. with the series. And if you're not sure that you think that we should, hang in there with us and see if maybe by the end you don't come to agree that the people that lived in that long bygone era aren't more like us than we might originally think. What was going on? 1900 plus years Ago in the first century when the New Testament was written. Generally speaking, there were two major cultural and religious influences at the That time for the first century Christians. And those two major cultural and religious influences were Judaism and Hellenism. So Judeo-Christian religion, if you will. In a context of a society that was heavily influenced by Greek philosophy. That's what Hellenism means. So you can see right there Clearly it's absolutely nothing like America, right? In America, I mean our nation was founded on Judeo-Christian ethic in a global context of Western civilization which is rooted in Greek philosophy. See how they're totally different? Mm-hmm Obviously not. They're almost exactly the same. Judaism had by this time in the first century, it had become a system of religious rules Do this, don't do that. The religion is what was important. Live moral lives. Get circumcised. Do all of the approved rituals and avoid all the disapproved behaviors. A person could tell how quote-unquote good they were by comparing themselves to others In Hellenism, the Greek philosophy, it emphasized that the intellect is what was important, knowledge, and the pursuit of greater and greater insights, particularly insights About oneself. That was the passion of the times. Now, it might not have been true for each and every person at that time. But for the elite, the really smart, the really special people, yeah, this is what motivated their thinking and their attitudes and their pursuit. Of enlightenment and salvation. Personal discovery would make you better than the next guy who just wasn't as bright as you were. This still sounds like our American culture, doesn't it? So it is relevant to us today, I would argue, pretty forcefully. You have to admit, at least a little bit, right? skeptical it sounds like there's pretty significant correlations. So the sermon series will continue. So let's talk about the legalists and also the pre Agnostic docetists. There's a couple of big words for you. I'll explain what those mean in just a second. But first, we're going to go over the legalists. These legalists, they're people that were they were within the confines of the visible Christianity And they clung to the law as to an idol. This works righteousness eliminated the need for a messiah. At least in the minds of these pronomians. There's another fancy word for you. That's Greek for we love rules more than God. Actually it might not be fair. A little too cutesy maybe to be fair. to to talk about the pronomians this way, but gnomos law, so people are very pro-law, hyper-legalist, okay, that the pronomians they use the ceremonial laws as a way to get to God. I mean it can sound like a pretty good plan actually just logically right except that's not God's plan for us. Why do we need a savior if we Can save ourselves through keeping the law, ceremonial or otherwise. And by even adding to the law, they had become a law unto themselves So, in claiming to love the law, this self-made law, they were really loving themselves and rejecting God. That makes them pretty bad dudes, right? Glad we're not like them. Glad we're completely trusting in the finished work of Jesus and not in our own ability to Memorize scripture verses, to tithe exactly 10% to the penny, to get up early for personal devotions, pray before each and every meal. Glad we're not trusting in that Seriously, we're not trusting in that, are we? We're keeping the Sabbath, but we're not trusting in it. Are we? We are kind and loving and patient, or at least we try to be, but we're not trusting in them. Are we? We don't smoke. We don't drink. We don't watch R8 movies. So of course we're going to heaven. We don't We don't think like this, do we? Some people teach that Christianity is all about rules Rules that we then beat others over the head with. Like at the military funerals that the Westboro Baptist Church people go to, holding up those protests. as signs of judgment when Jesus said that he had not yet come to judge the world. He will, but he hasn't yet Right now he wants us to know that he so loved the world. Protesters like those from Westboro Baptist Church, they're they're denying the teaching of Jesus They have replaced Jesus with self-righteous pride, made possible by their love of what they can do, instead of A love for what God has already done in and through and as Jesus. And because of this, perhaps unwittingly They're denying that Jesus is the Christ. The Apostle John, in his epistle that we're studying, in this series, he called people like this Antichrist. Legalists teach A doctrine that is opposed to the message of the gospel, a message opposed to Christ's message, is certainly not pro-Christ. Legalists are Antichrist. Now let's talk about the pre-Gnostic docetists of Hellenism. These are the Greek pagans who were now claiming to be Christian. Were they Antichrist too? Well Let's find out. These guys are not like the legalists. These are guys who might say, if you're familiar with the old movie, badges? We don't need no stinking badges. Because badges are physical things in the natural world. We don't need to worry about what we do, about our behavior. here about performing perfunctory practices, we need to recognize the the secret truth about ourselves. We need to discover the spark of the divine that is within us. We need to get outside of the muddy, gritty, soiled condition of our physical existence by recognizing the true reality. Reality beyond what we perceive as reality. We need to get our thinking straight This is Gnosticism. Gnostic, it comes from the Greek word for knowledge, knowledge, Gnostic, Gnosticism. While the legalists, we were talking about a second ago, while they say that the key is doing the right things. The Gnostics say that the key is knowing the right things. And what we need to know, they say, is that the spiritual is truly real at the expense of the physical. And so Jesus was more of a spiritualist, you see. He didn't really even have a body. So he couldn't really have died on the cross. This is what docetism teaches. It's a heresy. The Docetists they teach that Jesus did not come in the flesh. The Apostle John warns us that this sort of teaching is a lie. And the liars are antichrist. Now to be clear, there probably weren't full-fledged Gnostics running around 50 years after Christ died. On the cross, full-fledged, real deal Gnosticism comes maybe a couple of generations later. But the beginnings of the heresy were clearly around when first John was written, because why else would he be talking about it? Now similarly today We don't really have full-fledged classical Gnosticism in our society and our culture. We have a modern or maybe even now a postmodern variant that's often called New Age spiritualism, and it is Pretty popular. It influences uh so many of us in the world. You can see its influences in the in the philosophy of Oprah Winfrey, for example. best-selling book The Secret in the best-selling author, Elaine Hagels. There are elements of it in the movie and the book, the Da Vinci Code. There are elements of it in pop psychology. There are elements of it in our myth. In the church, in the visible church anyway, spiritual leaders that talk about errors in our thinking instead of saying are cut from this Gnostic cloth. Teachers who focus on esoteric spiritualism Instead of the brute hard facts of Christ's birth, life, death, burial, resurrection, and ascension, they are from this descended cloth. Anyone who emphasizes becoming a better you, instead of emphasizing the need for you to die to self, has completely missed the point. In the Gospel of John chapter 3, verse 30, it says, he, meaning Christ, must become greater, I must become greater In Galatians chapter 2 verse 20 it says, I have been crucified with Christ, and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. me. The life I now live in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Second Timothy chapter two Verse 11 says, here's a trustworthy saying, if we died with him, we will also live with him. Can you see? Have you heard? It's not about special knowledge and the Insight of self-discovery. It's not about finding your spark of the divine within. It's not about becoming a better you. It's not about you. It's about him. Anything that's said in opposition to this is a falsehood. And as Christians You know this. You have heard this. And the Apostle John, he agrees with me, of course. Because I got it from him. And I agree with him. All true followers of Christ agree. with him. Look at chapter 2 of 1 John. Look at verse 18, where we read that John tells us that you have heard. You might want to underline Underline. You have heard. And that we know. Underline, no. In verse 20, you know the truth. Underline that You do know it. Underline that. Verse 24. You have heard. Again, underline it. You have heard from the beginning of the faith In verse 27, this anointing you received from him remains in you. Why? So you don't need anyone to teach you. You can underline that. In verse 29, John writes, you know. And then he doubles down again. You know. And in chapter 4, which was also read earlier this evening, John tells believers in verse 2 of chapter 4 that you can recognize Underline that. You believers, followers of Christ, you can recognize the Spirit of God. And again, in verse 3, you have heard. You're noticing a theme, you can underline that. And this is all true. It's all true of the true followers of Christ because, look at verses 4 and 6, you dear children are from God. We are from God, the apostle writes for us. And that Is awesome. Not only do we, as followers of Christ, have the truth, but we know we have the truth. And we can tell what is a lie because we know the truth. And how do we know it? Because we Heard it. This is what John is teaching us here. We've heard the gospel, the gospel which has not changed since the beginning. We have the truth, therefore we are from God, and we are from God, and therefore we have the truth. There are false prophets, lying spirits, antichrists who are from the world, and not from the church of truth. And they say we can save ourselves, that we have divine potential within us just waiting for us to say abracadabra. In essence, they say that we are our own gods, denying the Son, denying the Father. This is what the liars tell us. Often from pulpits in congregations with Christian sounding names And Christian-looking buildings, using Christian-sounding words. And there are also false prophets, lying spirits, antichrists who are from the world and not from the church of Christians. truth, who say that we can save ourselves, that we can earn our way by doing all the right things as we choose to define doing the right things. In essence, we are our own gods. Denying the Son, denying the Father. And this is what the liars tell us. Often from Paul pulpits in congregations with Christian sounding names, in Christian-looking buildings, using Christian sounding Words. But they are not Christian. What they teach stands in opposition to what Christ taught. They are not merely confused Christians. They are anti-Christ. I know that they're not merely confused Christians because I know a confused Christian when I see one. I see one looking back at me in the mirror every day. Confused Christians, they get mixed up about certain things sometimes. We can arrive at faulty theological conclusions now and again, but we do not get confused about the gospel. Believers in Christ don't teach that we can save ourselves. Believers in Christ don't preach. That we are God. Believers in Christ don't screech, hate speech, that denies the Father and the Son, under some illusion that our self-righteousness is in fact true righteousness. Believers in Christ share the truth. Those who would lead the younger believers astray with a counterfeit gospel are counterfeit Christians. To the world, they might look like a duck and walk like a duck and quack like a duck. But they are nothing but foul. Apostle John, who reminded us in chapter one that he was among the many who saw Jesus, touched Jesus, had authentic fellowship with with Jesus, who belonged to the Lord and his followers. He tells us in clear, clear language that false teachers do not really belong to us. And what's more, John tells us, they never did. They were imposters from the start Follower of Christ, brother and sister, beware. The liars lie. The liars do not tell the truth. We know this is what's going on, John says. By testing the spirits. Testing how? By stacking up the claims against what we have heard since the beginning. This is John's instruction. us. In the beginning, God created us. He created us for relationship. But we screwed that up with our sin. We messed up the relationship. And we continue to mess it up over and over again. But God repaired the breach in the relationship He did this by sending his son to die, by condescending to himself come and die for us. Except for He has done for you, and you have what God has promised you. Even eternal life. This is what John writes to us in 1 John chapter 2 2 verse 25. And so remain in him. Continue in the faith. Do right things and wait with confidence and assurance for the second coming of Jesus Christ. This is what John writes to us in the final three verses of 1 John chapter 2. And all of this has the ring of something else that we've read from John. So if you would, you want to turn your Bible to the Gospel of John. His gospel account of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Chapter 15. I'm going to read a portion here. I'm going to begin with With uh verse 1. John chapter 15, verse 1, it begins with Jesus speaking: I am the true vine, and my father is the gardener. Because Off every branch in me that bears no fruit. Well, every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, so that it will be even more fruitful. You are already clean, because of the word I have spoken To you. Remain in me as I also remain in you. No branch can bear fruit by itself. It must remain in the vine. Neither can you bear fruit unless you remain in in me. I am the vine. You are the branches. If you remain in me, and I in you, you will bear much fruit. Apart from me. You can do nothing. If you do not remain in me, you are like a branch that is thrown away and withers. Such branches are picked up, thrown into the fire, and burned If you remain in me and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. This is to my Father's glory, that you bear much fruit, showing yourselves to be my disciples. And then skipping ahead to verse 18. If the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first. If you belong to the world, it would love you as its own. As it is, you do not belong to the world. But I have chosen you out of the world. That is why the world hates you. Remember what I told you? A servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will persecute you also. If they obeyed my teaching, they will obey you yours also. They will treat you this way because of my name. For they do not know the one who sent me. And then the final two verses of the chapter, verse 26. When the advocate comes, whom I will send to you from the Father. The Spirit of truth who goes out from the Father, he will testify about me. And you also must testify. For you have been with me From the beginning. Don't fall for the variations of the lie. The lie that you are or can be your own God, either by By trying to earn your way to heaven or by trying to learn your way to heaven. These deceptions are from Antichrist. The Antichrist is coming, that's true, yes. But also, Antichrist is already coming Here and has been since the start of the last hour, which began apparently 17 and a half million hours ago, since that's Approximately how many literal hours there are in 2,000 years. And how many hours remain until Christ returns again? Maybe another 17 million. Maybe less than one. If you already belong to him, hang in there. Persevere to the last. If you do not already belong to him, well now will be the very best time for you to surrender to him. Surrender to what you know deep down in your core is the truth. The Holy Spirit illuminates The truth. And the truth is God loves you. Jesus is Lord and Savior. And His name is Let's pray. Father, we thank you for calling us out of the world. And calling us to yourself. We pray that we would be faithful witnesses, that we would stand firm in the truth that you have delivered to the saints once for all. And that we would recognize those who are seeking to deceive even your own bride if that were possible. Help us to call to account those who are Leadership positions within the Visible Church. Help us to provide encouragement and, when needed, rebuke for our Christian brothers and sisters sisters as we travel through this journey together we thank you for our citizenship in your kingdom, a kingdom that's not of this world. And yet here we are, you have us in the world to do your will. But help us, Lord. Not to fall prey to being of the world. Ask that you would continue to bless our gathering here this evening, you would bless our congregation, our conversation rather than as we uh lead up to wrapping up at 7 o'clock. Thank you, Lord, for your many blessings. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. So let me grab my water. Anything strike you particularly tonight? Yeah. I just think it's interesting In um in Hebrews in chapter 8 it talks about how Jesus will put the laws of God into our minds. write them on our heart. And we'll be our God, we'll be his people. And so I in this moment feel like the Holy Spirit is revealing that that is evidence of us not having to keep the law in order to have reconciliation because it's already been done. It's written on our heart. It's already been, we've been justified. We've been um Or the justification process is happening. We've been um the sanctification process. Sanctification process. We've we've been justified. So that to me Which says, okay, yeah, there's all these things that need to be done, but I've already done them. They're written on your heart, so you will automatically do them when you want Yeah, this ties to the idea of the legalists being Antichrist. Right. And the Antichrist message there is you need to be good enough. Right. You need to be diligent in obeying the law. Now we should be diligent in obeying the law out of gratitude. gratitude for what God has done for us and to be good ambassadors and that sort of thing. But we're not gonna earn any sort of additional status before God. He already sees us as his sons and daughters. And so the lie is that you have to work hard, hard, hard Hard, but you can never do it. It's impossible. You're you're running as fast as you can, but you're on this horribly destructive treadmill that just wears you out and discourages you Or you think that you have done it and then you become arrogant and prideful and lord it over your good works over others who are Yeah, and that actually ties into I think also the licentious side because they redefine what's necessary and it's not about what you do and avoid Errors in your thought. It's about correcting your thinking and thinking the right kinds of thoughts. Thinking positively. You know, and if you can just get to a place where you think positively Yeah, I'm going to send good positive vibes to somebody. I'm going to ask the universe to send blessings your way. That kind of a thinking. So not about the uh um the physical obedience, but it's about having the right kinds of thoughts and you can reorient what the law even requires. In their sense, the law just requires that you think the right thing Well I think right too. That's also kind of the a hint of the social justice movement. If you re reimagine your thinking if you you know you'll you'll you'll be better in God's eyes if you just acknowledge your own um the fact that you you can't change something about you, your privilege or whatever, then you're okay. But it's those of you that don't recognize that, then you're the ones who are worse off completely ignoring Christ completely taking him out of the pick out of the equation it becomes about you instead of about him and that's always an antichrist message and anti-gospel. I mentioned Gnosticism and the message, you know, and the woke church movement is Gnosticism. It's a content Version of an ancient heresy. The woke church movement is something that John was writing against over 1900 years ago. Only possible by the power of God, right? That he could be so prescient to know that we would need that kind of a reminder and rebuke, even here today. There is you need to awaken to your need to do more. You need to awaken to these this this original sin that you have that's not the same as the original sin the Bible talks about. And you need to lament it. You need to kind of sit in sackcloth and ashes forever because there's no salvation from it. You can never lament enough because it's not about And by getting your mind right on that question, then you can have something that hints at That salvation. So it's a it's a way of s it's a it's a self-salvation through thinking the right thoughts and the right thoughts in the in the woke church movement is a social justice warrior mentality. Which is you need to recognize that people who have uh power will always abuse that power. People who are in positions of authority have uh gotten there through dishonest means and gain at the expense of others. And sometimes that is true, but sometimes that is not true. And it gives the impression that those who are the oppressed class they're never actually in sin. They can't be sinners because they're oppressed. If they were sinners like the powerful people, well they'd be powerful too. And so that is not the gospel and it's uh it's present day Well and any time you have a hint of the truth, which is what an anti gospel will do, because the enemy is not an origin originator of anything. We've had these conversations before. He always is crafty enough to take a bit of the truth but then warp it, twist it. and and deceive. So it does sound sound appealing and it sounds like then you can do something. At least I can self-loathe enough To make myself worthy. If I can self-loathe enough, even if it's every day for the rest of my life, I'll be counted as worthy in the sight of God And that of course is the anti anytime you're focusing on yourself, it's an anti gospel. You know, uh it really heated up big time. this summer, it's been going on for a couple of years at least now in a major way. Is it's like this weird cocktail of heresies because it's not merely narcissism, it's also docitism, which the the docitism, again, for if you can't remember exactly what I was teaching in the message. That's the idea that the physical is uh the incarnation of Christ. didn't really happen. But God is so high above the physical world, he wouldn't deign to enter into the physical and get his hands dirty. So they can't accept the idea that that God would actually become human in flesh. And so they're teaching that he wasn't really God incarnate. And certain docetists would argue that he didn't really die on the cross. Well he didn't really He didn't pay the penalty. And so what happens, you play that out, what kind of arguments do you start making in a spiritual context? You start saying, well, forget Christ and what he did for a minute because He didn't really even physically walk the world in a real sense. It was either a spiritual apparition or it's made up history or there's different variations on how that kind of idea can be talked about. So what you end up with is Jesus is an example He was a great teacher. We need to follow the example of Christ. And Christ he cared about the poor people and he cared about the sojourner. That's all true, but that is diminishing and literally You're taking this important sliver of truth from the ministry of Jesus Christ. Nazareth and throwing away the lion's shear most core part of it, which is the gospel, which is he came to pay the penalty for us sinners. And that gets lost is we end up with this weird mix right now where it's part Gnostic, part dositist. And in the past you'd have those two maybe wouldn't blend in the same way. So it's it's interesting. Ecclesiastes tells us there's nothing new under the sun. So I'm sure that this weird cocktail has existed before as well. So you've been kind of quiet. Anything you want to jump in on? Not really. I mean I disagree with what you're saying. Is there anything in the church that you see the um not the invisible church but the actu like the physical you know people congregating together that um is more pervasive than maybe it was say five years ago as far as the teaching I can't even think of anything. Yeah, I think that we're off the prosperity gospel a little bit. And we've moved more into a doing by salvation as opposed to um name it, claim it. You know, I think I think the name it claim it is just because you bear the name of Christ you get these things. D that's just because. And I think that we're I mean at the that's completely disappeared from from false teaching in the church, but I think there's been a little bit more of an emphasis on you need to do all these things in order to go to heaven and you will get some of the riches now but don't count on that that's really you know your rewards are because you're gonna do all these great things and by the way way, not only is that your rewards, you won't even get the rewards because you've got to get to heaven first. So I I'm seeing more of that in the church. Well uh So let me uh just make sure I highlight some of the key points from the message. Christians, according to the gospel or the uh the the first epistle of John, in the chapters we're focusing on On tonight. Christians not only have the truth, but we know that we have the truth. Because we are from God. And so that's what it's talking about. You don't need to have anybody teach you because the Holy Spirit has given that to you. Now we still need to learn the Bible, study, and understand the fullness of God's Word. That's not what John is saying, that we don't need to learn additionally. But as far as the gospel, the central idea of what the gospel is, you don't need anyone to To teach you that it's been gifted to you. It's been granted and given to you directly by God. And so if somebody is a true Christian, particularly somebody Who's a true Christian teacher and leader and preacher, they never get confused about this truth. They never get confused about the gospel. And so if you find somebody who's a leader or a friend of yours who's a claim to be a Christian and they're they're confused about the gospel, you need to have a hard cart with them and and see what's going on. And if they can't somehow see the error of their ways and repent and turn and start I mean they shouldn't be getting confused about it to begin with, but give them the benefit of the doubt, maybe they're not as confused as you think they are, or maybe they're just saying something things in unhelpful ways, but if you come to discern that they're confused about the gospel, that's the spirit of Antichrist. Because true followers of Christ don't get confused about that. And if you're not sure how to figure that out, we talked about it in the message. How do we tell How do we know what's the Spirit of God and what's not? Did Jesus come in the flesh? Yeah. Did Jesus come in the flesh? And you read the the the word which will support that whole teaching Throughout the whole Bible is about Jesus. It's all about Jesus coming. Right? The Old Testament is talking about Jesus is going to come, and he did, and the rest of the New Testament looking back at the cross saying Jesus has come and he's going to come once That is the Bible in a nutshell. If somebody doesn't get that right, they're not understanding. So by continuing the faith, Christians can have assurance that God is gonna keep his promise, his promise to give you life. That's something I want to maybe end on that note. We have a God who is a promise maker. Praise God that God is a God who is a promise maker. But even more amazing than that, he is a God who is a promise keeper. He has made a promise. You can see it's right Covenant throughout the Bible recorded for us in Scripture, and he has kept all of those promises. And all those promises are variations of the very same one promise. The promise that he would find He would provide a way for us lost in our sin to have a reconciled relationship with Him for all eternity. And that way is the Son of God, Jesus Christ. So anyway, it's uh right around seven o'clock. So you want to maybe do a quick Closing prayer. Thank you, Lord, for your word. Thank you for the truth. Thank you for writing it on our hearts. Thank you for all the promises that you have made and all the promises that you have and will keep. We ask that you bless our week. We ask that you fill us with your Holy Spirit that we are able to discern truth, walk in truth. And keep the truth as you are the truth, the way, and the life. It's in your name that we pray. Hallelujah. Amen. Amen. As of right now, the plan is next week for us to begin to tackle first John chapter three. So if you want to read that and be prepared for that, that would be good. And I see a message. Somebody trying to say I love you, Uncle Troy and Aunt Dina. Is that the call I guess Yeah. Uh we'll we love you too. Till next week, Saturday, six o'clock, God bless.