And I'm making sure it looks like the counter's going. I think we're live. Well, hello brothers and sisters, and to those who are curious. In a moment, I think we've got some singing to do. So if there's a young man named Cole who wants to be available to hear the singing, you might want to get him ready here. I'll give you a second in case he's not already watching to jump on so you can hear the singing for his special day. In the meantime, I'm going to encourage you to grab, by the way, welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ and our our weekly gathering, our sermon and discussion that takes place On Saturdays from 6 to 7 p. m. each weekend. I would encourage you to have your Bibles ready. We're going to spend a lot of time in 1 John chapter 3. Most of our time. I'm looking at that. We'll also be reading a a portion of Acts chapter 15. So if you want to put a bookmark in that part so you can find it more quickly when we're reading that part, that would be good. Unlike some of the other messages we've done recently, this one, if If you're a big fan of expository preaching, then this one's going to be quite a bit more up your alley. This is uh more in that vein. So again, first John chapter three, not to be confused with the gospel John and Acts, if you don't know how to find that, it's relatively early in the New Testament. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts. And then you'll be looking for chapter Fi uh fifteen there. Um so we're gonna have a message that's gonna last, you know, twenty, thirty minutes, something like that, and then we'll have a discussion that will last maybe twenty, thirty minutes, something like that. like that and then we'll be done by seven o'clock. So you can follow us uh online through Facebook. If we have a YouTube channel now where these messages are then archived. So if you missed it and you don't wanna have to scroll through my feed to try to find it on Facebook. You can just go to YouTube and you can put in Household of Faith in Christ and it'll take you to our channel. And if you want, you can even subscribe and that way every time a new video gets posted there then you'll get alerted because it's not posted immediately. They typically get posted on try to get them posted before the weekend's out, but oftentimes they don't get posted until Monday, just FYI. So So without any further ado, I'm gonna do we have any confirmation that Cole is there? Uh we don't, but I see that three people are watching, so Alright, well if if uh Cole is in the house I'll watch it. If somebody could mention maybe that uh that if you could type in, hey yeah, Cole is watching, that'd be cool. But in the meantime, maybe we'll open with a a word of prayer. You want to maybe open us, Angela? Absolutely. Heavenly Father, thank you for this gathering once again. to this evening in the name of Jesus for getting us all here together to share the word for God and we ask that you bring to this telecast whether live or After the fact, everyone who would be blessed and would benefit from it. And we ask that you speak through uh Pastor Troy and through um through the believers gathered here together in your name to honor you uh for your glory and we thank you and ask this in jesus name amen oh any confirmation well i'm either going to assume he's watching and they just haven't let us in So we'll go ahead and sing and you can watch it later. Ready to sing some happy birthday to Cole? All right. Happy birthday to you! Happy birthday to you! Happy birthday, dear Cole! Happy birthday to you! And anymore. How old are you? How old are you? You look like a funny animal And you belong in a zoo. You look like a monkey and you smell like one too, is the first one. I don't know. It's been a long time. When you get old and crusty like us, you forget the birthday variations. Alright, so how this works is um we're gonna have the message and if there's something that strikes you during the message you want to make sure we talk about it, feel free to type it in the comment section, even while the message is going and we can address it during the con during the discussion. Of course you can comment during the discussion as well. So I'm actually going to go over here, make it feel a little bit more like an official sermon. And again, I encourage you to have your Bibles and open them to 1 John chapter 3 to begin with, away. And if you don't want to have Acts fifteen after ready, that's not as important, but we're spending a lot of time in John chapter three. And we'll be doing so next week as well, by the way. So they open with a question. When was the last time that you felt good about yourself? Think of it. time when someone might have said to you that you are so funny or that someone told us you were pretty or strong or Handsome, smart. Think of a time that you could acknowledge an accomplishment that's not all that common. The time that you were salesperson of the year, or the time you salesperson celebrated 25 years of marriage or perhaps even 50 years of marriage. The 15 minutes of fame that you enjoyed when the spotlight was on you. Allow yourself to drift into that memory, into the emotional sea perhaps that churns within your heart as you think about it. Remember the first Time you held your spouse's hand. Remember the warm, strong, secure bear hug that you got from your dad before he gave you a pat on the rump. Remember that light kiss and tossle of your hair from mom as she told you that she loved you. You can think of a thing like that. Linger there for a minute Each one of us has done some pretty cool things. Each one of us has felt honestly loved by another And yet all of us has had a a moment at least when we f Felt honestly loved by another person. And each of us is pretty amazing at times. When my wife Gina and I were courting, and I went weeks and weeks and weeks with just a couple hours of sleep every single day, and I wasn't even tired And actually, truth be told, I don't know that I ever felt better or more energized despite the lack of sleep. Have you ever felt something like this? Have you ever had that cliched float on a cloud feeling and floating on a cloud. Well if you haven't, I am so excited for you, knowing that you will have that moment one day. And if you have had it before, well, I hope you have it again. The odds are You're not having it right now. And that's a shame because most of us gathered here, whether it be in in this room or online via the internet, most of us who are gathered here for what we're doing should have this feeling all the time. Oh All the time. Because most of us gathered here in this room and online who are watching this, we would identify ourselves as followers of Christ. So now, with all this in mind, let's listen to what was written in chapter 3 of 1 John. Beginning with verse 1. See what great love the Father has lavished on us, that we should be called children Of God. And that is what we are. The reason the world does not know us is that it did not know Him. Dear friends, now Now we are children of God, and what we will be has not yet been made known. But we know that when Christ appears we shall be like him, for we shall see All who have this hope in him purify themselves just as he is pure. Everyone who Sins breaks the law. In fact, sin is lawlessness. But you know that he appeared so that he might take away our sins, and in him is no sin. No one who lives in him keeps on sinning. No one who continues to sin has either seen him or known him. Dear children, you don't let anyone lead you astray. The one who does What is right is righteous, just as he is righteous. The one who does what is sinful is of the devil, because the devil has been sinning from the beginning. God feared was to destroy the devil's work. No one who is born of God will continue to sin because God's seed remains in them They cannot go on sinning because they have been born of God. This is how we know who the children of God are and who the children of the devil are. Anyone who does not do what is right is not God's child, nor is anyone who does not love their brother and sister. For this is the message you heard from the beginning We should love one another. Do not be like Cain, who belongs to the evil one and murdered his brother. And why didn't he murder him? Because his His own actions were evil and his brothers were righteous. Do not be surprised, my brothers and sisters, if the world hates you. We know that we have passed from death to life because we love evil Each other. Anyone who does not love remains in death. Anyone who hates a brother or sister is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life residing in him. This is how we know what love is. Jesus Christ laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for our brothers. And sisters. If anyone has material possessions and sees a dear brother or sister in need but has no pity on them, how can the love of God be in that person? Dear children, let us not love With words or speech, but with actions and in truth. This is how we know that we belong to the truth, and how we set our hearts at rest in His presence. If our hearts can We know that God is greater than our hearts and He knows everything. Dear friends, if our hearts do not condemn us, we have confidence before God. And receive from him anything we ask, because we keep his commands and do what pleases him. And this is his command: to believe in the name of his son. Jesus Christ, and to love one another as he commanded us. The one who keeps God's commands lives in him and he in them And this is how we know that he lives in us. We know it by the Spirit He gave us. This is the very Word of God. Those who have ears to hear, let them hear. God's word inspired, infallible, inerrant, a perfect rule and guide for all aspects of life, particularly those related to our faith. Now in the chapter that I just read to you, there are some verses that could be taken as real downers. And they are downers for non-followers of Christ. If you die today, As a non-Christian, then you die as one who belongs to the evil one. The Apostle John writes in stark contrast throughout this epistle, and this chapter certainly is no different. But today I want us to focus on what we believers in Christ have presented to us in this chapter. In this chapter, we find promises and blessings to those who are followers of the great King, the sovereign Lord, the merciful Savior, the living word, the righteous judge, the perfect sacrifice, the Son of God, the Prince of Peace What wonderful names he has, this wonderful counselor. Jesus of Nazareth is somewhere. special. What didn't you say? And I'll just nod along. I want us to feel it. The second person of the Godhead is special. Do you feel it? I don't know that we really do. Not yet. Have you considered that he lived a sinless human life Have you considered that he now lives and will live forever? Have you considered that he has lived since before there was a universe? before there was any space, before there was any time. Have you considered that he by his word spoke everything Everything into existence. How amazing is our God. He is the creator and sustainer, the Alpha and Omega the one and only begotten Son of God, the Spirit of Truth. He is all of that and then some. He is everything good and more. He is the best person we can imagine multiplied by infinity. Do you feel it now? Just how special is Jesus? Give a word for it. If so, then I suggest that your concept of His specialness is probably too small. He is super special. He is He's really, really, really, really, really special. He is special this much Yes, he is. He truly is. And you believe it, don't you? Well, here's what he thinks of you. Who believes in him? Verse 1, 1 John chapter 3. See what great love the Father has lavished on us that we should be called children of God and that is what we are. That is what we are. Followers of Christ. This is who we are. Don't merely intellectually agree with this. Please come to grips with it. What does it mean to be called Children of God. Well, what does it mean to be called children of your parents? One thing that it means is that children take on a name. of the parents. We bear God's name. My son Tyler, my daughter Danny before she got married, we belong to the house of Skinner On their daddy. Well, as Christians, they belong to the house of the Lord, who is the ultimate batcad. This is so cool. It is so utterly fantastic. It is so wow. You know? Isn't it? Are you with me? Do you trust Jesus? And his sacrifice for his payment for your sin? Had you turned Turn from your sinful path, and now stumble steadily up the path of righteousness. If so, then hear ye, hear ye. Behold, your heavenly Father has lacked Lavished upon you a love, a great love, so much so that he now calls you his His child. This is now who you are. Really? Truly, verily, yes, you are. important that you know this. I am spending so much time driving this point home because you must know it. You Must. Do you know it? If so, then Good, because you're going to need to know this. Because it's hard to bear the blessing of God's name upon you in a world that hates God's name. In a world of battle in spiritual warfare. This is real-deal warfare. We are all combatants. Yes, we're perfect combatants, still progressing in our sanctification, still prone to slip into sin, and we're surrounded by people on all sides who can't help us, and many of them are even fighting Fighting against us, because they do not acknowledge God. And John knows how true this is for us. Look what he writes. The last part of verse 1 through verse 3. He says, the reason the world does not know us is that it did not know him. Dear friends, now we are children of God. And what we will be has not yet been made known, but we know that when Christ appears we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. All who have this hope in him purify themselves just as He is pure. So it is hard. It is hard because the world does not understand us and purposely makes life hard for us sometimes But it's a blessing. It's a privilege. In the end, we will be made pure like Christ is pure. When he comes back, When he appears to us, we will see him unveiled. See him as he is. What a motivator for hanging on to the hope that lies within us. But it's hard. It's hard because Because sin continues. Even in our own lives. John says in verses 4 through 6, everyone who sins breaks the law. In fact, sin is lawlessness. But you know that he appeared so that he might take away our sins. And in him is no sin. No one who lives in him keeps on sinning. No one who continues to sin has either seen him or known him. Now on the one hand, it'd be really easy to stay focused on that last verse that I just read. It hammers away on sin, and it might even scare us a little bit. But before we tell I want us to gravitate first towards what's talked about in those other two verses, verses four and five. We are reminded that breaking the law is Sin. Lawlessness is bad. If we don't obey God's best plan for us, we bring guilt upon ourselves. But and it It is a big but at the start of verse 5. But the eternal son has entered history as a child, grew into a man So that he could be served up as the only acceptable way for clearing our slate. And those who will accept this are now his family. And God's family has no sin by definition And so if you bear his name, then you bear no guilt. How much do you love that? Now to verse six. No one who lives in him keeps on sinning. No one Who continues to sin has either seen him or known him. Hmm. That's problematic. I continue to sin, don't I? How about you? Do you continue to sin? Well, so that's not good. Is it possible we don't know him after all? Well Let's consider what's meant exactly by these last two sentences that I just read from John's epistle here. It's all going to come down to what is meant by continuing To sin. Christians, those who follow Christ, real believers, brothers and sisters, the bride of Christ, right We do not keep on sinning. Christians don't get mired in their sin and stay there. Christians don't wallow in their sin, satisfied and happy in their sin, like pigs in their slop pen. Christians might get dirty, but they wash up. They repent And then they work at avoiding the pitfalls and trip them up so they don't fall again into those mud petals that are peppering our world's landscape like so many land vines. Non-Christians continue in their sin. They tolerate it. They might even do more than accept it. They might even celebrate it and this becomes definitive for their lives. They continue in sin. In contrast, Christians Continue in the faith. They persevere to overcome the temptations of their own flesh, as well as those temptations that swirl all about them. world. And this is what defines the life of the Christian. Now it's not that we suddenly live perfect lives. Rather, we live perseverant lives. And we know with confidence that this is what the apostles John has in mind here because earlier in this very same letter, this same epistle, this same book of the Bible that we're studying, the Apostle John tells us that anyone who claims to be without sin is a liar In the middle of Romans chapter 7, another apostle Paul he describes the not always winning struggle against sin. Doesn't do the things he knows he should do, does do the things he knows he's not supposed to do, is this battle that we have. And in Galatians chapter 2, we're given the story Peter's sin, the Apostle Peter, his sin against the Gentile believers, where Paul publicly rebukes him. And in Acts chapter 15, we read of the spat that took place between Paul and Barnabas over John Mark. And some of these illusions and stories I mentioned are a little more familiar than others. I'm not sure that all of us know this story from Acts as well as we might, so we're going to read that. Make sure we know this story. Acts chapter 15. I'm going to read beginning with verse 36, and I'm going to go through the first portion of verse 40. Acts 15, starting with verse 36. I think I'm reading from the NIV, but whatever translation you have should be fine. You should be able to figure out what Sometime later Paul said to Barnabas, let's go back and visit the believers in all the towns where he preached the word of the Lord. and see how they're doing. Barnabas wanted to take John, also called Mark, with them. But Paul did not think it wise to take him because he had deserted them in Pamphilia. and it not continued with them in the work. They had such a sharp disagreement that they parted company. Barnabas took Mark and sailed for Cyprus. But Paul chose Silas and left. Maybe this wasn't sin. I don't know their heart. But it does not appear from the text that things went swimming Well, this sharp disagreement brought a divide between them. Now, of course, God used This split to multiply the advance of the gospel message. God uses all things. But I believe that one of these men here was wrong. Either Paul was wrong or Barnabas was wrong or Mark was wrong or perhaps even sinning in that situation. And maybe all of them were sinning in this situation. But they didn't wallow in it. They repented of it. And we know this because later we have evidence that Paul and Mark reconciled. Mark was with Paul during his first imprisonment at Rome. We know this from what we read in Colossians chapter 4, verse 10, and also in Philemon 1. 24. We're just 24 if you prefer. And I see evidence that Paul and Barnabas reconciled as well. We read about positive remarks that Paul has for Barnabas. In 1 Corinthians 9 and in Galatians chapter 2 and also in Colossians chapter 4. And so the point of all of this is that this side of heaven, Christian Christians commit sins. Unfortunately, sadly. But Christians don't tolerate these sins. They root these sins out of their lives. Those who follow Christ. We're going to fall in the mud, sure. But then we scramble to our feet and we move away from the mud. We don't unpack our bedroll and lay down in our mess and stay there happily. You know what I'm saying? I hope so, because there are others saying different things And we're going to talk about that next week. So let me close with a word of prayer. Father We thank you for your word in preserving it for us all these thousands of years that we can study it, meditate upon it, and apply it to our lives. We thank you for the assurance of for That we have through the blood of Jesus Christ. We thank you for the move of your Holy Spirit that calls us to repentance. We thank you for the assurance that we have relationship with you as our Father. That we are your children, that we bear your name. Lord, we ask that you would help us to be good ambassadors and good representatives, that we would carry your name well. And to a lost And sometimes watching world. Thank you, Lord. We ask your blessing upon our discussion that's about to take place. And I ask your for your healing touch upon the lives of everyone. Everyone who has gathered here in person and virtually through the Internet. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. I may come round the corner and join you ladies. Alright. So any initial responses or reactions? Well I think that when it says you know So the Son of God appeared for this purpose to destroy the works of the devil. It's frustrating personally to keep repeating the same sin and sin patterns. when I know that I have victory and that that it it almost feels like I am mocking Jesus when I continue to get tripped up in certain sins. And it's I mean I get a I get aggravated with myself. I don't know if that makes any sense. So it feels like the work of the devil isn't just But I know that that's not true. But it feels like that when you constantly do the same sin over and over again. Not yet, on previous weeks. And so there has been an inbreaking of the kingdom. You know, Christ is Lord and King right now, and all that He has secured for us has been won on the cross. There's a reason why he could say it was finished. And it is finished. And so the new the dawning of the new era is here. But as we talked about, was it three weeks ago, four weeks ago? The way the uh the the way that the Bible talks about it is you know the the the the the the new era is here but the old era is passing away so it's not as though it's completely gone yet and so there's there's what some people refer to as the overlap of the ages. And so we continue to struggle. So we were going to be we are one day going to be perfectly glorified, those of us who are followers of Christ, faithful obedient followers of Christ, we are going to be glorified, and then we won't be able to sin anymore. We will no longer wrestle against sin at all anymore. But we're We're not there yet, and so we still have our flesh. Not though our flesh is bad, but our flesh has been corrupted. We have inherited original sin, we're prone to sin because of our human nature, our fleshly nature, our fallen human nature. We were not cre humankind was not created sinful. But after the fall, Adam is a representative, we all fell with him. It's like you root for your favorite sports team and when they lose the whole city loses. You know, it's only the nine or twelve or five people uh playing the game that lost the game, but the whole city lost. They were their representatives. That's kind of what happens with Adam. He's our representative and he lost. But fortunately, conversely, Jesus Christ is our representative and he has won And it's a blowout actually. Doesn't feel like it though. But it's a it's a mouth-up operation right now and it's messy and we're we're complicit in that mess because we do continue uh in a sense In the way we use the language, we do continue to sin, but the way that John is writing about it here, we don't continue to sin. We don't live there. Um and so Well that's part of the problem is because I don't want to live there. It's exhausting sometimes. I mean it can be exhausting. I was like, oh my gosh, here we go again. It's tiring I can't wait to get to heaven so I don't have to do that anymore. Like constantly battle. Yeah, and in our own strength it's impossible. Right. Not only is it exhausting, but it's exhaustingly impossible Mm-hmm. And so in those times we need to figure out how we can lean more on his strength and his power. I might have used this analogy before, but I think it's like the stock market. You ever watch one of those Yeah, the stock market over the last hundred years kind of charts. And generally it's doing this, but it's a lot of this on the way. And that's kind of the walk of the Christian in our sanctification. You know, y y you're gonna have some some bad moments, some uh even even a a short season where you're really wrestling against particular sin that you just you know y you feel like you got it beat and then you y you fall back into it until you know um maybe it's prayer and fasting and it's binding with other believers to help you pray through it and and and get to the other side of it. Another analogy that comes to mind It's like, you know, somebody who's an alcoholic and they've got their their buddy and Alcoholics Anonymous and they they fall off the wagon, they they they take a drink and and they get drunk and And they call their friend and what their friend said, oh well, there's no hope for you, don't ever call me again. No, it's okay, well now let's start from here, tomorrow's day one. So if you're struggling with your sin, it might be that day one happens every day for a short period, and then it might be day one is a week apart, and then it's a month apart, or and then eventually it's It's like, you know what, I can't remember the last time I committed that particular sin. It's finally been rooted out. So, but you don't want to let your defenses down because the devil's a crafty one. And he will catch you unawares. So it is a struggle. And so I this this is one of the more difficult passages I think in in the Bible to understand. When John talks about those who continue to sin. Like, wait a minute, that's me. What does that mean? So it's really important we understand that we're struggling against sin. And that's why I referenced Romans chapter Chapter 7, Paul talks about that struggle against sin. So enter the struggle. If you're not struggling, you just wash your hands and say, Oh well, you know, I'm just human, I'm gonna sin, what do you want? Well. Then that that's continuing. And that's but also then you see in the church what's going on lately is them redefining sin. And that makes it hard. You know, there's all these mixed messages. Well that's not really sin. Like, really? 'Cause I I thought it was. Well, no, you know, you're being too hard on yourself. Or whatever. And so that you're not getting the support from believers and being discipled like you should. Discipleship is so important. Right. That's why uh biblical teaching is so important. Um that's why thematic messages that only allude to select sometimes carefully chosen passages that are or verses that are disconnected to support their ideas. We need to figure out what God's word says. And sometimes That's what God's Word says is hard. I mean, not just hard to do, but hard to hear, like hard truth. Like, does God's word really say that? And sometimes we come to go, oh, it doesn't really say that. Also it says something different than I thought. But sometimes it really does say what we're having a hard time to accept is how How could that be true? And then you get a fuller, broader, medier understanding of the word, and you realize, oh, it makes total sense. And I can see why a holy, righteous, just God Would have that sort of prescription for my life. So but we're not getting a lot of that. No. The church is anemic right now. But I think that the fact that you feel bad when you make those mistakes is just indication that you're growing even though you don't feel like you are. You know, it's if you if you don't have a conscience about it, you can't possibly get over it. I mean you have a conscience about it and you want to get over it. And I think that wanting is you know God knows that we're not we are not going to get over it on our own. So I think that a lot of it a lot of it is just he wants to see that we want And once when we see that we want to get over it, he's going to give us the grace uh to get over it. But um going to your point, the other piece You know, they fit they fit, you know, uh they fit what Paul says in Romans six, which is what shall we save then? Are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? Well they they're continuing it sin so that grace grace may increase, you know. So they're they're abusing grace. But um but you're not when you're feeling guilty or when I'm feeling guilty, right, we keep making the mistakes, um we're We're we're we're fitting Romans 7. We're Paul saying, um wretches men than I, what am I gonna do? Well even when we were having dinner, I was like I even had twinge of you know feeling inadequate and and feeling like how come you know they always get it and I don't? Well that's sinful. That's not a a that's not a a a right mindset. It should be I should be happy that they got acknowledged for whatever and you know, God sees your good deeds and but that's hard. That is hard. 'Cause you you know, our flesh wants to be somewhat, you know, um built up and and and made to feel you know, worse or value or which are all good things. Well the flesh wasn't take over and and be more important thing all the time. Exactly. And so it's like Well the challenge with that, because those not only are those good things, those And guess what? We are. We've been recognized so much that we've been adopted into God. God's family and we, you know, are the wealthiest uh persons in the universe. We belong to their family. family. Right? We have all the resources available to us possible. Now we we can't always access them exactly the way we want. sometimes. But it's it's good to want those things and then to realize I already have them. And then it's it's good to get validation and affirmation and to and you get encouragement from that. It's one of the things the church is called to encourage one another. Right. And so, oh you I really appreciate you did that. You're so good at that. And boy, God's really giving you a gift and getting that recognition. There's nothing wrong with that. I think where we turn the corner is when we feel like we've been dissed and then jealousy kicks in and somebody else gets that recognition which is totally good and fine for them to get and yet we feel And then it's like a theft attitude takes over. You want to steal some of their limelight, and stealing is bad. And so that's one of the problems having our broader culture right now, right? They have's and has nots, those are the oppressed and the oppressor and well how come they have more money than me and they want to steal it? You know that shopkeeper seems to have a lot of money on there. Steal his televisions because I don't have enough televisions. He has more than me. And uh it's not wrong to desire having a television, but it's wrong to desire taking someone else's television who seems to have more television than you. So it's a real it's a real problem. But we don't we don't want to make the mistake that we sometimes make with our kids training them up when it has to do with uh with you know um Intimate relations with sexual intercourse kinds of things. We train up our kids to think sex bad. So don't even desire it bad. Well you're setting them up for a rough relationship in their marriage if they come to have this really negative idea about sex, you want to form no sex good in the right context and the right way. So those desires for worth and value, it's not like, oh, those are bad. I shouldn't have those desires. No. Next. Kind of monopolized. No. No, no, no. Not at all. Oh, the other thing that occurred to me, this was like a little bit of a leftover from last week. Um oh maybe I was just reading it in my own I get confused because I read two different Bibles and then I talk with people and I so I anyway, the thing that the thought that was in my head, you know when Jesus comes back after he's resurrected and he's on the road and he's talking and they don't recognize him. And so, you know, for us we're like, how did they not recognize him? So one of my concerns is Like, what if Jesus comes back and I don't recognize him? What if I'm that person that's like, Dina, didn't you see But how's it end? Well they recognize him obviously. Right. Yeah. And and how How do they recognize him? They broke bread together. Right, and and Christ opens their eyes. Right, right, right. Right. He he shares the scriptures and how they're talking about him and their eyes Yeah, and they're like, how are our hearts not burning within us? And the reason that's important is left to our own devices, we will not recognize him. Yeah, and I guess that's yeah. We're not going to. But we can trust that That is true. But we can trust that he will open our eyes. So so I yeah, if we're trusting ourselves. We're looking for him though. Oh yeah. We are looking for so we have a heart attitude. I I think it kinda going back to that point I made before, we want. We we're looking for him. Yes. Un unlike most of the world, which is not. So we're looking and when he comes he will open our eyes so that we see. We can trust we can trust him to do that. Even those disciples on the road they were talking about him. They were walking. Well they were but but he but he was on their their hearts. Right, right, right. Oh yeah, they were talking about him. Right. Right. Yeah, gotcha. Yeah. Yeah, they were like, how do you not know? Where have you been? Have you been under a rock? Yeah. And he's like, tell me more. And that's it. They're like I read it every time I'm like And then I go, that would be me. It's interesting because we can make that correlation to our present contemporary circumstance, right? With all this Yeah. You know, they were talking about, oh my gosh, it it it all is lost. Right? All of our hopes were in this Jesus of Nazareth and now he's dead and it's all over. What are we gonna do? The world is over. The world is over. Like what are we gonna do? And then Jesus comes along and you know opens their eyes and I feel like we We have that tendency that all is lost, the world is over. Like where's Jesus? And Jesus is gonna like I was there the whole time. Let me just point you to the scriptures a point about how all these all these things had to come to pass and you know how are you how are you forget that he said to the disciples before he ascended was was I will be with you until the end of the age. We we forget. We are so he got 'cause he knows he knows our frame. We we are a dumb And it's it's not well nothing in the Bible is an accident, so this isn't meant as a slate to scripture. It's not an accident. You know, the the the Christ sends to his church the paraclete. You know, the comforter. Right? Well what do we need a comforter for? Because it's gonna be hard. It is hard. Because we f and 'cause we forget Oh yeah. We forget. I mean we forget we we even forget God is with us sometimes and oh you know. He and he delivers us and the next time we're in a pickle It's like he never even did anything the last time did we panic? No. Um And because it's hard is why we have some challenges in our churches, the church around us that's you know not getting biblical discipleship and biblical teaching and that it it's hard to have the world be wagging their finger of accusation. at you all the time. So you want to be winsome, you want to win the world for Christ. That's your motivation. And so you feel like, well, how am I going to win them if I don't meet them where they are? I mean Paul and Marcy and I'm gonna meet them where they are and enter into their world. But the problem is the the church ends up entering into the world and staying there. And so rather than kind of meeting them where they are and say, oh okay it's interesting you think that the church You do know God says this, but we don't do the God says this part. And so there's too much in the in the church right now where certain kinds of sins aren't called sins anymore. Well they are in the Bible, but we're ignoring the Bible. And we've got it's it's mounting to crisis levels right now where there were some denomin And some leaders within the American church landscape that were trustworthy voices for defending biblical truth. And lately not so much. And they're trying so hard to I want to give them every benefit of the doubt. They're trying so hard to reach the world. They feel like the way to do that is to figure out how to be attractive to the world. But Christ didn't come to be attractive to the world. It came to create division between the truth and the lie, so much so that mother and father would be against son and daughter, right there are gonna be true divisions that take place. And And the church seems to have lost sight of that. So murder is murder, and adultery is adultery. You know, sexual uh sin is sexual sin. Theft is theft. Uh you know, particular roles that have been assigned to particular kinds of people for particular kinds of purposes are there for a reason. God has prescribed these things for us. Sometimes they're hard. And it's tough when you have some, you know, how many people do we know? We've heard stories we even know maybe in our personal experience where somebody's really faithful, seems to be really faithful. Expositor of the Bible, you know, and speaks the hard truths, and then somebody in their family, a son or daughter or niece or nephew or something comes out of the closet. And all of a sudden they're not so firm on the truth of God's word anymore. Because it's hard. But just because it's hard doesn't make it untrue. And just because it's hard doesn't make it unloving. In fact, I would argue it's it's very loving. Um and to Give in to those pressures is actually it it might feel to you in the moment like a loving thing, it might be received by the world around you as a loving thing. God's word is the unloving thing to do. It is never loving to teach a lie. To go against God's word and and his standard. If we go against God's standard then we are going against love. Well there they you know the the even some people who are in the visible church would say that well that's that's That's you judging, you know, and you don't have a right to do that. That's God's right to do that, and you shouldn't judge. And and of course, the truth is All I'm doing is pointing out what the scriptures are saying. Well, that's what you say the scriptures are saying. And it's like, okay, I just I can't and for the where where I am right now with all Oh, this is, I I just can't do this anymore. Like, either the Holy Spirit will teach you or it won't. Like, whatever. I'm to the point where I'm like, whatever. I'll say it once and move on There you go. I think I'm just done it. And so And that's scriptural. I mean Jesus said if they if they don't receive the truth they'll leave and shake the dust off your feet. Exactly. I mean but when think it like that and go that's just what you say. Well okay You're just saying what you're saying. Right. I'm just standing I'm standing firm on my conviction. You're standing firm on yours. You you you disagree with what I'm saying? That's between You and God. You've been told. Right. Now we can handle that in different ways depending on who we're talking to. If we're talking to a lost person who doesn't profess to be a Christian. Right. Then you're gonna be like Well I understand that you're not accepting the Bible as God's revealed truth and you're not standing on that. So I get it. But let me help you explain why I do stand on it, and you can use it as an apologetic exercise And maybe God will work through that to open their eyes. But when you're talking to somebody that claims to be a Christian and they're saying those sorts of things, that should tell you right off the bat they don't know the Bible. They're not reading it, they're not spending time in it, they haven't. Because God's word tells us, don't you know that you're going to judge even the angels? So we are called to have judicial understanding and be judges. Of course they say let's not judge lest you be judged. Do you know that one? They throw that on your face all the time. But that is taken out of context. Right. So that's a call to proper righteousness judgment. So how should we judge? We should judge by the standard of God's law. What God has revealed as His law is the j is the standard by which we should judge others. Because guess what? That's the standard by which we're going to be judged. Now, if we add to God's law, like the Pharisees did, and that's what our conscience is bound by, we're going to be judged by that in addition. Right. Because we created an additional law And God's word speaks to that. You can't even follow your own laws that you you've made up out of whole cloth. And so we want to make sure that we're we're gonna be judged by God's law regardless. But fortunately for the Christian, because we can't survive that judgment. Fortunately for the follower of Christ, we're washed clean by his blood, and his record is imputed to us. And so when God looks at us, he sees that, oh, look at that you've perfectly obeyed my law because he chooses to see the sun. I like it. I like it when you continued on in that scripture, I think it's in Matthew seven where the Lord says, um just not lest you be judged, for by measure that you judge others you will be judged. So if if if we were to like um somebody tries throw that at us say we told them, you know, well God created uh for intimacy to be between a man and a woman in a marriage marriage relationship, otherwise you need to abstain And if somebody was to if in in other words, if we are living out that scripture in our lives, either as a single person abstaining or as a married person in a monogamous script relationship, I think taking that argument further and saying keep going, just like we said, keep going, keep root what is it what does it say? Judge not lest ye be judged or in the same way that you judge others, you will be judged. Well I'm telling you that I am living this. I am telling you that, you know, this intimacy within a as an example, within a relationship, actually I I'm not I'm not judging you by something that I'm not living. But then they would be saying, but you're wrong Right. Right, right. But you know what I'm saying? It's like it's like if I'm I'm not telling you something that I'm not living up to. Right, but they would say you're wrong for for having for making judgments based on it. And so they shouldn't be judging. Right. But they're trying to have their cake and eat it too. I know. Because then we can point it out and say, okay, I'm judging by God God's standard, you're judging me by your own standard. Because you're judging me for being judgmental. So we're both judging. We're all making judgments. We're supposed to make judgments. But a godly person makes judgments Judgment based on God's word and an ungodly person makes judgments from something else that they invent themselves or somebody that's not following after God that makes up their own rules and regulations. We're all making judgments. If Sony wants to say, Oh, you can't judge, oh is that your judgment? Exactly. Is it your judgment that we shouldn't judge? Yes. And and and by the way, you can't live without making judgment by the way because I mean you have to judge everything just to get through life, just to get through your day. You have to and not every judgment is a moral one. Right. But you are constantly making a judgment of about something. And so it's it's actually you know, it i it's not it's an argument that they can't even live out in their own. Nobody lives it. Yeah, nobody lives it. Nobody can so if I were to reach out and punch you in the nose right No? Okay. Don't use that now. So they're again they're trying to have it both ways. It's it's a logical in It doesn't hold together and you c so you can defeat them logically and that's fine, but I prefer to start with rooting the argument and the the point of view from what the scriptures say and then if they continue to persist then you can go like okay well we can't even get past logical one you know logic one oh one here because you're being illogical. Right. And I think that a lot of times when people are being illogical, there's something in their life, there's some pet sin or something that they want to protect and aren't ready to give it up. even been pricked about yet that they don't even know that they're or they or or they maybe they are pricked about and they resent it. Oh could be. You know? And so they they come back with these, you know kind of crazy arguments, you know, to um just try to self justify and it's really it it's it's not about them it it I I for many people, it's not for everybody, but for many people just I think they don't want the truth because then in the face of the truth they have to they have to make a a judgment about whether or not they're going to follow the truth and so it's just more comfortable for them to just you know, kinda get into silly land with their with their uh position, you know. I want to repent, just not yet. I want to enjoy my sin a little longer and then I'll repent kind of attitude. So my wild oats before I settle Well it's I I mean, I'm speaking from experience. It's not easy being a Christian. It is not easy. It is not. I'm not you know, if anyone thinks that it's sold I would say anybody that would argue you know try to make the comment that it's easy probably isn't having a very uh diligent walk with the Lord Because if you're diligently walking the the the world will hate you. Oh my gosh. And it's not easy to be hated. Look at social media. It's not easy. I mean look at it. So if everybody's just loving you, then you gotta wonder if you're being as diligent in the Lord as you might be. Absolutely. And something else that occurred to me is Angela was talking uh about you know not wanting to to own up to certain things or or whatever. And it ties into what Dina was saying like twenty minutes ago as well. When somebody becomes a Christian and identify some of the sins in our lives are pretty obvious. You know, that's an obvious sin and so is that and so is that. And we've got to root those out of our life. And as we work on making progress on that, let's say you make progress and a year or two later Those obvious sins have been all but vanquished forever. But then you discover you've got all these other sins you didn't even know were there. And you deal with those, you keep dealing back the onion, and the more peels you are, oh my gosh, I didn't even realize how sinful I was. And all of these sins, because we tend to focus on the sins of of commission, the things that we do And then when we get better at maturing past that we start focusing on the sins of O mission, the things that we didn't do. But then we start getting even more mature and we realize all this sins that they're not things that we did or didn't do, they're things that we thought, things that we harbored in our heart. And that's happened in all the freaking comments that pool for me. So and that's why we need God to give us a new heart because the human heart is deceitful above all things. So that's why we need God's word to lead our heart and not follow our heart and follow after or flash. Anyway, any c closing comments from Facebook before we wrap this up? All right. Okay, cool. Well do you want to close us and sure. Thank you so much that you definitely have defeated sin on the cross. Thank you so much that it's not up to us to recognize you, to find you, to see see you. It's just up to us to know that your promises are true and even that is not up to us that you open our eyes, that you reveal truth To us that you show us our sin and show us the victory that we have over our sin through the cross of Jesus Christ. I pray that you change us into your likeness with each one. passing day, that we're able to encourage one another in our walk, that we are able to be a blessing to one another. I pray for the remnant that you would bind us together by your spirit. that we would be able to lean on one another through this time in history when the remnant is under attack. But we know that the remnant is always perver preserved because That's what your word says. And you are a God of truth, and you are a God who is faithful, and you are a God who does not lie. May you be glorified through this week until we meet again. Protect Amen. So next week we're going to continue our look at John chapter three, so uh first John chapter three. So if you want to read it throughout the week and kind of meditate on it and get ready, we covered the first portion we're going to finish up and cover the last portion of it next week. So be ambassadors for truth because being an ambassador for truth is an ambassador for Christ. Till next week, God bless.