And it looks like it's rolling. Hello, welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ and our regular gathering. We're going to be continuing our our look at our series on 1 John. And last week we began to look at first John chapter three. We're going to continue that this week. So if you have your Bibles handy and you want to get those ready, or I mean reading uh all of chapter three today, first John chapter three. And then if you If you want to, I mean there's some verses I'm going to reference relatively quickly. There's one I'll probably ask you to turn to during the message, so if you want to put a bookmark or a thumb or something. Uh let me make sure what I'm doing here. Uh yeah, Hebrews chapter 4, verse 12. So if you've already found 1 John, go a little bit more forward in your Bible towards the front, still in the New Testament, and find Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 12. reading that and some other verses too but that's probably the only one I'll ask you to turn to. A logistical note um next week uh on weekend I'm gonna I've been asked to preach at Fairview Chapel here locally on Sunday evening so I'm gonna be doing that at seven o'clock and so what we're gonna do instead of doing our Facebook live on Saturday at six I'm gonna So if you're local you want to meet up there you can. But if you come looking for us uh on Facebook Facebook on Saturday at six o'clock. We won't be here. We'll be Sunday at seven o'clock next week instead. And then the following week I'm officiating a wedding. I'm not sure what impact yet that's gonna have on our plans for here on Saturday night. It's possible that maybe we'll end up doing something like from the car driving home from the wedding or something. I'm not sure about that just yet. So but next week Angela's just finding this out too, I guess. Yeah, so I go. Okay. Yeah. I mean you have to wear face covering so I won't be going, but 'cause I'll pass out. But if you I don't think that's a good I don't think that that's what they want. I don't have a hard time at that particular venue. Yeah. But he wanted to go and totally up to you. Okay. So, uh any other announcements that you have? Mm-hmm. Okay. Well then we'll open with a word of prayer. Uh Dina. You want to open us up together? Sure. Lord, thank you so much for this time together. We invite your Holy Spirit to come into this room, to come into everyone who's watching through the technology that we have today and ask that you would cause Choi's words to be in step and in line with the Spirit of God and with everything that you You would have him say we ask that you toss his agenda out and may it only be your agenda. Maybe they're one and the same. That's what we prayed for. We ask that you would cause us to be changed changed by your word and in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So we're picking up with we're gonna we're in our series on first John and we're up to chapter three. right now and the message that you're hearing today is the second half of what was originally intended to be one single message with last week being the the first half And the message was called, or is called, I guess, glass half full or cup overflowing. And so is your glass half full? Is it full at all? Does it feel bone dry or is it overflowing? Well we're gonna take a Examine that kind of question. Last week we opened up with uh I invited everybody to kind of examine their own life and remember times when they felt really special and adored and loved and cared for for when they accomplished something really cool, they got recognized for it, you know, one of those shining in the spotlight kind of happenings. And Encouraging everybody to not just remember it, but to kind of emotionally get there and kind of feel what that feels like. And then I suggest That as believers in Christ, we should feel that way all the time. But we don't. And then we talked about uh Jesus and the second person of the Trinity and God in general and how special and wonderful uh God is and Jesus Christ is and went through some of the the the very special name Names and phrases that we associate with him. And then we talked about how this very special God, this very special So when this very special person looks at us as very special and affirms who we are and who he is made us to be, we should feel really good. Again, that really strong, warm and fuzzy t uh moment of affirmation kind of thing. We should feel it all the time. But we We don't, we struggle. And why is that? Because we continue to sin. But we talked about how sin is not what defines the existence of the Christian. It does is not what defines the life and the being of one This is not true. those who are unbelievers, of course. And then I talked about how unbelievers sin, believers sin. But one of the big differences is for an unbeliever, there's still Defined by their sin. And in fact, we can see this in the world around us as they celebrate their sin, they revel in their sin, they're unashamed of their sin. It does define who they are at at least a certain level. non exceptional level. And for the Christian, for the follower of Christ, this is not true. We might fall in the mud, but we we give ourselves up, we clean off, right? We we repent. We still do sin, but we're not defined by our sin. We don't sleep in our own mess after we make it, is how I put it last week And I encourage you to really pay attention to what is being said, not only in the message, but more importantly, by John in this letter. And I want us to really get it because as John Tells us, and as we can see around us, there are others who say different things, who try to persuade us to forget the gospel is real. They would have you believe that There's no need for a gospel, maybe. Because sin really isn't all that bad. I mean, really? I mean how bad is sin? Sometimes I'll say it's okay because, well, there really isn't even such a thing As sin. We talked about this a few weeks ago. We have different ways of, you made a mistake or an error in your thinking. You don't actually sin. It's not a moral failing. Or sometimes people behave their behavior, their behavior as okay Even though their behavior is not deemed okay by God's word. And what's more, they want you to agree with them. Over and against the Word of God. So there's this peer pressure that comes at us. Or sometimes people will say, well, yeah, sure, I guess that's a sin. You might even find this more often in in church context. Yeah it's a sin, but I mean everybody does it, you know? I mean, what do you expect? It's only natural. We're only human. Right? You're human Aren't you? Come on. It'll feel good. If it makes you happy, what's the harm? It's all about happiness. I'm sure you've heard words to that effect throughout your life and your walk with Christ. Well here's what John the Apostle tells us about this. Oh, we didn't read. I told you guys we were going to read, didn't I? Mm-hmm. I want us to try to provide a framework. I I I've lost my My uh my framework on this. Last week I read the entirety of chapter three during the sermon, but you might not have been with us last week, and I want you to get the full context of what's happening in this chapter of this Letter. And so I've asked the two lovely ladies if they would read. So Angela's going to read verses 1 through 10, and then Dina's going to read verses 11 through 24 through the end of the chapter. See how great a love the Father has bestowed on us that we would be called children of God, and such we are. For this reason, the world does not know us. because it did not know him. Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not appeared as yet what we will be. We know that when he appears, we will be be like him because we will see him just as he is. And everyone who has this hope fixed on him purifies himself just as he is. Pure. Everyone who practices sin also practices lawlessness. And sin is lawless. You know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him sins, no one who sins sins has seen him or knows him. Little children, make sure no one deceives you. The one who practices righteousness is righteous, just as He is righteous. The one who practices sin is of the devil. For the devil has sinned from the beginning. The Son of God appears for this purpose To destroy the works of the devil. No one who is born of God practices sin because his seed abides in him and he cannot sin. Because he is born of God. By this the children of God and the children of the devil are obvious. Anyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor the one who does not love his brother. For this is the message which you have heard from the beginning that we Should love one another, not as Cain, who was of the evil one, and slew his brother. And for what reason did he slay him? Because his deeds were evil. And his brothers were righteous. Do not be surprised, brethren, if the world hates you. We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brethren. He Who does not love abides in death. Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. We know love by this that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. But whoever has the world's goods and sees his brother in need closes his heart against him. He does the love of God abide in him. How does love of God abide in him? Little children, let us not love with word or with tongue but indeed in truth. We will know by this we will know by this that we are of the truth and will assure our heart before him And whatever our heart condemns us, for God is greater than our heart and knows all things. Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we will we have confidence before God. And whatever we ask we receive from him because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight. This is his commandment that we believe in the name of his son Jesus Christ and love one another just as he commanded us. The one who keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in him. We know by this that he abides in us by the Spirit whom he has given us. We've just heard an entire chapter of God's holy word. It is infallible. Inerrant, inspired, a perfect rule and guide for our lives and our faith. Those who have ears to hear, let them hear. By the way, which you're coming ASB Right. So I'm going to be uh reviewing some of these verses, reading them again. In case you're confused, if the Bible is kind of new to you, there are different English translations. that use slightly different words, word choices, but they're all rooted in the exact same original text. And the English translators will sometimes you can use, you know, two very similar words to uh as a translation from an old ancient Greek word. They mean the same thing, but it's just a stylistic choice or or what have you. So all the the por portions I'm reading Uh tonight will be from the NIV. I don't want you to be confused and think that the Bible's you know confused or in disagreement or maybe you don't have the NIV or the NASV at home. Maybe you have the ESV or the New King James or what have you. So you know the it's all the same. There's some minor variations here and there, but you can trust your Bible, whichever version you're reading, I I'm sure. So anyway, I'm going to pick last week we mostly covered verses one through six, and we're kind of picking up with uh verses seven through ten here. So I just set up what people say about sin. Let's find out what the Apostle John has to say about all of this. Begin with verse 7. I'm going to read through verse 10. Dear children, do not let anyone lead you astray. The one who does what is right is righteous, just as he is righteous. The one who does what is sinful is of the devil, because the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the devil's work. No one who is born of God will continue to sin because God's seed remains in them. They cannot go on sinning because they have been born of God. This is how we know who is children of God are and who the children of the devil are. Anyone who does not do what is right is not God's child, nor is anyone who does not love their brother and sister. And so the command here is clear, love each other. Don't go on sin. as if it's no big deal. Do what is right and demonstrate that you are born of God. Now it would be really easy To stay focused on some negatives in this passage, on the D word in particular. The devil is named four times in these four verses And that's scary stuff, the devil. He's been sinning from the beginning, John tells us. So the devil, he's good at it. He's had lots of practice. And he wants you to be a child of his. And if you're not a child of God, God's word tells us that you are a child of the devil. That's a hard truth to hear, but it is God's truth. And trust me, you don't want to bear the devil's name. Remember all those wonderful things that I alluded to about five, ten minutes ago and that we focused on in last week's message, all those wonderful things about Jesus, all the names. And special titles and the phrases we use to apply to him and his goodness and greatness, we had a long but entirely incomplete list of really special things that are true about God. None of these things, not one, is true of the devil. None of them. The devil is bad news. Exclusive. Exclusively bad news. There is no good news to be found in the devil. Not one iota. But let's not spend our time focusing on the vanquished. Let's focus on the Focus on the victor. Let's not focus on that loser, the devil. Let's instead focus on the conqueror, the son of man. The Son of God who came approximately 2,000 years ago to destroy the devil's work and he did And so, now, those of us who have been born again, we will not continue to sin. We cannot go on sinning. Because God sees Remains in us. This is what the Apostle John tells us. As we're taught in Hebrews chapter 4, if you bookmark this or put your thumb there early Earlier and you want to swing over to Hebrews chapter 4, you can. Just go look at one verse here, verse 12. For the word of God is alive and active. Sharper than any double-edged sword. It penetrates even to dividing soul and spirit, joints and marrow. It judges the thoughts and the attitudes Of the heart. The Holy Spirit dwells within our heart We, followers of Christ, have become temples of God. And we are given the ability to continue in the faith rather than Continuing in sin. Are you a follower of Christ? Are you what we commonly refer to as To as a Christian. Are you washed clean by the blood of your Lord and Savior? If so, then your glass is not half full. I don't care how you might feel feel about it. Your glass is not in fact half full. Your glass, your cup overflows. And we should be jumping up and down, right? We should be getting excited, show some emotions, we dance and whoop and holler and laugh until we cry the way that we feel And the way that we behave should be indistinguishable as love washes over and through us As love washes over and through us, we should wash over and through the world with love. Picking up in John's love. Letter, chapter 3, verse 11. For this is the message you heard from the beginning. We should love one another. Do not be like Cain. Who belonged to the evil one and murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his own actions were evil and his brothers were righteous. Do not be surprised, my brothers and sisters, if the world hates you. We know that we have passed from death to life because we love each other Anyone who does not love remains in death. Anyone who hates a brother or sister is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal love. life residing in him. Now a talk like this of Cain and hate and murder, don't miss a really key point here. I mean the evil stuff, well yeah, that's that's true of the world. And it might even be directed at God's people, yeah, that's true. But what is ultimately true of and for God's people and that we are awash in love with righteous actions having passed from death to life Gloriously good news. And why do we have this eternal life? We have it because of the opposite of hatred and And murder. Followers of Christ have everlasting favor with God because of the perfect life lived in Perfect love that has been laid down for us. Picking up in verse 16. This is how we know what love is. Jesus Christ laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for our brothers and sisters. If anyone has material possessions and sees a brother or sister in need, but has no pity on them, how can the love of God be in that person? Dear children, let us not love with words or speech, but with actions and in truth. Now this can be kind of hard to hear sometimes Don't you think? I mean it's one thing to be ready theoretically to lay down our lives for our Lord I mean see martyred for the faith. It's easy to do that theoretically. I mean it's easy in theory because the odds of the theory becoming a reality for us are astronomically highest against. And so it's easy to say I'd be willing to do something if I know that I really am never going to have to actually do it. Now some might say, oh, you know, if I ever come face to face with Kim Jong-il, let me tell you something. I'll tell you what, I'll give him a piece of my mind, take that to the bank and cash it. Wouldn't you Really? Well, let's say you would. Let's give each other the benefit of the doubt and say that we really do mean it when we say that we would die for Jesus. Let's just say that that's we would do that. That's not what the passage says. John says that we ought to lay down our lives For our brothers and sisters. Will you do this? Some of us we might be in a position to say pretty quickly, well yeah, yeah, I would do that too, because I mean I serve in the military where I risk my life day after day for others, all the time Okay. Well, I suggest to you today that the Apostle John is not primarily talking about this either I mean clearly in verse 16, John says that we are to lay down our lives for other Christians, other believers, other followers of Christ. But then in verse 17, He defines what he means by laying down our lives. And at least one aspect of what it means is giving up your possessions. And we can't just stoically, from a detached emotional, distance standpoint, you know, just write a check and throw money at a problem. That's not the solution, we're called to get intimately invested, to take, to take pity on our brothers and sisters in need, and to Lay down our life, lay down our livelihoods, lay down our means for living. Lay down our material possessions. Out of love. And it's not just a one-time thing, it's a daily sacrifice And that's hard. Man, is that hard. And Christians, we must admit flatly that we don't live up to this perfect life. We just don't. And so we might be tempted to say, woe is me. I'm devastated, totally, completely devastated by the sin in my life, the sinfulness of my own heart Maybe I'm not even saved. But thoughts like this Our attack from the devil, Satan, the accuser. Here's what the Word of God says. Picking up with verse 19. This is how we know that we belong to the truth, and how we set our hearts at rest in His presence. If our hearts condemn us, we know that God is greater than our hearts and He knows everything. Dear friends, if our hearts do not condemn us, We have confidence before God and receive from him anything we ask because we keep his commands and do what pleases him. And this is his command: to believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and to love one another as he commanded us. The one who keeps God's commands lives in him, and he in them. And this is how we know that he lives in us. We know it by the Spirit Spirit he gave us. The perfect and complete fulfillment of this, it awaits. It awaits us. As followers of Christ, as saints forgiven our sins, we have been justified, declared righteous. We are being Sanctified, set apart in holiness. And we will be glorified. And we will see Jesus then as he is, because we will be as He is. Again, what glorious good news. As it's written in Philippians chapter 3, verse 21. one, God will transform our lowly bodies so that they will be like his glorious body. And in 2 Corinthians 3 verse 18, and we all who with unveiled faces contemplate the Lord Glory are being transformed into his image with ever-increasing glory, which comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit. Savior, not only because he offered up his life on a cross. This was not his only point of sacrifice for us. The son also sacrificed by even becoming human. And then for maybe, I don't know, about 12,000 or so days, he lived a perfect life of perfect obedience. He didn't lay down his life merely in one day. He laid down his life for us every day. And that's what we are called to do. And that's what his spirit enables us to do. And that's who you now can have confidence that you are. If you're God's child, if you believe in Jesus And so, when you're in God's presence in prayer, because of all this, you can have confidence before God. Writing to about us here. And we're going to receive what we ask, John tells us. Why? Because what you ask will be inside God's will. Due to the fact that you're living a life that pleases him by following. His commands. We love one another as we hope in Christ, and we know this hope is true by the Spirit that He gave us. It's all about what he gives us. In the word of the Apostle Paul from Romans 5. 5. And hope does not put us to shame. Because God's love has been poured out into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. And from Romans 8, verses 4. 14 through 17. For those who are led by the Spirit of God are the children of God. The Spirit you receive does not make his slaves so that you Live in fear again. Rather, the spirit you received brought about your adoption to sonship. And by him we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are God's children. And now if we are children, then we are heirs. Heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share his sufferings, in order that we may also share His glory. What a warming message for believers What a warning message for unbelievers. Children of God are those who accept God's gift of the Christ and acknowledge Jesus, not only Only as Savior, but also as Lord. Children of the devil refuse. To accept the gift. And thus attempt to save themselves. And realizing it or not, they then have the devil. Rule over them. Which of course is an insult to our Creator who offers this gift. Don't just So, fellow saints, brothers and sisters in Christ, it is true As we share in his sufferings. But that doesn't change the fact that your cup is full to overflowing. And hallelujah. Amen to that. We have nothing to fear. And we celebrate that truth with all of our brothers and sisters all around the world. Now, my dear skeptics, doubters, um Even self-assured non-believers who might be watching right now, your glass isn't half full either. Your glass is bone-dry empty. And this is a hard thing to hear. And it's a hard thing for Christians sometimes to feel like they have to say, but God's truth is if you're not If you're not a believer in Christ, then be afraid to die in your current condition. Believers everywhere weep as they pray for you. All the wonderful things, all those beautiful things that 1 John had to say about the condition of Christians, the Christians of those who are in Christ. It does not apply to you if you're not a Christian. I have mentioned a number of times, this week, last week, actually the last number of weeks, it's been kind of a theme running through Throughout John's epistle. I've mentioned a number of times how hard it is for Christians to live in this fallen, broken down world that's still wrapped by sin. But heaven awaits that you children of God. I haven't spent a whole lot of time mentioning how hard it will be for non-Christians. Non-Christians for whom the unending torment of hell awaits. I don't say that to condemn you. I say that To warn you and to encourage you to accept the gift. Hell awaits those who reject the gift Because those who reject the gift are children of the devil. There's a now mentioned it. I guess I can make Maybe end with that. Not ending there to try to be mean. I end there maybe just to kind of leave you with your thoughts for a moment, to think about the issue, to leave you alone. with God, to ponder where you stand, so that you might become aware of that tug Of God's love, as He calls you to Himself. Calls you to Himself, which Which means he's calling you away from the curse and calling you to the eternal blessing that awaits his people. Calling you to a gladness. That is completely full, filled to overflowing with life-giving water. Oh, how sweet it is to Drink of it. We close with prayer. Father, we thank you for your sweet gift. We know That we are not deserving. We are not deserving even now as we stand here before you. But we know that you see us as deserving because you have justified us. You've imputed Christ's perfect record of obedience and love unto our record and have taken my horrible miserable Sinful record and applied it to Him at the cross. We thank you for the confidence and assurance we can have knowing the Son of the God became man and died, but defeated even death and demonstrated his victory over death by rising again and ascending back to heaven. Ruling even now, right now, as king over his kingdom here on earth. Oh, how we anxiously await the return of our king Lord, we ask that you would bless our conversation during the duration of our time here this evening. Help us to have wisdom to navigate questions. Questions that might be arisen through today's message, and that your spirit would give us words when our own intellect and capacity fall short. It's in the beautiful name of Christ that we pray. Amen. Get back over here. So we've got a little bit of time for a discussion. We've we've probably wrapped these up by seven. So we got We don't have to go all the way to seven necessarily. Did anybody have anything to say? They typically don't because they're probably hopefully listening to the message and not typing questions. But so if you want to type any in there you're certainly welcome to and we'll try to address them. That's probably the the closest thing that we've heard so far to a hellfire and brickstone message in the household of faith in Christ, right? Um but it's the truth. One of the reasons that you know uh every message isn't hell, fire, and brimstone is because the Bible is not filled with a lot of talk about the devil and all of that sort of stuff. It's it's talking about our sinfulness, our need for savior, God's uh prerequisite uh rules for living life and uh how Christ did all of that sort of message of of hope and forgiveness and grace and and truth and justice and righteousness and all those sorts of things and oh yeah the devil too. But just because it's not The on at the center of every page, because at the center of every page is the Son of God, right? It's about the Word. The Word is about the Word. Even though it's not at the center of every page, the devil's there lurking Throughout shows up very early, right? Very early pages of Genesis, in Genesis chapter 3, and all the way through the end, the last pages in the book of Revelation. So the devil is there. But because it's not the same central aspect of every passage that I preach on, it doesn't become the central part of what I'm teaching. But in this case, John mentions them four times in four verses. So uh we had to go there if we're gonna be faithful to the text. So I don't know. Any thoughts? In my time of devotion with the Lord this morning, he had me in the book of Philippians in the third chapter and the and the scripture that was speaking to me this morning was the third birth of the third chapter which says, I'm gonna guess I'm gonna read it out of the Amplified Bible although I read it out of the new American Standard this morning, but it reads for we qu we Christian Are the true circumcision who worship God in spirit and by the Spirit of God and exult and glory and pride ourselves in Jesus Christ? And put no confidence or dependence on what we are in the flesh and on outward privileges and physical advantages and external appearances. So it's just in a different way it spoke to tonight's message um concerning the fact that we who are children of God, you know, um we practice righteousness and you know um um uh you know we we put no confidence evidence in ourselves, you know, but we are we are um the way it it says here is that um um we uh Um now I need to find it. Um well I can't find it on the on the slide, but just this message that, you know, we are you know our our hope is in is in Christ and we, you know, we we're we're practicing righteousness if we're demonstrating that we're children of God because of the righteousness that that we practice um and uh it's uh oh and that that that that scripture that you were you read earlier earlier after w afterwards when that you read out of the book of Romans out of chapter eight it was very interesting because I did a word search and that's just a Script before you even went to the scripture and read it, I did a word search and brought it up in Romans eight sixteen, the Spirit Himself testifies with our spirit that we are children of God and so we have the witness within us because we're practicing righteousness and we um we have a witness within us because we're not trusting in ourselves. You know we're we are trusting in the Spirit of God to make us children of God. And we are righteous. We are practicing the righteousness. But but but the that righteousness is something that we know that we got from the Lord Lord. And um and and we are we are his child because um we you know we want to do what's right, not because it is impossible for us to sin. And so we're practicing it. That word practice is so key. We're practicing righteousness. Um we're not practicing perfect at it, but we're practicing it. Um and and the p the but the person who practices sin is of the devil is the devil's child and that is a very difficult thing for a person who's not practicing practicing righteousness to hear, but um we who practice righteousness, we have that witness of the Spirit within us. testifies that we're children of God. We do have that that thing where we our hearts do sometimes bring up what we did wrong. You know, and and we can fall into that a little bit and and and and become ashamed. You know, you have these moments when you're you think of something you said or did, you're you're ashamed all over again. Um, but i i it it's just this message it makes the the fact that you can feel ashamed of it is also evidence that you're a child of God because when you were doing it you really weren't necessarily ashamed of it, you know, when you were out there in the world. But now that you're ashamed of it and but it's all part of practicing righteousness you know and um anyway just in a different way um philippians 3 3 spoke that to me this morning Morning crow is just um you know what when we're when we have the witness of the spirit, he'll you know, he'll confirm things in different ways and just a reminder that we who practice righteousness, we are God's ch children, not because we're perfect, but because we're practicing and because we care. And um anyway I kinda No, no, no. Yeah, one of the things that's an important draw out of that is you know Angela alluded to a a couple of different Times and in different ways that you know we're not perfect. Those who are followers of Christ aren't saying that we're better than everybody else. What we're saying is we're all in the same boat. As it's commonly been said, you know, we're all beggars and the Christian knows where the food is, and we could point other beggars to where the food is, kind of a thing. Uh we all have failings. Even if you're not a Bible believer, even if you're not even sure what you think about God, God has equipped us all with a conscience And so Christians, I think, particularly as they advance in their walk, they're more quickly convicted of their sin and they have those feelings of shame and they immediately turn to God for forgiveness. So that accusations from the devil can't take root and undermine our confidence before the Lord. But even unbelievers, maybe sometimes not as quickly, sometimes still quickly, because God God has equipped us again through his his overall providence and his common grace to everybody on the planet. Everyone has a conscience, so everybody admits that they've done something Wrong. You have to admit you've done at least one thing wrong in your life. At least one thing. And so that means you're guilty of at least one thing. And if we're going to be really honest, it's millions of things, right? It's not just one thing. We're guilty of so many things. And so the question that's put before all of us, everybody on the planet, we have to deal with this question. What do you do with your guilt What do you do with it? Try to work harder? Okay, well that's good because then you won't have more things about which to be guilty and feel guilty about. But what about the past guilt? What about all the hurts and pain you've caused other people? Yeah, you're going to stuff it, or you're going to try to ignore it, or you're going to try to spin it on its head, you're going to try to celebrate it and say, oh, I don't need to feel guilty about that. It's all good. But there's other things that are hard to spin and feel all good about. So and if that happens your conscience is being seared and that's that I I I would uh I be concerned that the Lord is turning you over to the devil at that point. So we we're not rooting for you to be celebrating your sin at all. That's a real problem. But you have You have to do something with your guilt. What do you do with it? For the Christian, right, the believer in Christ, we have the blood of Christ as the resolution for Our guilt. And I argue that that is the only resolution for anybody's guilt. And if you're not going to turn to him, then you stand condemned. Her mother says um it almost makes her not want to hang around people that aren't children of God because we don't allow our children to watch certain programs or hang around certain people because of the choices they make. So why would I want to hang around people that aren't children of the devil? Well uh for there's a couple of things there I think we should be addressed. One's talking about parenting and children that are, you know, in their really young formative years when they're not able to process things as they will be able to to as adults as they s you know as as they're trying to formulate their worldview and figure out what's right and what's wrong and mommy and daddy or whoever, grandma and grandma are are instilling those things, but the world is also trying to instill things. And until those roots can go grow deep, there's a great risk. And so I think parents have a huge responsibility to protect their children, which is why of late, with the strong left turn that we've a strong left turn that we've taken in the last year or two I mean, it's been going on for decades, but the last year or two, particularly strong, I've encouraged everybody and anybody I can think of to homeschool. Because your kids are still formulating their worldview and I'm telling you the devil's using the school system, the public school system, to infiltrate the minds of our kids and the hearts and attitudes of our kids. So there's parental judicial uh uh uh need for judicial judgment there. For the life of the adults, we are called, the Bible tells us that we are We can't witness to a lost and hurting and broken world if we will never interact with them. We do have to figure out how to interact with them. However, we do want to be on guard about being unequally yoked. So you don't want to hang out and be besties with somebody maybe who's involved in the Because usually what happens is the dirty soils the clean as opposed to the clean wiping up The dirty. Right? So if you have a really good solid moral person and not so solid moral person and they hang out a lot together, over time what's most likely to happen is the moral person Will have their morals compromised. And so Christians have to be judicious about that and need to know how to be in the world, speak to the world, provide comfort and guidance and help for the the world but not get sucked into it so that you become of the world yourself. And um I don't that's a wisdom question about how to do that. Some people are more further along in their walk and more able to do that for longer stretches. Others are not quite as solidly rooted yet in what they think and believe and they could be deceived more easily. These are the kinds of things that in your own personal direct context deal with somebody who's mature, like your pastor, so if you're watching online, your pastor who hopefully knows you well, if your pastor Doesn't know you well, there's something not quite right there. Your pastor should know you well, or other elders within the church, the spiritual leaders, those are responsible for the spiritual guidance of the that congregation At least one of them, if not more than one of them, should know you well. And you can go to them and say, Hey, I'm I'm thinking about joining this club or I'm part of a homeowners association or I work with these people at work and I'm having a hard time knowing how to navigate that. And they'll kinda know where you are and also they'll know what they've been teaching and preaching and what your environment is like in your community to help you navigate that with more wisdom. Um it's good to have a retreat too. Yeah. To have a you know, to have a safe place. You know, you're you're at work however many hours if you're not in a setting where there's like minded Christians, brothers and sisters in Christ, it can tax you. So then just know that when you come home, give yourself that time to recharge to be with other believers or to just be with the Lord in prayer before you go out again, maybe with some some other co-workers to at an event or whatever, because you're gonna need that time. I mean, Jesus went away to be with the Father every day. So it It's not like all of a sudden we're better than Jesus. I mean, yes, we have the Holy Spirit in dwelling in us, but He's God and He needed to do that. So how much more so for us? And I think it's there's a really good word of caution in what uh Dina was just sharing. If you're at work or you spent ten thousand dollars to join the yacht club, or you're in a situation where you're invested, right? Your employment, you're invested in your job, you're invested in this club That you have a lot, you know, tied up in. It can be difficult to walk away from that. But sometimes the right thing to do is if the situation is just too big for you at where you are And that's where again you want to go to your pastor and think it out and pray it through and and get some good godly counsel of what to do. But sometimes you gotta leave the job that pays you $100,000 a year and to go take Take a job that pays you fifty thousand dollars a year because the hundred thousand dollars a year job was putting you in a place where you were too tempted to sin and maybe you were beginning to fall into that sin. It was reshaping your attitudes and pulling you away from Christ and it's not worth it. It's not worth it. And so, okay, I wasted $10,000 on a yacht club. Okay, would you rather waste your $10,000 joining the yacht club than put at risk your relationship with your Lord and Savior. So that's a word of warning. See one of that's not the first option. The first option is how to just leave. The first option is to try to navigate through it and pray through it and even fast and and try to and get people to pray with you and for you. You know, get a circle of prayer warders that can help you get through it, but at some point, sometimes You gotta pull the plug and let and let the water run through the drain. And then start filling the tub up with it. Yeah. Maybe true. That takes me to another scripture about our I read in Philippians three in which Paul says, I count all things lost. Um passing value of knowing Christ my Lord. He's like everything that I I have and that I've gained, you know, my prestige as a Pharisee and you know the respect and nothing. He's he's like it's it's trash compared to knowing Christ in a deep and and um meaningful way and so there's really nothing really that we can gain this side of heaven that that that that's worth losing that relationship. And it's harder and harder to be in the world as of late with a relationship to Jesus because the world is on fire against Christ. And so we as followers followers are targets and it's it's hard. I mean you can see it in social media, you can see it in the news, you can see it I mean you can feel it. You can you know So you can go anywhere and you just feel it, you know, because you have the spirit of God, you feel it. I mean it's a spiritual war. It's always been going on, but it's definitely ramping up as we're in the last days. And um and so it's uh even more so it's important to be with fellow believers so that you have that camaraderie You have that encouragement, you have that affirmation because it's war. You go out and you're in you're you're you're you're a soldier, you're in the war And then you need to come home and like have just that time and then, okay, back into the work. And it's now that I know it it's helpful for me to have that mindset because I go into the mission field really is what it is, just with way more focus and Prayer, you know, there's that you know, you h you hear this I used to always wonder, what does it really mean to be pray without ceasing? I'm doing it now. Mm-hmm. Throughout the day. It's it's a constant just Just in my just being mindful and being focused and you know, something trips you up and or you see something that's inappropriate or you speak something that's inappropriate and you're like, wow, I'm drifting into because I'm surrounded by it and it's hard. It's hard. And you almost feel yuck when you when you because you're you sin so much in in such a short amount of time because you've been in the war field. You know, we don't sadly stop sinning. If anything, it's more grief Because I just know what a rotten individual I'd be I you know, I just was for that stretch of time. It's like, oh my god. you get to them the more keenly you feel your mistakes. Oh it's awful. And you just and and and and it's awful but at the same time in a way I treasure it because I remember those times where I had very little conscience about doing the right thing. I gotcha. And so in a way it in a weird way, it it it it sounds strange in a Because I realize that if you know, going back to the theme of our discussion, that if I wasn't a child of God, it wouldn't bother me. Well the Lord disciplines those who love. You wouldn't even have any sort of you know, re but it does it for me it's like a Right. It just it grieves you. It grieves you, but at the same time It's embarrassing for me. I get embarrassed before the Lord. I'm like, oh I do too. Yeah. Like I I I I thought that, I said that. Yeah, my God. But then after after I kind of process it, I'm I'm like I'm I'm I'm I'm so glad. Lord thank you for correcting me and it just it's it's more evidence that I belong to him and not to the to the enemy. Right because there were I mean everybody has some kind of conscience un until it becomes seared or or they get saved. But when you when you're not saved or you're not walking with the Lord, you don't have a Much conscience. You can do a lot of things or say a lot of things and that's just you go, that's just how I am, you know. Right. But so yeah, it's It's comforting though. It it's grievous but at the same time, in a in a weird way, in a strange way, it's comforting because you know, I belong to the Lord or that would not have bothered me the way that it did. Right And when Tori was talking about, you know, and this is a warning, this is not a condemnation. I'm not telling you, oh, you're going to hell because I'm trying to be mean to you. I know a lot of people that I don't know their hearts and I don't know the end from the beginning like God does, but if they were to pass right now I go, Oh my gosh, will I see them? Mm-hmm. And that's grievous to me. You know, like you kinda go like that takes your breath. So it truly is a warning, it's not a combination, oh blah blah blah that means I'm going to hell. That's not me saying anything. That's the word of Oh, I don't even believe in that. I don't believe in the Word of God. Well, you don't have to believe in it for for it to be true. That's all I'm telling you. Do with it what you want. I you know I'm not gonna save you. Yeah we don't do the condemning. God does the condemning. We're just announcing. announcing what the truth is and then you know that's between you and God and God's gonna save you or you know or He's not. I mean you know what are we gonna say about that? Some practical uh thoughts on the one question that was asked If you're interacting with non-believers and they're acting in a non-believing kind of way, you know, the the sin is evident in their life and their attitudes and their action, that sort of thing. And you can find your way clear to having some pity on them, concern over their soul. that you can you can pray either aloud or at least in your spirit for them and you can try to seek and uh and strategize ways you can try to reach them with the truth and your and It's got that positive kind of interaction, that's a good place to be. If you find your place having lots of unrighteous anger rise up in you and you want to yell at them or you're tempted to get into whatever kind of sin they're involved with And that's a sign that you know maybe you should step away. So as long as you can interact in a way where your attitude is healthy and prayerful, And still joyous, knowing, okay, here's an opportunity to demonstrate Christ, or here's an opportunity to share the truth of Christ, or whatever the opportunity there would would lay out for you. And if you don't have an opportunity or you can't trust yourself in that moment to take advantage of that opportunity to demonstrate Christ, then there's no weakness or lack of courage and a strategic retreat. So Jesus do it. Yeah, ex you know, escape the moment so you can regather your strength and prepare yourself And learn from that. Ask God to reveal why was I unable to demonstrate Christ in that moment? God strengthen me in those ways so that next time I have a similar situation, I'll be able to be a better ambassador. Um but part of the problem is lies are being pitted as truth. And for me, it makes me so mad. I get Yeah. And that's a righteous anger. We should be righteously angry against lies, right? We should be ambassadors for truth. But those that are that are putting forward those lies, they are deceived They are they they are lost and don't know it. And so if we can get to a place where we have some compassion on the lostness of their situation, that's a better place for us to be. Now ultimately, again, God God might choose to deal he might choose to deal with them in the here and now. Like they might actually have lightning strike from heaven. I mean he could do that. But ultimately, in the end game God is going to deal with it. Our job right now, Christ didn't come to condemn the world in his first coming. He came to preach forgiveness through his sacrifice. And so that's the message we're charged with right now. But there is a warning attached to that because he will come again. And when he comes again, he comes in judgment. And we've seen examples and evidences of his willingness to execute that judgment throughout scripture. So it's not like this fantasy hypothetical theory Theoretical thing we know that he's done it before and he will do it in an eternal sense at the end. So consider yourself fairly warned. Definitely are praising uh this news at Kyle's home four months today. Four months today? Incident-free, so we are praising along with you. Very cool. And mom says hi All right. That's it? Yep. All right. Um next week on Sunday at seven PM. Now Saturday Saturday at six PM, Sunday at seven p. m. , we're gonna be doing our Facebook Live. And if you want to be prepared for that message, because I'm doing it in a different context than what we're doing here, I'm gonna be preaching from First Peter. So if you want to read first Peter's short enough, just read the whole thing. Because you'll want to know the context. Read First Peter and you'll be prepared to hear next week's message. And it's got a tantalizing title for what's going on in today's world. The title of the message is A Christian Ethnic, not Christian ethnic, Christian Ethnic, with all the ethnicity stuff. that's in the news these days, I feel like it's a good time for us to talk about what the Christian ethnic and ethnicity is. And so that's going to be next week's message. So So you opened us, didn't you, in prayer? Angel, would you mind closing this with that? Our gracious Heavenly Father, the inviting you, Lord, and we believe that you should up for this discussion and we thank you for that Lord. We thank you that your spirit testifies with our spirit that we are children of God and that um We are walking in your righteousness and that you are helping us to do that. And we just pray, Lord, that this message of being your children, your imperfect children, but you're children who love you and who want to do your will. We pray, Lord, that people see that about us, that they understand that about the Christian life, Lord, that we are not Lord, um uh trying to promote ourselves as being perfect, but we are your children and and like a good parent uh that watches over the child that walks and so Sometimes stumbles and falls. That's the kind of father that you are to us. You pick us up and you help us to keep walking in you the way a loving parent does with a little toddler that's toddling along. That's how we are, Lord. That's what it is. And we get stronger and stronger in you. So we just pray, Lord, that this message resonates with people, that they understand it, and that many other Lord, who who may not have under have not understood in a deeper way what it is to belong to you, that they would hear this and that they would want to be your child and would want to toddle along with you picking them back up and helping them to walk more strongly and surely in you day by day as we are. We thank you for this message and we ask that you bless everyone with safety and and and a good peaceful rest tonight, Lord. And we um thank you and bless you and ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you for joining us. I encourage you, brothers and sisters. who are watching this to uh be encouraged as you enter the mission field that God has placed around you. God bless