Hang in there, Facebook. We're getting this led up. Takes a second. I participated in your Facebook Live on Friday. I had never used Facebook Live before. Me neither. I've never seen it. Oh really? You use it all the time. I know. I've only ever watched your like Facebook uh after they've been Not live though. Yeah, yeah. Hey Kylie. What's up, bud? I'm pausing in case we're not on. I think we're on because I feel like I'm carrying myself on Angela. Well welcome to our family room. I'm gonna jump right into scripture to start off this evening. We're gonna spend a lot of time in the Gospel of Mark, so keep your Bible's ready and read along, you're more than welcome to. So beginning with uh Gospel of Mark chapter nine. Yeah, forget it. And he said to them, I tell you the truth, some who are standing here will not taste death before they see the kingdom of God come with power. After six days, Jesus took Peter, James, and John with him and led them up a high mountain where they were all alone. There he was transfigured before them. His clothes becoming dazzling white, whiter than anyone in the world could bleach them. And there appeared before them Elijah and Moses, who were talking with Jesus. Peter said to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here. Let us put up three shelters, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. He didn't know what to say. They were so frightened. Then a cloud appeared and enveloped them, and a voice came from the cloud. This is my son, whom I love. Listen to him. Suddenly, when they looked around, they no longer saw anyone with them except Jesus. As they were coming down the mountain, Jesus gave them orders not to tell anyone what they had seen until the Son of Man had risen from the dead. They kept the matter to themselves, discussing what rising from the dead meant. And they asked him, Why do the teachers of the law say that Elijah must come first? Jesus replied, To be sure, Elijah does come first. and restores all things. Why then is it written that the Son of Man must suffer much and be rejected? But I tell you, Elijah has come, and they have done to him everything they wished, just as it is written written about him. And jumping ahead to verses thirty and thirty-two of Mark chapter nine They left that place and passed through Galilee. Jesus did not want anyone to know where they were because he was teaching his disciples. He said to them, The Son of Man is going to be betrayed into the hands of men They will kill him, and after three days he will rise. But they did not understand what he meant and were afraid to ask him about it. The word of God. We're going to continue in Mark in a moment, but I asked Angela if she wouldn't mind opening us up with a word of prayer before we dive in a little bit more. Gracious Heavenly Father, we come together on another resurrection day, Lord, to remember why we have hope. We have hope because today Jesus Rose from the grave, conquered death for us, rose to give us eternal life. And we are so grateful for his victory, for his overcoming, because In his overcoming, we have overcome. We ask you, Lord, to bless this gathering, bless this message, bless the ears that will hear it, help the hearts to receive it. And we thank you so much. And we ask this blessing in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Amen. We're going to be traveling through the Passion Week of Jesus using the Gospel of Mark as our guide. And you might have already noticed in chapter 9 of Mark's Gospel account. This theme of fear twice already. We've heard about them being afraid. And you're gonna see that as a continuing theme, and you're also gonna see how The fear is tied to unbelief. When they do not trust God and not trust Jesus, then they have fear. And so conversely, when we do trust God and do trust Jesus It chases away fear. So now I'm going to pick up with chapter 10, verses 32 and 34, and then jump ahead to chapter 11 if you're following along So chapter 10, verses 32 to 34. They were on their way up to Jerusalem with Jesus leading the way. And the disciples were astonished, while those who followed were afraid. Again he took the twelve aside and told them what was going to happen to him. We are going up to Jerusalem, he said, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and the teachers of the law. They will condemn him to death and will hand him over to the Gentiles, who will mock him and spit on him, flog him and kill him. Three days later, he will rise. As they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage and And Bethany to the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two of his disciples, saying to them, Go to the village ahead of you, and just as you enter it, you will find a colt tied there, which no one has ever ridden Untie it and bring it here. If anyone asks you, why are you doing this, tell him the Lord needs it, and we'll send it back here shortly. They went and found a colt outside in the street, tied in the doorway. As they untied it, some people standing there asked, What are you doing untying that colt? They answered as Jesus had told them to, and the people let them go. When they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks over it, he sat on it. Many people spread their cloaks on the road, while others spread branches they had cut in the fields. Those who went ahead and those who followed shouted, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David. Hosanna in the highest. Jesus entered Jerusalem and went to the temple. He looked around at everything, but since it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve. We're gonna pause there to sing our first hymn together. What one did we decide it was gonna be? I think it was Because he lives. How appropriate for today. They call him Jesus. He land for years, he lived and died to by my comment. Because he l I think And I think we're living shot because we did I'm cross now with my no war with me. I'll be the one in the glory and the Because you create my home. Because we're feeling God, because I don't feel And the life is the word the living trust we can't live. Because he lives, all fear is gone. If you're following along, turn to Mark chapter 12. With picking up in chapter twelve with verse eighteen and reading through to verse twenty-seven. Then the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to him with a question. Teacher, they said, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies and leaves a wife but no children, The man must marry the widow and have children for his brother. Now there were seven brothers. The first one married and died without leaving any children. The second one married the widow, but he also died, leaving no child. It was the same with the third. In fact, none of the seven left any children Last of all, the woman died too. At the resurrection, whose wife will she be since the seven were married to her? Jesus replied, Are you not in error because you do not know the scriptures or the power of God? When the dead rise, they will neither marry nor be given in marriage. They will be like the angels in heaven. Now about the dead rising Have you not read in the book of Moses, in the account of the bush, how God said to him, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You are badly mistaken. And then we're going to skip ahead to chapter 14, the first 16 verse. Now the Passover and the feast of unleathered bread were only two days away, and the chief priests and the teachers of the law were looking for some sly way to arrest Jesus. and kill him. But not during the feast, they said, or the people may riot. While he was in Bethany, reclining at the table in the home of a man Known as Simon the Leper, a woman came with an alabaster jar of very expensive perfume made of pure nard. She broke the jar and poured the perfume on his head. Some of those present were saying indignantly to one another, Why this waste of perfume? It could have been sold for more than a year's wages, and the money given to the poor. And they rebuked her harshly. Leave her alone, said Jesus. Why are you bothering her? She has done a beautiful thing to me. The poor you will always have with you, and you can help them any time you want. But you will not always have me. She did what she could. She poured perfume on my body beforehand to prepare for my burial I tell you the truth, wherever the gospel is preached throughout the world, what she has done will also be told in memory of her. Then Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went to the chief priests to portray Jesus to them. They were delighted to hear this, and promised to give him money. So he watched for an opportunity. On the first day of the feast of unleavened bread, when it was customary to sacrifice the Passover lamb, Jesus' disciples asked him, Where do you want us to go and make preparations for you to eat the Passover? So he sent two of his disciples, telling them, Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him Say to the owner of the house, he enters, the teacher asks, where is my guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples He will show you a large upper room, furnished and ready. Make preparations for us there. The disciples left, went into the city, and found things Just as Jesus had told them. So they prepared the Passover. When we pick up, we'll be in chapter 14, verse 27, if you want to turn There now and we're gonna do our next song which is I think Christ the Lord and these lyrics I think are in the comment section, right? Yes. So if you want to try to sing along, the lyrics are in the comment section of the Facebook post We joy, joy, then joy not joy all Again, our glory has free. There will be now life. I need one three under Where we all great The next person you will have a three meeting. Humps love screening. Love three workers. Alleluia, the middle big word, hallelujah. One more eight, four. I can create the God. Amen. So now we're in Mark chapter fourteen, verse twenty-seven. You will all fall away, Jesus told them. For it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. But after I have risen, I will go ahead of you into Galilee. Peter declared, Even if all fall away, I will not. I tell you the truth, Jesus answered. Today, yes, tonight. Before the rooster crows twice, you yourself will disown me three times. But Peter insisted emphatically, even if I have to die with you, I will never disown you. And all the others said the same. They went to a place called Gethsemane, and Jesus said to his disciples, Sit here while I pray. He took Peter, James, and John along with them. with him, and he began to be deeply distressed and troubled. My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death, he said to them Stay here and keep watch. Going a little farther, he fell to the ground and prayed that if possible, the hour might pass from him Ah, Father, he said, everything is possible for you. Take this cup from me, yet not what I will, but what you will Then he returned to the disciples and found them sleeping. Simon, he said to Peter, are you asleep? Could you not keep watch for one hour? Watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the body is weak. Once more he went away and prayed the same thing. When he came back, he again found them sleeping because their eyes were heavy. They did not know what to say to him. Returning the third time, he said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? Enough. The hours come. Look, the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us go. Here comes my betrayer Just as he was speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, appeared. With him was a crowd armed with swords and clubs sent from the chief priests, the teachers of the law, and the elders. Now the betrayer had arranged a signal with them. The one-eye kisses the man. Arrest him and lead him away under guard. Going at once to Jesus, Judas said, Rabbi, and kissed The men seized Jesus and arrested him. Then one of those standing near drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest, cutting off his ear. Here. Am I leading rebellion? said Jesus, that you have come out with swords and clubs to capture me? Every day I was with you, teaching in the temple courts, and you did not arrest me But the scriptures must be fulfilled. Then everyone deserted him and fled. A young man wearing nothing but a linen garment was following Jesus When they seized him, he fled naked, leaving his garment behind. We're going to pause here, we're going to have a word of prayer here in a moment. uh again I want to emphasize there's this theme of belief and unbelief and fear and and lack of fear. And Fear in and of itself is not a sin. Jesus was afraid, and he was deeply sorrowed by what lay before him, but he trusted the Father, he trusted God, and so he acted with boldness and uh had faith and so then he was able to behave and speak in a way that was absent of fear. And a couple of little quick Bible study notes for you. If you have your Bibles open, you'll make a note. It's interesting here that you know one of them standing here Oftentimes you'll hear me when reading scripture, particularly in a sanctuary setting, I might end the reading of God's word by saying Them who have ears to hear, let them hear. And here you have someone who doesn't hear the truth, doesn't recognize God, doesn't believe Jesus doesn't trust God and so symbolically here has no ear to hear. But let's not be too hard on that high priest's servant because the disciples themselves really weren't hearing so well, were they? They were told to keep watch. They were told to pray. And instead they slept. We know now that Christ is risen and he is going to return again, and we are told to keep watch and to pray until the second coming. Are we watching? Are we praying? Or are we sleeping? Do we have ears to hear? If so, let us hear. And now Let us pray. I've asked if Angela would open us in prayer, and then if Megan wants to join in, she can. If I feel led to to pray, I will. And then Dina's going to close us in prayer. We thank you again, Father. We thank you for the gift of Jesus Christ, Lord. We thank you that in the midst of a trying time that even if we are afraid, we can look at the example of Jesus Christ and realize that all we need to do is turn Turn to you in prayer and and pour out our heart before you the way Jesus did. And as you did with him, you will do with us. You will send angels to strengthen us and help get us Through a difficult time. And we just pray, Lord, that the hope that Jesus is at so many people, because of this fear that is permeating our society and the world. We we we're just praying Lord that so many people um that they l learn about Jesus Christ and they learn about the one Whom we can turn to to be strengthened in the midst of our fears. And we don't have to live in fear. It can just be a temporary condition as it was with our Lord. And he was facing the most horrible things can be faced. And yet he found strength. And so Lord, we thank you for that every step of the way and the gospel that we um we are fed. by the Word of God, strengthened, encouraged by the Word of God, is precious to us. We look again to the cross and what he has done and the fact that he rose today on the third day. We find our hope in that once more. And we just bless you for it, Father. And we thank you for this precious gift of Jesus Christ and his resurrection today. that um it's perfect love that casts out fear, God, that you we get to celebrate today your perfect love um and that we get to experience that every day, God, in these times that are so fearful for so many, God, that you are just your love is still here with us and we are still able to show it to others to help banish that fear, God. Uh we just are also so thankful, Lord, for the technology that still lets us celebrate Easter with others, God. Um even though we might not be together um in real life all across, we are able to be together virtually. We just thank you very much for that technology, God. that we can share your love for us together on this day. Father, we praise you for your eternal plan. And the confidence and trust we can have that you are in control sovereignly of orchestrating that plan to its completion. World, that we can look back to the sacrifice of the cross and the emptiness of the tomb, and we can draw strength as believers in you and your word And yet we acknowledge that we are in a pre-second coming world as well. And so there is still pain and sorrow and death and struggle. So many economic hardship So many medical difficulties. But we praise you for those that in this time who have gotten sick, who have gotten well. We praise you for those who've been protected from getting sick during this time. this season. And we praise you for the uh good news that uh we in our church received this week that uh Darlene who lost her job right before all the craziness took place after Actually got a new job in the midst of this craziness and that she starts this coming week. We thank you for these reminders of your sovereign touch on our lives that you care for those who belong to you, that you love us, that you chose to love us before we knew to love you. You love us as we come to you, as we are, and yet you love us enough not to leave us where we are, and to transform us, to march us forward on our path of sanctification. Until that wondrous day of glorification that awaits. We thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you for the trustworthiness of the many wondrous witnesses who testify to the risen Christ. We thank you that we can commemorate and celebrate and recognize What film we've called most wondrous day and most wonderful wondrous miracle of all. We thank you, you're giving us our Holy Spirit. Your Holy Spirit, that we have it in indwelling us, that you are in us, in our heart, leading us, guiding us, helping us to trust you. To love you and to love others. Father, you have made your son Jesus Lord of all. He is on the throne right now. Yes, indeed he is risen. He is king over everything. And yet you use just us mural human beings to also um carry out your will. So I take this moment now as you tell us to do to pray for those who view elected to be in authority over us in our land. We know that unless they are seeking you, they really cannot possibly do your work. will. So I pray that you would make each leader that you've allowed to be in office to seek you, that you would even disturb them in the middle of the night with dreams, calling them their name just like you've done, like you tell us in your word, that you would haunt them in a good way, that you would ever, ever pursue them, hunt them down so that they cannot ignore you, that they would want to do your will, that they would want to serve the people that they've been put in office over, but pray for godly officials to govern the land locally and of course globally. I pray ultimately for your will to be done. And I know that that is the case because you are a sovereign God Over all, and you will cause all things to work for good for those who call upon your name. And we do, we call out and cry out to you, Abba Father, rescue us. And And rescuer is in the name of Jesus. And so we are so thankful for that. I pray that your will be done. I pray that you would lead us not into temptation. The enemies ever Prowling around. Deliver us from evil. Keep us safe, Father, until the day comes again we can rejoice with you as you bring heaven. to earth. It is in your glorious name that we pray. Amen. Amen. I think we are on We are gonna be doing he lives next. Okay, so we've done two. Yeah. Okay. Just wanna make sure. Passion week and we're on uh verse 53 of chapter 14. And by the way, where we ended, we had the uh young man running off naked. It's interesting, he leaves the garden exposed and naked. You know, if you're familiar with what happens in the Garden of Eden. And they felt exposed and naked and they fled or they hid in fear. So again, there's this theme of fear and not trusting that God's got it under control. Uh and in case I forget to bring it up later, in uh verse sixty-four of what we're about to read, it's gonna say they condemned him, Jesus, as worthy of death because of what they deem to be blasphemy says they all condemned him as worthy of death. What a note of irony we have there. Yes, he is worthy of death as the spotless lamb To pay the price that's due to all of us. Wondrous part of the gospel message. So now picking up chapter 14, verse 53. They took Jesus to the high priest, and all the chief priests, elders, and teachers of the law came together. Peter followed him at a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest. There he sat with the guards and warmed himself at the fire. The chief priests of the whole Sanhedrin were looking for evidence against Jesus so that they could put him to death. But they did not find any. Many testified falsely against him, but their statements did not agree. Then some stood up and gave this false testimony against him. We heard him say, I will destroy this man-made temple and in three days will build another not made by man. Yet even then their testimony did not agree. Then the high priest stood up before them and asked Jesus, Are you not going to answer? What is this testimony that the men are bringing against you? But Jesus remained silent and gave no answer. Again the high priest asked him, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed One? I am, said Jesus. And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the mighty one and coming on the clouds of heaven. The high priest tore his clothes. Why do we need any more witnesses? He asked. You have heard the blasphemy. What do you think? They all condemned him as worthy of death. Then some began to spit at him. They blindfolded him, struck him with their fists, and said, Prophesy and the guards took him. And beat him. While Peter was in was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came by, and when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked closely at him. You also were with that Nazarene Jesus, she said. But he denied it. I do not know or understand what you're talking about, he said, and went out into the entryway When the servant girl saw him there, she said again to those standing around, This fellow is one of them. Again, he denied it. After a little while those standing near said to Peter, Surely you are one of them, for you are a Galilean. He began to call down curses on himself, and he swore to them, I don't know this man you're talking about. Immediately the rooster crowed the second time. Then Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken to him. Before the rooster crows twice, you will disown me three times And he broke down and wept. Very early in the morning the chief priests with the elders, the teachers of the law, and the whole Sanhedrin reached a discipline They bound Jesus, led him away, and handed him over to Pilate. Are you the King of the Jews? asked Pilate. Yes, it is as you say, Jesus replied. The chief priests accused him of many things, so again Pilate asked him, Aren't you going to answer? See how many things they are accusing you of? But Jesus still made no reply, and Pilate was amazed. It is rather amazing. Let's let's sing our third song of the evening, which was what one? He lives. He lives. Oh baby, I I see his hand of voice, I hear his voice of cheer, and just the time I need him. In all ways, in all I see this place today. He walks with me and talks with me and all that. He lost, he loved salvation to him. You ask me how he lives, he lives the end I worth And though my heart is weary, I never will despair. I know that he is me, you are the story blessed. The day of the meaning of Today he walk with me and talk with me on the general way. Salvation to him. He loves me. E joy, te joy, salvishun, lift up your voice and sing. Eternal glory unto Jesus Christ the King, the whole thing in the house. The wall who die, the crystal He walks with me and talks with me, I'll not let everyone. You like me all That has like an old Jimmy Garland feel to it, doesn't it? So we're picking up now in uh Mark's gospel account, chapter fifteen, verse six. Now it was the custom at the feast to release a prisoner whom the people requested. A man called Barabbas was in prison with the insurrectionists who had committed murder in the uprising The crowd came up and asked Pilate to do for them what he usually did. Do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? asked Pilate, knowing it was out of envy that the chief Priests had handed Jesus over to him, but the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have Pilate release Barabbas instead. What shall I do then with the one that you call the king of the Jews? Pilate asked them. Crucify him, they shouted. Why? What crime has he committed? asked Pilate. But they shouted all louder. Crucify him! Wanting to satisfy the crowd, Pilate released Barabbas to them. He had Jesus flogged and handed him over to be crucified. The soldiers led Jesus away into the palace, that is the Praetorium, and called together the whole company of soldiers. They put a purple robe on him, then twisted together a crown of thorns, and set it on him. And began to call out to him, Hail, King of the Jews! Again and again they struck him on the head with a staff and spit on him. Falling on their knees, they paid homage to him, and when they had mocked him, they took off the purple robe and put his own clothes on him. Then they let him out to crucify him. A certain man from Cyrene, Simon, the father of Alexander and Rufus, was passing by on his way in from the country. And they forced him to carry the cross. They brought Jesus to the place called Golgotha, which means the place of the skull. Then they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it. And they crucified him. Dividing up his clothes, they cast lots to see what each would get. It was the third hour when they crucified him. The written notice of the charge against him read the king of the Jews. They crucified two robbers with him, one on his right, one on his left. Those who passed by hurled insults at him, shaking their heads and saying, so you are going to destroy the temple and build it in three days. Come down from the cross and save yourself. In the same way, the chief priests and the teachers of the law mocked him among themselves. He saves others, they said, but he can't save himself. Let this Christ, this King of Israel, come down now from the cross that we may see and believe. Those crucified with him also heaped insults. on him. At the sixth hour, darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried out in a loud voice, Eloy, Eloy, Lama Sabatani, which means, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? When some of those standing near heard this, they said, Listen, he's calling Elijah. One man ran, filled a sponge with wine vinegar, put it on a stick, and offered it to Jesus to drink. Now leave him alone. Let's see if Elijah comes to take him down, he said. With a loud cry, Jesus breathed his last. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And when the centurion, who stood there in front of Jesus, heard his cry and saw how he died, he said, Surely this man was the son of God. Some women were watching from a distance. Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, The younger, and of Joseph and Salome. In Galilee, these women had followed him and cared for his needs. Many other women who had come up with him to Jerusalem were also there. Well we're heading down the home stretch now. So we're going to uh pause before we get the the final part of uh Mark's uh gospel account. uh read to us aloud. We're gonna sing a song that was referenced last week and that are links to in a comment section of the Facebook page If you're a fan of contemporary Christian radio stations, you've been hearing this song played a lot. And we're doing our own kind of acoustic version of it. Holy water. Walking down the steps and broad water through a first is so I need you. Ohne you're gonna forget that It's like sweet, sweet, honey on my list. Like sadly. If I only water one, I can get You gotta walk this way to say I wanna know about me and forever. Yeah, I need you. Oh God, I need you. Give me to the fear of the side, save the under you. Oh God and deep dear, you know how I break this It's like sleep, sweet money on thy lips, like now just beneath my ears. I don't want to I don't wanna use your rage. God, I need it every day. The only thing that ever really makes me want a change. I don't want a few race. God I need it every day. It's the only thing that ever really makes me want to change. I don't want to abuse your race. Yeah, I need it every day. It's the only thing that ever really makes me watch. I don't want you to race. But I need it every day. It's the only thing that ever really makes me want to change your Forgive this. It might be high on my lips. Like a sound, symphony, can high ears It's like holy water on my skin. Your forgiveness. When it's like sweet, sweet money on my. . Like sound of symptoms of my ears. Always like holy water on my skin. And my bony water on my skin. That's your version. Mark's Gospel, chapter fifteen, verse forty two It was preparation day, that is the day before the Sabbath. So as evening approached Joseph of Arimathea, a prominent member of the council, who was himself waiting for the kingdom of God, went boldly to Pilate and asked for Jesus' body. Pilate was surprised to hear that he was already dead. Summoning the centurion, he asked him if Jesus had already died. When he learned from the centurion that it was so, he gave the body to Joseph. So Joseph bought some linen cloth. Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joseph saw where he was laid When the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene, Mary, the mother of James and Salome, brought spices so that they might go to anoint Jesus' body Very early on the first day of the week, just after sunrise, they were on their way to the tomb when they asked each other, who will roll the stone away from the entrance of the tomb? But when they looked up, they saw that the stone, which was very large, had been rolled away. As they entered the tomb, they saw a young man dressed in In a white robe sitting on the right side, and they were alarmed. Don't be alarmed, he said. You are looking for Jesus, the Nazarene, who was crucified. He is risen. He is not here. See the place where they laid him. But go tell his disciples and Peter, he is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him, just as he told you Trembling and bewildered, the woman went out and fled from the tomb. They said nothing to anyone, because they were afraid. When Jesus rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had driven seven demons. She went and told those who had been with him and who were mourning and weeping. When they heard that Jesus was alive and that she had seen him, they did not believe it. Afterward, Jesus appeared in a different form to two of them while they were walking in the country. These returned and reported it to the rest, but they did not believe them either. Later, Jesus appeared to the eleven as they were eating. He rebuked them for their lack of faith and their stubborn refusal to believe, those who had seen him. After he had risen. He said to them, Go into all the world and preach the good news to all creation. Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned. And these signs will accomplish accompany those who believe. In my name they will drive out demons, they will speak in new tongues, they will pick up snakes with their hands And when they drink deadly poison, it will not hurt them at all. They will place their hands on sick people, and they will get well. After the Lord Jesus has spoken to them. He was taken up into heaven, and he sat at the right hand of God. When the disciples went out and preached everywhere, and the Lord worked with them and confirmed his word by the signs that it accompanied it. And thus ends Mark's Gospel. And uh in case you're not aware, verse nine through the end of the chapter of Mark 16 There's some debate over whether or not those are original. Uh most Bibles have it with a note saying that the earliest manuscripts and other eightness witnesses Do not have it. Um but it helps to put a a bow bow tie or uh a tie a bow on the uh the gospel account of Mark would otherwise ends rather suddenly. It ends otherwise it would end with they were afraid. Maybe that was by its design. Maybe if we were supposed to have it end with they were afraid. It's kind of a begs the question of of the reader. Is the reader afraid? You know, they they were told that he would die, they would rise again, they go, they find the empty tomb and they find it empty and someone tells them, yeah, he's not here. And they were alarmed. They were alarmed. They were afraid. And then when they go to tell the people in the the verses that they're have some contention about whether they're original or not, again there's this echo You know, and verse 11, they did not believe. Verse 13, they did not believe. Verse 14, their lack of faith, refusal to believe. And verse sixteen, Whoever believes will be saved. Do we believe? I know we say that we believe. Christians say that they believe. But do we believe? How do we know if we believe Jesus could have said over and over and over again that he was trusting the Father. He did. He said the Father and He were one. So he's obviously claiming to trust the Father. Then in fear he beseeches the father to somehow, if possible, remove the cup, but then says, not my will, your will. So he backs up what he was saying to be true by actions that prove that what he was saying were indeed true. So do we believe? Are we keeping watch? Are we in prayer? Are we doing as God commands? Are we being obedient? Are we being ambassadors for the kingdom of God? Are we living our lives as though we believe he is risen? Living our lives believing that he has conquered death and therefore we need not fear it. Do we believe that he is risen? That he is risen indeed If you're waffling, if you're not sure, that's okay. You can change Your behavior and your thoughts right now. Because in what we read, we had Peter. He waffled. He didn't believe. He denied Christ three times. And yet he is now known as a man of great faith, a faith that is a rock upon which the church is built. If Peter could deny Christ, and still have salvation, you can waffle in your assurance and still come to Christ, to the foot of the cross. Knowing that the story doesn't end at the foot of the cross because we have the empty tomb. Oh, how my heart aches for believers to believe You have no idea how much my heart aches for that. For believers to believe. Even myself. All of us, we have moments when We wobble in our faith. Some of us might go through seasons where we turn our back on what we've been raised to believe is true If that has been you, if that is you now, if that should somehow end up being you tomorrow, remember Peter's story. Remember Jesus' word Words. Believe in his name. Whatever is bedeviling you. If you're under attack, we are in a spiritual war. If you are under attack If your faith is in, would appear to your sensibilities to be in jeopardy because of those attacks, Jesus says, believe in my name. You will drive out those demons. Life is hard until the second coming When we'll be fully glorified. But even so, right now we have great reason to rejoice, and that reason to rejoice is that He Is risen. Jesus is alive. Believers. Believe it Believe it. Oh I pray you believe it. And if you just happened upon this Facebook video you're watching and you've never believed it before. Believe it now. And God might have a call on your life that you haven't recognized until right now. So now's a good time to recognize it, don't you think? It's okay I don't know if it's okay. It's okay to admit that we have doubts. I don't know if it's okay to have doubts. It's okay to admit that we have doubts. But turn to the word. Turn to center mature in the faith who can help you through those doubts because I'm sure there's a lot of doubts in the world right now. But your Maker loves you.