This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table grab bag, with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the good doctor. Is there a doctor in the house? One of the characteristics of the man of God is in John chapter fifteen, verse 13. And it says greater love is no one than this. He laid out his life for his friends. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com keyword faith, sponsored by High Low AutoStails and Tire Pros of Frederick. I live that verse. I don't mean to sound depressing, but I live for that verse on a daily basis for all of my friends and even strangers. That's just the way I feel. The day I would just get to lay down my life and die and save someone else. That's why I want to join the military just to lay down my life for my country so that we could enjoy our freedom. In this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, mix Master Joy Skinner. In this corner, weighing in with a PhD. from Westminster Theological Seminary, the good Doctor, J Sproadhurst. But there's something that we seem to miss when we read that verse. And it's not saying that you necessarily have to die for your friend for it to be under that verse. When was the last time, I don't know, you were at school and they're picking on this one kid instead of just ignoring it or walking away or walking up there and telling 'em how they're wrong and just trying to insult them? I have dreams about it, I have thoughts about it all the time. There's an example. of why we need to have churches that subscribe to the remarks of a true church so that we don't get just snowbar theology and thinking right, but that we actually follow through all the way to the end of our thought Without taking a veering left turn into hyper patriotism patriotism and wishes of death so that I can prove that I'm willing to lay down my life for my friend in high school or it's Um nutty stuff that's out there. Anyway, this is the faith debate. The good Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Hello, everyone. Good morning. That's his voice. And we're also joined by another good doctor, Peter Delascentina, who is the uh senior pastor at Nielsville Presbyterian Church in uh Nielsville, uh Germantown. Germantown. Good morning. Is Nielsville his own town? You know, Neil's uh the family is buried in our cemetery. So Germantown would have been called Nielsville. They just saw all those Germans living out there, let's just call it German town, that's what happened. Okay, so Nielsville isn't actually a a thing. Well That's correct. I don't think I can trust anything else you say. It's only taking you four four weeks to go to to catch off. Who let this guy in? No, I never heard of it because it doesn't actually exist Fake news 20701 Frederick Road. Germantown. Germantown, Maryland. How does anybody ever find you? You're Wegmits, that's all you need to do. It's a church in uh Nealsville, you know. Uh they can never find you. GPS gets totally confused, recalculating So anyway, we were talking about church discipline last week. This is the fourth in a s uh a series of of shows on similar topics, talking about the marks of a church and uh the three marks, the word properly preached, uh the sacraments rightly administered, and the church uh church discipline. uh rightly executed or uh uh uh enacted. So the twelve reasons that churches don't practice church discipline. This is also from the internet. And I'm just gonna whip through a few of these because they're fun. So and I think you guys will you can all chime in like, yep, that sounds right, or th this thing on the internet is totally bogus. These are the reasons that churches do not uh practice discipline. Number one, they don't know the Bible's teaching on discipline. And therefore it's a topic that pastors choose to avoid. Seems likely. They've never seen it done before. So they're ignorant to it. They don't want to appear judgmental. Ding ding ding. Judge not lest ye be judged, right? Most misused verse in the Bible probably. The church has a wide open front door, meaning it's uh really easy to join Which makes it really hard to enact discipline. Um the the church, the pastors have had a bad experience with discipline in the past. Is that true really? If they haven't done it, they don't even know what it looks like. How many bad experiences could they have really had? We're not sure this is all the problems in one church. This is lots of problems. Now this one's interesting. The church is afraid to open Pandora's box because I mean if they have discipline on one person, I mean they'll have to execute discipline on all the people, right? Or yeah, or how much discipl like what do you have to do? You are medling that's right here. Uh see, they have no guidelines for discipline. This might be something we could explore in a little bit uh more detail in a second, but uh some sub-questions that relate to this. Um what sins is discipline necessary for? You know, for what sins? Uh at what point does the church leadership choose to make these uh sins Private since public. 'Cause that would be part because you're excommunicating them, that becomes a public declaration of what's going on, right? It's interesting. Maybe we'll swing back. Um you fear being seen as legalistic? Hm. And churches can be come legalistic. Oh yeah. So you gotta be careful of that. Churches don't enact discipline because they they hope the transfer growth will fix the problem. This is my favorite on the list. Shuffle it off to somebody else. Chase is like, you know what? Why don't you just go over to Pastor Pete's church for a while? I've sent several people here. Let him deal with it. That'll solve the problem. And this is probably the most profound uh item on the on this list of twelve Leaders are sometimes dealing with their own sin. And so to discipline others would bring conviction on themselves. So that's all Yeah, that that brings back to what Pete was saying before, that we're just we're all we're all messes. Yeah. And coming to other people that are messes and just trying to remind them of grace and And the need to walk in an upright fashion. Now based on just real quick before we get into uh a larger topic I want to make sure we have time for, um and We've talked, I think, last week, I'm pretty sure we covered it well enough, the kinds of things where the the leadership of the church would step in and provide some discipline. But the second thing that I threw out there is an interesting question. At what point is it appropriate, right, righteous to make a private sin public? What level or what kind of sin? Or what what circumstance have you let me ask you this way. Have you had in your years of being a pastor a situation where you've had to say you are no longer seen as a member, a a communion member of this church, and in our next members meeting we need to let everybody know this is what's going on? Have you had that situation. Yes and no. Yes I've I've have had that conversation along with other elders, uh with individuals, but we haven't done it to the whole church. Uh it hasn't had to get to that point where we announced it to the whole church. Hm. Yes, we have. So that's not a okay, that's interesting. And let me explain to everyone what happened this that's a big aspect of this the way it's communicated, if it's communicated long or not. And and usually it's handled in a way, uh in my experience, that it's uh fairly private. I think And a big aspect of just determining what your question, your first question was, is the impact that it has on the community, that the family unit if they're a family and the whole community, to what degree does it need to be addressed by the whole congregation being part of it? Okay. So they would just kind of disappear from your church's f you know, family life as a church kind of thing, and people would kind of scratch their head and say, Well, whatever happened to Joe, he disappeared. No, I'm saying it's it's happened, the communication has happened, but not you you asked Congregation comes together and we announce it in a direct way. I don't think I've had that. Have you had that? We're gonna talk about Joe and So the difference between our churches is you have a very Presbyterian government and our ours is kind of a a mix of that plus congregational. So in order to become a member you have to be voted in by the congregation. In order to not become a member, you have to be voted out by the congregation. So at a member's meeting, not in a co not in a worship service, we wouldn't necess I I we have not anyway, I'm not sure. I'm sure that's a good idea. Right. You know, they don't attend church anymore. So, you know, they've basically said we don't want to be a part of your church anymore, and so we have to come and we have to say, look, they've decided they don't want to be a part of this church anymore. They're not coming anymore, they've shown us this So, you know, it's the elders um uh our thought that they should know and we've talked to them about it. We've gone to their home, we've had discussions with them. We've pleaded with them but they're just saying, you know, I I just don't consider it that important. I'm not gonna come anymore. And so eventually and there's a long process, usually it's Usually I think perhaps too long in our church, might take over a year for us to get there, where we would come to the congregation and say, We love this person. We would call you to call out to them that they need to be here Um they need to be a part of our our congregation and if they still don't, if they are unrepentant in that area or whatever the area is then yeah we would ask the church to uh we would recommend to the church that they would dismiss them from the membership. Now in that case though they're they kind of excommunicated themselves and you're just acknowledging the decision that they've made. They decided to leave And that's in that example that you've used. That's probably ninety-nine percent of the examples. that relationship. You know, I've ended up in their home just trying to have conversations with one or the other or or both, perhaps. Or yeah. Yeah, and those those conversations among the elders of the church. But I thought w where you started was w uh the sharing or airing this out among the whole congregation. The reality is in in our in my context, I don't know about your experience, but I'm usually the point person on these issues of discipline, of coming to someone. And I'm usually dragging an elder or two, c can you help me out? Let's go in on this together to handle it. people are confiding in in in me as a pastor or one of the other pastors. And and I trying I'm working on how do we bring the elders to the table so that we're really following up. That idea of being under shepherds. We have the good shepherd we're following. Christ is our shepherd. He's the head of the church. He calls us to be under shepherds to care for The flock, the share of the sheep. But don't do you sometimes feel like you're you're flying solo when you're dealing with a a discipline issue, someone struggling with something or maybe giving into Yeah, I mean at at that level, I you know, again, there's these s steps, and I don't think there's like, okay, step one, step two, step three, I don't think Matthew AC is quite that I I don't think it's supposed to be taken that way, but there is a movement towards you know, a more private conversation, uh a discipling to eventually bringing it to the entire church. So somewhere in there, uh you know, I'm gonna be brought into that situation probably. And yes, I will bring hopefully some more elders who will come along. Our church is I I don't say this with any kind of elitist set it's relatively healthy in that regard that my elders want desperately to appeal to those people. They want to show their love to them. So they will they will get into the mud with me. And you know, but it's never I guess I I just wonder who people are hearing this. They keep hearing the word discipline. Um maybe they did hear last week. We're not talking about something that you know, like we're there to beat them up or or to bring the whips or change or we're we're there just to show that we love them like crazy. And that's that's part of the discipleship, the discipline process. Yeah. And we've spent now this is uh thank you for reminding me to remind our listener that you know this is we're now three and a half shows into kind of a a theme, talking about identifying the marks of a true church, which is going to lead up to what we're now gonna transition to in a second about when it's appropriate to leave the church if the church isn't meeting these standards of the marks, the marks being the word rightly preached, the sacraments rightly administered. in a church that practices discipline. And we've been spending some time explaining what discipline looks like. And some people self-discipline, they leave. Yeah. In a weird I mean it's kind of a sarcastic weird way of putting it. And let me ask if any of this feels uh familiar to you as reasons that were given why these people stopped going. I'm not being fed. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Church is getting too big or it's getting too small, maybe. I don't agree with everything that's being preached. Me neither. My needs aren't being met. Unresolved conflict in the church. And they just can't deal with it, so they're finally just gonna w are those biggies? Yeah, we need to talk about each one of those, don't we? I mean Well let's break it down. What about music? I don't like the the music has changed. The spirit is present. I I I sense the spirit is good. I mean that's bad, but it's a good example. According to Might Outground this church, I've just too mature in Christ and feeding. Oh, that's daggers in the heart right there. You ever heard that one They've outgrown your church? They're you're just food feeding them? How about uh there's no meat here? Yeah. Changing the carpet or I'll I'll let you guys know. At Neilsville we've just installed a screen in the sanctuary. It is beautiful, by the way. Thank you. Well. It took Only a decade to get there. Uh these are all reasons why people give. But if somebody gave a reason like, you know, you're preaching a false gospel or the teachings are are not biblical or you're denying that Jesus is God in the flesh or Uh yeah, you're not practicing discipline or rightly doing the the the the three marks of the church. Uh or you're not dealing with uh dis discipline at the leadership level. Your elders are misbehaving and you're not doing anything about it Um those would all be reasonable uh reasons for somebody to consider leaving the church, right? Or at least enter the conversation. Look You're not preaching the gospel. Once you start choosing preaching the gospel, I gotta leave. Well not only reasonable but but necessary. Uh Galatians 1, 7 to 9 speaks to that. If there's a gospel that's being preached that's contrary to what we see in Scripture, if the leaders are allowing or tolerating uh doctrine to be uh twisted and turned. If if there's a lack of church discipline, it's if it's just apparently clear that there aren't biblical standards being held in the church, or if there's outright hypocrisy, these are all Legitimate reasons to consider leaving. Because all of those things in our mind like these are all heresies, right? These are all In our minds, where we are at that time, we think they're not doing a good job, I need to leave. Or they're not doing a biblical job And I think people just disappear. Or is they or they you know, they come and they write a horrible letter that says you're not doing all these things and then they're gone. And that's one of my big concerns as a pastor, especially as a discipling pastor, as someone who loves his sheep his congregation. These are these are friends that I've built a relationship with too. that they wouldn't even they wouldn't even have a conversation. They wouldn't even they would just disappear. Like I might be able to convince them or I might like they might be wrong, but I might be too. They may actually call me out on something and I'd be like My goodness, I didn't know. I didn't even think about that. You're absolutely right. I need to tell the congregation I'm a sinner. I messed this up. If they're theologically astute enough to recognize those kinds of problems, then they should be mature enough to then Right. Right be be an adult and come directly say, Hey, this is a problem I'm having with you and have a have a ch Gentle, humble dialogue. We haven't mentioned sin in the last seventeen sermons, really? Troy, your listeners or driving to church maybe today or or staying home in protest. Uh there are are probably some folks that are are struggling with these questions right now. There are probably pastors. in their stay getting ready or on their way to church wondering are are they going to come back to church, is that couple going to leave or or or so this is this is a really, really practical. Important practical thing to understand. Do not leave your church. uh without going through a process that we're about to explain to you in great detail. And starting with a lot of prayer. So if you press So if if you identify what you think is uh hypocrisy or let's say there's uh some sort of uh unaddressed abuse going on or there's money issues like the m you know they they're not properly accounting for their money, if you know what I mean. And uh and they've and they've pressed through and ha and they're trying to do it the right way At some point it is okay, we're gonna get through the process in just a second, but to address Jace's point. At some point it is okay to walk away. Yeah. Right? In fact it it's more than okay, I guess, at Pete's point. At some point it's necessary to walk away. So you do have permission after you've gone through the process. And that process would look like what exactly? After you've gone through the process is is so key to to understand Well it begins with prayer. It begins with coming to the Lord and and and really laying out these concerns and trying to understand because I think oftentimes when people have left a church, left my church, there's the presenting issue, there's a lack of this ministry. family ministry or or or musical. It's the presenting issue and then there's the real issue behind that. You go to the doctor, what's ailing you? I have this cough. Okay, let's take a look. What's really let's listen to your heart. What's happening There's something going on deep inside. Let's get to that. I'd say first and foremost, you need to go to the leadership. directly to pastor or or elders with your concerns in a humble way. Help me understand. This is what I'm hearing and seeing. Can you help me understand? You gotta go there before you talk to anyone else. Would that be a place? I would I would love that. I would uh if someone actually did that, like, I don't know that anybody's ever done that. And coming and coming to me. And a lot of people have left the church. My father-in-law, famous story of of our family lore, when I thought about going to ministry before I became a pastor, uh talked about going to uh their pastor um with my mother in law setting up an appointment and sharing his concerns and saying, Help me understand and it they worked through this process with this pastor and the pastor said, You know, you're the first You're the first member of our church to come to me first. Yeah. He said you didn't talk to everyone else. No, I I came to you. I think that's the Dokumala to start with. Yeah, I think that's beautiful. And to before that, as you've been praying, as you've been searching the scripture and seeing are these concerns these really meet those criteria that Troy that you laid out, if they haven't, then I need to Worked it out on my own. I'm not going to lay all this on a pastor because he's he's doing the best he can. But if it does reach that point I want to come to him. So start at the top. And really start at the very top first by going to God in prayer. Go go to the Lord in prayer. Right. And and then those who were top of the leadership in the church and confront them directly and give them an opportunity to respond And if necessary they could correct their ways or they could at least explain their ways and maybe persuade you that oh, I guess I had that wrong, that what my leadership is doing is right. And then if failing that then it's it's uh if that is exhausted, you walk away. Is that what you're saying? Well I think there's there's there are more things. We we're we're talking about the idea of there's concerns this person has about the teaching or the direction of the church. There could be other reasons that are are legitimate where you may leave. It may be a desire for a different teaching. It may be a desire for a more convenient location. It's just too difficult to to get there. It may be I've I have different needs for my family. But those aren't leaving in a huff and those are the kinds of things that if you share them with a leadership, a leadership might actually share your heart on that. So you know what? You probably should go to a church that's closer to your house. You probably should go to a church that's more closely aligned with where you are theologically, so we're not knocking heads all the time. time and creating a disruption and lack of unity and probably was most most leaders most pastors uh well I hope I pray this is true are more concerned with the kingdom than they are with their particular church. You know, my little tiny this is my empire. We we want the kingdom of God to grow. And if if we need to let someone go for the betterment of the kingdom, you know, you you can't drive forty five minutes here, you've got six kids. Right. You need to stay where you're at. This is there's a good church there. Why don't you try this one or this one? These These guys are great people that that will lead you and take care of you and you know, shelter mentor all the So I think I think pastors Sometimes I think that w people don't want to come to the past because they're afraid that you know they're gonna offend them, that this is their this is their thing. And uh we we we're happy to let people go. if that is what God is calling them to do. And then we only have like a minute left. I just want to ask the big ma a big macro question here. All these things we've talked about on a personal level They play out on the larger denominational level too. We know about the famous fights. The Episcopal Church a few years ago was really in the news with the the the homosexual ordination uh issue that caused a big split in that church. Go back to the seventies. I mean you're a Presbyterian. The PCUSA birthed the PCA back in the seventies because of a divide over some of these kinds of questions, maybe, maybe not. It's going through that now that PC USA is going through a real tumultuous time, right? uh disaffiliation process. We're nearing the end of that divorce and that that separation to move to a different denomination. So that's like a whole nother conversation I guess. But it but all the same principles apply is is the point, correct Very much so. Similar, just different levels and different uh different kinds of hierarchy to deal with. Although for a Baptist church you're independent, I'm not extra what that means. Yeah, no one's quite sure what that means. Um yeah we're autonomous but we have a close affiliation with a cooperative body. Pasper we got good news and bad news. Good news we have that heard me you talk to us about bad news we voted you out. That's right. Exactly. Sounds like a scene from uh um that uh Facing the Giants movie where the coach overhears them kick him out, right? It's like a Baptist environment. Anyway, thank you so much. Uh Pete Uh, Dr. Peter Delisantina from Nielsville Presbyterian Church. Dr. James Rodhurst from Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Our sponsors, um, two of them, High Low Auto Sales and Tire Pros of Frederick. Thank you so much for listening. God bless