And let me make sure I'm not blocking the microphone. I think I'm blocking the microphone a little bit. Here we go. And it looks like we're rolling. Hello, Facebook Land. Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ. And remember, these videos are not just on my Facebook page, but you can find all of our videos archived on the Household of Faith in Christ YouTube channel. Feel free to subscribe. there and hit the notifications bell anytime we post a new video you get a notification that it's there. You can do that if you like. Feel free to like and comment on YouTube. Feel free to like and comment Here on Facebook. Speaking of our videos, two weeks ago we didn't have our Saturday evening live gathering, so the only video we posted then was a short two or three minute test testimonial video from a a young lady who had the honor of officiating her wedding last weekend. And then last weekend we didn't do our typical thing either, but I did do a live video where I kind of recap some of the Highlights from the wedding ceremony. Did that mostly for Dan and Sarah so they'd have a memento from their wedding day, but also I put it up there live for anybody who might want to see kind of the uh the biblical and Christian importance and meaning meaning that's that's packed into uh our marriage and so I put it up there for that purpose as well. And before we get back into our regular stream and habit of recent uh weeks and months We're going to do something a little bit unusual this week too, but let me uh set the stage for what we're going to be doing starting next week and get back into our series on 1 John. Next week We'll be focusing on beginning our focus on 1 John chapter 4, verses 7 through 21. So if you want to read that between now and next week, you'll be prepared to hear There's going to be a two-part message on those verses called Love Is, Love Is Not. And so the first part of that two-part message will be next week. What we're going to do this week is more of a family meeting and I'll explain to you what we're talking about and why we're doing it the way we're doing. But before I go any further, uh would one of you two ladies want to open us in prayer? Sure. Um I Will do you want to close us? Okay. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this opportunity to come together and worship you. We ask that your Holy Spirit it would come into this discussion, that it would guide it, that it would cause it to be in perfect alignment with the truth, the one and only truth. We ask that You would be glorified, Lord Jesus. We ask that those who are watching would be changed forevermore into your likeness, that you would call us all. to yourself that um you would be glorified and I pray that you would fill Troy with your words in Jesus' name. Thank you. Amen. So I'm gonna start by reading uh a relatively well known and well I mean all of the Bible for a devoted Bible reading Christian is is can be well known, but there are There are some parts of the Bible that stand out, and I don't know that this is on the top ten favorite parts of the Bible, but it's a very well-regarded and a favorite passage of scripture for a lot of people, so you're gonna be familiar with knowing what I'm If you're not familiar, this is this is a a psalm where if you were to read in the original Hebrew, there's tons of repetition for impact, which I kind of like with the theme that we're in with with first John because the Apostle John in the New Testament he uses lots of repetition in his writing style too. And so uh there's kind of a correlation and connection in style anyway between those. And um this is a psalm that's talks about uh God's knowledge and God's presence and uh God's care and how his care is precious to us and our loyalty to God and the need for humility before God. These are some of the big themes that are in this. And as I read this, I want you to consider this is true for all of the songs Okay, but I'm reminding you now as I read this psalm. Christ Himself is the first singer of this psalm. The Psalms are songs. And he he, the Spirit of God, like the Spirit of Christ, the Word of God, wrote this along with David, but you know, David moved by the Spirit wrote this psalm. And so Jesus is the first singer of the song in a sense. And it's a song, of course, about him as well. So he sings with us as we sing about him. Okay, and I'm going to start with verse 1 and read all the way through to the end. There's about 24 or so verses in this psalm. Oh Lord, you have searched me. And you know me. You know when I sit and when I rise, you perceive my thoughts from afar. You discern my going out and my lying down. You are familiar with all my ways. Before a word is on my tongue, you know it completely, O Lord. You hemm me in behind and before, you have laid your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me, too lofty for me to attain. Where can I go from your spirit? Where can I flee from your presence? If I go up to the heavens, you are there. If I make my bed in the depths, you are there. You are there. If I rise on the wings of the dawn, if I settle on the far side of the sea, even there your hand will guide me, your right hand Will hold me fast. If I say, Surely the darkness will hide me, and the light become night around me, even the darkness will not be dark to you. The night will shine like the day, for darkness is as light to you. For you created my inmost being, you knit me together in my mother's womb. I praise you because I am fearfully And wonderfully made. Your works are wonderful. I know that full well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in the secret place, when I was woven together in the depth Of the earth, your eyes saw my unformed body. All the days ordained for me were written in your book before one of them came to be. How precious To me are your thoughts, O God. How vast is the sum of them. Were I to count them, they would outnumber the grains of sand. When I awake, I am still with you. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Test me and know my anxious thoughts. See if there is any offensive way in me, and lead me me in the way everlasting. Now if you were reading along you noticed something. If you were weren't reading along you might not have noticed anything at all. You're like, yeah, I kind of noticed that song and the talk about the the fearfully and wonderfully made that the common passages cited in abortion uh discussions and that sort of thing like yeah psalm 139 I love that song Well, if you weren't reading along, you probably if I were hearing this and I wasn't reading along, I might not have noticed it. I'm not rebuking you if you didn't notice this. But if you really, really, if you've committed this on the memory, some people have, you notice that I skipped over four verses. I skipped over verses 19 through 22. And so the reason I did that is the other verses, 24 verses here, I skipped over four of them. 18 of these verses are this beautiful passionate loving touchy feely God's so good and and I feel the comfort of that and I I'm committed to echo to living my life in such a way that expresses that sort of heartfelt attitude out of gratitude. And that's all good and that's all true. The problem is it's not sufficient. We can't choose to leave out the parts of Scripture that are hard truths. The fact that God loves us and He's there with us and He knows all all things. There's great comfort in that. And so that's a truth that's not really hard for a Christian to embrace. But right now we're living in a climate, and I don't know if it's just right now I think it's been historically true, but it feels particularly poignant right now that we're living in a moment in church history when we only want the other eighteen verses and we don't want to focus on Before I left out. So let me read the four that I left out. If only you would slay the wicked, O God. Away from me, you bloodthirsty men. They speak of you with evil intent. Your adversaries misuse your name. Do I not hate those who hate you, O Lord, and abhor those who rise up against you? I have nothing but hatred for them. I count them my enemies. We are in a situation right now, and I'm going to use some of the big, more popular names. Just this week, John Piper, a very famous Pastor in the Midwest and the Minneapolis area, faithful man of God, one of my favorite preachers of all time, dynamic leader of men. So much to love about John Python. In his ministry, and yet, for some reason, this week he posted an article, published an article saying that he was going to abstain from voting for either case candidate uh for president this year because he didn't like basically the platform that one guy stood for and he didn't like the arrogance of the other. That's his right, and we'll talk about that in a minute. But we also have Tim Keller, just this month, he published some things that Um didn't say that you should as a Christian vote for Joe Biden, but he basically gave you enough runway that you could get in that plane and have enough runway to take off on that mission and have no compunction about voting for the Democrat candidate. Was Tim Keller right to do that? And there Phil Fisher, I just posted a video about this actually uh today on my Facebook page, Bill Bisher put out a video talking about abortion. And we might think as Christians and Republicans have always been right about the abortion Question, but maybe that's not so. So if you want to vote for I mean the gist of it is if you want to vote for the Democrats, maybe that's okay. Is Phil Visher right? It sounds winsome It sounds loving, it sounds gracious, but there is a spiritual war that is turned that we can feel in a visceral way as a cultural war. war right now and we've got to make some decisions. And so we're going to spend some time in this family meeting having having a discussion. And if you have comments or questions you want to share in the comment section, we'll try to address Those during this time together. What is a Christian to do? And so I've made myself a few notes so I wouldn't forget any uh important things that we might want to talk about. Let's start with our current president, Donald Trump Donald Trump is famous or he could even argue infamous for name-calling, for that crass statement he was caught on tape and an off uh uh you know he didn't realize he was on Mike and grabbing women where you're not supposed to be graphing them and he's been called a buffoon uh or a clown. He is clearly uh a man with a big ego. You could even argue that he demonstrates that he can be rather egotistical. He's very bombastic and brash. Now some people love that about him, but a lot of Christians recoil from that sort of uh of a persona. Uh he too often I I would agree with this, that he too often lacks sufficient nuance in some of the things that he said says. Completely. He insults people. He can be vindictive when people attack him. He's been married three times. He's admitted that he's cheated on his wives. And I mean, there's a lot there not to like Joe Biden, the Democratic candidate, former Vice President of the United States. He's pristine, right? He's as white as the wind-driven snow. Well, Joe Biden, during his nearly 50 years in public office, is on record showing uh glowing support for white supremacists who are his colleagues. As politicians. Joe Biden has this creepy habit, it would seem, of sniffing women's hair and touching little girls and odds inappropriate ways. Uh he has demonstrated, particularly this year, we've seen it a lot, a volatile, unpredictable temper. He's gotten into arguments with people that he's trying to persuade them to vote for him and yet that he practically challenges them in fist fights. He called a woman a dog-faced pony soldier. And uh you know now we have all these stories with reasons to believe that he abused his power And that he has allowed or perhaps even enabled uh relatives of his to profit uh as he served in high public office, and that that profit might have come At the expense of the taxpayers. So he's got problems. Neither man is perfect. If you're going to say we can only vote for somebody who's got perfect, impeccable care character or something very close to it, you might have to agree with John Piper and say, I'm not going to vote for either one of these guys. Now if you're going to say, well Trump's worse than Biden, well, maybe on style Because Joe Biden's style is a little more palatable based on our cultural norms. And so we as Christians would have to grant that to somebody who wants to make that point. But is that what this is about? Let's say okay, we have to admit at some level Joe Biden is is kind of a jerk, right? I mean in in the debate he referred to the sitting president of the United States as a clown and a a liar, uh totally diminishing the the the the office of the president on an international stage because the whole world is watching that debate. So that's not an Indication of a strong character. But let's just say that on the whole, Joe Biden is only half the jerk that Donald Trump is. Donald Trump is twice the jerk, three times the jerk that Joe Biden is. Okay? Whatever. Let's take the Sega argument that that's true. Is that what Christians primarily should be thinking about and worrying about? Now if the character is so bad that it precludes someone from being even concerned Considered for the president, you can have knockout flows. If somebody is so heinous and so evil and so bad, you say, you know what, I don't care what they stand for, their character is so bad, they can't be president. And I would argue, as bad as the record for Joe Biden and as bad as the record for Donald Trump might be, I think both of them uh passed that test. They don't get an A, I'm not sure they get a B. But they passed the test. I think that they have a right to be on the ballot and people have a right to consider them for president. So, what are we to do? What are we to do? In this particular case, it's true every year, but in this particular case, I would argue, more than ever We're not voting for men. We're voting for ideas. We're voting for policies. We are voting for the trajectory and the future of this nation and the ability for Christians to express themselves. freely in their worship and to try to advance positive change for the culture from a biblical perspective. Which platform of ideas and policies and which track record of the men who are involved is is going to best help us to do that. And I'm going to show my hand right now and I'm going to anger a lot of people. You're probably already sensing where I'm going, but I'm going to anger some people. And I would just ask you to hang in there and understand why I'm going to say what I'm right now going to say. Someone who is a Christ follower does not have to To vote for Donald Trump. But someone who is a Christ follower cannot vote for anybody on the Democratic ticket. Anyone involved with the Democratic Party, you can't. That's offensive, I know. To some people watching this, hearing my voice, that's offensive. Let's walk through why I say that's the case. From the Bible. Because that's all we really need to be caring about as Christians. What does God say? What would the Bible instruct us to do? It's not about our mere opinion. So we have one candidate who favors higher taxes, and by this I mean taking money by force from one person so that you can give it to another person. One candidate advocates for more government regulation which, believe it or not, it hurts the working poor. It limits the number of jobs available for the working poor. One takes positions for a weaker military, open borders which puts all the citizens at risk One believes in a living constitution, which means that the words on the page don't mean what the words on the page mean. One is for extended abortion rights, quote unquote. Which gives sanction to the painful slaughter of innocent babies And one also agrees with restrictions on freedom of religion, the freedom to assemble and to worship as the Bible would instruct, and also has hostility towards Israel, and these are things that Christians should not abide Those half a dozen or so, whatever it was I just listed, all of those would be the position of the Democratic Party. Christians cannot support those possibilities. Those of us who are in Christ are called by God to be exiles on earth. So we are sojourners, right? Our citizenship is in heaven But at the same time they're simultaneously to seek the welfare of the city, to seek the welfare of the nation within which we live. And so are those policies the kinds of things that are going to bring welfare to the city. The Bible tells us no. And we don't want to get caught in the uh absolute mindset of being single in Issue voters. However, I once worked for a man who was one of the better bosses and he talked about his hiring practices, and he was a big believer in hiring the right person for the right role and he didn't worry as much about their resume, you know, their skill set. He thought you can teach somebody's skills, you can give them experience, but you want to identify Identify their talent and if they have the right amount of talent for the right job that you have open, you hire them. The person who has the most talent for the job is who you hire. Hands down, no questions asked. Except if there was what he called a knockout blow. So you can have somebody that on the talent scale, I don't know, one one one to ten talent scale, their talent level for the job you're looking to fill as a nine and somebody else is a six, you're clearly going to hire the nine, right? Unless the nine has something that you can't overcome. Huh. I don't care how talented they are, how wonderful you might think they are for the job, there's something that you cannot hire them for. That's not being single issue voter as I just ran a whole bunch of issues. There's a lot of issues that Democrat the Democratic Party stands for that Christians cannot get behind. But even if that weren't true, the killing of Innocent little girls and little boys is a knockout blow by itself. You cannot, as a Christian, support the killing of innocent people And it's even worse than that. It's supporting the killing of innocent people and forcing you to pay for it. Christians cannot abide that. Doesn't make you single issue voter, but it does help you to recognize that's a knockout blow. To put this in historical terms Would it be okay to vote for Joseph Stalin because the trains ran on time and uh and and he looked like a uh a leader and he accomplished some good stuff? social programs, even though he killed tens of millions of people? Clearly not. Right? I mean it's a cliche, but You wouldn't vote for Hitler because, right? He's a not put in contemporary terms. Should we vote for a a KKK leader? Should David Duke, if you were on the ballot, should a Christian vote for David Duke? Of course not. Well why not? Why do I say of course not? Because David Duke stands for hate. He stands for things that are anti-God, anti-Bible, anti- anti-Jesus Christ. And that's what the Democratic Party has become. Now if you're a lifelong Democrat and you haven't been paying close attention, the Democratic Party has shifted over over years, they're not what they used to be. Now I will say the Democratic Party has been a problem for a long time, but not like this. There is something afresh here. And So I'm telling you, doesn't mean you have to vote for the Republican, but you cannot, in good conscience, as a faithful Christian, vote for the Democrat. a hard thing to hear, right? If you were a member of my church and I were your pastor, I'd be talking to you about this directly and if you say, well I always voted Democrat and I'm voting Democrat this time. And I would walk through all the reasons why you We can't and say, You can't do that. You'd be sinning against God to do so. You say, I don't care, I'm gonna do it anyway. We would institute Matthew 18. We would walk you through Through the steps of church discipline. That's how serious I believe this is for Christians. And that's a hard thing. I'm not making friends right now. But you know what? I'm long past caring. I'm not worried about making friends. I'm worried about being obedient and faithful to my Maker. And if you're a believer and a follower of Christ, that should be the only thing you care about too. So I've got more notes here, more things to say. But I don't know if we've gotten any reaction. But I'd be curious to know if the ladies in the room have any reaction to the stunning statements I've made so far this evening. Anything you guys care to add? You probably aren't disagreeing with me too much other than my tone might be striking you a little bit, I don't know. No. Um it's absolutely Everything you said is absolutely on point. Um I think Americans historically have gotten addicted to the idea that they need to love their leaders. And Um if nothing else of the about the the the couple of candidates that that are in front of us, uh it they they should help us to understand that person loving them should should not factor into our decisions whatsoever. Because they each candidate is standing on two different stark platforms And what we're voting for is a platform and everything that platform stands for. And um I think um we're at we're at the point now where uh to your point uh troy we cannot we can't go with one party because basically Nothing that they stand for is unoffensive to God. And as a Christian, as a Christian, our number one priority is to be loyal and faithful in service to Christ. And we don't have to like the people that run the country any more than we have to like the person that runs a personal business that we work for. It's not about that. We uh are putting a person in power in this country who is going to To implement policies. And if these policies are wicked in the sight of God, he cannot forever Ever look the other way and give us grace. That's what Christians need to wake up to. We need to wake up to that as a fact and a reality. Because God in his love, he not only is kind and giving and this and that. In his love, he judges evil. Even now. Even now. He judges wickedness. And um if he didn't, he wouldn't be good. So how can we go to the ballot box because we uh we don't like a certain person. I'm gonna vote for his opponent, although that opponent stands for everything that God could calls an abomination. And that that that person gets in the office We can have hypothetically, gets in the office and just perpetuates these things that are abominable in the sight of God. How are we not responsible for that if we cast a a vote for that person How can we not be held accountable for it? And how how can God keep looking the other way? Christians in this country seriously need to get past this feel good, you know kind of kumbaya type of c type of Christianity and walk in righteousness. That's what we need to do. We're at a crucial point. We've got to begin doing that. Well a lot of what I'm hearing hearing from what I've seen on social media is that you know voting for the Democratic Party is voting for policies that take care of the poor, that take care of of those who can't um work and those who are disabled and those who are you know basically you know kind of that um that population. So what would you say to someone like that? You're asking me? Either anybody. Because that has come up a lot and there is a biblical answer for that. So first of all, that positioning is really good marketing and branding. It is not rooted in truth. If you want practical proof of that, look at the same So that's a practical Proof, if you will. But biblically speaking, the role of government, the government is given the power of the sword. And what are they to do with that sword? They are to execute execute uh r uh retributive judgment on those who do bad things. That's why we can have capital punishment and they can uh go after the bad guys. And they can also defend us from the bad guys who are trying to invade our country. So we should have a military, we should have uh law enforcement, that and we should have judges. That is the govern the government's role is to judge good from evil and to punish the evildoers. And if that evildoer happens from outside our borders is to uh wage a war against those who are trying to infringe upon our dog-given rights in this country. That is a right And that is it. Government is not supposed to take care of the poor and the needy. That's not to say that conservatives like my Myself, uh don't believe in taking care of the needy. But the person who's supposed to supposed to say that the Bible says is responsible for charity and mercy and generosity It's the individual, the family, the church. And so the government is trying to take over the responsibility of the church, the family, and the individual, and they weren't designed for that and they do a miserable job of it as a result. That's not what they were made for. And then they've made us lazy in our giving. And you can see the more you buy into big government, the more you the the less generous you are out of your own pocket. They've done research on this and it's not even close. Those who are registered Democrats give a microscopic percentage to charity compared to those that are registered Republican. It's a in raw dollars it's not close and in percentage of income and wealth it's not close because those that understand it's not for the government to do, it's for me to do It's nothing else to think about. In the Old Testament, God was the king of the Israelites. The nation of Israel, he rescues them out of Egypt, delivers them out of the of the promised land and he was to serve as their king. But they rebelled against him as king over and over again. They even put God on trial at one point They were grumbling so horribly. So they then say, we want to have a king like the other nations and And God realizes what they're saying. What they're saying is we're rejecting you as king. We want a human king like these other nations. And God's like, okay, fine, you want a king? have a king like the other nations. And just like those other nations, they are going to oppress you. They are going to consc conscript you into military service and they are going to oppressively Tax you. They're going to be so oppressive in their taxation that they're going to put themselves in my place and they're going to tax you as much as I I ask of you. I, as your creator God, am saying that you d need to give me back ten percent of what I'm giving you and these are Oppressive kings, they're gonna put themselves in the place that is mine, and they're gonna demand from you ten percent. And that ten percent is a curse from God and a sign of oppression. Ten percent. Do you know what the average American pays in taxes right now? When you count income tax, property tax, sales tax, all the hidden taxes that they call fees and all that sort of stuff. It's somewhere between fifty and sixty percent. The average American is spending more than half of their income and wealth on taxes. God said ten percent was a sign of his judgment. That was a sign of an oppressive government. And we have a government that is taking five five times that from us. So that's the Democrat position. Now the Republicans aren't perfect permanent on this either. The Democrats want you know the the income tax rate to be I don't know thirty five percent the Republicans want it to be twenty six 26% is still too much. But 35% or 38% or whatever is worse. So they're both bad in a lot of ways, but the Democratic Party is worse. So I read Psalm Psalm 139, the way I did, on purpose. So we have the kumbaya parts of the passage that we want to focus on, and that's the part, that's the winsome part, that's the part that I And that's true. And there are times when I do I've done that a majority of the time when I'm sharing the truth of God's word with you. That's the the tone. But there's also passage is like, if only you would slay the wicked, O God. Away from me, you bloodthirsty men. They speak of you with evil intent. Your adversaries misuse your name. Do I not hate those who hate you, O Lord, and abhor those who rise up against you? I have nothing but hatred for them. I count them as my enemies. And again, Christ is the first singer of this song. If Jesus Christ can say something like that, I as a pastor and you as a Christian can and should say something like that on occasion when the time is right and the time is now. Ten Commandments. That's a pretty good rule and standard, right, for how Christians should think about their lives and how the world should go. So let's look at the Ten Commandments. Commandment one have no other gods, right? No other gods before me. The Democratic Party uh Has embraced primarily a secular humanist idea. And secular humanism doesn't have the creator as God, they make the state God. So the democratic platform violates commandment number one. God says you're to make no idols. Right? No, you have no graven images. make no idols that you're going to bow down and worship, only I should be bowed down and worship to. Well the those who have this socialist uh uh ideology, which is what the progressive movement movement has come to stand for. It's all about this dict dictatorial power in a vain attempt at utopia And that utopia becomes the idol. They're chasing after this vapor, this dream, this this perfect Star Trek universe where you know in the future everything's gonna be just so if only, if only we shut down all the businesses So no one will ever get sick and die again. If only we could have utopia. So they're chasing after this figment, this false god that they made an idol instead of worshiping the one truth. God. So the Democratic platform violates commandment number two. Commandment number three, do not take the name of God in vain. Blasphemy abounds against Christ. in the Democratic Party. They took took God out of their platform, they booed God, they take you know God out of the Pledge of Allegiance, all those sorts of stuff. It's a it's an anti-God movement within the party. But it's not a Only his name, but his name stands for his power and his authority and his standards, and they stand against his standards, which we're now going to get into some of that. Talks about keeping the Sabbath. Well, Christianity. Christians under democratic rule haven't been allowed to go and worship on the Sabbath day freely. But also there's no day for resting in the Lord in in a democratic uh mindset and a democratic platform mindset, there's no day of rest. None whatsoever. Honor your parents. It's interesting because the government has created what some might refer to To as the nanny state and puts the government in the place of the parents. That is not honoring parents. That's replacing the parents. The parents become irrelevant, unnecessary, even problematic. The teachers know best, the experts know best, the medical community knows best. Parents don't know anything. How many of you have teenagers? They're coming home telling you, well, my teacher says, and you just don't know. They're smart. They went to school. You're an idiot. How many of your teenagers have that attitude that's been instilled in them by the state who dishonors parents and tries to Trains up our children to dishonor their parents. The next commandment is thou shalt not commit murder. Well, I'm sorry. Abortion is murder. The slaying of innocent, defenseless children by ripping them limb from limb, shoving scissors into their brain, snapping their neck, injecting their heart with a deadly poison It's premeditated, and the person being subjected to all that horror did nothing even remarkable Remotely close to deserving it, as though anybody would deserve that sort of torture. So they violate that commandment. The next commandment, no sexual sin, no adultery. Well the LGBTQ stuff is not just accepted, it's celebrated, it's advocated, it's funded. It's glorified. In one of the debates Joe Biden talked about you should let your eight-year-old son or daughter choose their their sex and if they want to have reconciled constructive surgery so that they can change their if they have an appendage remove it and if they don't have an appendage give them one Sexual sin is rampant in the democratic mindset. Next commandment, don't steal. Well, we talked about what's going on with the taxation, and I understand But any time the government gets outside its lane and does things that go government shouldn't be doing. They have no sanction for that. They have no biblical ground for that. And so uh locally there was a story where of the the the the county government here in Frederick is going to give $150,000 to some sort of agricultural The agricultural thing might need the money. I don't really know the details, but I'm sure that there's probably a need for that money. That's fine. Create a GoFundMe account, whatever, tell people the they should contribute. But that's not how it went down. So the county government decided that they were going to take whether you wanted to take it or not, and if somebody takes from you something you don't want them to take it Well you can't do something right by starting by doing something wrong. So this this burdensome taxation and taxing private property into oblivion, I would argue, is an example of stealing. So you have violation of the Ten Commandments there. Two more to go. Don't bear false witness. This is a little cheeky, but have we heard any truths from the left? Recently? Well from I mean from the right too, but I mean how many years did we hear about this Russia collusion thing? It wasn't true. The story about the Justice Kavanaugh that he was subjected to cloth all the time. Now again, Republicans violate some of these things too. The point I'm trying to make is that Democrats consistently all ten The Republicans, a lot of them, but not all of them, and even the ones they do violate on the whole, not as bad. Last one, no coveting. Well you've probably come to terms and realize there's this new phrase we've all had to learn about this year, critical theory or critical race theory. You know what that's all about? That's all about he's got something I don't have and I'm jealous That's critical theory in layman's terms. It's not fair that he has something that I don't have. The only reason he has it is because he's an oppressor and I'm the oppressed. critical theory. And in critical race theory it's he has the what I have don't have, he's the oppressor because he's white. And I don't have because I'm black. So it's critical theory with skin color attached to it. That's all about covet covetousness. It's all about jealousy. And the Democratic Party is stoking those flames. They're leading the child. They're instilling jealousy. You think the welfare state is good? You give somebody a bunch of free stuff that they didn't have to work for, which by the way is also unbiblical because the new Testament says if a man doesn't work, he doesn't eat. But you give somebody a bunch of free stuff and they feel entitled and they want more. And they're like, how come you didn't give me more? And how come that person has more than me? Why don't I get more? Well they're working hard. Yeah, but I deserve we're instilling these attitudes of entitlement and and craving for other people's stuff. The Democratic Party has an agenda that pushes envy into the culture. That's all ten. All ten. They're a miserable failure on all of them Again, in fairness, the Republicans and downfront specifically if you want, fails on a lot of these too. But right now, we live in a system that has a binary change. Choice. Doesn't matter exactly how the three of us in this room vote, or the maybe twenty or thirty that might be watching this video, how we how you vote. Either Donald Trump Or Joe Biden is going to be president for the next four years. That's just the way it is. That's our choice. So given that being the binary choice, who would Christians hope to have as their president. The one who breaks all ten of the commandments and sets us on a trajectory where we might live in a culture that doesn't respect any of the ten of the commandments. Commandments for the next generation. It's a big deal. Now I don't think that if Trump wins and the and the Republicans win the Senate and the House and all that sort of stuff, I don't think that necessarily solves it, but at least it buys us a little more time for the church to be salt and light in the world and to make some changes where they need you know I saw there was a letter to the editor in a local paper here the other day and I was talking about you know what we need to do to solve all these problems? We need to end racism Yes, we do. How do you do that? You're not going to legislate it out of existence. You're going to do it by changing hearts. And you need to have a context. in a cul a cultural context that allows the gospel to move more freely and the for better as bad as they can be, the Republican Party by the way, for the record, I don't consider myself a Republican Per se I consider myself a biblical thinking conservative. And when candidates align themselves with that, I vote for them, and more often than not, it's a Republican candidate It's never a democratic candidate. I've never found a democratic candidate that aligns with a biblically conservative, you know, Christian informed, Holy Spirit-led agenda. I just haven't. So comments. Yeah, we got some? Yeah. So Jerry is watching and he says there is such a darkness over the world and over the that I'm sorry, there is such a darkness over their belief. We have been asleep and presenting and peaceful Christ to the world. Um instead of holistic God forgetting that God is just and we will have his vengeance and will have his vengeance. Then he says um he just read that 25 male Christians didn't vote in 2016. I don't know if it's true, but if it is, then we are lukewarm. And then he says it's about pride and power. And he says that is the magic work. Why are they running after stuff? None of it makes them happy. Um, I agree because as you said, both sides are too far. their way. Not entirely sure what that meant. Yeah, in these cases they're both kind of out of line. And that's true to some degree. Our system has become increasingly corrupted over time. Right. Okay. I'll go. I think you meant twenty five percent probably. He saw a stat that said twenty-five percent of twenty self identifying Christian men didn't vote. Yes. Um yeah, I mean the the the the voter turnout is is never all as high as it could be. Although to be honest I'm not always I'm not one who's advocating for a get out the vote movement. If people don't know what's going on They're not informed and they're not thinking righteously, they're not thinking biblically. I don't want them voting. You can stay home all day. I'm fine with that. But if you are, if you're on the side of righteousness And you have a chance to wield some influence, then I think you're a little bit derelict. Now, there's there are some arguments, and I think they're interesting. arguments that you shouldn't no Christian should be involved in the political process and they shouldn't vote at all ever and all that sort of thing. Those are interesting arguments and I respect them. I'm not persuaded and I think those arguments are wrong. She said Kyla is studying the universe and science. They told him it was created by the Big Bang. He was so upset. He said if his teacher asks him he will say God created it even if it lowers his grade. Yeah well the the the problem with uh with the Big Bang theory from uh from an eight Atheists' point of view is all they've done is move the question. And by that I mean the question is, where did the universe come from? What what is responsible for the universe being here? And they would answer, well, the Big Bang. And say, okay, let me ask the question again with one small change. How did the Big Bang happen? Why is it that there was a Big Bang? What caused it? All they did was move the question It's the same question, just a slightly different. And the question has to be the something, nothing, the law of physics, the law of logic dictate to us that Nothing that comes into existence comes into existence without a cause. Everything that comes into existence has a cause. And it's important, by the way, for Christians. Understand that's how you need to make the argument. Everything that has a beginning has a cause. Because they're gonna say, well, you're gonna say that God caused the Big Bang, right? And say, yeah, well, what caused God? Nothing caused God. He has no beginning. He has always been. He is infinite. He is the infinite uncaused cause. So everything that comes into being has a God never came into being. God always was, always has been, always will be. So I think one of the one of the things that might be helpful for people watching that you said, but just to reiterate is so the democratic platform, although I know a lot of people who profess to be Christians want to vote Democrat because they feel like it's their obligation to take care of the poor, to take care of but But what you pointed out, which is so important, it's not the government's job to do that. It is our job as the church to do that. So if we would start to actually be the church, then we can do the things that we are supposed to do right now if you vote for the Democrat Party, it hinders us as the church to be able to do what we're supposed to do. Now some of that might be an I searching my heart as well, laziness and lukewarmness, like Jerry pointed out, and apathy on our part as believers, and shame on us that we would say, Oh we you know, we just need to vote for the Democratic Party because that's what God says we're supposed to do. No no no. Oh the Democratic Party because that That's what the Bible says we're supposed to do. So that's what they're doing. So to take care of the four years? Exactly. That's wrong thinking because it's not the government's job to do that. So I think that's where Where there's a breakdown and it's a history thing. Let me put it to you this way for those who are watching and having these comments. I appreciate it. I like when we get comments uh from Facebook World. Let me put it in in in these terms. Well first let me answer the mail math thing really quick just to re reaffirm that. Let's imagine to make the math easy for me, let's imagine that the household income for a particular family is $100,000. And let's say that they fit the statistic the statistical norm for this country and if the government takes half of their money through through federal, state, local, county government sales tax, they take half of it. So you have fifty thousand dollars left. Now if they were merely as oppressive as what God talks about in the Old Testament and the government only took ten thousand of the dollars instead of fifty thousand dollars. If they were only as oppressive as that, you'd have forty more thousand dollars with which you could support all the local charities and all the things where Somebody a a trailer and they could live in it with forty thousand dollars. Where the government is spending that money, spending out things we wouldn't want them spending like funding Planned Parenthood for example, or spending inefficiently and spending way more money on on things that it needs to be because they're not you know they're not keeping tabs because the government's so out of control and big. You can't properly audit something that big and keep control on spending. The more vocalized the spending, the more tight the controls and the more efficient it's going to be. So there's all of that. But the other thing is, for those of you who are thinking that way, and I get it, and I and I I laud you for it, you should have a heart for the for the downtrodden, for the needy. You should have compassion on them. But what does God's word instruct his followers regarding that? Who is he talking to? Who is to take care of the orphan? Orphan and the widow. Who? If someone's hungry, who's supposed to feed them? Who? You. Not somebody else. You. Somebody else maybe should join you in that, but you. You're responsible for you. You're responsible for your family. You're responsible for the community of faith that you belong to in your church. You. That's what God instructs us. He does not instruct us that you know how we're gonna take care of the poor and the needy and the orphan and the widow? We're gonna have some third party come and steal from you what you won't give on your own because we don't trust you. to give it and then after we've stolen it from you, we're going to then parse it all ourselves. That is not God's instruction. You are abdicating your responsibility if you're going to turn over that responsibility to the government. You're abdicating your responsibility and handing it off to somebody else. I wish that somebody from the Republican Party would say it's not our job to take your money and take care of the poor. I think that's a wonderful thing that we take care of the poor. Let me uh let me encourage you, let me Spur you on to do that by allowing you to keep more of your paycheck so that you can do that because yes, we are supposed to do that. I'm doing that. I mean Donald Trump Does not take any of his paychecks from being president. He gives that all away. He gives that away And I'm not saying that he should be patted on the back. It's just what he's supposed to do. So it's not to to give him um all the glory. Absolutely not. He's it's Filthy rags. He's just doing what he's supposed to do. It's that righteousness, that righteous act, it's just filthy rags, really. It's just he's just doing what he's supposed to do. What I'm saying is um the other party is not even allowing us to do what we're supposed to do. It's that worse off. So I think there's another kind of wrinkle on on this whole thing about the uh about government giving that I think people forget about in terms of biblical righteousness, which is I mean that the the the points that that you're making about the gov it's not the government's responsibility and job anyway is an excellent point and and people need to need to either keep that in mind that they're forgotten it or they need to learn it if they never knew it. Exactly. Not the government's responsibility. People know it. But in addition to that, um speaking specifically of the Democrat Party Um if someone still has it stuck in their their brain that, you know, we we need to support the Democrats because they're the more in in their view, the Democrats Democrats are the more charitable of the two parties. I want to also point out the biblical principle that do gooding or you know it it it does not it does not absolve you when you're otherwise doing evil. You know, and I mean it's it's the the biblical principle is you cannot be wicked in your morals and then make up for that by doing good. So it doesn't work anyway because um it if if if if you could do that, then we could all work work our way to heaven no matter how evil we are. We could just, you know, spend oh, you know, six days a week being as immoral and, you know, as as as irresponsible As we want to, and this show up to church on Sunday and you know put something in the offering plate and that's good enough for God. Well no, God requires righteousness. And so if you have a party that is sold out to wickedness, it doesn't matter what so called good they are otherwise doing. You know, they can't you it can't keep kill killing babies for instance, the abortion thing is is is really sensitive. You can't keep doing and supporting that and saying, oh but we give to the poor. That doesn't fly with God. So that's the other thing that we need to keep in mind. And that therefore this this excuse of supporting the Democrats on the basis of their perceived perceived um um um per perceived reputation of being more charitable. It just doesn't work anyway because they're otherwise wicked in what they stand for. And the problem that I I think you're you're probably right to focus on the idea of you know those who are Christians who uh feel like they should vote for the Democrats is out of So let's take a minute to talk about some of the big key issues there, okay? Wage. Okay, that sounds compassionate. Like everybody deserves to have a living wage. You shouldn't work full-time and be below the poverty line. Okay, well the Bible speaks nothing of that. It talks about paying people what they're due and paying them on time. It doesn't talk about what the wage should be. The only instruction we get from Bible on that is that how much money somebody gets paid is determined by two people The person making the payment and the person receiving it has nothing to do with the government overseeing or involving themselves in that. And think about this. Is it really compassionate? What if somebody has no experience of They don't have any real developed skills yet, and they're not worth anywhere close to fifteen dollars an hour for the work and labor that they can do. Maybe they're worth ten dollars an hour. Maybe they're worth $5 an hour. Maybe in three months they'd be worth $20 an hour. But day one, they're worth less than $15 an hour. not going to get hired. And so the minimum wage laws ends up making it impossible for challenged employees to find work. That's not compassionate That's not biblical. The immigration issue is a big one. We should have, you know, uh we're sojourners, we should welcome the sojourner and have people come in, and that would be fine except for all of this what's called the safety Safety net programs that are funded by them taking half of our money. And we're like, we can barely afford to do what we're doing now. We're gonna have a bunch of people come here and and and uh uh become uh grifters and grafters and and taking uh we can't now if you got rid of all of those social quote unquote benefit programs and said we're gonna do it the biblical way, we're gonna do it out of in Individual family and church charity and it's not gonna be the government's before, then you know what? You can have open borders. I'd be fine with that I'd be five people coming here and we kind of keep tabs on who they are and what they're all about and have some control over that. But we could have we could have seven billion people in this country if if we didn't have to be forced at the point of a gun or the threat of prison to to feed them and take care of them. So the immigration and the other thing that's lost on the immigration question when you allow a bunch of uh lower skilled people uh economically you know that they they can do a lot of manual labor they're hard workers or conscientious workers and all that, but they don't have a lot of training, they don't have a lot of education. They can do a lot of grunt work and they're good at it and they're dedicated to it and we need 'em. So God bless them. But when they come in, who are they hurting? They're hurting the other people that don't have a lot of education and skill set. yet either. Maybe they will come to later in life, but at a particular moment in their life, they're competing for jobs against all these other people, and they've already been disadvantaged by minimum wage laws. So they already can't find enough work as it is, and you got these other people coming in and stealing their jobs. Is that compassionate? I would also argue that if foments um restlessness in this country when people can come in illegitimately. Because there are people who came in legitimately and they dotted every I and they crossed every T and they paid the money. And so it is manifestly unfair to them to turn around and let another group of people come in just To stroll across the border when you have these other people who actually follow the immigration laws. By the way, why do we have immigration laws? Because we need to control Who comes to our country? We need to know who they are, why they're here, and we need to know whether or not they're coming to contribute or not contribute. Uh and I I feel fairly passionate about this because I've heard the horror stories of uh the consequences of not controlling the borders. Horrible crimes committed and I do mean horrible horrible from gangs and that's thirteen and all this atrocious things that people um do when um We indiscriminately let people cause I I liken it to this. If if you think it's okay for anybody to just stroll across the borders, just start leaving your front door open 247 because um just like your front door is the border to your home that border at uh uh the physical border at at or at our country is like our the front door to our country. It is stupid. It would be stupid. I think it's safe to say it would be stupid to let your front door stay open and to not care who comes in and not not know what they want and not know their intentions, my front door's open, come in anytime you want. That would be stupid The same thing applies to the borders of our country. It is stupid. And we have paid much for that stupidity. Murders here, rapes here, um, um, trafficking, people are suffering terribly because of that. So that's another is not compassion. It is actually cruel to our citizenry for politicians to allow for their own personal selfish reasons by the way to allow anybody to just walk into our country and it's also hypocritical Because the same people that allow this have security. They have gates. They have walls. They have policemen. And and and but they want to subject the rest of the country country to anybody who just wants to stroll across the board and do anything that they want to do, I think it's very evil. And that's one thing about the that's one of the top things about although there's so many actually about the Democrat Party that I w i I can't there's no way I'm going to ever support that. It is manifestly wicked and and and mean to the re of us when they for for them to do that to us and and while they hypocritically sit behind their wall gates and you know with their with their armed guards and they're protected. So uh that's the other issue with immigration. It's just it it it's just wrong. What that stance. So uh anything else there before we can maybe head on the whole stretch? Yeah mom said that she loves the analogy that Angela just gave about leaving the front door open. So I want you to hear my heart here a little bit, because this has been a bold put it right out there kind of thing because I think the moment calls For it. People are making decisions right now about what they're going to do, and I think you need to hear it plain and clear. This is not to say that Donald Trump is a saint. This is not to say that the Republican Party is Perfect, far from it on both fronts. I mean, you know, Trump is is a rather imperfect individual, and the Republican Party is a rather imperfect party. So that's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is the alternative is so antithetical to the Bible that a Christian cannot support it. And we've made some practical arguments and some analogies and and tried to explain uh what the after effects of going against God's words are and how that plays itself out. Let's just say for the sake of argument that we didn't have those practical arguments. Let's Just say that the democratic policies were actually uh properly and effectively feeding the poor and taking care of uh the sick and And all of those sorts of things. Let's just say. But they're doing it in a way that is against how God says it's supposed to be done. Then the Christian needs to say, I don't care about the practical stuff. I don't care about the pragmatic quote unquote truth. I care about being obedient to God and His Word. Now as it turns out when you're obedient to God and His Word, you get the positive blessing. That comes from that, and when you don't, you get the curses that come from that, and that's why the practical parts of the story, the pragmatic realities, support the biblical position. So we don't want to create diff and We don't want people to be demotivated from having a I mean the welfare state puts women women in horrible situations where they're punished financially if they get married. And they're put in a situation where if they somehow have more children out of wedlock than they can possibly handle uh supporting, and their support structure can possibly hand handle supporting, they have motivation to to make their situation even worse so they can get more money. Why are we putting pressure on people to do things that are unwise for them? That's what the system has done. So if you're somebody who's voted Democrat in the past, or you're thinking about voting Democrat this time, or you've already voted this year, you voted Democrat, and you're like, what are you saying? I'm not here to condemn what you've done or what you're thinking about doing, at least not in this context. I am here to call you to a biblical understanding. Of what it is, how we're supposed to see these things, and you need to act accordingly, and hopefully it will convict your heart. And you will realize that maybe the way I've been thinking about things has been wrong headed. And so I feel the only thing we haven't fleshed out anywhere near enough, and I'll give 30 seconds on this, the women's right to choose thing. A woman can do with her body what she wants. Let me just say this. It is not her body. It's inside of her body. It is not her body. God says that those that are his creation, the human beings that he has created, we bear his image. And to take the life of any big image bearer unjustly is murder. And there's nothing just about taking an innocent life. And so scientifically And science even backs us up. You know, those who are in my position get accused with a wagging finger a lot of times. You're a science denier. The science even backs us up. Not that we make our decisions based on that, but That baby inside the mother's body has different DNA, more often than not, a different blood type, a different heartbeat, a a a different brain with different neural pathways, a different nervous system. Fingerprints. Different fingerprints. They feel pain, the mother does not, the mother feels pain, the baby does not. They are different individuals. And if you're going to say, well, they're not really a uh a real person until they get to this particular point in development, if you're opposed to what the world labels as racism I would ask you to have the same concern about what I would think the Bible would have us believe about ageism. Somebody shouldn't be killed or does it not okay to kill someone just because they're Young. They're not as old as some other people. So I'll I'll leave it on that. There's there is no justification for it. Now what about if the women's Life is in danger. You try to save the baby, you try to save the mother, and if the baby should happen to die in those efforts, that's not a sin. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about the purposeful end of Ending of someone's life in horrifying ways, okay? Seriously, it's it's gruesome. So we cannot, as God's people Support these things. And so the last pastoral thing I need to say is we're talking about all this darkness that's in the world, all this things that can create angst. We care about this because we are in the world. world and because we are uh called to try to do good to the city, right? We're God's people and we're and we're sojourners, but we are called by God to try to do good for the city. So we care about these things. That's what we're Why we care about the unborn. We care about the poor. We care about our neighbors. We care about the rich. We care about everybody. We're supposed to anyway. We care because we're in the world. God has placed us here at at at a moment such as this, at a time such as this, to to be prayer warriors and to be advocates and to be bold and not worry about whether the world's going to hate you. We're supposed to do all of that. But let's not forget, even though it's true that we're in the world, We are not of the world. And our hope does not rest on the outcome of this election. It does not rest on what our government does or doesn't do. It doesn't rest on anything at all like that. We care about it. We're passionate about it. We should be involved in the agents of change, positive change, biblical worldview, all of that But at the end of it all, we know that Christ is victorious. He has won. A beautiful change is coming. It might come before I finish this next sentence. Or it might come in a thousand years, but it is coming and it is guaranteed, and that's where our hope is. Our hope is in the perfectly trustworthy promise that God has made. in his son by the blood of Christ. That's our hope. And if you don't understand that hope, private message me. I would love to talk to you about that. So go Unless there's anything else we can wrap things up. Any other comments? I do not see any other comments. Alright, I would encourage you if you can read 1 John chapter 4 particularly. 1 John chapter 4 verses 7 through 21. That's what we're going to dive into with our message next week. You open your prayer, right? So would you close the prayer? Grace of Father in heaven. We do thank you for this time together, Lord. We thank you for the truth that you have enabled us to share, Lord, by your Holy Spirit working through us. Father, we've come to glorify you, to glorify your word, uh, to glorify your righteousness, not just give up our opinion, Lord, but to to share your truth Even a truth that would be called hard truth by some. And Lord, we just pray that anyone that has that listens to this Lord would would be motivated to act on the basis of the principles of your word, Lord, and and and not make not make an idol of their own opinions and their own thoughts and their feelings. But to be guided by truth, Lord God, to and and to to honor you in that way. Because Lord, it is at the end of the day, what What matters is that we have honored you, that we have obeyed you, Lord God. Um it doesn't it's not about personality, Lord God, it's it's not about the personality of any human being It's not about our opinions. It's about what we as Christians do, Lord God, with the truth that you've given us. It's about honoring you. Your word says that whatever you do, whether you eat or drink, whatever you do, do it all to the glory of God. So can we can we look at our vote and say that it glorified you irresp perspective of the person, Lord God, of the of the human being that we voted for, did it glorify you in this that that person will be your instrument of righteousness or will be in rebellion to you. That is what we need to remember. We pray that you help us to remember it. We pray that you help us to put this um this principle into prayer Practical use at the ballot box. May everyone, every Christian, Lord God, by your spirit be guided by your truth at the ballot box. And we thank you. Lord, and we ask these things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Well, thank you for the to the commenters and for the viewers. Thank you, ladies, for your assistance this evening. May God bless you as you now go as God's people and enter the mission field all about you. God bless