And we're rolling. Hello, Facebook. Welcome to our Saturday evening gathering for Household of Faith in Christ. You'll notice Angela's seat is not taken this evening, but we are joined this week by a uh a new friend, Landon. So we're Excited to have him here. And as is our habit, we're going to be working through a passage and I have a message to share that titled Love Is, Love Is Not. It's uh actually the first part of a two part uh message on uh uh on on a section. I'm hearing myself right. Sorry. Uh first John chapter four. Uh we'll be looking at uh verse well I'm gonna read all of the sections verse seven through twenty-one but we're gonna focus on like the first half of that this week and the second half of that chunk. next week. Um something else I wanted to say. Lost the train of thought. If it's important, it'll come back. So uh here in a moment, Dina's gonna open us with a word of prayer. I'm gonna have a message, we'll have our time of discussion as always. If you want to jump in to the discussion via the comment section on Facebook You are more than welcome to do so. A reminder that um so you have to go digging for this later if you wanted to revisit it or something and you want to find this uh video most easily. We have a household of faith in Christ. YouTube channel set up so give me a couple of days after today and uh all of the videos have been archived there so you can go back and and watch them or we're in this series on first John. So if at some point you want to walk that you know listen through all the the messages you certainly you could do that. I would encourage you to uh if if you're interested in that sort of thing, encourage you to subscribe and even hit the notifications bell and that way every time a new video uploaded you'll get a notification and you'll know that it's there. Um and we live in a social media world now so I'm on Facebook and I'm on Parler, I'm on MiWe, I'm on LinkedIn, but that's a professional kind of a thing, but uh so if you're on any of those platforms and you want to uh you know follow me, I'll follow you, reciprocal kind of thing. So anyway, still feeling I'm forgetting some of that I can't think what it is. It's not come to mind. So I guess we'll just open one word of prayer and we'll get going. Heavenly Father, thank you for this time together. We invite your Holy Spirit. to come into this discussion. We ask that you would fill Troy with your words, that you would only have him speak as you would have him speak the words that you're putting into him. We ask that everyone that's watching that you would give them ears to hear your truth, that it would be applied, that they would be changed forever and more into your likeness, into the likeness of Thank you for this opportunity to share the gospel. There are so many countries where it's not okay to speak the name of Jesus Christ, although it's feeling more and more like that here, we are thankful that as of right now we can still come together in our homes and worship and worship peacefully. So we thank you for that. May we never take that for granted. We pray that Angela has a good time at her prayer call. She's praying for the nation this evening. We ask that you bless her time. While she's doing that, we pray for everyone that's going to be out and about tonight that you keep them safe. We pray that the gospel prevails, especially on a day like today, when And the opposite is being celebrated. We ask that you would root out all evil from our midst. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. So the passage tonight is again is first John. John chapter 4, beginning with verse 7, you want to open your Bibles and turn there. If you can. And uh if you're not one of those who marks up your Bible, uh encourage you to become the kind of person who marks up your Bible. It's a good habit to get it to get into if you're comfortable doing so. So I'm gonna go over here so that uh everybody can kinda see me a little bit better. Hopefully. So not sure if you are familiar, but there was a best selling book back in the mid-1990s. It was titled Conversations with God. And it was an extremely successful book. It spawned two sequels. And together these three books by Neil Walsh, that's the author, Neil Walsh. These books have sold more than eight million copies, have been translated into thirty-seven languages About 10 years ago, Hollywood turned these books into a movie, also called Conversations with God. It was released at theaters worldwide. It's available on DVD and through with streaming services, very successful effort by Neil Walsh. And as I was preparing this sermon that you're hearing right now, I happened to watch the movie Conversations with God And I realized that it is a pretty good representation of what so many people believe these days And as it turns out, it's a pretty good representation of what so many people believed in the first century as well, almost 2,000 years ago. And so um I think the majority of Americans in this generation, they would find, probably find some sort of a connection with the ideas that conversations with God teach. Now maybe not all the details, but at least the general ideas I think most Americans would find some connection with that. So I thought it'd be good for us to use what is said in the movie. as kind of a jumping-off point, if you will, for us as we look at 1 John chapter 4. A conversation with God for the uninitiated. You might not know what it is So Conversations with God is it's a story of this lonely, down and out radio DJ, and uh he has his life dramatically changed when he decides that he's gonna write a book about suddenly hearing the voice of God in his head. Now the book and the movie, they've done well, at least in part I think Because spirituality, not necessarily religion, but spirituality is a popular topic in our contemporary society. People are looking for answers. What is the meaning of life? Why am I here? Are we alone in the universe? Is there a God? And if so, does he care about me? Does he love me? We have questions. like this and we we want answers to these questions and Mr. Walsh he says he had the answers and so many people have gobbled up his answers But are they the right answers? How could we know? How can we know if they're the right answers or the wrong answers. As Christians, we are called to co correctly proclaim the faith of Jesus. And so we should Start by turning to a book that, believe it or not, has sold a few more copies than Neil Walsh's books. Return to the pages of our Bible. God has given us his written word as a fixed testimony of what he has revealed to his people. And so we're going to open our Bibles and we're going to read the first section The final section rather of first John chapter four, beginning with verse seven. And I'm reading from the NIV right now, but whatever you your reading is fine. Dear friends, let us love one another. For love comes from God. Everyone who loves Has been born of God and knows God. Whoever does not love does not know God because God is love. This is how God showed His love among us. He sent us His one and only Son into the world that we might live through him. This is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us, and sends his son as an atoning sacrifice Sacrifice for our sins. Dear friends, since God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God, but if we love one another, God lives in us and his love is made complete in us. This is how we know that we live in him. He has given us of his spirit. And we have seen and testified that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. If anyone acknowledges that Jesus is the Son of God, God lives in them and they in God. And so we know and rely on the love God has for us. God is love Love. Whoever lives in love lives in God, and God in men. This is how love is made complete among them So that we will have confidence on the day of judgment. In this world, we are like Jesus. There is no fear in love. But perfect love drives out fear. Because fear has to do with punishment. The one who fears is not made perfect in love. We love because he first loves us. Whoever claims to love God yet hates us A brother or sister is a liar. For whoever does not love their brother and sister whom they have seen cannot love God whom they have not seen And he has given us this command. Anyone who loves God must also love their brother and sister. This is the Very word of God inspired, infallible, inerrant, the perfect rule and guide for all of faith and all of life. Those who have ears to hear Let them hear. And so what we just read were four paragraphs from John's first epistle. Now if you want to make notes about this so you can kind of understand the structure of what's going on here. Verses seven through ten, here in this passage, they tell us of the source of love. And then verse eleven through sixteen tells us So the inspiration of love. And then verses 17 through 20, they tell us and highlight the practice of love, and then verse 21 kicks off a section that That uh hits upon the command of love. And so we've got the source of love, the inspiration of love, the practice of love, and the command of love. So keep these 15 verses in mind as I now quickly share the basic viewpoint of conversations with God. And let's see. See if you can agree with these statements. All of our choices are either choices of love or fear. Those are the only choices Two options. The love you feel inside of you, well, that's God. Don't concentrate on what others think about you, but rather on what you think about you. The universe is conspiring in our favor always, because essentially we are part of God says, you are my creation and my product, my purpose and my self. Well, what do you think about these ideas? Likely there are some that sound pretty good to you, and there are others that offend your Christian sensibilities. The ones that offend you, should they? The ones that sound pretty good to you Should they? Working with the premise that the truth about these things is to be found in the Bible, let's see if we can figure out from Scripture about love and fear, about the presence of God's love inside of you, and about the meaning of God's love in us, us in God. I mean does the universe love us and therefore conspire in our favor? If so That'd be pretty cool, right? Wouldn't it? Well, let me begin to clarify here, uh, before we're still kind of early on here, uh, what you might expect from from this message and next week's message to the supposed declaration from God, the supposed declaration from God from the pen of Mr. Neil Walsh, that you are my creation and my product, my purpose and myself. Well, Neil Walsh actually gets the first one right Right? We are God's creation. And the second point, it's confusing. So we might be tempted to uh to want to give him the benefit of the doubt, though I mean I I personally I don't like the idea of being God's product. That sounds like such a impersonal word for the the very special and uh and loved place that people have in God's heart. Heart. But okay, that's fine. You know, they can maybe agree to disagree on the language there. And then the idea of God's purpose and personal identity being wrapped Wrapped up in us. Well that is simply wrong, according to biblical Christian teaching. And yet there is enough, right? There's enough truth here in those first two statements that we could we could find ourselves getting pulled in, pulled into buying the Walsh philosophy. Now, it's not really the Walsh philosophy per se, not exactly the Walsh philosophy. It's the New Age philosophy. It's the Esoteric psychology philosophy to a large degree. It's what passes for spirituality in today's world, in our mainstream American culture. And unfortunately, even in some mainline Christian churches, there are many Hollywood celebrities who might endorse a philosophy such as this. It's what many of your coworkers believe. It's what maybe many of your neighbors believe, even your friends, your family, maybe you. What about you? Do you believe the same thing that Neil Wallace was talking about, or do you believe the same thing that the apostles John teaches in chapter 4 of his first epistle. Well let's find out. 1 John, chapter 4, verse 7 says, Dear friends, let us love one another for the Love comes from God. Everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. Now, dear friends here could be translated as beloved. And actually, beloved is probably a better translation. And what a great way to start a section that is so intently focused on love. A section that uses the word love 27 times. Now, one way that we, the beloved, might look at this one verse could be to say that, well, since love comes from God When we love others, this means we are God. Because love is coming from us. So we are born of God in a way that means we are now God ourselves. Now if you've been going to church for years, then well this sounds very strange to your ears, but taken by itself We must admit that verse seven could mean this. When we love, we are God. Now this illustrates one of the major problems of looking at just a single verse in isolation This verse could mean this if we ignore the rest of the Bible. But I'm no fan of ignoring the rest of the Bible. Now I'm not saying that verse 7 isn't a great verse. It might be your favorite verse. I don't know. Certainly an inspired verse, and it is an important verse. part of the canon, but it is not more important than the other 31,000 verses we find in the Bible. In understanding love and God, I think it's really smart to find out what those other verses of the Bible have to say. Don't you? So let's start with the very next verse in John's 11 Whoever does not love does not know God, because God is love. So right away we can see here that not all people are God, right? I mean, at the very least, that's true, because some people do not love. It is implied in the sentence: whoever does not love So there are people who do not love, and so they're not God. I mean, gee, they don't even know God, much less exist as God. After all, they can't know God if they don't know love because love is God. Did you catch what I did there? You wait a second. What I just said. That's not what the last part of the verse says. Last part of the verse doesn't say that love is It does not say that. It says God is love. But is there a difference? Is there a difference between b uh between uh phrases um trees are plants and plants are trees or How about water is liquid and liquid is water? Or gold is metal and metal is gold. Well, there's a difference to be sure, right? Otherwise I could just take a one ounce piece of scrap metal I could go sell it to something for like two thousand dollars or something. Of course if all metal were gold, well then it wouldn't be worth hundreds of dollars per ounce, would it? And if all liquid were water, think about this, we could drink turpentine with our lunches and our dinners. I'm not going to bore you with all the minute details, but in addition to the simple logic exercise that I just went through about how language There is a grammatical reason why flipping the phrase around does not work. There's a more exacting technical reason why love is God doesn't work. So now at the risk of having you say, ah, it's all Greek to me, I think it's going to be helpful for me to point out that in the original Greek language, the Koine Greek that's used here, that's used by John to write this letter In that original Greek language, we are left with no doubt that God is love is significantly distinct from love Is God. God is love, love is God. Distinct meanings do not mean the same thing. And there are at least a couple of actually important reasons for I'm just going to give you one because that's all you really need to make the case. Now I will grant it is harder to see this grammatical point in an English translation and And that's because the way the English language can sometimes be used. And English will sometimes uh we'll we'll use the word is as as uh sort of being an equals sign Right, we do this all the time. This is that, meaning that this equals that. 2 plus 2 is or equals 4. 4 is or equals 2 plus 2. Simply marks the middle of an equation. An equation which both sides of the equation, it's true either way that we flip it. But in this verse that we're studying here in 1 John chapter 4, the original Greek Greek word theos or God, it is the subject of the sentence, and it must be the subject of the sentence based on the rules of Greek grammar. And in the original Greek, the word agape, for love, it is a predicate of the sentence. And following the rules of Greek grammar, this must be the case. The predicate cannot become the subject in the phrase. The subject cannot become the predicate in the phrase without significant changing the entire structure of the sentence, which therefore, of course, thereby would dramatically change the sentence's meaning. So as written God is love, is God's word to us. Love is God is a Distortion. It is wrong. Goes so far as to say it is a lie from hell. If love is not God, then what is love? Well, love is a verb At least in a central aspect of it, love is a verb. We can see that. Verse 9, 1 John chapter 4 illustrates this. This is how God showed his love among us. His one and only Son into the world that we might live through Him. God showed His love. He took Action He sent his son. Remember John three sixteen? Love Love is known primarily through God's historical act of revelation in Christ. Love is what we do so I think maybe we need to pause for a minute here because there are lots of people lots of them who seem to do lots of things of loving things and they're not Christians. Some of them they might even say they don't even believe in God at all. And yet they appear to be able to forgive and forget, to care for other people. What should we think about this? Well You need to remember that all of us humans bear the image of God. We're all made in his image. And by his common grace, we all have some capacity for For love. But of course, due to sin, unfortunately, our God image is marred and our ability to love is distorted and We can all show love, but only in kind of a watered-down sort of way. But none of us can show love. None of us can show love in In a perfect way, the way that God does, the way that we'd be able to if it weren't for sin. The way that we will one day When Christ returns, when it will be bringing us as believers to the to the finish of our sanctification journey. Journey of increasingly becoming more and more like Christ, our journey toward Christ-likeness. Now, in today's world, I have a tendency to think of love merely emotional terms. Right? Warm and fuzzy Makes us sing. Hooked on a feelin'. I'll believe in you're in love with me. B. J. Thomas. There. Those over 40, sure know what I'm talking about. Those under 40, I'm not so sure if you know who B. J. Thomas is, but trust me, he was a very popular and good singer back in the 60s, 70s, even into the 80s, I think. But that's the sort of mush that our society means by love, right? The word love is mushy in today's world And even in John's day, the Apostle John, even in his day, there were people claiming to know God without having to have any sort of active love for other people. Nothing new under the sun. But this flabby, mushy, warm and fuzzy, hyper-emotional kind of thing, that is not what the Bible means by the law. That's not what it means. It's not just an emotion. The Bible tells us that love suffers Long, love thinks no evil, does not rejoice in iniquity, but rejoices in the truth Love bears all things, endures all things. Love never fails. These are words from the New King James Version, not the NIV this time. New King James Version of 1 Corinthians Corinthians chapter 13. I'm going to read actually verse 4 through the start of verse 8 for you in 1 Corinthians 13. You can turn it if you want, but I'm just going to read it relatively Quickly here, so if you don't kind of get there, no worries. Again, this is a New King James translation in case you have the NIV open now. Love suffers long and is kind. Love does not envy. Love does not perfect Raid itself, is not puffed up, does not behave rudely, does not seek its own, is not provoked, thinks no evil, does not rejoice in it. Iniquity, but rejoices in the truth, bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Love never fails Love suffers long, rejoices in truth, bears and endures all things. Love is tough. It's not marshmallows and lollipops. It is beef, jerky, and leatherhide. The Apostle John tells us that really, truly knowing God means living out this active and sacrificing Understanding of love. And you don't have to just believe me on this. We can take a look at verse 10 of today's passage. This is love. Not that we love Loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. God loved us. He took action for us. What action? He sent his son to be an atoning sacrifice for our sins. He became a man himself to be brutally beaten and mocked and stripped naked. Whipped, ridiculed, nails driven through his hands, nails driven through his feet, and worse than this, made to feel separation from the favor of God Because Jesus became sin when he had never ever even Committed a sin. Ever. Never one. Wrongly accused, he He gave himself up to absorb the punishment that he should have been handing out. And he knew this was all coming. That's why he was sweating blood in the garden on the night before his execution. He knew his friends would turn on him, his followers would abandon him. He knew that his closest disciples would deny even knowing him. That his earthly mother's heart would break. He knew. He knew he would practically bleed to death before finally suffocating to death. death on the cross. From before the dawn of time, he knew He could have decided to never create us. Or he could have called upon his angels, those same angels who ministered to him once in the wilderness. And they they would have protected him. But he was on a mission, so he he could he wouldn't. He shouldn't He shouldn't have been accepting the judgment. He should have been dishing it out on us But he didn't. Instead, he was patient and kind, opting to dish it out On himself. For our benefit. He didn't parade himself rudely puffed up. Envious. He didn't seek his own welfare. He wasn't provoked to think evil. He bore it all. believing and hoping all things, enduring it all, so as to prove that love never fails. That is a far cry from marshmallows and lolly And because God loves us, we are loving that Because God loves us, we're loving back. That's true. That's to be sure, that is true. But you know, it's interesting, that's not what John writes here next. What he writes is, dear friends, beloved. Since God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. That's Verse eleven. Since God so loved us, since God in this way loved us, we ought also to love one another. in this way. Now probably never do we love in this way. At least Not perfectly, but certainly not all the time. They don't love in this way. I mean if this is what love means, this this tough sacrifice it all for for others kind of commitment, then we can have no doubt that we are not love. That's not who we are. I mean, even if you wanted for the sake of argument for a minute to hold out the idea that love is God, we debunked that as scriptural but let's just say we want to say love is God. Well that ain't us. We ain't love and we most definitely ain't God. Have even seen God. Verse 12, John writes, No one has ever seen God. But if we love one another, God lives in us. And his love is made complete in us. Now, this idea that no one can see God, that is also found in Exodus chapter 33. If you want to look it up later, you'll find it in verse 20 and verse 23 of Exodus 33. And you'll also find this taught in John, the Gospel of John, chapter 1, verse 18, and you'll find it In John chapter 5, verse 37, and in John chapter 6, verse 46, lots of references from John. What's the deal with that? Well, some people they believe that John might be purposely drawing our attention to the Exodus 33 teaching. He is self-consciously doing that in order to make a point to score a rhetorical debate style point, if you will, against the proto-Gnostic Mystics of his day. There's a fun phrase for you, huh? The proto-gnostic mystics of his day In other words, the Neil Walshes of his day, if you will. People who emphasize visions and special knowledge Emphasize these things as the high point in religion and thus excuse themselves, excuse themselves from any need to love other people, anything remotely sacrificial. The Apostle John is telling us that the high point in our religion is experienced in the practical demonstration of love for Others. It is not Protonnostic mysticism by any stretch. And so, because of what John is teaching us here, we We need to make sure we don't withdraw from the world. We need to engage with the world. We don't want to withdraw from the world into some sort of fantasy world of spirituality. Whatever that might mean to certain people. We need to engage with people and to love them. To love them as God commands us to love them. And if you do this, well then God lives in you. You and makes his love complete in you. We're gonna pause there and finish this uh examination of this portion of John's letter next week. So let me close the message with a word of prayer and then we'll have our discussion. Father, we praise you for being love and for expressing that love. In mind-blowing ways. We thank you for loving us so that we in turn can love you back and be equipped by your Holy Spirit. To love others as you call us to. We thank you for preserving your word that we can study it even this day. We ask that you would bless our conversation. As we seek to understand even more fully, understanding even some of the nuances of what it is that you are teaching us here. We thank you that because you love us, we can call you Father. And that we can call you Father because of your willingness to sacrifice your son. And we can recognize your willingness to sacrifice your son and accept that sacrifice by the move and the power of your Holy Spirit. We thank you. Lord, for being who you are and for making us to be who we are becoming. Help us to increasingly of obedience. Walk that walk of sanctification. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. So I'm curious, have you ever heard of uh conversations with God? You're a young man, it might be a little bit before your time, possibly before you're paying attention to those things. No, I I don't think I have, yeah. Well you don't have to waste your time. But it was a best seller. So anything strike you? Um, I think in today's culture there's just this wide array of the extremes, love and hate. Um, which is interesting because both are attributions of God in the sense of sin. God hates our sin. But he loves us because we are his creation. But yet we are told throughout Scripture not to follow our heart but to lead our heart. So the concept of the conversations with God book or movie or whatever that love is merely a feeling, of course, can lead us all astray. Yeah, because even the way that we tend to phrase it, the way you phrase it there, is kind of putting it in emotional categories. You know, but God hates sin and he takes action against sin Because he loves righteousness so much. And so the only way for God to demonstrate that love for what is right and holy and good he needs to take negative action out of that love against what is an enemy of that. And so that would be an action of of hate. Uh now oftentimes when we feel like we're sacrificing for someone we can be filled with a welling up of emotional positive positivity or when we're angry of about unrighteousness and we act on that in a in a in a righteous sort of a way, what rises up us in is this feeling of of of angst and and uh adrenaline or whatever and we we identify that as as hate. And so those emotional swings become so uh associated with the situation that we I think we get ourselves in a habit where we we speak and think about these things in terms that are only the emotional And I don't even think that's the primary. But the emotions kind of ride along. They're riding shotgun with those actions of love. And actions of hate. Something that occurred to me, you know, um spirituality is still a big deal, but right now the big movement that's a huge problem is this whole woke church thing. social justice stuff and all of that. And you know, this the spirituality, and I mentioned in the message that, you know, that this Neil Walsh philosophy kind of thing, the Oprah Winfrey philosophy It is seeped into the the American Church, the Western Church, uh out of uh in large measure, out of a desire by the church church to be uh accepted by the world on some level. Uh the idea is that well if we can meet them where they are, then maybe they'll hear us better. We can be more winsome and that sort of thing. And there's there's if it's properly understood that's that's fine, but uh we end up meeting them where they are and they pull us into their way of thinking as opposed to us pulling them into God's way of thinking. And so the the church has been motivated for years, unfortunately, the the wrong but the the the sinful fleshly part of us has been motivated by trying to be liked by the world. Tells us the world's gonna hate you because the world hates him. And so this motivation to be liked by the world allowed this spirituality, this new ageism stuff to seep into the church. And right now that's not feeling as prominent because Because what's more prominent is this whole woke church nonsense. But it's motivated by the same thing. Because the prevailing culture, the prevailing women within the culture have shifted from this spirituality thing into this social justice thing. And so we want to be liked by the world. We want to feel relevant to the world. How about being relevant to God? You know, let the chips fall where they may then. And so we're making the same mistake all over again. And we continue and and they were making that mistake two thousand years ago. Nothing new understanding It's it's not new. And by the way, just to unpack a little bit the uh the the proto-gnostic mystics. So proto Gnostics or proto meaning uh uh uh uh um a a precursor, something that's that's before. Gnostic comes from uh the word for knowledge, uh so it's uh it's higher knowledge. higher sense of secret truth, that sort of thing. Well Gnosticism, that sort of idea of you know salvation through special insight, uh, that comes in a full-fledged way probably the next generation. After John, but it was emerging during the day of John, which is why he's addressing it. He's he's trying to get the church understanding ahead of that curve. Like, whoa, this thing is coming, it's bad. Let's let's beat it down now. So full-fledged, completely out of the box Gnosticism probably doesn't exist in the first century. But the the birth pangs of it were there. And John's talking that and and mystics, you know, mystics, spiritual, we're gonna have a seance, it's all mysticism, it's all hyper spiritualized. So that's pretty popular, right? Tarot cards? And uh and um uh palm reading and uh what other things people Going to the medium so they can kind of read your history and talk to dead people for you and this hyper spiritual kind of a thing. It's still very popular. Still very popular. So I've been doing a lot of talking. Do you have anything that you wanted to add, a question you wanted to ask or insight that's unnecessarily? Uh I didn't say anything heretical as far as you can tell? Yeah. Oh, okay, well good. Yeah, well we try to stay true to what what what John is is is saying here. Um I can't use your phone because you got Facebook on. Are there any comments there? Can you uh can you minimize that or will you will you totally lose it if you minimize it? I wanted to grab that uh I wanted to go to my Facebook page and grab a poll. I wanted to read the thing that I posted. Can you get to my Facebook page? Sure. Yeah. Which which say posted it, I think, either today or last night. The long one. Um yeah, I mean you can just roll. It's on on your base on your page. So this is loosely related. Um I we can. This is a serious and slightly long post. The hope is that you'll be blessed by spending the Three minutes it'll take to read it, there's an implicit assumption undergirding the context of many conversations today, and it's an assumption that does not match where followers of Christ should be. Look at things, things like using the word racism. This habit is troublesome because it measures the problem is between competing races when there is one both But one race, the human race. Look similarly at assumptions that disparities are a problem. Consider that such differences will always be part of reality as God Himself brings about Likewise, there is a habit for some to bemoan the existence of division in the church. This apparent division is not necessarily cause for distress. Con consternation, there is a perfectly achieved unity in Christ, which is a foundational truth of the gospel. Blessedly, the fact of this Christian unity provides the con Context for realizing the cause of any apparent division that undermines a unified front among professing believers. Any division that brings strife exists because it has has been brought about by attitudes and active activities that are not in Christ. It is the Son of Man himself who brings this sort of division. So the people of God Must not assume that a parent division is necessarily bad, but rather that they should be convicted that such situations are important for clarifying which attitudes or activities align with Christ and which ones do not. The body of Christ does not need its division healed per se. The body needs its commitment to the truth of God's word reinforced. as those who have turned their back on biblical standards fall on their knees in repentance. In other words, do not see the unity of Christ church as frayed. the visible church which human eyes see, this might be the case, but not so for the invisible church, which God sees. There are too many people professing that they are included within the bridal Christ, even as they are unfaithful to the headship of the bridegroom, in the pursuit of eliminating any and all points of division, keep in mind Scripture does not teach that. An ultimate unity is awaiting all of humanity. A remnant will be united forever, of course, but this remnant is going to be separated from the rebellious rebellious for each Eternity. Believers are called to be one absolutely. However, this oneness is found only in faithful devotion devotion to Christ's teaching. Among those in the visible church, it is only because at least some, if not all, are adulterously chasing after idols of their own invention. Righteousness that's grounded firmly and only in what is fully, found fully, and sufficiently within the pages of God's written revelation of Himself. And claiming Christ while at the same time contradicting the revelation of Christ, then the remnants prayer must be for the persistent and winnowing division. Because this is in fact a promise from God. He does and will continue to separate the weak from the chaff. The present fight is not between those who can be allowed to The present fight is between those armed to advance the true gospel and those hoodwinked or perhaps even devilishly motivated to advocate for For a counterfeit message, one that can sometimes sound good on the surface, but results in only destruction and death. This is a momentous spiritual war and Compromise strikes the faithful as nothing more than lukewarm wavering. Brothers and sisters in Christ must grant that they are called to be rather hardcore about this. The Son of God Himself Tells his flock that they are expected to be firmly with him. They expected to be firmly with him. To do otherwise is to be against him. connects to the theme of the the sermon and what John's writing about and the the Gnosticism and the church trying to be all things to the world and be liked by the world. The world is speaking in terms of racism. When Christians understand that biologically speaking, there is one One race, the human race, skin tone does not have anything to do with different races. And yet, in order to try to speak to the world, be liked by the world, to connect with the world, we use their language which Ungodly language. That sort of language actually is rooted in the sorts of things that the social justice warriors claim to be fighting against. If people with darker skin are a different race than people with lighter skin, well then you can start talking about, well, which is better, dogs or cats? Giraffes or zebras? different. Which one's better? But we're not different. There's one human neighborhood. We all belong to that same progenitorship. We all, if you trace our lineage back far enough, we all end up in Adam and Eve. All of us. There's one human race. And so when we talk in terms of race and racism and racial divide and all that sort of stuff. We're using ungodly, unbiblical language and we should stop. And then disparities. That's a big thing, right? The social justice movement is about, oh, there's too many disparities. That's proof of the racism. Right? You want proof? Well look, the average household income of a black family is lower than that of a white family. That disparity proves that there's systemic racism No, it doesn't. If disparities are evil, if disparities are a sign of sinfulness, well then God is a sinner. God is not a sinner. God creates disparity. He gives Landon one gift that he doesn't give me. He gives me a gift he doesn't give him. Because Dina yet another gift. He creates these disparities. In the in the in the in the one of the parables where one guy's given you know uh one gold coin, another guy's given five, another guy's given ten. We're off the bet, disparities. We live in a world where some are condemned for eternity, and some are going to be in the blessed presence of God for eternity. That's a disparity. God caused that. Disparities are not evil. Now, if disparities are arrived at because of evil practices, then those practices are evil. So we should not be using that language because it goes counter to the biblical narrative. We lose the argument out of the chute. We have no ground to stand on because we're using unbiblical concepts. It's not the words so much. It's what those words stand for. And those words stand for concepts. Concepts and understandings of reality that are not the true reality. God knows the true reality. And this idea of division that was talked about in the Facebook post What is John saying in his letter here when he's addressing the heresy of the Gnostics, the emerging heresy of Gnosticism? He's drawing a line in the sand. So if you're on this side of the line, you're in God. You're on the side of love. God is in you. He's with you. And if you're on the other side of the line, none of that's true. He creates a division. Division is good. Division is right. So we hear people bemoaning, oh, there's there's division in the church. No, there's not. No, there's not. There's unity in the church. That unity has been one. You know how it was one? I described it in the message. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, comes as Jesus Christ in his unity. humanity and he dies on the cross. And one of the things that he wins when he dies on the cross is he wins unity for his body, for the church, for his bride. There is unity. So whenever there appears to be disunity, that should tell us something. Why are you saying this other thing that doesn't sound like the gospel? Hmm, seems to be disunity in the church. No, there's disunity, but it's the church being in disunity from the world. If people are teaching what the world teaches, they're going to be in disunity with the body of Christ. Those that are faithful to God's Word, to the to the message of the gospel, those who are faithful, they're in unity with Now sometimes we can we can get a little bit sideways, we can get a little confused, but there's still unity. That's why we have, I mentioned this last week. That's why we have Matthew 18. You know, we we have the the the the uh the process for church discipline not because of disunity. If somebody in the church sins against you, they haven't created disunity They've sinned against you, but there's still unity. And so in that unity, there's a structure for for bringing repair to the relationship. Somebody's wronged you. And so in unity you get together and you say, hey, you you might not realize, but you sinned against me. I don't want to point this out to you and you're going to say, oh my gosh, I'm so sorry, I've sinned against you. And then there's a and and then there's uh kumbaya again. But that whole process is it, even if it goes all the way out to the end of the process where the person is under unrepentant and they have to be turned over to Satan for their own good, hopefully. Hopefully that as a re as a such a strong rebuke that they come back back into the fold the way they're supposed to and walk in the unity that Christ has won. But if they don't, they were never with us to begin with. So there's no disunity in the church. So for us to talk about this division in the church is using the language of the word We need to stop it. Don't use the word racism. Don't use the word uh uh disparities as though it's a bad thing. Don't don't bemoan division in the church, conceding the fact that there's division in the church. You can't concede that. Because it's not a fact. You're conceding a lie. And that diminishes what Christ accomplished on the cross, and that's not any good for anybody. He said it is finished. So what we have ultimately forever is unity, and we have that now. Now we've talked about this in previous weeks. Already not yet tension, right? There's an overlap of the ages. Everything that is fully one for us, we're not experiencing it in the way that we someday will. But the fast are still the fastest. So be very careful about how we talk about these things. Otherwise what the world hears from us, this is this is a huge concern for me, what the world hears from us is, oh well the church is just like the rest of the world world. You guys are all fighting with each other, very fascist, very disunified. You guys are no, we're not. Christ's church is not divisive with itself like that. And if we find that we're behaving that way, that should be a rebuke. Should be a check in our spirit, like, whoa, why am I acting this way? We have union in Christ, but I don't feel like I'm acting that way, so that means that I'm acting out of step with what Christ has won. I'm in sin. So whenever there's disunity, I mean change it whenever there's an apparent disunity within the body of Christ, within a local congregation even, whenever there's apparent disunity, someone or many someones are sinning. And they're not walking in what Christ has won for his people. So we can't agree to disagree on this stuff. These are gospel things. This is central to the message of Christ. Oh, so you're going to say this and say that we're going to be completely different. You can't do it. You can't proclaim a message from the world and pretend it's a message from God's Word. So we need to be bold and strong in this. John wrote the letter for a reason. We're preaching messages like this for a reason. We're having discussions like this for a reason. It's time for us to step up and be the church and not be afraid to point at those who aren't acting like they're in the church and say, you know what? I know you call yourself a Christian, but you're not acting like you belong to the body. You're not behaving as a very becoming bride right now. And out of love for you, I'm taking action by addressing this question. with you. Right? Love is an action. It's not about, oh well, features own and let him. I'm just going to have good positive feelings for him. I'm going to send positive vibes their way. That's not love. Love is taking action. If somebody's in sin, the action to take is to go address it with them. So it's all tied together. The the wokeism, the knee New Ageism, Gnosticism. It can sound good. It's so tempting, right? It's so tempting. It's so tempting to be like By the world. It's so tempting to talk about, yes, I'm a social justice warrior, and I'm making a difference in the world. But what kind of difference are you making? So um kinda ramble there a little bit, but I th we are living in historic times. I mean what is going on in the church right now is going to be assumed Christ doesn't return in the meantime. Hundreds of years from now, this is going to be talked about like some of the great controversies that called for church councils hundreds of years ago. This is almost a reformation moment actually. Does kind of take you back to the Renaissance there. Yeah, the yeah absolutely family and the Medici and the Possies and it's very similar. So we need to rise up. I posted also on Facebook earlier today that The church has an overabundance of George McClellan's. Those who are Civil War buffs will know who that is. And what the church needs is more Ulysses grants. And George McClellan got fired as the lead general for the Union Army because he was not ever taking action. He wouldn't ever do anything. He was thinking Thinking, thinking good thoughts, thinking strategically, thinking about this, playing possum, as everything was thinking, thinking, thinking, never doing, doing, doing. And the president said, you know what, I need a doer. And this guy out west, this US grand guy Got some weird baggage in his uh in in his uh uh HR folder here. But you know what? He seems to kick some butt when he's out there. He's a doer of sp And he went out and he won he won the war. Um and it wasn't pretty. His style of winning the war was was very bloody, actually. But we gotta be willing to get our noses bloodied on this. We gotta willing to take a stand and if the world hates us the world hates us. If the world's not hating you, maybe you're doing something wrong. I don't know. And something's not right. Because Christ said the world will hate you because they hate me So if the world's not hating you, something's amiss, maybe. I think we should go out of our way to try to be hated, but we should try to be faithful. So maybe we should examine. If the world's not hating us, maybe we're not being faithful enough. I don't know Anyway, well it's about seven o'clock. Any other thoughts before we close up the Facebook portion of our evening? All right. I'll close this in prayer. Sure. Lord, thank you for this time together. We ask that it would be a blessing to those that watch it later. Pray that you You would use it to minister to them, to speak with them, to call them to yourself that you might be glorified. We know that your word does not return void, and we thank you for that promise. We ask that you would be glorified in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So we're going to finish this uh this Love Is, Love Is Not Message on 1 John chapter 4, next. week so um you can continue to spend some time in it if you want and be prepared for next week. See you next week Saturday at 6 o'clock Eastern Time.