And looks like we're rolling. Hello, Facebook. Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ Saturday gathering. We've got uh About as full of houses we get right now. I want to encourage you that if you live within driving distance and you want to come on a Saturday night anytime, just let me know and uh we can make sure that uh you know where we are and make the arrangements. We we generally gather somewhere between you know five thirty, five forty five and have a little bit of fellowship and some singing beforehand. So you you're missing out on that by just being on Facebook Facebook. And then there's usually a little bit of some uh fellowship and stuff afterwards, and on uh uh on on certain occasions we have the Lord's Supper together as well, but we don't do that on Facebook Live uh for I think obvious reasons. So we're going to be turning back to 1 John chapter 4 and finishing up a message that began last week. So if you want to get your Bibles ready. We're going to be reading from that momentarily, and I'm going to be preaching on it momentarily. 1 John chapter 4, verses 7 through 21 specifically. And then after the message, we're going to have a time of discussion. And I'm not sure exactly what everyone will want to say, but there are probably a few words that should be said regarding everything that's hanging in the air right now regarding the uh election of this week and all the controversy surrounding that. So we'll probably have some thoughts on that before this hour long or so session is over. So without uh any further ado, by the way, if you have any comments or things That you want to uh uh share with us in the comment section, we will try to address those during the discussion portion uh of our time together as well. Uh feel free to share this by the way, and we can extend the audience of what We're talking about sharing God's Word. So without any further ado, maybe Evangela could open us in prayer. Appreciate that. Gracious Heavenly Father, well, we thank you for another opportunity. To gather in the name of Jesus Christ to the glory and honor of his name. And we pray, Father, that you would send your Holy Spirit for it to be amongst us, to be in us, and with us. us Lord to um guide the conversation to um help us to say what thus saith the Lord and to not speak from the flesh or from the world And we ask that you would bless our time together in this way. Pre please bring to this gathering via Facebook who should hear the message that we have to share today. And please keep awake. We should not really be a part of this. We thank you and we ask you in the mighty name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen Amen. So you met Landon virtually last week for the first time, and this week we're putting him to work. We waste no time putting people to work here. So uh he's gonna actually read for us first John chapter four. uh verses seven through twenty-one. I believe he's reading from the ESV. Doesn't matter which one you're reading from, but just in case you're a little bit confused, in case you're reading NIV or something like that, you might be a little throne. So Ann, if you would read that for us. All right. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who Does not love, does not know God, because God is love. In this, the love of God was made manifest among us that God sent his only Son into the the world so that we might live through him. And this is love. Not that we have loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son to be Propitation prop propitiation for our sins. I butchered that. Uh beloved, is God so if God so loved us, we also ought to love one Another. No one has ever seen God. If we love one another, God abides in us and His love is perfected in us. By this we know that we abide In him and he in us, because he has given us of his spirit. And we have seen and testified that the Father has sent his son to be the Savior of the world. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence for the day of judgment. Because as he is so also are we in the In this world, there is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with the punishment. And whoever fears Has not been perfected in love. We love because He first loved us. If anyone says, I love God and hate God His brother, he is a liar. For he who does not love his brother, whom he has uh whom he has seen cannot love God, whom he has not And this commandment we have from him whoever loves God must also love his brother. Very word of God, infallible, and errant, inspired, and perfect, rule and guide for faith and life. Those who have ears to hear, let them hear. So Last week when we started, I made reference to uh a book and then a movie that came out called Conversations with God written in By Neil Walsh. It was very popular, was a bestseller, sold millions of copies. And I happened to watch that while I was preparing this message, and it seemed like a perfect foil for Or what John is talking about here. And it's a perfect foil because what conversations with God is really advocating for is what we today might call new age or spirituality or uh esoteric psychology or something like that. Um it's very popular in American culture these days and believe it or not it wasn't called those things but it was very popular In the Apostle John's day too, which is why he's writing against it in this message. meaning knowledge. So having some sort of a a secret insight, a a special knowledge, a special revelation that you that you arrived at through some uh experience that uh this spiritualized experience that uh supersedes anything in God's word, anything that has to do with the the uh the Christian faith practice. And John is warning against that, writing against that, because if you make things hyper-spiritual, then it's all about the other realm. It has nothing to do with the here and now. And so these Protonostics and and it's true with the people who are all about their ecstatic spiritual experiences today. It's all about their personal uh relationship with The vertical and has nothing to do with the horizontal because the horizontal is dirty. The things of this earth are are are bad and sullied in some way. So we don't want to really concern ourselves with that. play out in in today's vernacular with let go and let God. You know, uh God is Jesus' kingdom is not of this world, so we shouldn't concern ourselves with the things of this world. We should only consider or concern ourselves with things of this kingdom. And a lot of that is true. There's some truth in there, but there's this hyper-emphasis and focus that robs us of any sense of responsibility to the things where we are now in our physical proximity. And so we don't love people the way we should. We don't love God, we don't love our neighbors. is active. It's not this warm and fuzzy, squishy kind of emotional thing. I mean that's that's part of it. It's connected to it. But in in biblical terms, love is active. Love is as a it's a strong, powerful thing. It's sacrific It's artificial, it's it's it's enduring, it's it's never failing, it's doing whatever it takes no matter how hard it is to serve someone And this is so perfectly expressed in the life and sacrifice of Jesus Christ. And so I used a little play on words that it's not marshmallows and lollipops, it's beef, jerky, and leatherhide. You know, it's it's it's uh it's a tough thing. Love this, tough. It's not this flowery float in the sky kind of thing. It's active it's I need to love you by serving you even if it costs me. Perhaps you could say especially when it costs me If you're giving sacrificially, it's costing you something. That's how you know it's really love. And that's what John is talking about here. By the way, I gave you a quick outline for this section of scripture last week. I'll mention Again this week if you want to make notes in your Bible. The way to think about the verses here that Landon read for us, verses 7 through 10 talk about the source of love, verses 11 through 16 talk about the inspiration of love. 17 through 20 highlight the practice of love. And then verse 21 kicks off a section of the verses that follow that talks about the command of love. This is all about love. But it's not all about the lovey squishy. It's about an act of sacrificial love. John uses the word love twenty-seven times in this relatively short passage. Twenty-seven times. And he opens the passage with the word be love. And I know some of the translations say dear friends as opposed to the love, but this is all about love. What does it mean to love? And it doesn't mean I need to have some hyper ecstatic experience With God, and then I feel emotionally fulfilled, and that's love. If we sacrificially serve, the emotional fulfillment comes with that, but the emotional fulfillment is Isn't the love itself. You follow me? This is the point that I was trying to help make and clarify last week, and in contradistinction to what the Neil Walsh's and the Oprah Winfrey's of the world would have us say otherwise. And so what else did I say that was that I want to re- revisit from last week? I think that's a pretty good I mean I'm leaving some stuff out because I can't do the whole sermon all over again, but I think that's the just those are the big heavy points that we talked about last week. So now this week uh we're gonna transition. I ended last week with the with these words to this effect saying that we we shouldn't be withdrawing from the world into some sort of uh world of spirituality but we should be engaging with people and Loving them as God commands, loving them in the way that God commands. Not just love them because God commands, but love them the way that God says we should love them. And if we do this, then God is living in us and He makes His love complete in us. This is what the Apostle Paul or the Apostle John writes here. So I want us to recall now as we transition into this week's portion of the message on this. Passage, I must recall something that's really important. This is true for all of John's writings. John has extremely high Christology. He holds up a very lofty view of Christ. It's among the loftiest. Nobody has a loftier view of Christ than the Apostle John does. What he's written for us is the loftiest language maybe we find about Jesus in the entire New Testament, and rightfully so, mind you. So it's critical with this in mind that we not only follow Christ's example and and not only say that we trust in Jesus. Which might mean really that we're trusting in some level of personal enthusiasm that this manifests in us. And I want to hedge and guard a Against that because you do realize that we can be enthusiastically wrong. Right? You've been enthusiastically wrong in your life, I'm sure. I know I have been. So we can fool ourselves when we replace our sight of our love on on the worldly, on mere examples, on uh mere heightened personal experiences. Even if that's Example is Christ, because he's not merely an example. He is the God man. It's more than that. So we need to understand that this is a spiritual and physical reality thing. And when we talk about spiritual, remember, spiritual can mean divine things, or it can mean evil things. There's a spiritual war taking place. There are evil spirits as well as angelic spirits. spirits and godly spirits. And those who claim to be inspired must be tested. They're inspired by what Sort of a spirit? Those who claim Christ. We must test the confession of our own lips. Second Corinthians chapter 13, verse 5 says, examine yourself to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. So it is an absolute must that we know what Jesus it is that we claim to love. Are we loving some concept of Jesus that we or others have made up on our own, or are we loving the Jesus of the Bible? We don't want Should be saying that we're loving this concept that's based on some experience that we felt like we maybe saw God or felt God in that moment if it's not grounded in the truth. Are we perhaps sometimes guilty if we're not careful, or are some around us guilty if they're not careful of loving ourselves or loving our divine insights? Or loving our loquacious language or loving the things that can puff one up That will then we hope maybe bolster our claim to have seen God when in fact perhaps we haven't. Are we maybe even believing that when others see us they are seeing God That's Neil Walsh's claim. That's the New Age claim, right? The spark of divine is within all of us. We're all divine. We're all God. We're all part of God. Or are we loving the Jesus to whom the Apostle John witnesses to us, the authentic Jesus, who is the Word. And the word is God, who created all things. Now I'm going to take a slight detour of here because I don't want us to stumble over a pebble in the road for those that They pay attention, but they haven't had a chance to think these things through all the way, and so they wonder about these things. Because we're now in a series on first John. You might remember. You know, John John is saying that Jesus is God. I just say he's got this really lofty Christology. He has a very high view of Jesus, a properly high view of Jesus. Jesus is God. And John says that God had not been seen. And yet, John did tell us, remember, back in chapter 1 of this same letter, he told us that Jesus was seen. And heard, and even touched. And from other parts of Scripture, we know that even God the Holy Spirit was seen descending from heaven like a And even in the Old Testament, we have Moses and Elijah, they both see the glory of God pass by as they are protected in the rock. So what's going on here? Is this one of those famous supposed contradictions in the Bible? Well no, I assure you, there are no contradictions. Anywhere in Scripture. What John means here in this section of his letter is that no one has seen God. as he exists outside of time and space in the absolute maximalist experience that our minds can't even begin to fathom Even in fractional part. But, John says, if we love one another If we love one another, love one another. God lives in us God lives in us, and his love is made complete in us. It's magnificent. It's humbling and exalting both at the exact same time. And this is how we know that we live in him and he in us. He has given us And we have seen and testified that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. God, and so we know and rely on the love God has for us. Those are verses thirteen through sixteen here in 1 John chapter 4. Note that we rely on God's love for us, not our love for us. God. And note also something, I love these little moments in the Bible where we see the Trinitarian nature of certain passages. We have the Father who sent the Son and has given us His Spirit. Now, do you know that you are in Christ? Got some fire running. If you're hearing that on Facebook, that's the fireworks going on around us. I assume it's fireworks. No? No. What do you think that is? Uh that's definitely not fireworks. Well Lord protect everyone in Jesus' name. I agree. Well what are they shooting at? I don't know, it's coming from that side. Wow. All right. Maybe it's dear season. I mean it is, but I don't think there's any down here. Anyway, part I'm not even sure if you could hear that on Facebook, so maybe the interruption was unnecessary, but we all heard it, that's for sure. That was interesting. So anyway, back to our message. Do you know that you are in Christ? Do you know? That God is in you If so, it's because he has given you his spirit. That's how you know. Well, how can we know if we have his spirit? Well, earlier Earlier in the same chapter of John's letter, and in the earlier chapter, in chapters three and four, John warns us to test the spirits. And we need to make sure that when we are spiritual, as a little That we have God's Spirit and not the Spirit of the devil. We can't know if we have God's Spirit merely by having under Undergone a spiritual experience, or even if you believe that you've been given some sort of a spiritual gift or some sort of spirit special spiritual insight, we must Test the fidelity of all of these things against the apostolic witness. It's not only that we profess true belief, it's not that we Only that we love others or even have charismatic experiences, it's all of these things tested against the witness recorded for us in the Bible. The witness that says the incarnation is historical fact. That the Father sent his son. That this son is Jesus Christ of Nazareth. And then we demonstrate obedient trust in Him. If you testify that the Father sent His Son To be the Savior of the world, if you acknowledge that that Son is Jesus, if you rely on God, His love, His provision, His plan for your life His standard for living, his lordship, if you rely on his love, then you have his spirit Because as the final part of verse 16 says, God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God, and God in them. It can be pretty distracting and difficult in the world around us. And so he used kind of a strong phrase here. I implore you. I implore you not to accept the counterfeits that are vying for your loyalties Your feelings are not God. Just because it feels good doesn't mean it's love. Just because I meant well doesn't mean I haven't hurt you. Just because it meets our standard doesn't mean Doesn't mean it's God's best for us. You are not God. Other people are not God either And don't forget, God, he is not only love. The Bible tells us that he is also spirit. You see that in 1 John chapter. Chapter 1, verse 5, and God is light, all holy. We see that in the Gospel of John, chapter 4, verse 24. God is an all-consuming fire. We read those words in Hebrews chapter twelve, verse twenty-nine. So one million years from now, will it matter more what What you think about love, or what others think about love, or what the creator of everything Everything in the universe knows for certain about love. God is bigger than He's bigger than the universe. You know, last week we talked about Neil Walsh and he's and he and he advocates for a position that You know, well we're all part of God and the universe is God and kind of his mindset and therefore we're all part of God and the universe is God. So the universe is therefore conspiring for us all. The universe isn't conspiring for or against anyone. The universe is not a being. With a mind and a heart of its own, but God is living, personal, and active. The universe As spectacular and massive as it is, it is so small. Why settle for such a small God? When you can have the true God. But the universe is God's physical creation. He may the universe. He brought it into existence. He brought us into existence. He brought everything into existence from a formless void with a mere word. God is not some abstract notion like, oh, the universe out there. He's not an abstract notion. He is deeply involved. in the world he's created. Again, why settle for a small God? When you can worship the real God Who loves you. And again, remember what love means. A God who loves you. I remember when I started last week, if you were online last week or if you were here last week, I made reference to Neil Wall setting up A dichotomy for us. He says that all of our choices are either choices of love or fear. Those are the only two options. Now, I'm going to take a little bit of a latitude again. I took a latitude about 10 minutes ago and take a little latitude again for a moment to clarify some things. We will swing back to center, so just hang in there with me But I do want to focus here for a minute and make it clear that we do have a choice. So Neil Walsh is right on that point. And those who would agree with him would be right on that point. We do have a choice. But this choice between love or fear, that is not it. That is not the choice. What Walsh has given us here is what you would call, when it's understood a particular way, is what you would call a false study. We are not to choose between love and fear. We are to choose, get this now Stay with me. We are to choose both love and fear. We are to love God. We are to Fear God. We are to love Him by obeying His will. We are to fear Him. And by that I mean to reverence Him, respect Him. We are to fear Him by Obeying his will. And so we do have a choice. The choice is obedience versus disobedience. Gratitude versus ingratitude. Surrender versus stubbornness, life everlasting versus eternal torment. The torment of knowing that you've chosen poorly. Sinfully. Chosen against God. Chosen against love. Now you might be thinking, wait a minute Doesn't John set up a very similar kind of dichotomy here between love and fear in the passage that we're talking about right now? Well, in a certain sense, yes, John is in fact telling us emphatically, fear there is not in Love. That would be a very wooden translation of the original Greek. Fear there is not in love. But we need to understand what he has in mind here. We need to understand the broader context We talked about this last week too, the full context of the entire camp. We can't just take it one verse in isolation and try to understand everything that could possibly mean, because we can make it mean whatever we want. So, what does the whole Bible tell us about these words that are here? And what John has in mind here, when he's talking about this fear, is a servile, slavish fear, a self-regarded fear. And this sort of fear, this sort of fear does not have any place in love. That's totally true. But again, I want to to make sure we're understanding of the f get getting the full counsel of God here. When we're studying this passage, we should I want to make sure that when we study this passage, others love That we understand that the Bible defines fear a couple of different ways. One of them is negative, and one of them is positive. Depends on the context. Unfortunately, people sometimes neglect to recall both meanings, and this has the result of making fear, it's one of the most misunderstood words in the Bible. We're so confused about this word. And so even though John does use the word negatively here, I want to take this opportunity to clarify our understanding. understanding or the other contextual usage of fear. So we must always be careful to make this distinction and recognize the positive and negative fear. If I made that point clearly enough. So let's look at Luke chapter 1 one we don't have to turn there necessarily. I'm just going to read it really quick. Luke chapter one verse fifty it says His mercy extends, his meaning God, His mercy extends to those who fear Him. Acts chapter ten in verses uh two, twenty-two, and thirty-five, it tells us that Cornelius and his family that they were devout and God-fearing. In Acts chapter thirteen, Paul addresses the God-fearing Gentiles. In Ephesians chapter 6, verse 5, we give an instruction that we are to fear, that we are to have respect for those who are in authority over us. And that Philippians chapter 2, verse 12, it famously tells us that we must continue to work out our salvation with fear and trembling. These verses and Others like them leave absolutely no doubt that fear can, and often does, mean obedient reverence. our love for God by our obedient reverence. Now of course, thinking about damnation that comes when you don't have obedient reverence, that can bring a different kind of particular fear. Right? We have this different fear in our mind that says to us, well, you know, I'm afraid to go the basement was dark. And uh scared I'm gonna be beaten up by that bully over there. Fearful of that. I dread the thought of approaching God's throne of righteousness. Righteousness. But this is a fear. That sort of fear is a fear that can be simply defeated, according to the Apostle John. He continues in his letter with the following thoughts. Beginning with verse 17. This is how love is made complete among us so that we will have confidence. on the day of judgment. In this world we are like Jesus. So that's how love comes to full expression. If you want confidence on Judgment Day Be like Jesus. Problem solved, right? Easy peasy. Now it's an important decide about talking about judgment day. What do we often think about judgment day or even the judgment of God more generally. I think that too often we might tend to think of God's judgment as being the unloving part of God. Right This is contrasted with the New Testament God who Nice and safe, Fantes, opening his arms so as to give us all a big hug. Talk about a dichotomy. False dichotomy. God's love and judgment, they go together. They're not at odds with one another. If we were to turn to Psalm 89, verse 14 You would read these two truths side by side in the very same verse. It says, righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Love and faithfulness If we were to turn to Romans chapter 3 verse 25, we would find a surprising turn of phrase. says, God presented Christ Jesus as a sacrifice of atonement through faith in his blood. He did this to demonstrate. Again, God presented Christ as a sacrifice of atonement Through faith in his blood, he did this to demonstrate what? So often that I think we would guess, well, to demonstrate his love. Well the verse 3 He did this to demonstrate his justice. He can't separate his justice and his love. Isaiah 54, verse 8, we read of the kindness, the kindness of God's wrath. Says, in a surge of anger, Anger, I hid my face from you for a moment, but with everlasting kindness. And the verse finishes out. I will have compassion on you, says the Lord your Redeemer. In a surge of anger, he hid his face with everlasting kindness. His judgment, his justice, his love, they're not at odds. They're part and parcel of the same thing. And so you can see now, as we've cited all these different passages from the Bible, that the Apostle John, he's not making this stuff up. He's fully in accord with the rest of Scripture. He's totally in accord with the rest of Scripture. All of the things that he says are in accord with the rest of Scripture. When he attests to God's holiness, for example, like he did in 1 John chapter 1. verse five, or God's justice in first John chapter uh one, verse nine, and God's truth in first John chapter five, verse twenty, and God's love, like we're talking about here in first John chapter four God judges evil out of love. Think about it, do parents, do they reprimand their kids and follow through? On imposing the consequences for bad behavior? Do they do that out of love or not? Of course they do it out of love And consider human love as inadequate, completely inadequate in comparison to God's eternal, historically revealed and continuous love. And God is the perfect parent. And so we can feel safer in his arms than in anyone else's arms Verse 18 of 1 John chapter 4 says, There is no fear in love, but perfect love drives out fear because fear has to do with punishment. The one who fears Is not made perfect in love. Live like Jesus, submitting to God's will, by demonstrating tough Tough, tough, tough, tough love. Sacrificing your well-being for the well-being of others. And if you can do this, if you can fear God in this way Then you will drive out the fears of this world. And you'll be made perfect. Perfect in heaven. Again, we must Love as Jesus loves. So what will an examin an honest examination of our lives reveal? I hate to interrupt, but I think maybe someone should should call nine one one. You think so? I would think. Th th I don't know, the six or seven of them. Okay. Well maybe buzz and say we're something that might be gun chops? Seems to be quite the firefight going on for the last five or ten minutes, but I could very well be wrong, but it is a little bit concerning. But you got your phone up on Facebook. Do you have a phone free? I mean it's up to you guys. I because I could be totally wrong and then that would look you know totally outward. But it's like, oh your phone can hear. Well tell you what I'm almost done. Let me finish let me finish out here and we'll see if we hear anything more and if we do we'll call. That sound that sound a reasonable place to be on that for for now anyway. Um so I was talking about if we can love that tough kind of love, we do this uh we can fear God in that kind of a way, then we'll drive out the fears of this world, we made perfect in heaven. And then I asked about, well, do we really do that? Do we love as Jesus loves? And If we examine our lives, we're going to see that we do not in fact love as Jesus loves, right? None of us do. John seems to be going out of his way, though, to make the point that if a person is seen not to love This is the thrust of John's final three verses in chapter four, which he begins with the reminder that we are able to love at all only because God loved us first. Says we love because he first loved us. Whoever claims to love God yet hates a brother or sister is a lie. For whoever does not love their brother and sister, whom they have seen, cannot love God whom they have not seen. And he has given us this command: anyone who loves God must also love God. So we can run the risk of feeling defeated after reading something like this if we stop here. You know, but it seems here what John is doing is he's holding out a Christian ideal, he's calling us to it because none of us perfectly do what John writes here. Even John has said so elsewhere in this very same letter, but he is he's aiming his thrust here at pretenders, people who say that they love God but they do not love God. They they say they love God, but we can't see God. So it's pretty tough for us to see if they truly, really do Love God, if what they say about loving God is true. But their heart is exposed in a way that we can see as we observe the way that they treat other people. See them. We can see if they love or hate their brothers and sisters. And if they do not exhibit love to the people they can see around them, then we get a glimpse into the dark condition of their heart. And John is exposing this deceit. So pastorally I'll ask the question, is he exposing your deceit? Yeah, you can say You love God. Say I love God. You know, say it over and over again. Over and over. I love God. I love God. I love God. I love God. I love God. But if you fail to love people, Then what you would have done right then is to lie over and over and over and over again. We can't love God while Hating people and failing to you know love people. It's impossible because loving God and people is the great commandment. We don't we don't love only because it's a response to what God Has done for us, although that's central. We love because God commands us to as well. But we're disobedient and we we don't serve and care for others like we should. We don't We don't encourage and pray for others like we should. We don't spend time in fellowship with others like and approach the lost even like we should. We're all lost causes Apart from Christ. And therein lies our hope. We are being changed. At the start of chapter 5, John is going to have some really great words That will encourage those of us who honestly acknowledge that we are totally unable to love the way that we are called to. Start of chapter 5 is where we're going to pick up the text next. Next time we preach on First John. So for right now, I'm just going to paraphrase and I'm going to draw us hopefully to a flourishing, victorious conclusion here. Followers of Jesus Christ, we can have assurance. We are able to love by trusting the source of love. God Himself is love and He has love loved us. And his spirit indwells the believer so that we are able to love others and reap the spiritual benefits that come with doing so. So followers of Christ take heart. He is in us, and we are in him. A mutual indwelling exists because of what God has done. In his love, the Father sent his son. This is doctrinal truth. And what are we to do with this truth? We must love one another. What are we not to do as a result of this truth? We must not continue in the sins from which Jesus came to save us. We know that we live in God. And he in us because we share in his spirit. We know this. And we know that he has given us his spirit because we acknowledge Jesus as God's Son. And we live in love. And so I asked some great all-time kinds of questions last week, you know, difficult questions of our hearts. What is the meaning of life and why are why am I here? And are we alone in the universe? And is there a God? And if so, does that God love me, care about me? All of these questions Questions. They are answered in Jesus. Now we're not saved by knowing the answers. We are saved by trusting the answers. By faith and in love. Amen and amen. Let me close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word of truth that's been preserved for us all these years. We thank you for our opportunity to study it as we press in to understand more about you and ourselves who you've made us to be and who you have uh redeemed us to be in Christ. We thank you for the indwelling of your Spirit, the leading, guiding hand of your Spirit upon our lives. We ask that you would guide our conversation through the rest of this evening. And we pray that what we're hearing around us is merely somebody having time making some noise. Thank you, Lord, for hearing our prayers always. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. I heard that yesterday too. I think I've been hearing it for a couple of days. Usually it's a lot farther down the street though. Yeah. I don't think that it I think it's fireworks. I've I it might be when I listened to it before yesterday and I wasn't able to listen as closely this time, but when I was listening before I thought I was hearing a little bit of a f and then the the pops down like gunshots, and that would be somebody like shooting off like a bottle rocket. 'Cause you have a little and then so I was pretty convinced it was fireworks yesterday and it sounded similar to me, but I don't know, it feels like it was a gunfight, it wouldn't have gone down the way we heard it. Right. It does seem a little um like the pop uh I I have things that he said. Oh I got yeah. Yeah, no, I think it was probably just And if it's merely fireworks, they might be doing stuff they're not supposed to do, but I mean if it's just fireworks, I'm not gonna worry about that. So anyway. Well the neat distractions and stuff. That was a little bit off off of ske off schedule probably, but we do have some time to chat. Are there any comments in the comments section we need to address? Uh just uh somebody named Joe Classic. I'm not sure who he is Okay. Did he say anything or he just said mind I'm assuming he meant to say might. Might as well resort to all home churches, these waters down churches. pastors don't speak the real gospel. Hope you all are. God bless dude. And he's a relatively new Facebook friend of of of mine's. So he he's checking in and um everybody who preaches claims they're preaching the gospels. So you can't just take me at my words, you have to do what I advised in the message itself to test. everything that I ever say against God's Word. And if it's faithful, then I'm a faithful preacher and pastor and minister of God's Word. And if it's not, I can claim I am all day long. That won't matter. So that's going to be for the Bereans among us to check out what I'm saying against Scripture. Am I being faithful to what God teaches? And why I pray that I am because you know it's a pretty uh yeah it's a pretty important responsibility that uh that's been laid upon uh me and and and men like me. So uh any any Any reactions to the the the text, any to the to the message? Well, I mean right off the bat for me the it's definitely one-sided in our culture. It it appears, you know, people um mock God because they don't think he's just and it's offensive to God and you know they they would claim and I'm using they with quotation marks because obviously that's a painted broad brush stroke so I don't mean every single person but they in quotation marks would say that God's love is forgiving and patient and kind and gracious and merciful and Yes, it is all of those things, but they leave out the other side, which is also so so very important, which is the justice part, because how do you not punish evil then. That doesn't seem very loving to the rest of us who have been obedient and certainly not perfect. But you know what I mean, who have tried to walk in surrender to the Word of God and the teachings of Christ. It's to not punish evil is not love. And so that's where I think there's a big swing and a miss. You know, I had somebody recently just as early as this past week say, well, what is heaven and hell? It depends on what it is to you. you know, in i if it's even really a place at all. And I just said, Okay. I mean, you know, you you have to be careful not to cast your Yeah some sometimes opportunities like you gotta know the situation of the person, but those can be recognized. recognize uh as divine appointments because they're they're yeah because they're entering into the cone say, oh well you know it's it's really not about what you think it is or what I think. But there is someone who knows for sure what it is and he's revealed it to us so we can know. Now they're not going to trust that that's the case unless the the the Holy Spirit uh is working on them. They're they're blind, they have scales over their eyes, they're not going to see the the truth. They don't have ears to hear. Um but if the spirit's moving then he might be using you as an instrument in those moments to to speak the truth and you might not see a conversion right before your eyes, although you might, but you know, usually our experience is they walk away kind of thinking about what you have to say and then Later on they talk to somebody else and later on they talk to somebody else, maybe later on they talk to you again, and over time they all of a sudden you have God's working and boom, they then have what they would call their conversion experience. I mean if God is not just, then why does the word say vengeance is mine, says the Lord? I mean clearly it's referring to a God who's Going to punish evil. Yeah, the same the same people that that that make the New Testament God warm and fuzzy, they they they had they don't read all the way to the end of Revelation. Boy that's that's some God. That's right. I mean uh the last thing Jesus is doing, you know is slaying people is exact and he's judging That's the very last thing he's judging and he's saying and then he you know he's saying things like um this is a new Jerusalem and nobody here ever lies or was sexual sinner will ever will ever enter into it, you know, he's saying stuff like that. So um you know, it's just a typical set of people, you know, they just Some of it's willful and some of it's ignorance, but um, you know, it's idolatry, a form of idolatry, you know, make a God in your image to fit your need and There's a lot of that going on. Yeah. Did you have anything you wanted to add? Don't feel any pressure to have to add anything. No not particularly Okay. Um some of this actually relates to what's going on, which is what I thought might want to have uh at least a comment from me and if others want to share some comments you we certainly can have a discussion as well. I want to read from Proverbs chapter 20 verse 10. Differing weights And differing measures, the Lord detests them both. And so God will judge those things, and He will judge them. He detests them because He loves what is right. He loves what is good. He loves, you know, uh appropriateness. And he's gonna defend that through his judgment. And so I think that is part of what's going on. on with people's consternation uh about what's happening with uh our national election this week. And I also want to read from Eph Ephesians chapter five. I'm gonna be looking at uh The last half of verse eight through the first half of verse fourteen. See, where is it? Says Live as children of light, for the fruit of the light consists in all goodness, righteousness, and truth And find out what pleases the Lord, have nothing to do with the fruitless deeds of darkness, but rather expose them. For to show Shameful even to mention what the disobedient do in secret, but everything exposed by the light becomes visible, for it is light that makes everything visible. This is why it is said, wake up, O sleeper, rise from the dead, uh, etc. etc. So how does that all relate to what's happening? There are, and I'm gonna use some biblical language here, okay? So If you're watching this and you're you don't count yourself as a Christ follower or you haven't read the Bible that much and I'm gonna use biblical language, you're like, Well that's what kind of language is that? Are you trying to be insulting? No, I'm trying to be scriptural. So I'm gonna use biblical Biblical language here. There are those who follow Christ, who believe in and adore and and devote their lives to the one true God. And there's everyone else, and the everyone else are pagans. Right? They are worshiping false gods, not the true God. Anybody worship worshiping a false god is a pagan. Now, someone say, well, I don't believe in any God. I'm an atheist. Okay, well then you've made yourself God and the dictator wasn't right and wrong is you're worshiping yourself. And so you're the Bible will call you a pagan. So we have pagans who are interacting with Christians on social media and in your everyday life, maybe at school or at work or whatever, and they're critical because you maybe uh have the audacity The audacity of hope. Pardon that was so cheeky. The audacity to say, you know, something's not right with what's going on here. There are so many anecdotal stories and there are so many apparent improprieties and now there's m more stuff coming out that would seem like it's more than just anecdotal and appearance of impropriety. It looks like there could be some emerging truth. It's I I I don't want to land too hard there because it's all come at us so fast and you gotta filter through it and figure out what's true, what's not, and you know we want we don't want to be caught guilty of bearing false witness on something and jumping to conclusions, but it doesn't look good. It looks and feels like maybe one of the major political parties in this nation has orchestrated, and I'm not necessarily accusing, I'm suggesting the possibility that it should be investigated at least that somebody's working to steal an election. That would be a coup, that would be treasonous, and that would be unrighteous. That would be wrong. God would not be in favor of such nefarious activities. And so for Christians to point that out is a Christian being Christian. Because as Proverbs chapter twenty says, God doesn't like these these unequal, unfair scales. He wants things to be just. And if the scale's been tipped unfairly for one political party or and by the way, I went on record a few weeks ago talking about how uh this election cycle I was supporting uh the Trump platform uh when I hadn't in the past ever voted for a man, but I explained why I was Was and why, in my opinion, no uh God fearing, Bible believing, Christ follower can in good conscience vote for anybody. who holds to the Democratic platform because top to bottom they violate every single one of the Ten Commandments in their platform. You can't support that. Doesn't mean you have to support the Republicans, but you can't support that. So I'm on record. So full disclosure, you know, I I voted for Trump. However, if I had if if I had uh voted for Biden, I'd be saying the same thing or if it was the Republican Party doing what it appears maybe is going on, I'd be saying the same thing It what's wrong is wrong, what's right is right. And so if you have people in your sphere, you know, your life, and they're saying, Hey, I thought you were a Christian or how come you're how come you're supporting you know the big bad orange man and you know you know don't you He's had affairs and he's he's so crass and he's a bully and you know he insulted uh John McCain and others in the military and he's just a total jerk. How can you support a man like that? And and And uh, you know, uh all of his tweets and all the stuff he does, he's he's horrible. And for you to suggest to even suggest that the Democratic Party would try to do something like this I mean, aren't you supposed to believe all things? The pagans don't understand God's word. They don't have the the light, the illuminating light of the Holy Spirit, they're not going to understand what the Christian concern in this would be. So my pastoral sensitivity to this, I want to encourage you Don't go picking fights necessarily. But do not wither. If there's a fight to be had, meaning there's a fight for the truth, whatever the truth is, we should be fighting for that. Jesus says he is the truth. So if we're fighting for the truth, we're fighting for Jesus. We're on Jesus' side if we're fighting for the truth. So we want truth. N If all of the appearances But let's just say for the sake of argument, because I I I I'm hard pressed to to believe I'll ever get to this place where I don't think there was any cheating. There was clearly some cheating Now, but let's say we get to a place where they prove there was cheating, but in spite of the cheating, Joe Biden and Kamala Harris legitimately won the White House. Let's just say we got there. Okay. I mean the cheater should be dealt with, and then we gotta deal with the reality of having, you know, a couple of pagans in the White House. Right, that's what we we didn't have to deal with that reality. We've dealt with that reality in the past. We would have to deal with that reality in the game. But the other thing I want to counsel is The rush to judgment is crazy. And whenever there's a a shooting that involves uh you know a a black individual, automatically the police are guilty and was a racist uh quote unquote racist motivated cheating and all that sort of there's this huge rust to judgment. Uh Nicholas Sandman uh a little over a year ago with the Native American uh thing that happened in the White House and everybody rushed to he's this racist This white kid who's there's this rust and it's proven not to be true. And now there's this rust adjustment that the election's over. We've declared a winner, the media has anyway, has declared a winner. They're calling him the Calling Joe Biden president-elect. We don't have a and I'm not saying this to to try to be argumentative. The facts are we do not have a president elect yet. We will not have a president elect until he is actually elect, meaning the vote is certified and the electors for the electoral college cast their votes. At that point we have a president elect. So to to position it in a way that is just not true, it's friend it's creating a narrative and forming a storyline that makes Donald Trump look like an idiot when he uh complains about their potential being some improprieties and that maybe the election was stolen. They look like a clown, but here's what's important for us. Those of us who might want to stand for what's right and say, no There needs to be an investigation. We need to get to the bottom. We need to find out. And if it was stolen, something needs to be done about it. And those who tried to steal the election need to be treated as traitors. Right. We we need to righteousness needs to win out the day, but they're gonna then because of the narrative, those of us who are standing for what's right and true, we're gonna be painted as clowns. And there's a huge peer pressure, a social pressure on us to to not want to be up for the fight, to not want to say anything or do anything. Well, you know, we just have to get along. We we can't allow ourselves to whittle. We have to wait let the process play out. Whatever cards end up being laid out, they get laid out. But in the meantime, we We need to tell you to slow the horses, and if somebody wants to wag their accusing accusing finger at you and say, oh, you're just one of those hateful Christians. And now I want to shift Here's slightly same topic, but talk about those who are professing Christians like we are, who will also wag a finger and saying you're being divisive, it should all be about unity and healing. Now, why are you gonna cause all this ruckus? We've been so divided now. You're hurting your witness. You're not being a good witness for Christ if you're you know gonna cause all these problems by Saying what you're saying. I'll be careful how I say this. If it's some near fellow brother or sister in Christ Christ, hear them out, have the conversation, and you can agree to disagree. If it happens to be your pastor who's saying that to you, that's a more serious matter, and you're gonna have to figure out how you want to navigate that. Because I can see some situations where pastors are going to call some of their congregants to account for what they see them posting on social media. And maybe some of that will be appropriate depending on the tone and the language and the thing. So it might not be appropriate necessarily because there is a woke movement within the church these days, uh a Marxist movement within the church, okay This hyper-liberal, progress, hyper-progressive. Uh there's so many labels we could attach to it. Basically, liberalism has taken over huge swaths of the church. We've got things like the ERLC, if you know what that is, the uh Ethics and Religious Liberty Um uh Committee for the Southern Baptist Convention. Uh they just came out today. Uh we're not Southern Baptist here but I mean that's the largest congregation in the in the entire country and so they carry a lot of sway particularly with the evangelical votes and they came out today saying, you know, you guys need to stop talking about this. Meeting us, meeting me, like what I'm saying right now. You stop talking about this, causing all this division because there's no evidence of any sort of impropriety, so just stop it. You're making the church look bad And I'm sorry, I don't have the money or the influence or maybe the smarts that the ERLC people have. But I'm gonna boldly say the ERLC is wrong. to have said that. They might prove to be right in the end. I'm not gonna you know I'm not gonna have that argument right now. They might prove a month from now, two months from now, it might be proven that There was nothing to see here. But right now, there's no way that anybody who's honestly assessing the situation can arrive at the conclusion There's nothing to see here. There's at least something to be investigated here. At least and so for the ERLC that the section sa suggest otherwise, that along with all the other uh social justice and black lives matter support that that uh the Southern Baptist uh Convention and ERLC have done in the last couple of years makes me worry about that whole denomination. Um But I'm not meaning to pick on them. Other denominations have the same problem. There's actually a problem I would argue within the PCA. Not all the PCA churches, but within the denomination, there are factions within that con within that denomination that are really problematic. Uh and you know the Methodists have had famous uh civil war infighting with themselves over the last couple of years and the the Episcopalian Church and and all the mainline churches, they're long gone. They've been they've been uh absent from scriptural truth for a generation now. But uh the church is in trouble and if pe and so our commenter isn't wrong when he says it Might come to something like what we're doing here, where faithful believers gather in smaller pockets, where we get maybe a little less attention from the governing authorities, and we can boldly speak the truth and try to grow out And I don't think I've shared this publicly. I've talked about it with some people in our circle. My hope is that one day what we're doing here with the household of faith in Christ will grow. But as it grows, I'm hoping that it will grow through So I'm not ever intending in my mind the way I envision this, I'm not ever intending to have more than twenty people in my house. That's my vision. Not that when we get to 20 we're gonna stop, but during the process of getting to 20, hopefully there'll be some people that are around for a while and to be trained up and discipled and prepared for leadership. And And then they can we can spawn another house group that meets at their home. And maybe we could split the group. We get the twenty, we could split it into two groups of ten or eight and twelve or whatever makes sense, and then start over again and try to build both of those to twenty twenty ish and then subdivide again and grow the movement of gospel proc proclamation and fellowship, authentic relationship where we Christians can really be iron sharpening iron. And we can maybe have a million people in our movement, but all of them are like groups of twelve. That would kind of be what I'm aiming at here. Now if we end up we s we we stall out we never have more than five. You know, it's not up to me to grow the church. My job is to faithfully proclaim the God's word and to uh and to faithfully behave as pastors are supposed to behave and God will provide who he has in mind to provide for what we're doing here. Um so anyway, I mentioned at the beginning, if you're somewhere nearby within driving distance and you'd like to participate in something like that, private message me on Facebook and we'll have a conversation and we can talk about it. So but no pressure. If you want to just keep watching on Facebook, that's fine. Although if you're only watching on Facebook and you're not attending a Bible-believing, gospel proclaiming church right now, shame on you finding yourself a church And if you need help doing that and it is and it's not here, you let me know that too, and I will do everything I can to try to help you do that. You need to plug in and be in fellowship and not neglect the gathering the saints. Any other comments? Anyway. So do you have anything you wanted to add regarding the nonsense in our world today? No? Not really. Okay. I think you really hit it. Yeah, well I took a lot of swing, so I was bound to hit something. So alright, so the last thing I'm gonna say before we close in prayer then is this. I I want and I don't want you to take this around way given what I just got done saying, but I do want to remind us that Christ's kingdom is not of this world, and God is in control. God is sovereign. Nothing happens without God's hand. Nothing happens without him allowing it, causing it even. Perhaps there's some things going on that are corrective measures for God to get you know he's using things to get us back on On track to where we as a society and culture should be, but more importantly, where the church should be. The American church, the Western church as a whole is so lost that God is in control somehow. But it appears that there's this evil everywhere. But let's remember that people in the world and uh and the devil and his demons themselves, they they might intend it for evil, but God intends it for good. He uses all of it for good. It doesn't mean we give up the fight and the advocacy for truth. We are to be obedient. We ought to be good and faithful soldiers in the spiritual war. But we're good and faithful soldiers in the spiritual war, knowing that it's a war that's already been won And we're just playing it out to the finish until Christ returns. So we can have confidence and faith. We don't need to become morose. However, it's okay to have some consternation over what's happening. And to hope for better things. We don't want to. . There is a church in communist China. But we don't want to have that be here if we can help it. Right? If we can help it, we don't want that to be here. Now if that's what ends up being, Christ's church will survive. Christ's church will thrive. We will thrive. We are born again, we were made new, we are a new creation in Christ, and nothing can take that away from those who are His. He doesn't lose one, and we were promised persecution and suffering. In fact, Peter talks about it being a privilege to share in the suffering. So maybe, who knows? Maybe we're about to enter into this really privileged era in our lives where we get to experience lots of suffering and Participate and share in the sufferings of Christ. And it's a privilege because it's a way, it's another aspect in which we get to learn what it is to be in union with Christ. But we share all that Christ has because Christ shares all of his with with his bride. And so we share in all that is Christ and we get insight sometimes into what that means. And I he suffered. So when we suffer, we get to see things through Christ's eyes in a different way. So all of it, God is using it all for good, but it doesn't mean we shouldn't fight the good fight. So be of good courage. All right, if you want to close this on Oh we can add something? Just one maybe maybe just one thing. Christ's kingdom is not of this world, but through us Kingdom citizens, Christ's kingdom is in this world. Absolutely. And we have a right to unpack this world. Amen. And we're expected to. that reason. And we are soldiers. And the only job of a soldier is to fight. And I've heard some people say, I this sparked a thought, I've heard some people say to me uh specifically that um you know the example that we see from the apostle paul is that you know he was just obedient to the Roman government even when they imprisoned And treated them unfairly, and and Jesus was obedient unto death, and he wasn't critical of the government. You have to understand they have different roles, and we have different roles too. Okay, so Christ, he had a mission that he was on, and that mission was to end at the cross. And so he wasn't going to deviate from that mission. So it wasn't his job. The zealots were hoping he'd overthrow the government. And guess what? He will. But that's his second coming. His first coming, that wasn't his mission at that time. And Paul was using all of that the imprisonments and all to advance the gospel, to get an audience with those who were in leadership uh in that government. And so he had his role to play. But it's not as though the Bible is absolutely Absence of examples of faithful men of God speaking truth to the governing authorities, even if it costs them. Very critical of King Henry Herod and it cost John his life. You you look at uh some of the prophets in the Old Testament and how they spoke truth to the kings and and and stood up to some of the foreign leaders and stuff Red check, meat check, and abandon. And you can do it in the spirit of Romans thirteen, which is a big controversy during the the initial stages of the panic and the shutdowns that were induced by that that panic uh because of the coronavirus. Um people were you know resting their case on Romans 13, you just need to do whatever the government tells you and that's not what Romans 13 says. It's not what it says. We are to have respect for, give them their proper due. And so we can say, government, respectfully what you you're doing is wrong. We can do that. We should do that. So we can say, respectfully, Democratic Party, what you're doing is wrong. Stop it. We can Do that. So don't myth apply scripture. Make sure you're taking in the full counsel of God. We're so bad at that because we're biblically illiterate. We have pastors in our county who don't know that Messiah and Christ mean the same thing. Is that pitiful? These are pastors. They don't know the Messiah. We are biblically illiterate as a culture and it begins unfortunately in too many of our pulpits. So you need to get yourself trained up and I've been saying this to anybody who will listen outside of this context, if you're not a homeschooling your kids by now, man, I would ask you to prayerfully consider that. Prayerfully consider that. If there's any way possible that you can homeschool Now is a really, really good time to make that transition. Anyway, you want to close us in prayer? Sure. Lord, thank you so much for this time together. Thank you for your word that is true. We know that it does not return void. So we thank you and praise you for that. We pray that she would touch and change hearts that listen to this message to be in the likeness of you. We also know that you're using these times to bring about your will And part of your will is to judge evil and to get rid of evil and wickedness. We also know that judgment comes to the church first. And we have fallen short in so many ways. Forgive us, Father. Forgive us of our sin. Please forgive us as we look to turn towards you again. Have mercy on us, please, Father. We know that you are a patient God, but there comes a point where you've had enough. And so we ask for forgiveness. We ask for forgiveness collectively, but also individually. And Father, we ask that you would use this time of judgment. To turn and to sharpen your church. We know that your remnant is always preserved. We pray that you protect the remnant, Father. that you'd shield us. We pray that you would speak to our hearts in dreams and visions and through one another to encourage us through this time. both war and battle where your gospel is being well the true gospel will prevail the the false gospel gospel is being um is being out there so we just pray that you would through the fire of your word that you would just eliminate it completely We thank you, Father, that you are ultimately in charge and you are you are victorious. Leave us Not into temptation. Please, Father, deliver us from all evil. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you for participating with us today. We went uh this is one of our longest ones. So apologize for that unless you thought it was good, then you're welcome. Till next week, God bless