And it looks like it's rolling. Hello, internet world. Welcome to our living room in the household of faith in Christ. We have uh We have a message. It's gonna hopefully be fun, but also enlightening today. We'll have a discussion afterwards. You're as always welcome, encouraged to add comments to the video as we spend to the uh majority of this hour probably together today. We can interact with you via the comment section if you like. Uh we're gonna be focusing on first John chapter five, the first twelve verses. So if you want to get your Bibles ready And you're going to be looking for chapter five, the last chapter in that letter. And then I I know things are disrupted this week. A lot of people are out at rallies and that sort of thing. So if you want to add comments later, if you want Watch this later on if you've been in a rally. I try to check the comments uh l uh throughout the week and and uh interact with you that way. And um we have a YouTube channel for the household of faith in Christ. So all these videos end up being archived there. So if you wanted to if you missed part of the series on 1 John and you want to kind of catch the whole thing, you can go back to the YouTube channel and that's the easiest way probably to find them. I mean you can just kind of watch them in rapid succession that way if you're so inclined. So but uh before I say anything more I guess we'll open with a word of critical Usually I ask Angela if she's willing to open us a prayer. You want to do that? Alright, but Angela will open us up and then we'll get right into our message. Gracious Heavenly Father. for gathering us here together, Lord, to hear from your word. We pray, Lord, that by your Holy Spirit, Lord, that you would bring to this gathering who should be here. And we pray Lord, that by your Holy Spirit that you would speak through Pastor Troy and through every voice that speaks in this gathering. And we pray, Lord, that a word of correction and instruction, a word of of encouragement, a word of enlightenment goes out to the people. We thank you and we ask these things in the holy name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Uh doing this on Facebook Live, I have migrated a lot of my social media action activities onto Mi We and Parlor, but they don't really have a live streaming option and I haven't found a good replacement for Facebook Facebook Live, but just FYI. I'm probably going to be spending less and less time on Facebook and more and more time on those other platforms for those who care about that sort of thing. But until I can find a suitable replacement, we'll still be using Facebook Live for this and other things when I'm doing live video posts. So uh F FYI. But we're gonna open today's message actually with some story time, a short little story that is based upon uh a story by a a friend of mine drew to my attention a story that's Somebody once told, and I can't remember who it was that told the story, but this story is uh inspired by that person's story. This is a a shortened uh version of what was of of a story similar to what he told. So listen. He hears Do you hear it? The high-pitched hum of mosquitoes tickle his ears. And he remembers a summer season from what seems another lifetime. The blood-sucking insects, they would sting his skin. And he'd slap at them, feeling the smart on his arms and his legs and his neck. The hand he used to splatter the bugs would be smeared with nothing but a reminder of what used to be an antagonizing adversary. He remembers those mosquitoes how he used to hate them so. But like I said, that was a summer season from what seems another lifetime. Now he doesn't 1967. He's in Vietnam. For this American American soldier and the mosquitoes are often a helpful distraction. When this soldier is listening to the soprano song of the mosquito, He's not so aware that the sun has baked what he is worried might be permanent blisters on his skin. When feeling the shock Sharp fight of the mosquito, his soldiers not so mindful of the blisters on his feet, at the heel, around his toes, burning from having burst and mixed with Sweat. When scratching at the maddening itch of the mosquito bite site, this soldier is not as fixated on the bloody groove that has been worn Into both of his shoulders from carrying a gun pack, food, radio equipment, medical supplies, and the forty six and a half pound mortar baseball. That's used to support the shells of doom, blasted in the direction of the Viet Cong. This soldier didn't use to carry quite as much But then, when the madness began, there were more of his buddies around to help carry the load. Oh, how he misses. His buddies. But the mosquitoes, they pull his mind away from this sentimentality. It's a good thing he thinks. No time for sappy strolls through memory lane when he's on the march On the march to where? He's forgotten. But he vaguely remembers that when his captain told him that the flates of safety And he trusts his captain. His captain has battled the mosquitoes too. Shoulders a heavy pack. Much heavier than the soldier's pack. There's much to be admired with this captain. Whenever the soldier grows nearer to exhaustion, the captain is there to encourage him. How you doing, my friend? Hanging in there? Of course you are. You're gonna make it. You know why? Because I'm right here with you. And I'm gonna see that you make it. But I can't keep going, the soldier says. Yes, you can. You know you can. Remember what I taught you. One step, then another. One step, then another. Keep your attention on that one step Just take one step. Good. Now again, just take one step. That's it. One step You got it. Proud of you. The soldier is weary. His lungs, they've lost their capacity to inhale. it seems. He wishes he could just get rid of his lungs so they stop weighing him down. Oh that's crazy, he knows. It's just they heap talking or they humidity or both. The heat and humidity, they're so insane they drive just about anybody crazy. But at least this soldier knows He's alive. The strain of the weight and the pain of the open source, the swelter of the heat, the yearning for lost friends, and the mosquitoes. those blasted mosquitoes. These all remind him that he is alive. And heading to the pasture up ahead. Where the captain says he'll have rest. Oh, but now the soldier he sees arise in the landscape a hill Oh no. Not a hill. He just. He can't climb the hill. He can't make it. He cannot Well, there's a stream. Maybe he'll rest there instead. At the bottom of the hill. Why struggle through the climb when it can be avoided? Well, there's no strength for climbing anyway. The stream is so inviting he allows himself to wade in. Oh, the coolness of the water on his burnt and stinging flesh. The mud from the stream bottle bottom it gurgles up over the top of his boots and sneaks down past his socks. Oh the relief he feels under Blister feet. The soldier plops down and he shrugs and he squirms until the heavy pack is loose. The armor plate that he'd been carrying and Kerplunks f Behind him. Oh, the freedom he feels, the exhilaration. He never wants to leave the comfort of this dream. Never all is good here. All is safe. He's sure of it. His captain should have let everyone stop here instead of heading up the hill to the pasture. If the captain could only see him Well a captain might not be too happy that his soldier dropped out of line, but the captain would understand. Surely he would. Everyone always says how understanding is the captain, how wonderfully brave and strong and understanding is the captain. How this soldier loves this captain. The captain. The soldier thinks he hears the captain. And a bunch of other voices. The shouts of his fellow soldiers are yelling down what sound like urgent pleas. And there it is again Again, the captain's voice calling out. Oh boy, Captain's mad. Or maybe concern Captain's hollering and commanding the soldier to get to a seat. He might be angry, might be something else, but he's certainly working to get a hold of the soldier's attention What is he saying? Soldier, up on your feet. March one step, one step, one step at a time. Let's go. Come on. Follow me to safety and rest. But I'm resting here. But there is unsafe. The enemy is hiding in the reeds. Using this stream as a trap. Now pick up your armor pack and get back to it. One step One step. Come on. You don't have to worry about going all the way up the hill right now. Just take one step. Now take the next step. Keep going. Don't quit. You must not quit. You will not quit. I won't let you As that word the captain reaches the soldier, the captain had been running to the soldier And now, hip-high in dangerous waters, the captain picks up the burdensome pack and he carries it with the soldier. And the soldier sees the blood soaking through the captain's shirt The captain too has the battle scars shared by the soldier. As the captain marches, the soldier follows. One step. Then One step, then one more. He counts aloud and declines, and the captain counts with him, almost counts for him Somewhat counts through him. And the soldier feels an indescribable thripple. Terror still stalks from behind. Utter exhaustion battles from within, but the rivers of despondency have been replaced. By floods of confidence. He knows he will make it to the pasture of rest. The captain's with him. And he knows the captain will get him there. He knows it. No longer with any doubt Because he knows his captain. And his captain does not leave any of his men behind. And so the counting continues. Each step the soldier counts. One step. One step. One step. How many? More steps, he thinks to himself. Just one more comes the answer. One more. The next one. Just one more. One step. One step. And the others on the march, he can hear them cheering him on. Encouraging him not to give up, to keep following the barked out orders of the captain and the soldiers. He he can tell that what they're doing, they're showing their love for him And they had so many other times, and he loves them too, and he is not afraid to let it show, not out here in the battlefield. Real soldiers he had learned, they learned to love one another. They learn this from the captain. And then finally, with one step, he makes it He's at the top. He has made it to safety and security and rest. He made it with his captain. In just one step. He made it all the way to the top of the hill. One step Just one step all the way to the top This is the basic point of the first half of 1 John chapter 5. It's about the soldier counting on his captain. It's about you swatting those mosquitoes. It's about me tempted to give up true rest and security for a temporary dip in the cool waters down below But all of us, and our need to trust God Jesus Christ brings us triumph over our suffering just as He himself triumphed over His suffering. In fact, Jesus brings triumph through the suffering, just as he triumphed through suffering. Let's read the first twelve verses of the final chapter of John's first epistle, and then we're going to talk about them after a word of prayer. So if you don't have your Bibles open already, you might want to do that now. First John Chapter five with verse one. Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. And everyone who loves the Father loves his child as well. This is how we know that we love the children of God. By loving God and carrying out his commands. In fact, this is love for God, to keep his commands. And his commands are not burdensome, for everyone born of God overcomes the world. This is the victim Victory that has overcome the world, even our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world? Only the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of the man. Of God. This is the one who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ. He did not come by water only, but by water and Water and blood. And it is the Spirit who testifies. Because the Spirit is the truth. For there are Three to testify. The Spirit, the water, and the blood. And the three are in agreement. We accept human testimony, but God's testimony is greater because it is The testimony of God, which He has given about His Son. Whoever believes in the Son of God accepts this testimony. Whoever does not believe God has made him out to be a liar, because they have not believed the testimony God has given about his son. And this is the testimony. God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his son. Whoever has the son has life. Whoever does not have the son of God does not have life. This is the inspired, inerrant, infallible word of God, those who have ears to hear Let them hear. Father, we ask your blessing upon our time here together. We have much to distract us, much that can Bring consternation to our minds and hearts. We ask that you help us right now through the power of your spirit to stay focused on your truth, the gospel truth, about your Son Jesus Christ. We thank you for the presence of your Spirit enabling us to do this, illuminating our hearts and minds. As we In Christ's name we pray. Amen. If you sit down and read 1 John All the way through, in one sitting, you will notice something. And by the way, you really should sit down and read 1 John all the way through through in one sitting. It's a letter. That's what we do with letters. I mean no one really writes letters anymore, I suppose. So let's put it more contemporary terms okay someone sends you an email they probably intend for you to read the whole thing all at once that actually still might be a dated reference for the younger generation. So someone sends you a tweet or a text. Do you read it all at once Or do you save 20 or 30 of those 100 or 200 characters and read those later? Read them all at the same time, right? Well, let's pretend that people still write letters. This means we have to pretend that people still receive letters. So, okay, we receive a letter. What do we do with it? We read it. Read the whole thing, all the way through. And this is what John expects his readers to do. And guess what? We are John's readers. So we should read it all the way through. So later on today, sometime tomorrow, open up 1 John. Start with chapter 1, verse 1, and read it all the way through. For now, we're in a sermon, and so we're spending a specific amount of time con Considering some of the deep meanings of particular parts of the letter to make sure that we hear precisely what it is God is saying to us. So I'm not going to read the whole letter to you right now here in this setting. But if I did, you would notice something. John repeats himself A lot. It's sort of like today's modern praise and worship music, you know? Same words over and over again. And over and over and over and over. Now the comparison it begins to break down a bit if we press it too far. John's letter is not as repetitive as the worst of contemporary Christian Music. And those songs, they're not inspired, right? They're not inerrant. They're not the infallible word of God which reveals to us the truth of our Creator and our position before Him But still, John's letter is a bit repetitive, in a really good way. He brings up the fact of the matter and then he swings back around to say it again and then he he he backtracks so as to really drive it home and then he writes it all over once again. Just to be sure you didn't miss it the first or second or third or fourth or fifth time. This spiral of his This circling back to cover the same basic ideas seems really redundant. I mean silly almost. Seriously, why would he feel the need to repeat himself so much? Well maybe the people back then they weren't very bright. Not like us. We're very bright people. No need for us to belabor a point. No need for us to ramble on and on. on, especially in a sermon, no need for me to keep repeating myself. There's no need. And yet here I am endlessly repeating the same point. Well the benefit of this is that in this very moment you understand that John uses repetition in his letter. In this very moment, at least, you understand that there's a repetitive nature to John's writing. You've got it. You understand. You know that John repeats himself He does. He repeats himself. Yes, he does. We will remember this later today. Or tomorrow. Next week. How about in a month? Or a year. What about when life beats you down? Drives you to distraction? Will you remember it then? Could there be a time when you will get so fed up, so aggravated So stressed that you'll turn to someone, maybe even your child, your spouse And you'll say with exasperation, will you just stop pleadings? Why do you keep repeating yourself? Why are you going on and on about that? Don't you think I heard you the first 10 million times? Only an idiot will repeat himself so much. An idiot. Like John? You mean an apostle of Jesus Christ writing the very Word of God to the members of the Almighty's church? And any of you like that? Is that what you would mean in that moment? Or, in that moment, beaten to the nub of your wit's end by the pressures of the world Might you have forgotten that this New Testament author repeats itself? Might you have forgotten? Despite the fact that I have repeatedly made this point to you today. Despite great repetition, we tend to forget. You will end up neglecting to recall what I Has said here today. We all end up neglecting to recall what God has said through John In this letter to unfortunately For thousands of years, God has revealed his truth to us. He has done this repeatedly throughout history. He continued to do this through his church for more than 1900 years. He continues to do it even now in messages like this one. Being priests all throughout the world today. He is going to repeatedly remind us again tomorrow with messages like this, and the next day, and the day after that, and still will all be prone to forget. So let's take a moment to ponder what it is John has said so many times in this letter. And then let's ask God to help us remember. First John chapter five verse one says, Everyone who believes that Jesus Jesus is the Christ, is born of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves his child as well. If we believe, and I mean that in the most profound, substantive kind of way. Everything you can pack into what it means to believe. Not some idle belief. Some mere words. That you don't even understand what you're saying. I'm talking about truly believing, trusting in. If you believe that Jesus is the Christ, if you believe that, if any of us believe that, we are born of God Do you believe that Jesus is the promised Messiah? You are born of God. You acknowledge that you need saving from your sin and its resulting death sentence, and that Jesus is the Savior? You are God's child. You are God's child because you believe in the one the Father has told you to believe in. only begotten Son. And by loving his son you show your love for the Father as well and in showing love for the Father and the Son, you will want to show love to the other believers, the other children, your brothers and sisters in Christ. In verse 2, this is how we know that we love the children of God by loving God and carrying out his commands. This is clear. It's not easy, but it's simple You can know. The eyes of the watching world can know that you love God and that you love people by your obedience to God's word Christ has loosed your chains to the law so that now you are free. You are free to obey it. You are free to obey God's commands No longer a slave to the law, but willingly and thankfully a slave to Christ. Obedient slave to Christ. This is what it means to be a Christian. You've heard this this before probably and now you're going to hear it again in verse 3. In fact, this is love for God. To keep his commands. And his command Commands are not burdensome. Keeping God's commands is how you love. As you've heard me say in recent weeks, love is a verb. That's one of my Well's favorite phrases. Love is a verb. Love is action. It's something we do. But what are we to do? What is love? Right? This is one of the most popular philosophical questions of all time. What is love? Does anyone really know what love is? I mean, does anybody really know for sure? Yes. God does. And John tells us love is obeying God. This is difficult for us to do. I mean it's not hard in and of itself. It's difficult because of our sin. But there's good news. Our sin has been conquered by Jesus is being conquered by Jesus and will be conquered by Jesus. So it's not a burden for us to carry. It is a burden already carried by Christ for those who believe in him, for those who are born again. Admittedly, the struggles are hard. They're real. They're painful, but the struggles are now. being overcome and will one day be overcome because they have already been overcome How is this possible? Only by the truth of the gospel. Jesus Christ is the overcomer, and by our union with him, we are also overcome. So come hear the good news of Jesus Christ the Messiah. If you've heard it before, you still need to hear it again. Trust me, you do. You need to hear it again. We all need to hear it again. And again. And again. And again. And again. Father, we thank you for the truth of Your word. We thank you that you are a holy and just God, who is also a merciful and gracious God Who is saw fit to rescue us from the consequence of our sin by a Applying the penalty to the sinless one who came as our rescuer Help us to be reminded every day, each moment of every day, of this truth, to lean upon you. To trust you when life is hard. And to trust you when we're so easily distracted. In those moments when life doesn't feel so hard. Father, we ask that you would bless our conversation, that your Holy Spirit would continue to be active amongst us. as we discuss this portion of Scripture and other things that might be on everyone's heart this evening. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Is there any comments in the Thing okay. Any comments from the room? Any initial thoughts, impressions? Anything strike ya? All right. How about this? How about we think about stories of our own mosquitoes and muddy Streams and marches up steep hills. Yeah, what are some of the mosquitoes that attack you in life? What are some of the muddy streams that tempt you to end your world March some of the steep hills of triumph in your life. Any one of those, and it's striking anything. Yeah. Well I mean I talk all the time so I'll let somebody else talk. Well there's only four of us in the room. Somebody put handless clutter food in front of me and I'd never get fooled I'd be like why would I go anywhere else? Yeah. Yeah, true. Yeah, so that would be an example of the uh the muddy streams tempting you to end your march. Yeah. Yeah, I've had pastors locally here in Frederick County that uh the years ago described trying to be a pastor. here in our context is like uh being a pastor here is like trying to plow pavement. And striking image that is. I was like, what? Why is that though? And I think one of the challenges is that Frederick's a pretty, you know, healthy, vibrant community in a lot of ways. People who have government jobs and good good benefits, nice houses, friendly neighbors, you know, it's a lot of fun things to do in the community when we're not on lockdown. You know, there's a lot of good stuff that's going on, but what do we need Jesus for? I don't need God. I'm making $200,000 a year. What do you need God for? I got health insurance, vacation time coming Got a beautiful wife, talented kids, going to the concert next Saturday. This is life. This is as good as it gets, like the old beer commercial used to say. So yeah, that's Tempting issue for all of us. Any mosquitoes that you can think of? Annoyances, distractions, things that are causing you Pain. Nothing you want to share on Facebook, I guess. Yeah, I think a big one that might be a safe thing to bring up. We don't have to talk about it, but I mean, there's a lot going on in the world, that's a big distraction, right? The election has got a lot of people look filled with consternation. It doesn't feel like righteousness is prevailing and that's a real neck nagging pain uh that can take our eyes off of off of Jesus. It can be the swirling storm. You know we're Peter stepping out of the boat and the election is the swirling storm Distracting us, taking our eyes off of Jesus. Um how about triumph? Any any stories of triumph that uh that might be Easier thing to share. Wow. So something I said. Alright, we'll turn it into a quiz. What's the best way to read a New Testament epistle? All the way through. All the way through. Gold star. So what's something that John in his letter and God throughout the scriptures is repeating to us and throughout history repeating to us over and over again that we still tend to forget What the Apostle John was he was he repeating to us? Yeah, what is it that the Bible is telling us over and over and over again, and yet we tend to get distracted and forget That's really the gospel. Yeah, I mean it's it's kind of a Sunday school kind of a question. It's you know the gospel. As simple as that. We tend to forget the gospel. Right? Whenever we're extremely agitated it's because we've forgotten the good news that this is not our permanent home you know something so much grander awaits because of what Christ has done for us. I think when things are out of our control, which lately is more so than not, there's definitely more of a temptation to forget the good news because you feel like things are being done to you as opposed to you allowing things to be done to happen and be and kind of have him happen with you. And that's hard because it feels like God's not in control But we know that that's not the truth, but it's hard sometimes to focus on that when it seems like the bad guys are getting away with everything. But of course we see that alter out scripture how you know it seems like the wicked prosper but theirs yeah but their end is far worse than ours You know, there's lots of examples throughout human history where you know the uh God's people were under persecution, uh, and sometimes God is using Using those uh evildoers uh as an instrument of uh correction on his people too. So sometimes I wonder if maybe that's what's going on in our current context. You know, the the example of Babylon in the Old Testament, you know, the example of the Roman Empire in in the New Testament, uh the example of uh the the the fascists and the Stalinists of the twentieth century of in more recent history, the persecution that the church even today faces in places like the People's Republic of China. And and other parts of the world that it it you think it's bad here, it's so much worse there, although it feels like we're heading in that direction, it doesn't get stopped. And now we're feeling it here too. And so Yeah. Uh Liz Matavish says that um we're never in control and we can only control our own actions. Yeah, we can't control uh the whole world. And there's sometimes an arrogance people that's part of the agenda is we can control everything If only the government has more authority, they can solve problems. And we individually feel like, oh, I can have control. I guess okay, so maybe I mis didn't explain what I'm trying to get across as far as I know our feelings lie, but that for lack of a better word, what I'm feeling is that In our current situation, worldly situation, I don't have the freedom to do certain things. Um that I used to be able to do. Not that that stuff provides happiness, but you know, even as far as and I do speak freely. about my faith. But there's a lot more pushback in that regard. So I feel like there isn't the ability to be as free with worship and with and certainly we're not free to worship with all the restrictions that are being put in place the way that, you know, we're able to do And I think something we have to I think it's important for us to try to keep in mind is that um we we always i we are free in Christ, right? We're set free in Christ And we have a freedom in Christ to do what, as I said in the message today. We have a freedom to obey. We have a freedom to do what God says. And so, that doesn't mean the world's not going to penalize you So the Apostle Paul is proclaiming the gospel, and he's imprisoned, he's beaten, he's tortured, he's left for dead, I mean he's running for his life a couple of times. He's all these horrible things are going on for him. But throughout that whole thing, the world is attacking him nonstop, it would seem And yet that whole time he was free in Christ to do what God called him to do. And so, I'll use a contemporary example. Now John MacArthur in California California. He opened up his church a few months ago now, uh, against the governor's order. Uh was given a threat of imprisonment, and his response As well, I am free to obey God and God calls me to lead my church in worship, and so we're meeting. And now you might throw me in jail and where I will be free to start a prison ministry So the world's gonna coffee be putting us in weird places and all those weird places our job is As followers of Christ, it's very okay. I'm in this weird place. How do I follow God? How am I obedient to his word and his call in my life? In this context. And in the American context, over over more than 200 years, and it If you want to go back to the pre into the colonial days, you've got over four hundred years of of American history. And during those four hundred years up until now we've had a lot of freedom to not have to be on the run like Paul. And so I think we've confused freedom in Christ with the world allowing some sort of a freedom to act. exercise those freedoms in Christ. But we're free to do it regardless. Um Stephen was free to glorify God as he was being stoned by the world. So it doesn't mean he wasn't free to glorify God. He was doing he was being obedient to God and I that's where it feels like we're going. I mean, who knows if things will turn out differently, but right now it feels like we're gonna have to get mm uh tougher calluses and be willing to uh be obedient even when it hurts. Because right now we've been able to be obedient without it hurting all that much. through most of our lives. You know, those of us who are, you know, fifteen years old, those of us who are seventy five years old, you know, our lives up until now have been pretty free of serious persecution. We can get persecuted in certain ways, social ostracizing takes place or employers can pick on you and that sort of thing. But it's not like the stories you hear where people are having their heads chopped off The church is burned down by the government. You know, we we haven't had that yet. So um I don't know. Did you think that comment was directed to your comment? Oh no I don't know. Oh maybe or maybe not. I'm just saying that, you know And I think, you know, as far as mosquitoes or being discouraged, the biggest source of discouragement for me is not necessarily when I feel like there's a certain thing personally for me, but when people around me who I love dearly are being hurt or being you know affected. That hurts me more than even when it's it's happening to me. That's where I really struggle. Um and I think that that's probably a a common thing for a lot of people. It's always harder to watch someone you love suffer as opposed to you you to suffer. I think that that's that's uh very common. And that is one of the challenges that we're facing. That just clicked. I just thought about it and I was like, it really is right? One of the things is a challenge uh for us to keep because the world will say, why can't you just do this? Why don't you just do that? What's the big deal? And you know what? If it was just if it was just me It says, you know what, so what if they keep punching you in the nose? Like, aren't you a Christian supposed to turn the other cheek, right? Let them punch that one too. Um okay, but that's that's just me But what about when they're punching my brother or sister in Christ in the nose, or punching my children in the nose, or punching my neighbors in the nose, my friends? My extended family. What if they're punching all those people? What if they're punching my enemy in the nose, but I know I'm called to love my enemy? Shouldn't I, as a Christian Do something to defend them? Sure, abuse me all you want. Look at follow the Christ the Christ example. They abused him horribly But he went through that so that we wouldn't have to go through that. He was defending us, if you understand what I'm saying. So it's not as simple as, Oh, why don't you just go along? Because by me going along, I'm causing all these other people get punched in the nose. And we as Christians cannot abide that. We can't. It's one of the big reasons why we stand up so fiercely for the rights to life of those who are on That reminds me, um I heard someone once say that you know there's a difference between sort of going along getting along, going along to get along, and keeping the peace and allowing yourself to be bullied by demons. Mm-hmm. Like there's a time to stand up and just into into the face of the enemy and say, I have authority in Christ and you will not do this. I dispermitted because I have authority authority in Christ. I'm seated with him in heavenly places far above every name. And I say you won't do it because God has given me authority in the earth. Mm-hmm. Authority over all the power of the enemy. It and it does I what we're talking about now, I think it's like most, like many things, if not most things. It depends on the context of you know of turning the other cheek, you know. It depends on it depends on the context. I think sometimes it's righteous to turn the other cheek and sometimes I think it's not righteous to turn the other cheek. A hundred percent. I think Jesus turned the other cheek when it was when it was appropriate and then there were times he turned over the tables. And so I i I think it's about discerning what what context that you are in. I think especially Especially in America, we have this kind of wimpy view of what it is to be a Christian. Like we're always supposed to go around turning and get other cheek. I think that's why we're getting bullied a lot. When it when God is not pleased by it, when God wants us to draw a line in the sand and say no. This is where you say no. You don't put up with it anymore. Well yeah, and that goes along to um with the judging thing too. We are to judge good from evil. We're not called to judge a person's destiny to heaven or hell, but we are called to judge actions. And there's a big difference. And so people say, oh you're judging. So are you. Exactly. We are all making judgments. Exactly. You just judge me as a judge of you. I mean it's that that it's like such a nonsensical like whatever. That's an example of bullying. Right, and I'm like, whatever. It's an example of bullying it's an attempt to shut down your voice. Yeah. And to, you know, I The way that this is really well maybe this is this is my mosquito finally. My mosquito is this. I I am done, I think, with being quiet about, you know, um my Christian political views because some people are offended that I support President Trump. I'm done with that. I have reasons for supporting President Trump. If you want to listen to him, I I'll share them with you. If you don't, that's fine. But I am not going to allow anybody to hold like their friendship over my head and say, if you do that, I'm not gonna talk to you. My my response to that now is okay, God bless you, goodbye. I'm done with that. Um because you know, yeah. That that that's my mosquito, I guess. That's my mosquito right there. I'm done with that. I'm done with being bullied. And if particularly I'm done with other people who call themselves Christians. I am really done with if you call yourself a Christian, if you don't even want to listen, To my position. Yeah, that's an eye-opening. Then bye-bye. God bless you. Goodbye. I'm not going to let anybody bully me like that 'cause I I think I have a I I I think I've been as guilty of that as many Christians have been in the past. You know, we just oh love old people and I think God is saying no No, you need to speak up this time. I wonder if that's a form of denying Christ. Like when we do that, when we don't stand up. I wonder if that's like like an aspect of that. Sure. But demons are or like animated them. You're not really against them personally. Right, right, right, right. But they they're coming with this spirit of intolerance. Sure. And this bullying spirit. And they're I'm telling you what you can and you cannot say as a fellow American, and I'm sick of it, and I think I think the Lord is sick of it. Important to share in this particular context. If you're dealing with an unbeliever, and somebody who's lost, doesn't understand what the gospel is, doesn't accept it, that sort of thing, and they're having that sort of I think that we might have uh you know uh pearls before swine kind of a thing going on. Don't capture pearls before swine and uh you don't want to be unequally yoked and you don't want to try to carry on on in some sort of a relationship and friendship with somebody so antagonistic against you know uh Christian ideals and Christian teaching. If it is somebody that you have every reason to believe is is uh at le or at least they're professing to be, let's put it that way, they're claiming to be a Christian themselves, if they're claiming that they're following Christ, then um it's tough But I think we should try as best as we're able to put into effect uh you know the the the teachings that we find in Matthew chapter. eighteen. And so if somebody's truly bullying you for your political views, I think uh bullying would be sitting against you. And I think it'd be uh it'd be entirely appropriate and I would actually commend you to challenge them and say, look, bullying me is a sin. And I want you to know that you're sinning against me now, and I would like you to repent of that sin against me. And we can restore our relationship. Because right now our relationship is breached. And hopefully that if you phrase it using biblical language and that sort of thing, it might rebuke them enough to be like, well I never thought about it that way, I'm so sorry, you're right, and then everything's fine. They dig in their heels and like, well no, screw you. And it's like, okay, but I thought you were a Christian. Christians don't respond Well, you're trying to re repair a breach in a relationship. That's not how Christians respond. So if that's your attitude, we need help repairing the breach in a relationship. Let's go find another brother or sister in Christ and maybe a couple other brothers and sisters in Christ and see if they can't help us mediate our way to a successful repair in the relationship. And if they still can't be have that repair Then you gotta go to leadership and figure out how to get leadership involved. And because that person if they have that kind of seriously, if that person is gonna Be an unrepentant bully of anyone who voted differently from them, then uh the church maybe have to exercise the final step of discipline, which is to to uh you know bar them from the Lord's table, recognize them as an unbeliever, and hopefully that That would snap them into their senses. Now, there's a difference between speaking the truth and bullying. So I've I'm on record now in multiple formats and forums uh saying that no Christian in good conscience can vote for a Democrat at this stage. Maybe years ago you could, you can't anymore. If you rent their platform, there's not a there's almost not a single thing in it that a Christian can really support. And so no Christian in good con does that mean that I should st uh stop being friends with people who voted Democrat Does that mean I should bully them? No. If they're a member of my church and I'm their pastor, I'm going to counsel them and explain to them how supporting that sort of an agenda is antithetical to the gospel and they really should change their ways. But that's if I'm their pastor. If I'm merely their friend, I say, wow, how can you vote for the Democrats? Do you understand that they do this and this and this and they believe in that and that and that and they advocate for this other thing, this other thing, this other thing. None of that squares with the Bible. How could you in good conscience as a fellow believer support that? And how the dialogue and maybe they'll be persuaded and they're like wow I never thought about it in those terms you're so right and point them to scripture that's the importance It's not just your political opinion versus their political opinion. It's got to be, look, your party that you voted for and supported, their platform says this. Let's turn to this part of scripture that speaks directly against against that. And this other part of scripture that also speaks directly against that. And here also it's consistent throughout scripture that it speaks against that. Let's go to this other major plank in the platform. And you can go right down the line. I'm telling you, you might have to do a little self-study and figure, but you can do right across, right down the line. It's uh it's not that hard to do. And hopefully if they're truly believers, they're gonna have their conscience pricked and the you know the Holy Spirit's gonna um do his work and you're gonna rescue them from uh a wrong sort of of ideological worldview in a political sense. So anyway, a little long-winded there, I answered. But I felt it was important for us to make a distinction between the unbeliever and the believer and how we would interact with them on our differences on the So anything else uh on the comments? Anything else in the room? All right, well then we will uh we'll draw to a close here. Um if you're watching this, I say this uh I try to say this every week, but I think I forget a lot of the weeks. But I want to make it clear, if your church isn't meeting right now and you're doing the best you can to hear the gospel preached and participate in worship service and stuff online, and this is part of that diet. Well good, God bless you. Thank you for being part of this. If um if your church is meeting but you're choosing to uh try to support your spiritual life through a steady diet of internet stuff, you need to find a church, an actual, like real, meet together, physical body touch person. kind of church. Uh you need to do that. What we do here is not sufficient for your life in the body of Christ. It's not. If if you're doing that and this is a supplement That's fine. Um so let me also add this. If you're currently within driving distance of my home, I live on the northern end of Frederick City. If you're within driving distance of here and you do not not currently have a church that you call home and you're looking for one, you want one, or you're ex interested in exploring one, just private message me on Facebook. If you're watching me on Facebook, obviously you can do that. And if you're watching this on YouTube later, just add it in the comments section asking me to reach out to you and we can talk about what we're all about here, what we're doing, see if it's a fit for you. And if so, you can come and participate participate with us. We used Facebook we're on you know from six o'clock to around seven ish. Uh we start a little bit before that and we end a little bit after that so we can talk about what those things are. And if it sounds appealing to you and you want to check it out, you know, we can talk about doing that. So anyway, if you would close us in prayer and then we'll call things to a close. Lord, thank you so much for this time together. ask that your Holy Spirit would allow us to grow in to the more likeness of Christ. We pray we know that you who pray began a good work and I will see it to completion. We ask that we would be encouraged by that, that we would be of good cheer, knowing that you are sovereign over everything. And we thank you for the good news. May it penetrate our heart. May we not forget. May we be reminded day in and day out. In Jesus' name. Amen. Remember if you have t if you can, read all the way through. First John, try to finish. Next week we'll have the second half of a two-part message. I did the first half. of the message today we'll have the second half on verses one through trouble chapter five next week. Tell then, God bless