And we're rolling. Hello, Facebook. And if you're watching this later, hello, YouTube. Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ, Saturday evening gathering. We do this every Saturday at 6 o'clock o'clock usually wrap up by around seven o'clock. Uh today we're going to be doing part two of a message that's covering first John chapter five, verses one through twelve. So you might want to uh turn Turn there and be ready to read along and and to underline things that are interesting you make notes in your margin or whatever. And I'm also going to ask at one point during the message tonight to turn to the Gospel of John. Verse 33. I'm turning this out. I'm going to uh I I guess read the uh uh the passage from 1 John I did that last week and sometimes when I do that I do it outside of the sermon time, but I'll probably incorporate it uh into uh into the message. So So you're free to comment on so on social media and Facebook, because we have a discussion following the sermon, and so if you have questions or comments or observations, we can interact with you in that way. If we don't get to you during the live portion, we can interact later on in the comment section after this is all said and done. So without me continuing to ramble on any further, we'll have uh Angela if she would open us in prayer. Thank you, dear Heavenly Father, Lord, for the grace of bringing us together, Lord. We just saying about your marvelous grace, Lord. And it's the marvelous It's the marvelous grace of God that keeps sustaining us through these difficult times, and it's the marvelous grace of God that will cause us to see the victory over these difficult times. And we thank you for that, Lord. We ask that That um in your marvelous grace that you would be here amongst us, that you would speak through Pastor Troy and through every voice that speaks, Lord. All of you, none of us, just the word of God, the truth from God, the message that corrects and instructs and uplifts. We need your help. We cannot do it without you. Let your Holy Spirit operate amongst us. And bring to this discussion who needs to see it. Keep away who do who does not. And we thank you and ask these things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. I might change my mind. Are you comfortable reading the passage? Yeah. We also sang uh a song uh Christian Soldier this evening, which I don't know if that was on purpose because you knew we were picking up on last week's message or if it was the Holy Spirit moving. Me too. Yeah. Because uh we were talking about a soldier last week and I'm gonna be referencing that again this week, so I thought it was rather uh appropriate that we thank that uh here before we started the Facebook Live. So if you have your Bibles open, if you could grab uh 1 John turn chapter 5 and we're going to read the first 12 verses. Okay. Yeah? Yeah. Whoever believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and whoever loves the Father loves the child born of Him. By this we know that we love the children of God. We love God and observe His commandments, for this is the love of God that we keep His commandments, and His commandments are not burdensome, for whatever is born of God overcomes The world, and this is the victory that has overcome the world, our faith. Who is the one who overcomes the world? But he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God. This is the one who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ, not with water only, but with water and with the blood. It is the Spirit who testifies because the Spirit is the truth. For there are three that testify: the spirit and the water and the blood and the three are in agreement. If we receive the Testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater, for the testimony of God is this that He has testified concerning His Sons, the one who believes in the Son of God. God has the testimony in himself. The one who does not believe in God has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God has given concerning his son And this testimony is this that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his son. He who has the son has the life. He who does not have the Son of God does not have the life. That is the very Word of God, inspired, infallible, inerrant, a perfect rule and guide for life. And practice and our faith. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. So Dina, I think, was reading the NASB translation. And uh As I do this sermon, you'll be hearing me referencing the NIV translation. So just in case you're confused as you're following along, it's the same Bible, just people sometimes translate a little bit differently, but But they're all translating from the original Greek text, so uh we can have confidence that the Word of God is sure and true. Uh last week we opened with a story about a soldier in 1966 Who was uh at war in Vietnam and was uh dealing with mosquitoes, fighting him and blisters on his feet and and burning inside of his boots and and uh having bloody grooves worn into the shoulders uh of his body by carrying a heavy pack, including a pack that had armor. in it and uh with all these challenges and struggles he learned that to get through he had to trust his captain, a captain who had also been doing battle with the mosquitoes and a a heavy pack The pack actually heavier than the soldiers' pack. And uh together they were dealing with the heat and the humidity, and uh all these things were were challenges and and troubles, but there was one aspect to them that was helpful and that was they were reminders that the soldier was alive. He knew that he was engaged in in the good battle by having these nuisances then have to deal with. But in spite of that benefit, he mostly was giving in to the fatigue and the weariness of the battle and the the pains caused by the war and so he was tempted and he saw a stream and he entered that stream the the cool muddy waters to to take a load off he he plopped down dropped his armor that he had been carrying And he made up his mind that he never wanted to leave the comfort of that stream. But the stream was a trap set by the enemy. And so the captain comes running to him and tells him he needs to just get out of that stream. And the soldier's tired, and the captain says, hey, let's just take it one step at a time. Okay, one step. Just take one step. And the pack the captain helps to pick up the pack of the soldier and carries it with the soldier. And this is when the soldier can see that the captain is also bloodied. And uh and and battle bruised like him, sharing the same kinds of scars that he shares. And then uh as they're taking that one step that mark Of one step at a time, the soldier hears the other soldiers cheering him on. They're up ahead on this hill and they're cheering him on and showing their love for him, telling him not to give up, encouraging him And this is something they learned from the captain, to love one another in the battlefield. And so this whole story kind of boils down to a story that is about the soldier counting on his captain. And it's about you and I squatting at those mosquitoes. And it's about us tempted to give up true rest and security for the illusion. Of security by taking a temporary dip in cool waters down below. Discovery that's about all of us who need to trust God. And be reminded that Jesus Christ brings us triumph over our suffering just as he himself triumphed over his suffering. And what's more, Jesus triumphs Triumphs through the suffering, brings us triumph through the suffering, just as he triumphed through suffering. And then after telling that story, we read the passage that Dina read this evening. 1 John chapter 5, verses 1 through 12. And then we started examining the verses. I think we covered the first three verses last week. And we noticed in reading this passage, and now we're we're deep into this letter from John And so we've noticed by reading this letter from John that he repeats himself a lot. I mean he repeats himself over and over and over again. And then repeats himself yet once more. Now why would he do that? Well, in one sense he's mimicking what God does. God repeats himself over and over again throughout His word telling us the things that we need to know but tend to forget. And so we ended last week by saying that uh obeying God is what we're called to do, but we We struggle because life is hard, it's difficult for us to do. I mean it's not difficult, it's not hard in and of itself to obey God, but it's difficult because we sin. And yet our sin has that Conquered by Jesus. And so it's not a burden really for us to have to carry anymore in the same way that when someone is lost has to carry. It is a burden that's already carried by Christ for those who believe in him and for those who are born again. And now it's pick up this week looking at verse 4 of 1 John chapter 5, which to refresh your memory says, for everyone born of God, over Overcomes the world. This is the victory that has overcome the world, even our faith. It's interesting, the word overcome shows up in This verse a couple of times. Same word twice. You don't remember, I think it was maybe last week, two weeks ago. I said it actually a few times over the last few months. How love is a verb is one of my favorite phrases. I say it quite a bit. Love is a verb. Remember, love is an action word. It's about what we do. I just I ask my wife. We say it all the time. Well, the word overcome, that is a favorite word for the apostles. John uses the word overcome twenty-one times in the five New Testament writings that are attributed to him. 21 times. For some perspective, the word overcome shows up in the whole of the New Testament, the entire New Testament, just 24 times. All but three of these 24, it's John using the word. He likes this word. And one of these 20-plus times that John uses the word is a quote from Jesus in John's Gospel account. That's where we're going to turn now. I mentioned, asked you to put a thumb in John chapter 16, verse 33. So if you can, if you are able to get there quickly, do so. If not, then you can go there later. And look at what we're emphasizing here. This is the words of Jesus talking now in John 16, 33. I have told you these things so that in me you may Have peace, in this world you will have trouble, but take heart. I have overcome the world. Jesus has overcome the world. We are co-heirs with Christ. The Bible tells us. So we share in what Christ has accomplished for us. Jesus is victorious. That is what the word overcome means. It doesn't mean to muddle through. It doesn't mean to simply get by, to make do, to merely survive. To overcome is to conquer, to have victory. It carries with it the idea of superiority over one's foe. I win, you lose. I conquer, you fight. I am the conqueror, you are the vanquished. This is what it means to overcome. And Jesus has overcome the world. A world that has Satan as its prince. As Christ's co-heirs, as his ambassadors, as God's redeemed image-bearers We too have conquered the world. Does it feel like you've conquered? Most of the time, probably not. We feel dragged down, beaten up, busted upside down. We can become disillusioned, depressed, feel defeated in these moments You might wonder what has happened to our hope? What has happened to our prayer life? What has happened to our faith? In times like this, we consider ourselves as lost. We're losers. We are lonely in our feelings of aloneness. But we are not alone. We're not losers. We're not lost. As believers in Christ, we were once lost. But now we are found. But why don't we feel like this? Why? If I'm a winner, why am I so miserable? Why are we so downcast? Why are you sitting there right now saying in your heart, maybe, yeah, Mr. Preacher Man? Why do I feel this way? You seem to know exactly how I feel. But do you know why? Do you Well, I do because John has told us. Over and over again, he has told us, and God has told us us and shown us over and over again throughout the pages of scripture. But we forget. We forget what Jesus said. In this world we will have trouble. And we forget. And that's why sometimes you're right. Ready to just give up on everything, feeling like it just doesn't matter anymore. That your whole life is a fraud, it's worthless, absent of any meaning or purpose. And when you're driven right up to the edge like this, it is because Satan has infected your navigational unit. Satan has tricked you. He's gotten inside of your GPS, your spiritual GPS, and he's saying to you, recalculating. He said, you are now entering uncharted areas. Verify your course. Proceed with caution. In other words, God's plan doesn't quite cover this situation. Are you sure about the course God has set you on? Be careful because God isn't your guide anymore. You are on your own. But these are lies from the accuser. We know that they are lies because in verse 5 God reminds us. Who is it that overcomes the world? Only the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God. If you believe that Jesus Jesus is the Son of God, then you have overcome the world. I don't care what Satan says. I don't care what the world throws at us But upon self-reflection, I have to admit, I kind of do care I'm saved of being sanctified, but I'm not yet glorified in in the way that I will be glorified when Christ returns, so in spite of myself, I care. Distracted by the weight of the world? And give in to the temptation that the devil dangles before me. Does this happen to you two I'm sure it does. Of course it does. Because we forget. And John reminds us. We know we have overcome because we know that Jesus has overcome. We know. And we know this is true because God Himself says so. 1 John chapter 5, verses 6 through 8 read: This is the one who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ. He did not come by water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit who touches Because the Spirit is the truth. For there are three that testify. The Spirit, the water, and the blood, and the three are inner Agreement, the three to testify, the spirit, the water, the blood. These verses they call the mind so many images for me, maybe you too. And I'm reminded of Christ's physical birth when his mother's water broke and the blood when the umbilical cord was severed. And I'm reminded of his baptism in water and the Lord's Supper pointing to his death and his bloody death by crucifixion. And I recall the Roman soldier driving the spear through our Lord's side in John chapter 19, verse 13. Verse 35 telling us that water and blood flowed from the wound. The image of water can symbolize baptism, blessing. Purity, life, wisdom, fulfillment. And the blood can symbolize suffering, death, sin, punishment. Punishment, sacrifice, satisfaction of the curse. We have here good and evil There is the experience of good and evil. In biblical terms, to experience something is often articulated as knowing something We have knowledge of these things. We have knowledge of good and evil. All God wanted for us But we insist on the evil too. And so Jesus He is the perfect fulfillment of the good. He is the perfect prophet, the perfect priest, the perfect king. He is the perfect satisfaction for the penalty, taking upon himself our curse and experiencing the worst of all evils. Now I can feel John here reminding us that God's only begotten Son condescended to live an obedient life for us. Even being baptized in the baptism of repentance when he had nothing from which to repent. And the God man Jesus died for us, the penalty for sin when he was not guilty. And here I can see the Spirit. illuminating the preached word, active in baptism and present in the supper. And here I recognize the Spirit dwelling in our hearts, in the sacraments. In the written word, the Spirit witnesses directly as God, and also indirectly through individual believers. Through his church. God's Holy Spirit testifies of Christ from before the incarnation, even. Witnessing during our Savior's first century Ministry, of course, and continue to do so now and into eternity. The Father, the Word, the Holy Spirit. They all testify in heaven about what the Son has accomplished here on earth. Even with the They're okay, but not always reliable. That's why the Old Testament law required multiple witnesses, and even multiple human witnesses can Can get it wrong, like the false witnesses who accused Jesus before his death sentence. Well, significantly we have surer witness than this. God himself. Verse 9 of 1 John chapter 5. We accept human testimony, but God's testimony is greater because it is the testimony of God. Which he has given about his son. With God giving the testimony, there can be no Doubt. It's true. And if you believe it, if you believe what's true, you honor God and his son. And if you don't believe it, you dishonor God and His son. Verse 10: Whoever believes in the Son of God accepts this testimony. Whoever does not believe God has made him out to be a liar because they have not believed the testimony. God has given about his son. You know what this testimony is, don't you? We tend to forget. We need reminding. And so John writes in verses 11 and 12, and this is the testimony. God has given us eternal life. And this life is in his son. Whoever has the Son has life. Whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. Jesus is the one way to life, the only way to life. Jesus is life. How many How many friends do you know who would say to you that they believe in God? At least some idea of God. Well, how many of these These people wouldn't say that they're Christian. I don't know how many of them might say they're Christian. But maybe aren't in fact really Christian, because they don't really accept that Jesus is life. Well, if they do not have the Son of God, They must think the father is a liar, who's lying about his son of all things. There's no life in that point of view So we must lovingly warn these friends of ours of their danger. Remember the story I told in the beginning of the message last week? and that I recap at the beginning of the message this week. The story, by the way, is broadly inspired by a real-life Vietnam soldier, but it's way more than this soldier's story. Not only because I embellish it quite a bit, but it's more than his story because it's our story. We are soldiers doing battle in the middle of a tremendous Spiritual war. We know that we will win because Jesus has already won. And we share in his victory and his blessings. You know, never has there been a captain like Jesus. Right? Never a captain like Christ. He will see us through the trials and the temptations that That we face. He is right now taking us through the trials and temptations that we face. And more than this, we know that he has already seen us through. By facing these same trials and temptations himself all the way to the cross. He carries our burden for us while at the same time asking us to bear ourselves and follow him It's tantalizing what the world will show us to get us off course. And big houses, sleek cars, SUVs. Sexy clothing, important degrees of higher education, lifelong family businesses, careers, the allure of youth, making a name for ourselves, the hope for an early Retirement. Now these aren't all bad things, you know, well but while viewed as good and soothing, the worldly oasis That we see of these things, whatever the form, it's dangerous, very dangerous, if it keeps us from marching to where our Captain is leading. Obediently following his lead is daunting, but it's doable It's excruciating, but exciting. It's impossible. But already When tempted to rest where God has not told you to rest, remember that danger lingers there. And consider the regrets of unfulfilled worldly dreams. Well, there are no regrets in the dreams of God. has for you. No regrets. Because his dream for you doesn't go unfulfilled. Like our worldly dreams tend to be. to. The dream that God has for you is a sure thing winner. Now the path you're on might seem brutal to you. And uh I suggest it surely is. The world throws its heat and humidity hatch you. If the world throws a weight on you that dig Deep into your flesh that the world diebons you with disease-riddled mosquitoes. Well remember what John has told us so many times. And what God has shown us so many times. Christ overcame the world. And these attacks from the world, they're just reminders of what Christ has overcome. Reminders that we have the privilege of sharing in his suffering. And reminders that we have life. in Christ. And these attacks meant to defeat us are used by God as a blessing to us. If you believe in him and what he has done, then you too have overcome. You've overcome the world. You are alive. That's why you're able to take the next step, that step of faith. the next step of faith, and then the next, and the next, one step of faith at a time. And then one more. Always that same one step. Step in faith. And then again. And then one more. Then one more. One step. One step. One step. This one step brings you to eternity with your captain. In safety and security and assurance with Jesus Christ. So don't be jealous of the ones around you who are walking in those cool, muddy waters and their blistering feet being soothed and their heavy packs floating downstream no longer Weighing them down. They're not to be envied. They're to be warned. They are in Peril. And they don't even know it. But we know it because we believe God We know we believe God because we love God, and we know that we love God because we obey God, and we know we obey God because we love others, and we know we love others because we warn them of the dangerous river that leads to hell. And we introduce them to our mighty captain who leads us to heaven And we cheer on our fellow Christians, our brothers and sisters in Christ, encouraging one another each step of the way every day. Jesus has overcome. The worldly slings and arrows are no match for our warrior God. No match whatsoever. The worldly slings and arrows are less than even mosquito bites by comparison. All who are united to Christ We've also overcome the world. We've squashed the mosquitoes. Even the pesky pests that swirl about us. They're defeated following with eyes to see and ears to hear. We know that these too have been smashed and splattered and smeared Nothing but a reminder now of what used to be an antagonizing adversary, now conquered by Christ at the cross. Let's not forget, Jesus has overcome, and we share as co-heirs with Christ Christ, what he has won for us. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Your persistent and ongoing reminders of your truth. That your son has achieved a victory that we could not achieve on our own. A victory that you freely share with us, those of us who trust in you and your word and the work accomplished by Christ and His earthly ministry. And death on the cross, the victory that we understand to be profoundly true, with the evidence that Christ defeat even death through his resurrection. And the Son is now ascended back to heaven. And we have our Christ interceding for us right now, at the hand of power, and that we have the comfort of your spirit Dwelling inside of us, to help us do battle in this spiritual war, to comfort us When we're ready to quit, when we're distracted, when we're feeling discouraged, when we're under attack by the enemy. We ask your blessing upon us. our conversation over the next coming minutes this evening. We pray that we would be intimately aware of your presence among us here this evening. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. So get back over here. So I've got some ideas, starters, but is there anything that struck you in particular? Yeah, I mean it's certainly timely. We're in a season where it feels like what is the point? What is going on? There's no way we've we're winning. There's no way we won. Look at what's going on around us. And I don't think it's anything that's new. Um, this is a message that could have been preached ten years ago, a hundred years ago. ago, a thousand years ago, you know, where we're constantly facing the slings and arrows of of a broken world around us, and we can get discouraged And not to sound a broken record, but that's why we get reminded over and over and over again by John in this letter and throughout Scripture by God Himself that there is victory. We need to stand in that victory, knowing that it's assured. And Jesus Christ has overcome the enemy Forever. That is true whether you believe it or not. It might not be true for you if you don't believe it, but it is true nonetheless. So if you want to stand in victory, you need to stand in Christ. And it is so hard for us to remember to stand in Christ because they have so many other things vying for our attention and we want to go stand in those things. You know, uh marketing and propaganda and you know uh the the the the false lies lived on social media where it seems like every Everybody has the you know happy, happy, joy, joy lives. If you were to until recently, were to uh judge the quality of somebody's life based on social media posts, you would think that their whole life was nothing but birthday parties and fancy dinners. And that's just not real. We all struggle. I think something that's different about right now in our lifetimes, everybody has had uh moments Or seasons in their life that have been challenging and difficult. Some of them have been formative and trajectory altering in our lives. And they're have some been some big moves in history uh as well, but it feels like a much higher percentage of people right now are struggling. Uh and those who are struggling, many are struggling in in more mighty ways than they might have been a couple of years ago. So this kind of a message might feel more profound. found right now. But it's been true forever, and it'll be true unless Jesus returns right now, you know, tonight. It'll be true tomorrow. It's true every day. Every day we need to take that one step, a step of faith every day. Sometimes more than once a day. Well yeah, repeatedly taking that one step. I I think that um that is what the Lord is saying in John sixteen, twenty through twenty-one is what America as a nation is going through Um in First John or John? John. The Gospel of John. Oh gosh. Um I think uh the remnant church is Experiencing this right now because the remnant church is fighting for God's righteousness and to be restored to our nation. And That includes our returning to our godly foundations and turning away from laws that we know that are not biblically Supportable such as um abortion and um laws um that are socialist that um are anti-God Because they want to rob people of their God-given freedoms and rights. But John 16, 20 through 21, Jesus is speaking to his disciples and he says When I'm bringing out the new King James, he says, Most assuredly I say to you that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice and you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned to joy. A woman when she is in labor has sorrow because her hour has come, but as soon as she has given birth to the child, she no longer remembers the anguish for joy that a human being has been born into the world. And I think the way that that scripture is applied to our situation right now is that there is a remnant church that is sort of warning right now because of what we're seeing in um the nation's governmental political landscape, um how the church has fought for righteousness and fought for the overturn of um laws that we know grieve the heart of God and and fought for you know godly leadership you know leadership that God has instituted not necessarily perfect people please don't Um, get me wrong there, but just people that God can work through who are not in full on rebellion against him. I think the church is weeping and lamenting a little bit because it's Been so much prayer, so much fasting, so much pressing in, so much crying out to God and saying, Lord God, deliver us. You know, these socialists are trying to come in, they're trying to rob us of our freedom. Lord God, deliver us All of this sin is around us, it's killing our children literally, in and out of the womb. God deliver us. Deliver us, Lord. And and so they're weeping and they're lamenting, cursing Currently, but I think what the Holy Spirit is saying in this hour is right now, you may be a little sorrowful and the world is rejoicing. There's many people that are rejoicing right now. at the outcome of the um at the apparent outcome of the recent election. But I I believe the Holy Spirit is saying, um, your sorrow will be turned to joy I I I think we're birthing something in this nation. We're like the woman who is in labor and her sorrow has come to her because she's in all that pain. But you know, to birth something new. as and something ultimately good is painful. And I think that's that I think that's where we are spiritually in the country right now. And um you know when when we when we read different news reports, you know, we we we can get back to that place where we just feel a little sorrowful and a little like, oh Lord God, you know, I'm um when when will this end? You know, when when will the crazy end? Uh Lord, you know, i it seems like you you you you think you can't get shocked anymore, then somebody else comes up with some other rule or some other something and and and and and you find yourself actually being surprised you know uh when you thought you were beyond being shocked anymore. But I I think this is this scripture has played out many times Obviously it played out right before the Lord went to the cross and that was the the that's the immediate context of what God is saying here. But I believe there's a principle that there's a there's a principle to the word of God that gets played out over and over and over again throughout history. And I I think that John 16, 20 through 21 is where America is right now in our political governmental landscape with the remnant church. And I am speaking specifically to the remnant church and God Because you know, God works through the through the remnant church in a major way. So and I call it the remnant church because there's been such a great falling away from the word of God by people who are calling themselves Christians. Um they've just, you know, they've rationalized it, but you know, uh if you just read the plain word of God, they've fallen away. So um I think I had what I felt like was an insight that struck me this morning and I actually shared it with some people earlier today, but didn't share it with you yet. So you know there's nothing new under the sun. We learned this From Ecclesiastes. And so I'm thinking, you know, what because you hear in news reports or in conversation with your neighbors about man, this is just unprecedented times. Nothing like this has ever happened before. Well that's simply not true. There's nothing new under the sun. Now particular specific instant things. I mean we're not but the big moves, these big challenges, there's nothing new. So it struck me I think a pretty good corollary to what we're going through right now in our in our culture and in our world, the entire world really, not just America. Um we see a picture of this in the Reformation. So you have the launch of the church in the first century, and the early first church fathers in the second century are kind of shaped and were in good shape, and uh and the church actually it's persecuted. But it's doing pretty well and staying pretty faithful and and uh and coming to grips with how to articulate certain doctrinal truths and that sort of thing into and through the the uh third century. But But before the end of that century and going into the next century, you know all of a sudden the church wasn't persecuted anymore, and Constantine comes along and he makes the church uh a legal religion and even perhaps in certain aspects became the official religion of the Roman Empire. And from that point forward, it there was a drift that took place over A thousand years. There was a drift away from what the scriptures teach, what the word really says, and we filled that vacuum with the opinions of men, with the truth. traditions of the of the church led by uh you know the the church in Rome. Um and then almost precisely five hundred years ago, just a hair over five hundred years ago this year year, you know, Martin Luther in Germany famously nailed his 95 theses on Wittenberg door. And that uh ignited what was already the uh the beginning of of the Reformation. It's better to think of the Reformation as a bunch of Reformations all over the continent of Europe, but they kind of had a rallying cry singular moment to kind of define the movement with with Luther. And what was at issue there? Theologically the issue that we Protestants hang on to, you know, uh as As distinctive from Roman Catholicism is justification by faith versus justification by faith plus works. Right? And so Luther and the Protestant position Saying, look, the Bible teaches it's justification by faith. We don't earn our justification. It's a gift from God by faith, which is a gift from God. But what was that grounded in? It was grounded in where our source of authority is. And so for Martin Luther and John Calvin and uh Zwingli and all the other reforms For them, the authority was grounded in the written word of God. Let's go to the source material here and see what it says. And the Roman Catholic position was, well, yeah, that's kind of important, but what's more important are all the the the the papal decrees and the church uh decisions and the traditions that had evolved over the course of over a thousand years. And it wasn't about what was on the written page. Well where are we today? This is where I made the connection. Where are we today? Those who are arguing about we need to get back to the fundamentals, the foundation of this country, we need to save America, rescue America, we need to get back to the Constitution and the Declaration of independence, right? The written word of the founding documents. Now don't misunderstand me. I am not even remotely equating the those foundational documents for this country with scripture. Not even in the same universe much less ballpark. But the principle applies. So the reformers like Martin Luther were saying, look, the word says, and those who were arguing against Martin Luther were saying It doesn't really matter what the word says. The word says whatever we decide it means. And that's where we are now. Well the Constitution, the Declaration of Independence. They say, the word says. we say. And that's where we are right now. And ultimately, there was a schism that was to this day hasn't been repaired. Right. The the Roman church and the Protestant Church continue to be divided and separated five hundred years later. And not to get all spooky and scary, but if if if the corollary, the historical corollary were to continue There was a civil war. There was the Reformation and the Counter-Reformation, and there was all sorts of bad stuff that happened people burned at the stake and beheadings and it was horrible. There was a persecution of the truth, because I would argue the Protestant position had the truth and that truth was persecuted viciously for a couple hundred years. Ultimately we came out on the other end and if big part of why this country exists today. Because the persecution was so bad, they fled and came here and established things rooted in things that were true. And that's why there's been so much blessing, because we've done things in a way not perfectly, we haven't done everything rooted in the truth, but generally speaking, broadly, for the most part, thank goodness, things were rooted in truth. Some very noteworthy exceptions. I'm not blind to those. But generally speaking, there was great blessing because we were rooted in the truth. Our founding documents were rooted in truths that were rooted in the Word of God And so here's the challenge. When we talk about the remnant church, that's the problem I think we have right now. America, quote unquote, has lost its way. Western civilization Civilization has lost its way, the world feels like it has lost its way, because too many important portions of the church have lost its way. Lost their way. Too many high-profile leaders, too many men of influence, too many false teachers, too many false theologies, too many false conceptions of who God is, false conceptions about who we as people are. It's false, false, false. Because it's not rooted. Most churches today are not rooting their teachings in the Word. We're right back to where we were before the Reform It's not about what the Word says in today's contemporary church for the most part. It's about what new traditions say. It's about the opinions of men and what they say. It's about what psychologists say, what science says. It has nothing to do with the word anymore. They try to undercut the word. They try to deconstruct And in deconstructing the word of God, you end up deconstructing reality. And that is where we are right now. We're deconstructing our nation, we're deconstructing our institutions We're deconstructing the family unit. We're deconstructing everything. And so if the world doesn't feel like it makes any sense, it's because it doesn't anymore. They've blown everything apart into pieces. deconstructing it. And the way to rescue is to get back to the truth which is found in the Word, and we can reconstruct things based on a foundation of truth. And so we need the church to be faithful. And boy, I wish that there were more and more pastors who were faithful. But it's not just pastors. Most Christians don't read their Bible. Most Christians are all but the biblically illiterate. They don't understand The narrative of Scripture. I mean, there was a survey done a couple months back by the George Barnott research group, and the percentage of professing Christians, okay, this isn't just the average people. This is people who profess to be Christians, an un unnerving number of professing Christians did believe that Jesus is divine. I think it's been a third of the people polled thought that Jesus sinned. Christians supposedly say this. So how do we fix this? Well one, start with you. You press into reading the word, grappling with it, coming to understanding what it really is saying, and then expand a little further out and take care of those in your Your family, your immediate family, those in your household. Have a household of faith in Christ of your own. Okay. And be rooted there. And then be an influence in the Sultan Light around you. And hold your leaders in your church. account. They say things that don't square up with the Bible, go to your pastor. Pastor, what did you mean by that exactly? I'm not sure I see that in scripture Maybe you have something to learn there, so don't automatically assume your pastor got it wrong. But ask the question and see if they answer you from the pages of scripture. care more about the truth than about um, you know, the tradition of going to your church or the tradition of this or the tradition of that. Um Um because I I just I think that that's a big part of why people don't have truth. And I think it's by I think it goes back and forth in many churches, you know, the pastors seeking the acceptance of the congregation. The congregation you know, wanting the you know, seeking the acceptance of the pastor rather than then reading the word and saying, but it doesn't I don't understand why you're saying that when when this scripture says this and you know there are other scriptures that are saying something opposite, you know, it's just we have to care about the truth. I think I I don't think God forces truth on anybody. think you have to want the truth. Well and the zeitgeist, as it's sometimes called the spirit of the age, um would would tell us that well there really is no absolute truth. It's about individual person experience and even your own, like it used to be. If you go back about twenty years ago, it was very common to hear people say, well, what's true for you is true for you and what's true for me is true for me. But now it's even worse than that. But Now it's well what's true for me right now is true for me, but in five minutes I'm gonna have a completely different truth because that'll be true for me in that moment because my experience has changed. And so we're deconstructing our own lives. Our own lives don't even hold together as a cohesive whole. And so we're not rooted and grounded in anything. And so if you're trying to play to that, the world's never going to understand you Okay. Speak the truth anyway and let the Spirit of God move. We can't be trying to tickle men's ears and tell them what they want to hear. They're not going to get it if they haven't been given ears to hear and eyes to see by God This is what Jesus says in John 17, 17. Sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. So Jesus doesn't say truth is what it is for one person, what it is for his he's saying, the word of God is truth. So again, from from that, from that, um Standard, the next thing, the next step is, Lord God, show me what truth is. Not show me what truth is in a moment. or you know, according to you know what I want it to be. Just show me what the truth is, whether I like it or not, whether it's comfortable or not, you know, uh whether my family likes it or not, show me what the truth is 'cause I want to I want the truth. I I want and I and it doesn't mean I it never means that you and I I understand truth perfectly because guess what? We don't do anything perfectly. But what God showed me a while ago is that if you want to, you can do well You can't be perfect this side of heaven, but you can do well this side of heaven. You can serve me well. You can never serve me perfectly, but you can serve me well. We know about part says Paul. Paul says I know in part. We don't know everything perfectly, but we can know. It's just when people throw the whole word of God out totally And say when you can't have truth and you can't know it that we get in serious, serious trouble. And um they we've been doing in this country for a long time and now people are believing things that are not only just crazy and insane but very, very dangerous. Because I mean it's look at the morals of this country these days. What people w you know, that I what's good for me is good for me, what's true for me. I mean that has real life consequences You know, our children are feeling it and seeing it. You know, we're feeling it and we're seeing it. American society has gotten so much more dangerous than it ever used to be because everybody has a subjective truth and everybody wants to be politically correct and we've gotten away from the fact that the people who founded this country, I don't mean to be disrespectful Respectful. But they were not Hindu, they were not Buddhists, they were not Muslims, they were Bible believing Christians. And it is the Bible in which Jesus says to the Father, sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. That's the Bible. That's not any other holy book. It is the Bible. This country was founded on the Bible, which Jesus it this is the book where Jesus says to the Father, your word is truth and the father's name God's name in this book many names is he's Jehovah Jireh he's Jehovah Rapha he's uh he's a prince of peace. He's the everlasting Father. But you know, Allah is not a name that's in here. Buddha's not a name that's in here. I mean we've gotten away from that. And I that's a reason that's that's that's the kind of the foundational reason why we We are seeing so much division. We've never been, have we ever been a country where everybody fought uniformly the same way? No, but there was unity, right? because unity is not uniformity. What made us uniform was that even at our even when we were at our worst, like in race relations, everybody still believed the Bible And there was a kind of strange unity because of that. People were decent because of that. I mean, still with sin, of course, you know, but people were decent. There was just this general decency. In society that's just missing nowadays because we had everybody coalesced around this book, and not perfectly, but we coalesced around this book. And this is what we need to get back to. And you know I don't want to go too long so we're around seven o'clock now, so we want to wrap it up relatively soon, but you know there's so many things that could be said and and we're trying to figure out which ones need to And should be set right at this moment. And one first of all, I'm going to hit some of these fast. Angela's talking about, you know, trying to be politically correct. If we're trying to be people pleasers There's something wrong, right? We're to be God pleasers. And she talked about the word, you know, God's word is true. Let's remember that Jesus is the Word. And Jesus says that He is the way, the truth, and the life. That's what I meant in the sermon tonight that you know Jesus is life. He says, I am life. I am the way. I am the truth. There is truth, and Jesus is So if somebody says, Oh, what's truth? You tell them Jesus. That's what's truth. And if you don't know Jesus, you don't know the truth. And then you get tossed to and fro by the waves and the propaganda and all the doubt the world wants to throw And that's why again, John is reminding us that Jesus is the truth, and that truth overcomes the lie. That's the whole point. Jesus is the overcomer. He has overcome death, he's overcome the lie, he's overcome every aspect of the enemy. Okay, every aspect of the brokenness, he has overcome that, and that is the truth. Christ is the truth. That's why he rebuked the evil when he said, Be still. He was rebuked Yeah, that's not going to do a whole message on that passage. I think that's one of the things that we're going to do. Hebrew rather, sorry. But that's that's uh one of the more uh misunderstood passages in the Bible, I think commonly misunderstood, and I probably should go whole message uh on that at some point. Um what was the other thing I was going to say? Sorry. No. There's this idea of the Angela, all the things the Angela said to were triggering these thoughts. She's talking about it's not about Just going to church and all these habits and these traditions that you have. Those things are fine generally speaking. It's good to have traditions and habits and those sorts of things. That's good. Uh but don't make it all about that. There's there's there's something more important than that, and that would be the truth, who is Jesus himself. So let's not get caught up in the uh We have to belong to collective. Right now we're minority. We're a distinct minority. And so we might have within our own church bodies, we might have people who are looking at you funny like What you believe what? No, that that's not that's not true. What the Bible says it is? Well yeah, but that's just the Bible. Come on, we know better now. Science has shown us or whatever. Within your own church body. So you don't want to just go along and get along with the collective. God calls each of us individually to account So you are going to stand before God and give account for you. Now, the collective is made up of a bunch of individuals, so we don't want to discount the collective. But don't you sacrifice your individual responsibility and your individual accountability to the collective. Because God's not saying, oh, you denied me because everybody else was? Oh, okay, you're fine. That's not how it's gonna work. That's not what God says in His Word. And sometimes it's so sneaky. So sneaky. So if I were to say to you, that book right there in And uh Angela's lap and the book on Dina's lap. These are these books, the Bible, it's a witness to truth. Would that strike you as wrong? It might not strike you as strike you as wrong. And technically, as far as it goes, I wouldn't want to argue that it is wrong. The problem is it is dangerously insufficient. So if you hear church leaders talking about the Bible as this book here is the witness of truth, I'm telling you you want to ask your pastor what they mean by it. that. Are they meaning by that that the Bible isn't actually the truth, but merely a witness to the truth? Because a witness to the truth is some Different from the truth itself. There's the truth, and there's a witness to the truth. Jesus Christ is the truth, and I'm a witness to Jesus Christ. So me as the witness and Christ is the truth are not one and the same. You understand? The witness is lesser. So if you've got church leaders telling you, this here is a witness to the truth Well that is true as far as it goes, but is there a reason they're not going further? Is there a reason that they won't hold this up and say this is the truth? Jehovah's Witness. Is there a reason that they won't do that? I would want to know. The word is truth. The word is not a witness to truth. Truth. It is truth. Christ isn't a witness to the truth. He didn't just come as some great prophet and teacher and exemplar for us. He did that, but more than that. He's more than a witness to himself. He is himself So they can be so sneaky. We gotta be more than ever on our guard. We can't just trust what we're being fed like oatmeal at a nursing home. We can't do it anymore. We've got to press in, we've got to figure out who we can trust to lead us into deeper understanding of the truth. That's what we've got to do. You've got to figure out who they are. Question everything like the Bereans in Acts Check everything against the Word of God. Everything, without exception. If it does not square with the Word of God, there's a problem. Or at least change. If you can't see how it squares with the Word of God, there's a problem. Either the problem is in the teaching, because you've caught something that was wrong. Hey, pastors make mistakes. I make mistakes. You might catch me and say, ooh, you know, yeah. Thank you for bringing it to my attention. I'm going to correct that and make sure everybody understands that I misspoke or you know there was a misunderstanding there. Thank you for correcting my that that can happen. Or it might be that you were wrong. The pastor might say, hey, I see why you're saying that, but no, clearly it says here this and this. I know where you're getting that, but that's not squaring with the Bible because of this and this. And you're like, oh well thank you, Pastor. I'm so glad that you know what you're talking about. But if you can't see how it squares with the word, some things wrong. Either the pastor's not square enough or you're not square enough. More than likely you're not square enough. I'll give your pastor the benefit of the doubt, but I'm not going to give your pastor a carte blanche. We can't afford to do that anymore. Too many pastors are getting it wrong every single Sunday. Every Sunday. And it makes you wonder if they were ever grounded in in the truth to begin with, for some of them. Well if they don't repent and start getting it right, then they're gonna have to deal with the other part of First John, which we talked about, those and first John first John chapter two, right? Those that were that have left us were never amongst us to begin with, right? We gotta ask that question. So these are uh intense times, but that That can be exciting. It's an opportunity for you to really grow in your understanding and your faith and to be put to good use by God as the Holy Spirit moves in your life. So be encouraged because we've already won. Jesus is the overcomer, we're on his side. We've already won. I don't care what it looks like around us. The actual reality is we're victorious. So anything on Facebook? Any last thoughts from you? Do you want to close us in prayer? Sure. Heavenly Father We thank you for the truth, the reliable truth, the one and only truth. We praise you for that. May you be glorified by the truth, by our witness. To the truth. Thank you for being victorious. Thank you for giving us the victory. Thank you for being on the throne, for being Lord over all Thank you that you are reigning now, then, and to come. Thank you that you sit on the throne, that nothing happens without your Allowing it to happen and you've promised to preserve your remnant. You've promised to protect your remnant. We thank you for that. We pray that you would encourage us during these times when it feels hopeless because we know that you are victorious and because you are victorious we as your children are also sharing in that victory. Father, lead us not into temptation, Lord. Please, Father, lead us not into temptation. Please, Father, deliver us from all the evil that is all around us. Protect your remnant, Father. We ask this in your precious name, Lord Jesus. Amen. Amen. that if you've never read first John all the way through from beginning to end in one sitting, you should do that. So if you haven't done that yet, I encourage you to do it this week. And you will be encouraged. No need to be depressed. No need to be weighed down and worried by the concerns of the world. Um you have victory And John repeats it in many ways, various ways throughout the book. Read it from start to finish this week. Read it a couple of times. It's sure. You could read it every day all the way through if you want. Till next week. God bless.