Hello, Facebook, and if you're watching this later, hello, YouTube. Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ. We're going to have a uh sermon and discussion about uh 1 John Chapter 5, verses 13 through 21. So if you want to begin to get yourselves ready for that later so you can read along, you're certainly welcome to. In a moment, I'm going to have uh ask Angela if she would open us in prayer. Um after that um I'm gonna have a message gonna last twenty-five minutes, thirty minutes max I would imagine after that there's time for discussion. So if there's something that strikes you during the message that you wanted to comment on or have a question about or whatever, feel free to add that in the comment section and we can address it during our discussion. discussion time. And we might set aside some time for prayer tonight, but we'll see how time allows on our Facebook portion of our of our time together today Anything else you need to think we need to say? Alright. Well then without further ado, as today say, I'll angle open us a prayer and then we'll get going. Gracious Heavenly Father Thank you for bringing us together again in the name of your son Jesus for a time of fellowship, a time of teaching, a time of instruction, a time of correction. A time of edification, which is pray, Father, that your Holy Spirit and your Spirit alone will speak through Pastor Troy and Dure. through everyone who makes a comment uh that the Holy Spirit would quicken us with the word of God and give us understanding. And we just ask um Father that you would claim two weeks Who needs to be part of it, whom you intend to bless through it, and keep away those who should not be part of this discussion. And we thank you that you are signed Sovereign and in control of all things, and we entrust this time to you and ask for your blessing in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Thank you Well sometimes you just know. You know? You have a certainty in your But more than this, you have experience and you've been shown some things. You've learned some things. There are facts that back up what you believe. There's a cold hard truth, and you grasp it. You have every reason to know and so you know. You just know, you really do know. And if you don't, well, you should You can. Or in the words of the Apostle John, you may. You may know that you have eternal This is a major theme in one of John's New Testament letters, the one that we happen to have been studying these last several months here. Household of faith in Christ. The book of the Bible we call 1 John. He wants you to know that you may know that you have eternal life. As a follower of Jesus Christ. You may know this because as a Christ's follower, you do have eternal life It's true, and so you may know this. John is so insistent on making this point that he uses the word no, K-N-O-W, nearly four dozen times in 1 John. Shorter books of the Bible. There's only 105 verses in the entire book. That means that on average he's using the word no pretty much about every second verse, every two verses. John uses the word. know a lot. I mean think about that. That's a lot of knowing. And this pattern is even more pronounced in the passage that we're beginning to examine. Here tonight, 1 John chapter 5, verses 13 through 21, which we're going to read together here in a moment. So if you haven't already, you can grab your Bible and open it up to the end. And as we read, you're going to notice that the word no keeps popping up over and over again, seven times in the final nine verses of the 1 John. Begin with verse 13. John writes: I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. This is the confidence we have in approaching God that if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us, and if we know that He hears us, whatever we ask We know that we have what we asked of him. If you see any brother or sister commit a sin that does not lead to death, you should pray and God will give them life I refer to those whose sin does not lead to death. There is a sin that leads to death. I'm not saying you should pray about that. All wrongdoing is is sin, and there is a sin that does not lead to death We know that anyone born of God does not continue to sin. The one who is born of God keeps them safe, and the evil one cannot harm them. We know that we are Children of God, and that the whole world is under the control of the evil one. We know also that the Son of God has come and has given Given us understanding so that we may know Him who is true. And we are in Him who is true by being in His Son, Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life. Dear children, keep yourselves idols. This is the very word of God inspired in Aaron. infallible a perfect uh perfectly sufficient rule and guide for faith and life. Turn me the word of prayer for a moment. Father, we thank you for For preserving your written word for us to study it here, even here tonight. We thank you for the truth of your word, for the truth of our salvation in Jesus Christ. We pray that your holy Holy Spirit would be uh that we would sense your your activity among us, that we would be drawn to you closer, that those need to have their hearts pricked would be pricked. Uh As only you can prick them. And those that need to have their hearts convicted, we pray that you would do that as well. As you clear our mind of the distractions, the many distractions that swallow around us and help us to focus on the thing. us in to drill in on and keep our eyes set upon Jesus Christ of Nazareth, your Son, our Savior, Lord, and King. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. The other day, well, I don't know, three, four days ago, Dina asked me, uh, what's today's date? What day is today? I mean we live in a strange time. We're keeping track of time can be tough. It's as though time has been frozen almost in a lot of ways. This year. And I started thinking, yeah, this has been a weird year. The household of faith of uh uh uh in Christ and and our sermons series and that sort of thing. So I went back to look and see how many how many sermons have I shared so far with the household of faith in Christ? And where do we stand? What what are we going to be doing moving forward? Now before today, uh it turns out I have come to you via Facebook, and if you're watching this on YouTube, on YouTube as well, 37 times. The first of those times was was in April. Now but a dozen or so of those times were uh were really official Household of Faith in Christ videos uh because this has been kind of a season of transition for us but uh but counting today this is now the twenty-sixth official Facebook live stream that we've done Together in this uh new young church. That's an even half of a year, 26 weeks. Half of a year of messages spread out over about let's say eight months or so. Now approximately a third of the messages shared, actually a little more than a third, have been from the first epistle of John It's been our primary focus during the summer and now into the fall as we head towards winter. In fact, the exact numbers we're counting at home scoring at home is 14. Now we're going to be moving into second and third, John, here shortly as we continue our tour through the epistles of John, 1st, 2nd, and 3rd John. And then we'll probably be looking at an examination of the book of Revelation, which I'm beginning to outline and and work through now. Anyway, as I reviewed all the sermons that we've done so far and was preparing uh our plan moving forward, it was interesting, uh you might have noticed if you were watching a uh if you've Listening along and watching along. Kind of a checkerboard pattern. We bounced all over the place. We didn't always cover the verses in exact order because of the way that John's letter is outloun outlined or somewhere But we've covered it all. The entire letter has been covered, except for the very last part of chapter five. beginning with verse 13. So you might imagine I'm pretty excited to head down the home stretch as we begin to wrap up the look at 1 John. All of our sermon messages that we've done so far have been kind of broken into two parts, and that's going to be the case this time too. So you're hearing the first part of our final sermon, if you will. So by the time it's all said and done, we will have been we will have uh done uh eight sermons spread out over sixteen messages to cover one of the shorter books In the Bible. Anyway, as I reread 1 John for the umpteenth time and reverted the sermon notes got us to where we are today, I found my my my mind began to wander a bit, uh deep into my past actually. And it wasn't because I I was losing focus, it was because I was gaining a clarity Of focus. So let me tell you where my mind kept running off to as preparing this message that you're beginning to hear tonight. And then I'll tell you why I went there. So approximately 30 years ago, I met my wife. And it was about two years after that. That I proposed to my wife, and we work in the radio business, and so of course I proposed to her live on the air. That's what you do when you work in radio And so here's what I said. A friend of mine in Illinois is getting married in a couple of months. He caught a few of his friends off guard with the announcement. And he told me that one of his friends asked him how he knew that the woman that he had just gotten engaged to was the woman that he was meant to spend the rest of his life with. And he said that he used to ask the same question. How will I know when I found the right one? the one that's perfect for me. And he was told by someone else, you'll just know. So when his friend asked him that question, he answered, I just know. In the past, of course, he wasn't very satisfied with the answer. He wanted to know what do you mean I'll just know? How will I know? When will I know? What are the signs? The Symptoms. But now he understands. There are signs and symptoms and signals. But there are so many, and they're so strong that they're almost beyond It's the kind of thing that goes to the farthest reaches of our ability. to comprehend. And we have such a fragile grasp on it, such a newness of feeling, that we can't adequately describe or explain to someone else what the The whole thing is all about. And thus we get the answer, you just know. Well, I just know. I found That special someone. She's the most beautiful person I've ever known. Most beautiful person I could possibly know. She's absolutely Absolutely gorgeous, but the depth of her beauty comes from inside. Her love, caring kindness, and simple goodness. So genuine and so deep that at first he can't believe she's real. Attempts to compare her to others quickly fall flat because there's no person alive with a heart like hers. Generous thoughts permeate her entire being She does more than just wish others well. She sacrifices a part of herself to make those wishes come true. She's special. and she makes me feel special. I love her with everything I've got. And just when I think I couldn't possibly love her more, I do I find more love, a deeper love than before. She's the one who'll spend the rest of her of my life loving and with her continue to find new levels of love. I've tried here to add a Explain my feelings and her worth, but no matter what words I find, they just don't do her or my feelings justice. I'll say again that I know she's the one because I just know. I wish I could scream from all the rooftops in the world how wonderful life is. For me now. But no building is tall enough and my voice wouldn't carry far enough. But working in radio has its perks. It allows me to effectively shout from all of the rooftops at the same time. And it allows me before all the world as my witness to declare my love for the most incredible woman on the face of the earth. Earth and to ask her, Dina Carol Casolino, to spend the rest of her life at my side as my wife, and to allow me to stand at her side forever as her husband. I promise I will try to make you the happiest woman in the world for the rest of your life. And you can make me the happiest man in the world. By accepting this ring. Dina, will you marry me? And she did say yes, by the way. Is there a rain now? Is there another rain? So she said yes. First she kinda she sort of laughed giggly and she expressed some surprise because I had surprised her live on on the air, but she said yes and then she quickly added that she had this urge to go throw up. Which I take is a good sign. Nervous. Anyway. That was the best part. Why did I share this proposal with you? Why did I just Because I recalled that feeling of knowing. I recall using the word knowing almost as much as the Apostle John does in his letter to us. And the knowing is somewhat similar When you think about it, right? Knowing that we are loved, knowing that there's someone who sacrifices for us, who is caring, who is kind and good. And it's it's hard to always find the right words To express how this makes us feel, how this changes us for the better, how this impacts the world around us. As you can tell from my proposal to Dina, my wife presents me with a picture of Christ. And how I hope that I do that The same for her. And if you're married, well, I hope your spouse does this for you, or or maybe that they once did this for you, if they've now passed on. And if you're not now married, well then know that this is what you're looking for. You're looking for someone who can grow with you as the two of you challenge and support one another to increasingly represent Christ. to one another and to a watching world. Now with that as our backdrop, let's begin To dive into the text and look at 1 John 5, verses 13 through 15, which say, I write these things to you who believe Believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. This is the confidence we have in approaching God. That if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us, whatever we ask, we know that we have what we ask. Of him. Verse 13 here in chapter 5, this is the thesis statement for the entire letter. Might want to underline it. John tells us, I write these things to you who believe in the name of God. the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. This is why he has written what he has written. He wants you to know, believers, that you don't believe in vain. You have eternal life. You are loved. As true believers, you don't merely acknowledge that Jesus is Jesus once existed, you don't simply grant assent to the idea of Jesus the Christ. You believe in the name. Of the Son of God. There's power in the name, authority In the name, the authority of the Son of God, the Son of God. This is the one in whom you believe and trust and follow and depend. God has brought you to this place So that you may know that you have eternal life This is the gift of our covenant-making God with his covenant people. This is not merely some love Wubby dubby soft and squishy personalized experience with God. Yes, He does love you specifically But as a particular member of his corporate people, his Israel, his church, his bride, interestingly, as Dinah is mine. Bride. And with me and Dina, there's a bit of a corporate aspect, but for the most part, you know, it's a one-on-one thing that's going on there. For Christ, his bride is the elect, the entire group that comprises his covenant people. And this is why the pronouns in verses 13 through 15 are corporate pronouns. Now this is difficult, or near impossible to see in our English translations because of the way the English language works, but when you see the word you in your English Bible here in these particular verses in these three verses what's really being said in the original Greek is Yaw. And then verses 18 through to the end everything's gonna be plural again and you're gonna note the words we and uh and us they pop up uh recurringly and other plural words corporate words as well. So what does this mean for you? Well it means as a follower of Christ you are part of this group. The group that God has promised to be with forever. And This can give us confidence. It should give us confidence. In verses fourteen and fifteen, we see that we can, in confidence, we can Actually approach God. Do we appreciate this truth enough? We can approach Approach God. God is a jealous God who justly maintains his holiness and righteously guards his honor. You had this image Papua Mayhead at the risk of sounding heretical, I'm going to share the image with you. Imagine God guarding his honor and his holiness. Imagine him as a guard dog A great big awesome Rottweiler guard dog. Sharp teeth. Powerful haunches. Jaws that are vice grips and uh penetrating glint in the eyes. Can you Picture that guard dog? Can you imagine this imposing unpredictable Guard dog. Well now imagine approaching him Go ahead. Reach out your hand. I mean, fuck right up. Ignore the the growl, the sc snarl, the the bark, the fangs. What are you waiting for? Just walk right up there. Sure the rockweiler could rip your arm off, but you got another arm, right? You really need both legs? You need all that skin attached? You really need all those pints of blood kept safely inside your body? Now maybe you're one of those who's not afraid of Rottweilers. Okay, well then imagine something that does hear the Behevis Audio, okay? And you get the point Point, I think. It is appropriate to remember God is not safe But he is good. To paraphrase C. S. Lewis, he is good to those who are his And so his church, being guarded by him actually, can approach him. And when we do, we can know that he hears us. And he grants us what we ask. has his church. And he keeps us safe because his church is made up of his children Who he gives understanding revealed in Christ. He gives understanding to those who are themselves. in Christ. In this topsy-turvy world, do you sometimes wish that there was something that you could know for sure. I mean we we chase answers, our minds they They race, we search for someone we can depend on. We wonder if anyone is listening. And we forget that we We had this information and now somehow what we had learned, we've once we had learned it, we thought we had learned it, and then we forget. But even those who were once lost and And now are fouled. They recognize moments when they are disoriented and they're unsure of just exactly where they are, they lose sight. We lose sight of Of who we are. In times like these, we too often seek satisfaction and assurance in things and situations that only disappoint and come Confuse. If only I get the right job, then I'll know. If only I find the right spouse Then I'll know. If only I study harder, then I'll know. If only I withdraw to find myself Then I'll know. If only I had more money, more time, more patience, had more luck, had had more sense, had more stuff, had more space, then then I'd know, if only Then I'd know. I'd know what I'm supposed to know You know, the Christian life it sure would be easier if someone would just tell us what it is we need to know. Maybe they could write it down for us somewhere, huh? So we could refer back to it from time to time and remind ourselves what it is we're just. know. Maybe it could be written as a sort of love letter, something like that. That'd be great. We'd like that, huh? We'd love that, wouldn't we? A love letter telling us what we really need to know and really experience living, to really have life. That's what we want. Perhaps. It's what we need, that's for sure. In God's perfect providence, He has given us just this through The pen of the Apostle John. And tonight we have come together as a people of God. Where earlier we sang, we're going to sing some more bit outside of Facebook time And we we pray and we confess and we rejoice and we learn and we proclaim through a sermon that examines 1 John chapter 5, verses 13 through 21 tonight and again next week Which is a portion of John's letter of love. It is a love letter to his brothers and sisters in Christ. How exciting it is for me to bring God's word to you every week, to share the truth, that you may know that you have eternal life in Christ. And hopefully you're excited to then share that truth with others in the mission field. surrounds you, all around you, the great mission field, that needs to hear the truth of the gospel, that those in Christ Those saved by Christ, those who comprise the covenant people of God, they may know that they Have eternal life. Let's pray. Father, we thank you That you have preserved for us this love letter and so many others like it in the Holy Bible. We thank you that we have come confidence and boldness as we humbly approach your throne in prayer, knowing with certainty that you hear us. And that everything we pray in accordance with your will is granted to us. That you have a special plan and provision for your people, the church, and for each one of us particularly. As members of that church. We thank you for the things that we have in our lives that remind us of this truth. Exemplified by our marriages For example. We ask you to bless our time of discussion and later on our continuing praise and worship of you in song. Help us to better delight in you, to more fervently seek you in prayer. The more steadfastly trust in you and your plan and your timing. We praise you, Lord. Bless your name. We bless the name of Jesus Christ. In whose name we pray. Amen. And then case you're wondering, I I knew word for word what I said in the proposal to Dina because like I said it was live on the radio and I have a recording of it so I was able to transcribe it. And uh do you know when it was live only heard probably the last two minutes. thirds of the first third she was distracted doing her job and if you listen to the recording you hear her typing and stuff in the background and all of a sudden you hear the typing stop. And that's what I knew she was when I listened back like that's when she started listening. The typing stopped. So any uh comments on Facebook or any thoughts In the room. You oughta you oughta put that on a cassette tape. Cassette tape? Yeah, put it on a cassette tape and keep it That's rather old school of you, cassette tape? How do you know what cassette tape is? You want a rescue. You want to see my clutch it? Actually I do have it on cassette tapes and I have it I don't know how to do that. That'd be more permanent, right? That won't really degrade over time the same way the other stuff might. Yeah. I can't listen to it. Yeah, they don't last forever. So anyway. So any uh any reaction? Do you know? Well, I will tell you this, um, that is something that I do struggle with still as a believer, I go through seasons where I I wonder if I really am a Christian and a good friend of mine would always say just the mere fact that you're asking that is a sign that you are that you even care is a sign that you probably are a Christian. Because if you weren't a Christian, you wouldn't even care what God thought. I thought, huh, okay. Yeah. I mean that's not a foolproof way of knowing, but it certainly is a s an indicator. Yeah. Well and one of the things that I delight in as weird and twisted and warped as this s as this sounds is, you know, the the one scripture where it says God disciplines those he loves. But I'm kind of coming under the disciplining hand of the Lord. There's a part of me that's like, okay, yeah, I'm still belonging to him. I mean, as awful as it is I'm like, okay, yep. He wouldn't if he would discipline me if I wasn't child. So okay, we're good. It hurts but we're good. Okay, can we move past it now? Yeah. Yeah, and if you didn't do it, if you're one who doesn't like to write in your Bibles, that's fine. But if you're one who has already written in your Bible in the past, seriously, you need to underline verse 13 in chapter 5. Now in our contemporary uh habits and style of writing, you would put the thesis statement right up front in the first paragraph, right? Yeah, here's what I've written you about, and then everything else supports that and at the end in your conclusion to say, just to conclude, this is what I was writing about. But John isn't isn't bound by our contemporary styles of writing. Uh particularly in this parti in this letter is so hard to figure out how he structured it. It's it's a very complicated it's either a very complicated structure or it's absent of a cohesive structure I have a tendency to go in the direction of it's a complicated structure, but there's a lot of disagreement over how it's structured. But here it is, we're almost at the end of the letter when he gives us the thesis statement. You know, so he tells us I write these things to, and who does he write them to? Who's his audience? Guess we're not Right. To you who believe. So it's not just to the world. This is an exclusive letter to an exclusive audience. This goes counter to the cultural narrative today where everybody goes to heaven. John's not writing to everybody, he's writing to those who believe. Believe in what? They believe in the name of the Son of God. God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. Those who do not believe in the name of the Son of God do not have. They cannot know that they have eternal life because they do not have Now they might think that they know that they have it, but they have been deluded and deceived into thinking so. So what do you think of the rock Weiler uh example. Was that a little too uh minimizing of God and his majesty, or you think that was okay? Thank you. M Rap is much greater than a rotten plant. Ain't that the truth? Well, I think that that's actually something that the world doesn't understand and how good that is They don't have the Holy Spirit, but you know, they make God out to be all this loving, good. Oh, he's so loving and he's so good. Yeah, to his children. But But heck, if you are on the wrong side, watch out. I mean just please watch out. It's it's not gonna be good on Judgment Day If you don't belong to the family. And that's not me judging you, that's just him being who he is. He has to be just Wasn't good for Rome when was burnt down by Nero. Yeah, yeah, and you're right to say the world, but you know, the world has uh infected uh the church, the visible church anyway. Um, you know, what about ten years ago, a very popular book, well written by Rob Bell, very popular bestseller, New York Times bestseller type of book Called Love Wins. And Rob Bell is a pastor, and it's saying God is love, and so in the end, love wins. He's not going to send anybody to hell. Everybody's going to heaven. So that's a worldly pagan idea that has infected even uh what would put itself forward as representing the church and the church's teaching. People that do that, I just I really fear for those kind of people because if somebody got a hold of that teaching and really believed in it and wound up lost because of it. And even if it was just one person, I could just imagine the person that taught that teaching standing in front of Christ and Christ saying, there's a person that's that's that's this person over here is eternal eternally damned because of what you said. Why should I let you in? You know, uh people that go to heaven, you know, they they brought people with them You know, or they pe sent people ahead of them on you know what I'm saying. They they've served God by by sharing the gospel and helping to bring people into the kingdom. And I just I I wonder personally how can somebody say, But you know, I Lord, you know, I I did all these things and go back to that past. I did all these things and and he's gone but ten thousand people are in hell because of you. So Why am I gonna let you in? You you worked against I mean here I was on a cross and I suffered this horrible death and you worked against what I did. by what you taught. In my name. And and you did it in my name. Yeah. And why am I gonna let you in when I have to watch all these people that you mist taught go to hell Well, you didn't serve me. You know, it just I mean I take that kind of thing seriously, very, very, very seriously. And uh people who who do that kind of thing. I I think they've condemned themselves because I, you know, I just don't think that that heaven is open to people who have sent other people to hell on purpose and spent the whole ministry doing that. Well the false gospel there is jealousy. That exists. Yeah. I mean that that's That's bad news. I mean, we are we are all of us are going whether you are in the family of God or not, we're all going to give an account. Whether you believe that or not, you're gonna be giving an account. And so that that's weighty. I mean I thank goodness when my account happens, I'll be like, Jesus said I'm here because of him. Like because I would not I wouldn't be able to stand. And nobody would. Exactly Exactly. Yeah. Beware of those who are preaching peace peace when there is no peace. You know, when they say, Oh, everybody has peace with God. Yeah, if if if what they're saying is not true, that's highly dangerous. What is that? What is that? Your silly game. I hear it Oh my. Yeah. Okay, you wanna have you wanna go in your chair for a minute? Yeah. You know, uh I wanted to talk about the the uh the idea about having confidence approaching the whole of God in prayer. Exit stage rights. Um Is that anything that you struggle with? Ever struggled with? Sorry, I'm a simple distract. In prayer. I really don't. I don't either. I'm I'm I'm like I'm in God's face all the time. Me too. Oh my and his ear and his This evening. Lord, will you help me find myself Oh yeah. I am constantly about everything. I mean you know how I am. Well how about you know how about going back in your twenty or thirty years? Was it Well I wasn't a believer yet. But you would still probably have moments where you would pray, right? Well yeah. Even those who aren't believers think about oh I speak to God and pray. Sure, but mine was I'll do this you do this for me. If mine was more of a barter. Yeah. Wagering with as if. Yeah. Oh we I we all were like that though, you know, because we were you know young in the face. Yeah, I think we're all like that. Yeah. That's interesting. I I really don't feel I I I feel total peace in approaching him. Um Uh but I did I do have my moments when I'm when when I say, Lord, you know, I don't I don't trust myself. So I I need you to you know, really be my total confidence and just be merciful with me and and and you know even just if if it save my soul, even cut my days short so that I don't fall away from the faith because there's so much so much of that going on around. And um You know, I I I say that, but it interestingly, I don't I don't feel um a lack of confidence in approaching him. Um I think it's because I get con I get convicted so quickly when I do something wrong. Yeah. Um I get convicted pretty quickly so I I don't I I I I've lost my peace until I Yeah. Do you have any thoughts on that topic? Okay. Well, that's what we have to take it to seven o'clock, but we do have a little bit of time before we get to seven o'clock, and I was anticipating that might be the case. Uh I'm not saying anything profound when I say that we are living through What assuming Jesus doesn't return in the meantime, historians will be studying this moment in history, in American and world history, and in the church's history. For millennia. I mean, this is one of those moments in time. One of those pivotal uh future altering kinds of moments and I just feel like it might be a good idea for us to uh to boldly approach God and uh go to Him in prayer. So how we're gonna handle this here in the room is um not everybody has to pray, uh everybody can pray. Praise whatever, but maybe what we'll do is maybe if Dina wants to start and then I'll close and anybody who wants to pray can pray in the meantime. If you want to jump back in after you pray, you can pray more than once, but maybe we can take uh you know ten minutes or so as as a group and and pray about the situation facing the church, facing the world, facing our nation with all the uh the drama Heavenly Father, thank you for this opportunity to come before your Holy Throne that we can approach you with boldness because Of the shed blood of Jesus Christ. We stand before you, we come before you in Jesus righteousness. And because of that, we know that you hear us and that you are eager to answer us. You are even answering us before we even end this prayer. We thank you in advance for the fact that you are a good, loving, holy God who is just, who is merciful. But it was also um wanting to and already has defeated evil, but also judging evil over and over and over again. Before you, we ask that you judge evil yet again because there is so much of us going on in our land. We ask not only that you bring it to our attention, that you reveal it. that you disclose, but that you also cause it to be judged, that it doesn't, the evildoers don't get away with it, Father. I know it was part of your plan to have Jesus go to the cross, but we also know from that example that false witnesses are raised up all the time. So we pray against that. We pray that your truth would prevail, that you would reveal what is hidden, that you would make it wide open, that you would mock those who have been mocking the righteous. Pray that you would uh you would cause them to fall into their own traps, the ones that they've laid out for your righteous. We thank you again for this opportunity. to be a part of what is definitely making history. We thank you that we are on the side of righteousness and we know that you don't forget those who you love because you have a covenant relationship with us. It has nothing to do with us. It has everything to do with who you are and the fact that you cannot lie. And we thank you, Lord, for what you're about to do in Jesus' name. And we thank you, Father, that no matter what's going on around us that you are sovereign and you uh have the final say in everything. We thank you, Father, that you are revealing um the depth and the de of of the depression of those who have sold themselves to do evil. We thank you, Lord, that you are revealing this, Lord, in every mountain of influence, Lord. in the world that you are revealing this, you know, particularly in the mountain of government and in the mountain of the media board. And and and and just in the culture in general. We thank you, Lord, that y the revelation of the evil and the wickedness is being revealed so that so that it can be judged because It cannot be judged until it is revealed. So we thank you that the revelation itself is a sign that you are judging this evil. Lord, we do pray that by your Spirit, Lord, that many would be convicted of the evil that they have done and and would recognize their need for salvation and would uh um turn away from the wickedness and turn to you Lord Jesus, to receive your cleansing and your forgiveness and to be saved by you. But we thank you, Lord, that regardless of the decision that that any particular person makes that you will stop the evil Lord, whether it's whether it's via their salvation or whether it's via their judgment Either way, you're going to stop the evil because you will not tolerate it forever. We know that you're long-suffering and that it it um it Lord your word says uh You do not take delight in seeing the wicked perish, but that they would would repent and come to life and come to eternal life. But your righteousness and your holiness and and your just nature will not tolerate wickedness forever. And you will put an end to it. And we thank you because that is mercy that is mercy um uh for those lord god who are wearied by all the wrongdoing around us lord we lift up all of our Political leaders, people in positions of authority. We ask that you bring them to repentance, Lord God, that they would be saved. We ask you to remove everyone out of uh out of a position of trust who will not repent and who is abusing it. And we thank you, Lord, that you have people ready to take their place And the righteous will take the place of the wicked. And we thank you, Almighty God, that we, your people, have the privilege of having peace that surpasses This comprehension while you are dealing with all of these difficulties, all of this wickedness, all of this evil, that we can have this peace that the world cannot understand. And we choose that. We choose that peace, but Lord, even though we war with our prayers, we have, we're in the peculiar position of having peace regardless. And we thank you for that. that. And we thank you for the good that you will work out of all of the wickedness. We will see the goodness of God in the land of the living. We believe it because you are Still God, and you're still sovereign, and um you are still the Almighty. And so we thank you and we bless you for that. We bless you for what What you are doing and what you are about to do in saving the United States of America and bringing revival into the whole world, the third greatest awakening that the The prophets have been saying it's coming. We believe that. We trust you for it. You want it. It is within your will. We pray for it. You say whatever we ask in accordance with your will, you will. You hear us, revival is within your will. And so we thank you, Lord, that it is coming and that many, many, many will be saved. We bless you. You in the mighty and righteous name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Lord, uh pray for we pray for the country in the world and for all the leaders that are in the world and uh that everyone who is evil will see your judgment and that the Those who are not well, all are people. Um but everyone who is elect will see your grace and uh see your Kingdom Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Father, we pray that your spirit would move among your people, to ignite within us a spirit of contrition. That we've opened our eyes and our minds and our hearts to see our areas of weakness, our failings, our sin. Would be led to repentance. He as representatives of your people would ask for your forgiveness. For failing to press into and know your word the way that we should, for failing to witness To the world around us the way that you've called us to. For being lax in our habits of seeking you in prayer. meditating upon your teaching, seeking to better exemplify the example of Christ. We pray for the leaders within your church, Lord. This is strengthen the shepherds of your people. For those that are faithful already, that you would encourage them and keep them bold, help them to know that They're listening. Congregations, your sheep, love the truth they hear from them. And for those Those that have not been faithful in proclaiming the truth of your word, that they would feel a prick in their spirit, that they would feel your rebuke. And they will be called back to righteousness and true teaching and holy living. We pray for our culture that is lost in its way and for a church that is too often conceded to the will of that culture. Help us to understand the basics of the truth of our reality. That we have a maker and that that maker is you. That you have made us in your image. And so our Lives are valuable, all of them. That you have made us male and female, each bearing your image. That you've designed marriage as a picture of Christ and his bride. That you have held forth a standard that we cannot meet Meet, and therefore we're utterly dependent on the righteous provision and sacrifice of Jesus Christ at the cross, and not merely at the cross of what the whole of his life. His obedience from start to finish. And his victory over even death. We thank you for continuing to provide for us. We ask that you would provide for the many that are struggling. right now is entire sectors of the economy have been shut down or drastically reduced. We praise you that we don't have to worry about ultimately the here and now because we have a hope where our treasure is in heaven And that our true sustenance comes from you. That we get our daily bread from you. That's Virtually Jesus Christ is that bread that nourishes us, feeds us, sustains us. How we yearn for the day that your will will be perfectly done here on earth. And we thank you, Lord, that when the world is filled with liars of all political persuasions, That you are the truth. And we thank you that though we live in a world where death is an ever-present reality and people are running s Scared because of that truth, that you are life. And we thank you that while our human-led systems of government and worldly kingdoms will fail us with great regularity. That yours is a kingdom, not others. this world that never fails. We thank you for the truth of your promise that you preserve for yourself a remnant that we'll make it to the end. And we thank you humbly, praising you, glorifying your name, that we are counted among those faithful. Help us to endure to the end, to run the race that you have laid before us. We pray for mass conversions, Lord, that we will be witness to. As Angela said, an awakening of scale that we've never seen in our lifetimes before. Not only that freedom and liberty would be allowed to exist uh in in earthly ways but the true freedom and liberty that comes from being shaken loose, released from the bonds of sin that more and more people will come to arrive at that place. Thank you, Lord, for hearing our prayer. Thank you, Lord, for comforting us in difficult and turbulent times. It's in Christ's name we pray Amen. Alright, I think that's going to be the end of our video. We're going to finish up 1 John next week. So Read through it all the way through again. We'll end with a big flourish next week. Till then, God bless.