And we're rolling. Hello, Facebook. And if you're watching this later, hello, YouTube. Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ, Saturday evening gathering. We just got done singing some praise and worship. Psalms and uh read a passage passage from scripture and we're ready. Hopefully you're ready. We're gonna be picking up on our two-part sermon message on first John chapter five, verses thirteen through twenty-one. So if you want Want to get your Bibles ready to uh be able to follow along later, you're encouraged to do that. Again, it's first John, not the Gospel of John, chapter five, verses thirteen. through twenty-one. We'll have about a half hour ish or so, maybe a little bit shorter than that message, followed by a time of discussion. And you're welcome to join the discussion virtually by joining Into the comment section here on this Facebook feed. If something strikes you as an aha moment, or you have a question or a concern or whatever, feel free to, or just an encouragement, that's fine too feel free to put that on there and you're certainly welcome to share the video if you think there'd be any benefit to the people that are part of your Facebook fa uh family and your Facebook life uh seeing it. certainly encouraged and welcome to do that. So as has become kind of our habit, I'm going to ask Angela if you'd open us with a word of prayer, then we'll get right into the message. Heavenly Father, we thank you for another opportunity to come together in the name of Jesus Christ to learn from your word, to receive from your word. We pray, Father, that you You would engrave your word upon the tablet of our hearts and give us understanding. Help us to walk in it. And we pray once again, Lord, that you would bring, Father, to this gathering everyone who needs to see this word and keep away everyone who needs to stay away. And we thank you for your grace, your kindness, your blessing upon this gathering. Please be with Pastor Church. Help him to say what we would have him to say. We pray this in the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Amen. I just forgot to have my little podium. Well it's a little easier. So last week we opened um with me talking about how there are certain things you just know. You you viscerally know them, you know them in the core of your being. You might have some factual reasons. It's not that it's absent of fact. You might have some factual reasons for believing what you believe, but this is beyond just the mere facts. You just know with an absolute certainty certain things. I shared the story of when I proposed to my wife and you know I knew that she was the one that I should be marrying and spend the rest of my life with and she knew in return that she's the one with me marrying me and here we are these years later. And actually I didn't share this last week, but maybe I should have. I don't know, was it a year and a half, two years before I proposed to Dina We were having a conversation. We really weren't even uh dating, I don't think at that point. We're having a conversation about, you know, life and plans and goals and that sort of thing. And she talked about, well, by the time I'm this age I want to be married, by this time I'm this age I may have my first kid and those sorts of goals. I'm doing the math and I knew how old she was. I'm like, well if you're gonna hit those goals, then I mean you can have to have time to have you know a courtship and an engagement period and plan for a wedding and then you know get pregnant and start a family you're gonna hit those benchmarks The math says that you would already have to know who that person is. Like they would have to be a part of your life, like even right now. And she tells the story. says that she had this voice in her head and said, Well yeah, you dummy. I'm not kidding me asking that question and I heard uh it must have been the Holy Spirit say, Yeah, it's you dummy. And I was I remember thinking, who said that? Isn't that weird? Now I'm sure God doesn't usually call people dummies, but in that regard, because it took him so long to finally propose, he needed And she got it right on both counts, right? I was the one, so she got that right, and I'm a dummy, so she got that right. So Yeah, isn't that funny? So we can kind of break this up and have it not be uh uh uh as much of me as it sometimes can be. Uh I read the the passage last week and so I've asked Landon if he wouldn't read the passage So if you want to open your Bibles to 1 John chapter 5, and then we're going to begin with verse 13 and read to the end. So if you want to read along as as Land Landon reads for us. God's word. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. And this is the confidence that we have toward him. That if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we If anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, he shall ask. And God will give them life. To those who commit sins that do not lead to death. There there is sin that leads to death. say that one should pray for that. All wrongdoing is sin, but there is sin that does not lead to death. We know that everyone who has been born of God Does not keep on sinning, but he who is born of God protects him. An evil one does not touch him. We know that we are from God and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding so that we may know him who is true. And we are in him who is true. In his son Jesus Christ, he is the true God and eternal life. Little children, keep yourself This is the very Word of God, inspired, infallible, and errand, a perfect rule and guide for faith and for life. Now, you can see why I started last week and re reiterated this week this idea of knowing. John is talking about knowing. He uses the word know, repeated not just in this section of his letter, but throughout this letter, he wants us to know something. In fact, that is the thesis of the entire letter. The verse 13 is The thesis statement for this entire letter I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. really wants you to know that you may know this. And he's reminding you and he's repetitive about it because, well, we we tend to forget. And the importance of knowing whether What does this mean for us? We talked about this last week, how because we know, and the one in whom we know has all power and authority, we believe in the one who bears the name of the Son of God, Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. And because we're wrapped up in him as his bride, we can have a a humility but a a confidence and an assurance as approach God in prayer, knowing that He hears us when we pray, and that if we pray what is in accordance with His will, we have that assurance that Not only does he hear us, but he acts upon us. We're going to talk a little bit more about that this week as well. We talked about the corporate aspect of much of this passage, verses Um sixteen and seventeen would be uh exceptions, but other than those two uh exceptions versus uh thirteen through the n, all the pronouns are corporate pronouns. When it's When it says you in your English Bible, it's it's y'all. It's the corporate you. It's talking to Christ's bride, the entire church, all of us who make up the body of Christ are What's envisioned here. And God protects and provides for those who are his because he loves his bride. As as imperfectly as it is that I love my bride. We care for our bride. We care for our children. We all make up his his children. So we know that God hears us and protects us. And so while I mentioned last week that God is not s Safe. We make a mistake to think of God as a puppy dog that we keep on our lap. He is not safe, but he is good to those who are his. Paraphrasing last week and this week C. S. Lewis there. And so as we headed down the home stretch last week, we talked about how God is good to those who are His. Important distinction. And so his church can approach him, and when we do, we can know that he hears us and that he grants us what we ask. as his church. He keeps us as his church safe because his church is made up of his children. I want to reiterate these points so you can understand What it is John wants us to remember to know that we may know. And he gives us understanding revealed in Christ. Those who are themselves in Christ are given this understanding. What is it that we, the church, have been allowed to understand We're now transitioning into fresh material. What's come before has been kind of a recap of last week. Now we're heading into new material. Well, we're told that we can understand that if a church asks for anything according to his will, then God hears us. Well, okay, but what is his will? How do we know God's will? Well, we know that too. God has revealed his will to us, and we know that as his church, we are to go and make disciples. That is his will. And that as the church goes forth, it should be fruitful and multiply. As we're making disciples, we're being fruitful and multiply. And as this body of Christ is fruitful and multiplies, it is yielding to his word, and it is loving one another and loving even our enemies. We are to love everyone as we announce the kingdom of heaven. Proclaim the truth of the good news. And so when we evangelize for the chosen of God to respond to the call of God that is on their life, then we can know that God hears us because that is his will. The church has been given the keys to the kingdom after all, as we're told in Matthew chapter 16, verse 19. Now This applies in an important way. Talking about the corporate church and all we do as a church, it applies in an important way into our individual prayer lives too. As I hinted at. Verses 16 and 17, these verses are not addressing the corporate church generally, but are uh addressing you and I as the church Particularly, now as a reminder, here's what those verses say. Verse 16. If you see any brother or sister commit a sin that does not lead to death You should pray and God will give them life. I refer to those whose sin does not lead to death. There is a sin that leads to death. I'm not saying That you should pray about that. All wrongdoing is sin, and there is a sin that does not lead to death. Okay, so we're going to slow down here because this is one of those passages that can tend to befuddle the Bible reader. What is John meaning to say in this section, in these two verses? What is he saying? Pray for those who don't need it, but don't pray for those who do need it. That can't be what he means. And yet this is how some will puzzle over John's statement. Now the first half of verse 16 It does seem to say, pray for the fellow Christian who sins in a not very serious manner. So light is their offense that it doesn't even lead to death. And the last half of the verse does seem to say that if someone is in danger of death, well, don't worry about that This is what John means. It can't be what John means. And the happy news is that this is not what John means. He's not talking about these particular individualize specific kinds of sins really at all, as if to say, you know, murder, that's a really bad sin, you know, and uh gossiping, that's a comparatively good sin We know for sure that this is not what John is saying from the context of the rest of this letter, and to be honest, the context of the entirety of the rest of the biblical canon, all sixty-six books of the Bible. Would tell us otherwise. Those canonical truths tell us that the wages of sin is death. All believers understand this. The Apostle Paul he states this flatly in Romans chapter six, verse twenty-three. The wages of sin is death, and so the There is no acceptable level of sin that will not yield death as is Result. Wages, that's what we're paid. Debts are things that we pay. The wages of sin Death. Sin brings a debt, and it must be paid. The sin must He paid for. Sin always results in death So, is there a typo in our Bibles? some sort of transcription error? Did the apostle John make a mistake? Well rest assured there is no mistake here or in the rest of the Bible. The Apostle John knew, and in part because of him, we know that death for sin Has been paid in full by Jesus Christ That's the good news. So, while sin does result in death, when Jesus Jesus absorbs that penalty for his people, then sin does not result in death for them. God the Father's people, trusting that God's Son has rescued them from the path of death, they are now led down the path The path that gives life by God's Holy Spirit through faith. And when the church, that's us, When when when the church prays, John wants us to know that we should pray that God's people be reminded of this truth. That's what he's saying here in these verses. Now as for the the sin that leads to death that we do not need to pray about first Let me say that it might be important, a really important thing to notice here, God's word is not commanding us never to pray in these What we have here is permission to move on and to focus on prayers that will bring God's chosen People into reconciliation with their Creator rather than necessarily focusing on those who stubbornly remain Unrepentant, refusing to allow Jesus to pay their debt. Sometimes you turn someone over to let God have them harden their heart. To walk away and knock the dust off your shoes. He's saying It's okay. It might come a point. I'm not saying that you must be praying for them all the time. It's okay to move on when they refuse to accept Jesus' sacrifice. as a sacrifice for their debt. Because to do that, to refuse Jesus' sacrifice, that is the sin that leads to death. That is the big one, right? Because the nature, the very nature of the sin is to reject the life preserver. Instead, they cling to idols of their own making So we can pray for these people. But John is telling us us that he is he's not arguing this particular point right now in his letter. His focus, he's arguing for Christ's followers to maintain confidence That they really have what they think they have, what God has told them that they have in Christ. Again, remember the thesis statement, verse 13. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. He wants you, believers, to know We forget. And so he reminds us to remember. And he calls us here in these verses to pray for all who comprise Christ's church to be called back to this truth when they slip up. When they, or should I say, when we seek life in someone or something other than God Himself So, allow me to remind you, in the spirit of the Apostle John, remind you one more time, brothers and sisters. We know him who is true. This gives us confidence. Or at least it should give us confidence. We can have confidence in him far beyond any sort of confidence. confidence we might have in anyone else. As we've already talked about, when praying, God hears His church. He hears us. You know, compare this to my situation at home. Do you know how many times Dina has said to me, you don't listen to me I listen, just sometimes I don't hear her. You know, she used to drop these uh huge painfully obvious hints about what she wanted me to buy her as a birthday present or a Christmas gift or something like that. And I failed pretty much every time to get her what it was she wanted. what she was asking for. You know, it's hard. It's hard to hear when I'm not listening. God's not like that He's not like that. Here's what he is like. See the movie courageous. It's one of of movies made by the Kendrick Brothers, they made Flywheel and Facing the Giants and Fireproof and Overcomer and War Room and probably some others I'm forgetting. And one of their movies was Courageous. And if you saw you can remember the opening scene. The opening scene has this his parent he's pumping gas into his truck and while he's pumping the gas he gets distracted for a moment, cleaning the windows or something I would think. And while he's distracted, a f thief jumps into this guy's truck and he begins to drive away. What do you mean, Bubba? Hmm? Batteries are not working out. Need some help? Yeah. Alright, mommy I'll help you. Okay. So you pump the gas in the truck, gets distracted, a thief jumps into the truck and starts to drive off with the guy's truck. And the pat the driver's side window is down and the guy's chasing after the guy the the the guy was the thief Wasn't able to speed off fast enough. The guy wasn't able to grab on to the truck. And he's hanging on to the truck for dear life. Won't let go of that truck. And the thief, he's swerving the car around trying to shake the guy loose of the truck. He won't let go. him in the face, still won't let go. Finally the the the driver, the thief, loses control of the car and it crashes into a tree and finally the scene comes to an end. And praise God nobody in the scene is serious facially injured or or or dies or anything like that. But it is uh it's a crazy scene It's a crazy scene of crazy love. Crazy love. I mean, that father was willing to risk everything. Why? Because his baby child was in the back seat of that truck. Because of his love for his child The father risked everything. And this is the kind of heavenly father we have. He holds his people in his protected embrace. He saves his people spiritually and Ultimately, physically too. As Satan tries to steal a truck And so talked about how God hears us. Now we can see how God holds us. And God Humbles us. It is humbling to truly know who God is You know, let Saul also call Paul on the Damascus road in Acts chapter 9. When he comes to know Christ, understand that he is true, the truth. Paul's humbled. He drops to the ground and he calls Jesus Lord. Now I remember more than 30 years ago now, I was just getting started in the radio business, and uh I had an opportunity to visit the studios of WLUP in Chicago, which is a legendary radio station in the business. One of the truly iconic radio stations in the history of radio And their production facilities? Dazzling. Really impressive. I was mesmerized. And I felt Well kind of unworthy, you know, as I stood inside this great heritage radio station which had produced some of the most compelling And innovative programming of its generation. I mean, truly a great radio station. It was humbling being in the station. How much more so? Being in Christ Those of us in Christ, what do we know? What has God revealed to us? Well, let's look again here at 1 John chapter 5, verses 18 to 20. We know that anyone born of God does not continue to sin. The one who was born of God keeps them safe, and the evil one cannot harm them. We know that we are children of God and the whole world is under the control of the evil one. We know also that the Son of God is God has come and has given us understanding, so that we may know Him who is true. And we are in Him who is true. By being in his Son, Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life This is what we know, for sure. Yes, the world, it is a rotten place sometimes. Because it's under the influence of the evil one. And we know that sometimes we we give in to the temptations of the flesh, of our broken humanity nature and so we sin, but we know, as those rescued by Christ, that we do not continue to sin. We don't wallow in that sin. We don't park ourselves there, remain there forever. We wrestle against the sin. We don't continue to sin because God keeps us safe. We are his children, and to his children he has given understanding. So the evil one can do us no ultimate harm. We are protected by being in The body of Christ. The church. This is what's called the body of Christ, the bride of Christ. Christ, who is the true and eternal Eternal God giving us true eternal life, real life. Christian life is real life. Accept no substitute. Jesus Christ is the Son of God Most High. He is the way, the truth, and the life. In and through him we know the way. We know the truth. We know the life We know our Creator is the real deal Jesus Christ is the true God and eternal life. So I say again, accept no substitute. And as John writes in the very final sentence of this letter, dear children, keep yourselves from idols. In other words, accept those substitute. And know that you who believe In the name of the Son of God, you may know that you have eternal Eternal life. Let's pray. Father, we praise you that from the Before the foundations of the earth, you've had a plan, a plan to have a people unto yourself to rescue us, your people. From our sin to the sacrifice of your very own Son. And through the power of your Holy Spirit to illuminate our minds, to change our hearts, and help us to understand And embrace the truth that even now you hear us when we seek you in prayer. That you hold us as we traverse the travails of this life. Life. And that in humility we can have confidence that we are rescued And we have eternal life. Help us to remember this. Help us to share this Truth with others. Help us to be reminded always, as the Apostle John would have us be reminded, that we may know. That we have eternal life through the blood and sacrifice of our Lord, Savior, and King Jesus Christ. It's in his name the We pray. Amen. We have time. Alright, we're in good shape. Alright, well as I always do. Anybody have a comment they particularly don't because they're hopefully listening to the sermon, but All right. Anything strict anybody in the room before I maybe try to guide us through a discussion? Anything on your minds or hearts? No, okay. in relenting when it comes to praying for certain people, I know that God will put someone on my mind that I feel led to pray for. And sometimes it's people who are in Christ already, sometimes it's people who are not. So I have to just follow that leading, like, okay, maybe the Lord's doing something there. Let me press in. But then I'll have other time Where I'm like, I'm done. Like I am done with you. I've pressed in and I feel like God has released me. That's between you and God now. You know the truth. What you do is it that's that's not for me anymore. And I mean I literally have had that. And I feel like that's probably what that passage is referring to. Yeah, well that's what that's what John and this is I think the striking part of this section of scripture that really that really hit me, you know, when I was preparing this message. Um so often we talk about praying for the lost, for the salvation of those that we you know care about our neighbors, friends, and we should be doing that. And then we get that point where like Dina said, okay, you know, I've been praying for who knows how long and and I know for a fact that they're being belligerent towards God, that they are turning their back on the salvation. It's not that they They're just not hearing it, they're actively fighting it. And at some point you have a permission, which I think was what John's doing. He's saying, You have permission. I'm not saying you should necessarily pray about that. You you're off the hook. But I think the It's not on your head anymore. But here's the thing that I think that we miss because then we stop, like full stop. That's the lesson. But that's actually not John's focus. John's focus is, hey, by the way, just in case you are confused, I'm not necessarily talking about that. Here's what I am talking about about and what is it that he is talking about? What's the chief lesson? And that is that when we pray, so we don't have to always be praying for those who are lost And fighting against God with everything they've got. Maybe God's turning them over to the hardness of their own heart. And so that's not so he's saying you're But what he is saying that we have to pray about. We have to pray for our brothers and sisters in Christ that they be reminded that they have what they know that they have. Because we forget. So the the question of assurance, I don't know how about you, but maybe because I'm a pastor, I've got a lot of people ask me the question, well, how do I know if I'm saved? I wonder if I'm saying I think I've lost my salvation or I don't know. Maybe they had a false profession of faith once upon a while. I I don't know. And if they're truly a believer, you know, well then they can know. They should should know and we as fellow believers should be steering them through the scriptures to know what actually is true for them. And so how often Often do we pray for our fellow walkers of the way to be reminded of the truth of the gospel as it applies to them and to Christ's church. How often do we pray for our brothers and sisters that their faith would be strengthened, that their doubts would be minimized and overcome? How often do we pray that? We pray that our sin Be forgiven, we pray that there be a bounty upon the world, there'd be no more starvation. We we pray that the lost would be saved. These are all good things. But how often do any of us s uh spend a lot of time praying for those who are already saved that they be strengthened in their faith. Well I don't think we do it often enough. I think for me, because that is something I struggle with, I probably do it more often than but I do it for myself more so than others. So I guess that's a good lesson for me to be like, hey, well I'm feeling this way, others probably are too. And the remo and and not just that we have salvation, but to remember all the things. I I I took pastoral uh license and built in some alliteration into the message, right? God hears us, he holds us, he humbles us. The three H's for today's message. But that part of what we should be prom I should be praying, Lord, that you would strengthen Angela's faith and her confidence in you and the boldness that she can have standing before your throne. And that you have her, that you're holding her. And what she seeks You in prayer, that you hear her. But while she knows that you're holding her and knows that you're hearing her, don't let her get conceited and pompous and keep her humble. Help her have a proper regard and respect for who she is before you. That's a very specific kind of prayer that how often do we pray like that? And John is saying, hey This is like a main point here for my letter. It's the verses that immediately follow his thesis statement, okay? He wants us to get this. And I don't know that we get this very well That was a huge light bulb going off for me as I really pressed in to studying this letter. So Let's see. So let's see. You can remember some well, it's all variations on the same thing. What is God's will for his church? Alright, talked about the Yeah. And if we're going to be making disciples and being fruitful fruitful and multiply, you know, what does that mean for us? What what what does what how how will we describe in in full sentences what it means to be fruitful Doing virtual virtual. For me it's it's well I think about it, I I think about just operating within the Yeah, walking by the Spirit. And yeah, it's like fruitfulness getting yielded by the Spirit. Everybody has a spiritual gift and a way to a main a main talent to serve the kingdom with. And for me, I think of fruitfulness, I think of just really operating out of that talent, from that talent or with that have with that talent. Um because that's that's that's the thing that God gave you that you can be especially good at. Yeah, you use the the the gifts and talents God's giving Lynn said. And we do all these things to be proclaiming, announcing the good news of the kingdom of God and we're we're proclaiming that through both words and deeds is something that I think we sometimes forget too. As far as it goes, I'm fine with the idea of you know uh preach the kingdom always and when necessary use words. I mean I I I understand the the the motivation behind a statement like that. It's it's really calling us to accountability in the way we live our lives, that our actions would speak loud two, but don't allow a little pithy bumper sticker phrase like that to uh to rob from you that people are safe by hearing. Right, we need to, yes, live a life that proclaims the gospel, but also seek the gospel. Share the truth. Proclaim the the kingdom is the kingdom is here. Christ is king right now. So he is an authority right now, not in the way that he will ultimately is absolutely fulfillment of it in glorif in the glorified renewed heavens and earth be. But he's king right now. And we need to be proclaiming that. Um Uh I don't want to take anything for granted. Some of these are like Sunday school kinds of questions and stuff, you know. The wages for Yeah, the wages for sin is death. Right. Wages for sin is always death. So don't be confused. That's why it's important. If you take them in isolation, it's like, whoa, this is contrary to everything I've heard in scripture. You can't read the Bible with taking A handful of words or a handful of verses completely out of context. You've got to read them within the full context of the Bible and use scripture to interpret scripture. And so we know the wages of sin is always death. So how is it possible that any one of us would survive because we all sinned, so we all are worthy of death, and you gave the Sunday school answer, Jesus. Because he took those wages upon himself. Um I have some because the theory These were notes that I I wrote with the idea that there could be uh um somebody writing down answers as they're listening to the the the sermon, but it wasn't necessary for this. So one of the things There was in this section of scripture. Is it written primarily to the individual Christian or to the corporate church? And why do you say so? Yes, and yeah, the individual Christian in this particular well we just read it? I think it's I think it's vogue. I think it yeah, I I think it's more yeah more corporate. Um if anyone sees Oh you're talking about okay, yeah no. Yeah, I see what you're saying. That's more that's more the whole passage verses thirteen to the end. If you're looking at verses sixteen and seventeen, that would be individual. Um so really it's both And if not like John, I I don't think it's hard to get inside the head of a writer from two thousand years ago, but I don't think John said, okay, I'm gonna write these these three verses for the whole church, and then I'm gonna write these three I don't know that he was self-conscious, maybe he was, but I don't think he was trying to make uh an atomized argument where okay, here's an argument here and now full stop Here's a totally different argument, full stop. It's part of the flow of the narrative of the letter of what he's saying. And I think that John is making the point that it's helping us understand that both are true Um you are the church. You are the church. But also we are the church. And you are the church because we are the church. particularized m particularized member of the body of Christ. The more most common I say most. I think it's probably fair. If it's not the most, one of the more common ways that people talk about Christianity and what it means to be a Christian. Yes, somebody. So what so you're a Christian, what's that all about? What's the kind of answer you might very often get? Can you guess where I'm going with this? What do you typically hear in the church Christianity world. I'm a sinner saved by grace. Well that'd be a good biblical answer. What we get is, oh it's not about religion, it's not it's about personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And I invited Jesus into my heart. It's very me focused. It's an individualized, particularized kind of relationship. Not about you. Yeah yeah and you do you and I'll do me and and and with So difficult about that, is there's an element of truth to that, because we as individual believers do have an individual relationship with Christ, so that's true. But it's It's insufficient. It's so much more than that. It's about what it totally loses the the union and the unity that comes of being in Christ. So we have union with Christ, but we also have union with one another. And it's only about Angela's personal relationship with Jesus Christ and my personal relationship with Jesus Christ and Lana's personal We've got three vertical relationships with Jesus Christ, but no horizontal connection. And that's not the message the Bible teaches. And so John is making it clear. Clear that yeah, you can't have it that way. But it gets hard to see in the English translations because the way the English language works, we don't have really a plural for you. I mean I grew up in the Chicago area. And we do theirs use. Use guys. You know, and in the South it's y'all. So we do have, but that's not proper English. You all So you're yeah, I guess it could say you all. I guess it wouldn't be a very correct translation to say you all. Yeah, I think we'll get the translational channel. I'm sure the Greek has something different. It can't be really translated in English. Yeah, well the Greek has, I mean the words, you know, when you have U, and when you're reading it in Greek and you see the word It's not in English it's Y O U no matter what. In Greek it's different. So if you learn how to Then you can see, oh, that's a corporate U versus a individual you. And so just because of the limitations of the English language. They have their plural and their singular in their only slightly different. Right, right. And we don't have so much of that any Yeah. So now there are other things where the English language um can be more specific than other languages. So it's not that English is a horrible language. I mean I was. Engl English is pretty strange. It's a quirky. It's quirky. Yeah, the ones the one The one rule of English you have to remember is that there's always an exception to the rule. Yeah. Um here's one that's more of a discussion kind of a thing. I talked about accept no substitutes. You know, John, uh a lot of Bible commentators and I've heard people preach on this stuff, and I've heard people talk about how there's this weird sentence at the end of John's letter that almost feels like it's stapled on. Like, you know, what's this idea about keeping yourself in idle? Like it doesn't seem like it flows and fits with the rest of the letter. It feels like it's Completely different. Like, what is that? I don't read it that way. I think it flows perfectly. It's just like it's exclamation. Point. He's saying, you know the truth, you have the truth. The truth is found in Jesus Christ, the one true ultimate Savior, King, prophet, priest. He is everything that is good And so why would you accept anything less? You have the real thing. And I want to remind you that you may know that you have the real thing. That's the whole point of the letter. And he ends it by saying, so don't accept something. It's a fraud. To me it makes total sense. So but it makes total sense and yet we are guilty, if we're honest. Yeah, all the time. With uh having allowed substitutes into our life. So I don't know if anybody wants to try to be brave and share one, but Oh, I I think I I can personally say when especially when the kids were younger, I absolutely idolized and worshipped my children in some seasons of life before thinking, you know know, under the guise of caring for them. Well when I cared for them to the extinction of caring about my father, they became an idol and I was worshiping my children above worshiping the Lord. So I yeah, absolutely. I could I would say that if you decide one day I'm gonna do this instead of go to church. And it's obviously not worshiping God on the day that He's commanded you go worship him. Then that is creating an idol for yourself. During dur during my most of my adult life. I was backslidden. So is there certain things that you found where you were Probably probably marriage. Oh okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah well that's a lot for a lot of people, it's that. Yeah, I don't think this is like I can't relate to that, but anyway. Uh I don't think I'm not putting this forward as like the perfect rubric, but you know, you could use the Three H's from the sermon, for example, where I use the alliteration. I talked with God, hears us, God holds us, God humbles us. So let's take one at a time and say, okay, God hears us. Think about those times when somebody doesn't hear you. And it can be annoying, it can be discouraging, and it can be, it can be, you know, you can get frustrated or angry with somebody for not hearing you. But do you ever have a situation where somebody's not hearing hearing you and it's devastating. It destroys you, it causes you to fly off the handle, to have the the worst aspects of your personality to come out. And you just you can't you refuse to understand, you refuse to forgive, or you you melt into a blubbering fool of you know, like Mary, you mentioned marriage or something. My husband doesn't even hear me. I I why who am I married to? I don't even know who I am anymore. My husband doesn't hear me. If you have that sort of focus on needing to be heard by that person, then indication is an IO. Because God perfectly hears you all the time. Everyone else will imperfectly hear you all the time. So you would that much invested in somebody other than God or something other than God hearing you because something could be the Republican Party just won't listen to me My my life is a mess. I have no future. Our country's lost because the Republican Party just won't listen to me. Maybe I hold the Republican Party in that example. Or same with holding. God holds us. You know, so um What are the holding? It provides comfort and security. So um you have your money in a full 401k plan and the company you were invested with goes under and the $400,000 you had with Lehman Brothers in 2008 no longer exists Or you were heavily invested in the stock market in the 1920s and the stock market crash happened. You know the stories about how many people committed suicide. Because what was holding them with their financial security, their stock portfolio. They made an idol of that. Instead of letting God hold them, they had their financial situation holding them. Or it could be their job for the story years ago uh here locally where we live uh near here in Middletown where a uh a man uh took his own life but not before taking the life of his two children. and his wife and the reason he took his took the whole he killed the whole family including himself was because he had lost his job and he couldn't provide for them anymore and he couldn't admit his failure to His family, and so rather than deal with the failure, he just killed everybody. Well, his job was holding him. And when he and when his job let him down, And ceased to hold him anymore. It was exposed for the idol that it was, and he completely came unclued. That's a pretty dramatic example. But even a smaller ways. And then humbling, this is the inverse really. If you've got somebody in your life that is always propping you up, always building you up, always being a yes man in your life. Never telling you never holding you account, never being iron sharpening iron. You know, never helping you to walk a path towards maturity and increasing wisdom. If you don't have that in your life and you're offended when somebody would say something that would humble you. What do you mean? I'm not rude anymore. What do you mean? I didn't mean that. What are you talking about? If you get that bent out of shape when somebody is correcting you, rebuking you, whatever, uh and you're not allowing people to humble you, you've made something an idol there too. Because God humbling being corrected. And just being in God's presence is humbling. So I didn't mean to dominate the discussion. No, I think, you know, in the season that our world is in right now where we're seeing devastation, um from people because of the situation, I am not at all um shy to admit that and we were talking about this last night. I I could see taking my life if I didn't have Jesus right now. Because I'm such a social person and I love being with people and I can't and I and I get, you know, a lot of energy from that. And not that that's an idol in my life, it's just how I'm wired. So knowing that this season Even even being married if you didn't have the Lord, just the company of your husband you think wouldn't be enough? I don't listen to her. No, I mean no, because I I don't even know how to explain it. I don't know, it's it's not um maybe it's because I haven't made a idol out of him, praise God. So I don't look to him for that, you know, maybe a story. We live in Syracuse, remember? Well, when I it was when I was a baby believer and I was studying the word and um he came home from work and I said, I don't love you as much anymore I said, I love God more than you. And he was like, Okay, honey, keep reading the Bible. And like it it was like a good thing because I had put him before God Up until that point. But I'm I'm telling you, I I have compassion and just a real heart for those who are struggling emotionally right now because I get it and I get you going there and feeling like I can't do this. I get it. I get it. So So if you're there, you can just put in the comments. I get it. We you are not alone, I get it. Without Christ, I would take my life. I'm just telling you. The truth. Lord forbid it. Lord forbid it in the name of Jesus. But you know what I'm saying. Right. I'm covered by the blood of Christ and I have that. You have you have a standard who don't have it why they would go there. I do Yeah. I get it. I totally get it. And that breaks my heart. It really does. It breaks my heart. Well that helps to explain some of your Just outraged. I mean we're we're all I am I am very that helps to better explain it because even though I'm I'm yeah I I you know I get I I guess I get irritated outraged. You know, I can get outraged that helps to explain. Yeah, because What's going on now is not about people. It's not. It's it's like a false oh we care about lives. I'm like, no you don't. There's twice as many people dying from suicide. If you cared about lives, please, please, just don't go there with me. You care about your agenda. Yeah, don't lie to me. Well and then part of that agenda is all those people who did take their lives because of it died of hope. And because there's such an emphasis on COVID. It's perceived that someone like me who cares about those who are taking lives doesn't care about the people who have gotten COVID. Mm-hmm. What? I I I reject that lie. Don't put that on me because that's a lie. I do care about that. But I also care about this and you can care about more than one thing. Right. You can you can And you can care with understanding. Yes. Yeah. So anyway, all right, I'm off my soapbox. No reflecting upon you know my own words and and connecting what Dina had to say with what the sermon had to say. I guess I don't know but This is an aha moment exactly, but I I I had this uh uh refreshed understanding of something I already knew, but we need to remind you of things we already know. We should be, in my opinion, uh Uh pushing back strong and hard against uh the kinds of things that put people in individual silos and uh lock them away from personal interaction. that the lockdowns do because they cause all those problems. We should be doing that. However, in addition, perhaps at least as important, if not more so. So much of our time can be spent arguing the point that look, these what some would argue are draconian lockdown policies are destroying lies. They're destroying lies behind But they're also destroying lives. Saw a statistic uh back in June. Uh there might be more recent statistics, but I know there was a study or something. During the month of June Uh one out of four people in this country between the ages of eighteen and twenty-four, one out of four, contemplated suicide. Wow. Yeah, that's a lot. That's a lot. One out of four. That's insane, right? She's like, you gotta end these lockdowns, you're you're pushing people into a place where they feel like they have no option but to just And so fighting for the end of the lockdowns is important. However, what would John tell us is even more important than that? Introduce them to Jesus Christ. Yeah, how do you do that when you can't see anybody? Find strategies and ways to try to let and for and through prayer to pray for those Like you said, you know you would if if you didn't have Christ, you'd kill yourself. Well there are people who have Christ that in a moment of weakness might still eventually be praying for those people and Sure. As John tells us in his letter, say God, through your spirit, reminds so and so. Be specific, you know? You can be general too but specific remind so and so that they have the truth they have eternal life they have all that really matters up in the hang up And to be obedient and uh onto your word and all those sorts of things. We need to be not just about the the practical and the things in the world, but it's not just about But remember that it's a spiritual battle. And these people that kill themselves, they kill themselves because uh the spiritual battle has been a bit of a victory there. And so we need to be praying spiritually and as well as in the practical. And to be honest, pray spiritually for a supernatural. paraphrase because I get all those various quotes on this topic confused in my head. But the gist of it is if you have um evil uh incom competent uh rulers and leaders set above you, that is a sign of God's judgment. So we need to be praying that there be a a a uh reawakening or uh of God's people to faithfulness and to reading and studying the Bible and to to being in prayer and to finding ways to be in fellowship, to be the church to be salt and light. Because, you know, that all another cliche, I don't know who gets credit for this one, but that it's been often said that we get the government we deserve. There's some truth to that. You know, we have if if we have evil hearts, we're gonna be evil rulers. So Although I personally believe that God's people enter um have done business with the Lord to to turn this country around. I believe that's a like crazy. Absolutely. And I believe that um God is is in the process of answering more prayers to get the person over us that is actually his actual choice. Well I'll try to end on a happier note here by uh reminding us of something that we all know is true. We need to be reminded and then we'll close in prayer if you'll close this in prayer. Um Um God does uh retain and save for Himself a remnant always. There's always a remnant. And you know, we were talking about this the other night in the Old Testament Elijah's concerned that he's the last prophet. And God says, no, no, no, there's there's seven thousand more. You're not alone. And and the way I typically read that is, oh, see there's a lot, there's seven thousand. But if you think about it, in a nation Yeah, that's a remnant. It's only 7,000. That's not that many when you think about it. But it's preserved a remnant. And as small as seven thousand cells, through redemptive history it gets to the point where approximately uh nineteen hundred nine hundred and ninety years ago the remnant was reduced to one. There was one faithful person left at a at that given moment in the time time. Jesus Christ was the only faithful one at that time in history. It got down to one. And that one was brutally beaten, consigned to death by crucifixion on a cross. It would seem that the The remnant was snuffed out. But the remnant was not snuffed out. He rose again, demonstrating demonstrating his victory over even death, demonstrating that his sacrifice was indeed sufficient in the eyes of the Father, so that the remnant could re-expand to be fruitful and multiply from there so that now we have who knows how many? Hopefully millions. Hopefully billions. I'm doubtful. Hopefully. And so even when it's at its darkest uh what we now refer to as Good Friday, back then wasn't looking so good. It looked like it was over. So even when it looks like it's over, Jesus Christ Wins. Hallelujah. So have confidence and faith in that. Alright, we close this with prayer. Lord, thank you that the victory is won and you are definitely on the throne. your faithfulness you are the one true remnant and we thank you for that Lord Jesus we praise you for that you are worthy of all praise we thank you I do pray for those who are struggling right now in the body of Christ like I was, like I am, on and off, just you know, wondering what what going on where is the hope what is the point you are the point you are the hope you are the life and we thank you for that lead us not into temptation lord Deliver us from evil. I pray specifically for the body of Christ right now that we would know without a shadow of a doubt that we are loved, that we are kept for the day. When you come back to redeem your church, that we are your bridegroom. We thank you for that. We thank you for that promise. Father, strengthen us by the power of your Holy Spirit. Lord Jesus, strengthen each and every one that needs it right now. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, we're about having entered the advent season, so the next Next few weeks I think we're probably gonna do some messages that are specifically for the season that we're in. Uh and then after that we're going to uh jump into uh the the next epistle from John. uh second John. So if you want to start reading ahead, you can read that in very short order. Very short book. Anyway, till next week, God bless.