Well I have to sneak out early. Well hello Facebook. We're live. I think we're about a minute late. Sorry I had a problem with my phone today for some reason. So we're going to do things a little bit different this week. We every once in a while we do something a little bit different. This is one of those times. In a moment, I'm going to ask Angelo She would open us in prayer. And then I'm going to share with you some words about an article that was uh just recently uh published by the Gospel Coalition about the Great Reset. And uh I have words of warning, not just about the Great Reset. So there's uh striking uh words to say. And then we're gonna ha last year when I was uh pastor of a different church than the Household of Faith in Christ. I um I did something uh with the the congregation talked about the the conventions and the traditions that we associate with the adventure Advent season and talked about them and talked about why we do or don't do certain things and seem to be relatively well received, so I'm gonna revisit some of that stuff tonight as well to get us into the how holiday Christmas spirit. So not a re uh a sermon per se, but chalk full of good information and then some discussion as usual as well. If you'd like to comment in the comment section on the Facebook post. If you're watching it on Facebook, um feel free you can participate in the discussion that way. If you're watching this later on YouTube, you can still comment on YouTube and I will uh you know reference those comments and try to respond to those on YouTube. So maybe as well can we pray? Gracious Holy Father, we are grateful, Lord, that you are still on the throne and that um you are are available to us anytime and every time that we need you and we need you now Lord we need you to be present with us to be present with Pastor Troy and all who participate Lord that what you would want to be said would would be said that you would help uh Pastor Troy to teach Lord and that you would help us all to meaningfully contribute face on your word, Lord, that and everything will be all of you and and none of us. Just make us your vehicles through which you speak. And please bring to this to this discussion who needs to see it and keep away who does not. And we thank you, Father, and we ask these things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Man. Um, by the way, you've uh she's kind of a cameo uh character in the uh videos on how to faith in Christ. You've seen our dog Angel occasionally wandering through. And just the Well kind of a a a word for pet owners, dog owners. Angel had uh we we're pretty convinced now she had a a a stroke or actually a series of strokes on Monday and it was not looking Good. And uh we had three people within about a day and a half uh say, Oh, would you like us to take her to the vet before we'd have her put down? You really should put And we're like, well, let's kind of see how this plays out. As it turns out, dogs have a very high success rate of recovering from strokes. So if you have a dog that has a stroke The the the the day of and the day after they can be emotionally uh difficult if not devastating in some ways. Um but don't necessarily automatically put the dog down, see if you can get through it, and you know, here we are on the other side of it. And she's not a hundred percent herself yet, but man, uh it looks like she's doing okay and hopefully she'll do okay for many months, perhaps even years to come, we'll see. But Anyway, so just a little word there, a word of of warning. Don't take the advice of your friends to have your dog put down too quickly. All right. And speaking of words of warning, I think I've referenced it on uh uh this channel before that uh when I'm going to officiate a wedding I use a uh a book written by Tim and Kathy Keller called The Meaning of Marriage Marriage, for my money, is the best book on marriage for premarital counseling uh out there. Um and th It's an excellent book and The Prodigal God is another excellent book by Tim Keller. And there are others. He's written some excellent books. But there's some stuff that Tim Keller has been writing And saying particularly of late that is rather concerning. And so now I have to add a word of caution. Whenever I recommend the meaning of marriage by the Kellers, they say, by the way, just because I'm recommending this book, doesn't that mean I can recommend all of his books and articles. Um he's drifting into Wokeville a little bit and it's concerning. And it's not just Tim, it's other aspects of the PCA, which is a a wonderful denomination, Presbyterian Church And yet they're having some issues, huge issues in the Southern Baptist Convention. And I mentioned this because these are places where in the past Bible-believing, you know, Bible thumpers, right? Conservatives, they could count on the Southern Baptist Convention churches. They could count on the PCA They could count on people like Tim Keller to be biblical in their approach. And it's just not as true as it once was. And a place I used to point people to with regularity when they had questions, you know, a good resource To go online is the Gospel Coalition. The Gospel Coalition is actually Tim Keller's involved in that and some other high-profile big name people Very respected people in a lot of ways, and a lot of the stuff that you find on the Gospel Coalition's website is very good. It's among the best stuff you're going to find. Unfortunately, it's now mixed with stuff like what I'm going to share with you now. So you can't automatically trust what you get from the Gospel Coalition You can't automatically trust when you're getting from most places anymore. Not that we maybe should have. We should all be Bereans at heart, like in the book of Acts. and we should check everything against the uh what the scriptures say. Uh but now more than ever, there's so much stuff online that's available and you gotta have a discerning heart and spirit uh and have yourself educated in the word of God, uh be be rooted in the word of God to recognize things that are faulty when you see them. I'm going to share this article so you can see why on the face of it, oh it doesn't sound so bad. Until you hear my commentary on it, you'd be like, oh yeah, maybe that's not so good. It's an article called Five Questions Christians Should Ask About the Great Reset. If you don't know what the Great Reset is, you'll find out as I read the article. So bear with me. It's written by uh a very smart guy, Chris uh Watkin. He says, if you haven't heard of the Great Reset yet, you probably will soon. It's filling the column inches of the world's major newspapers and it's unleashed quite a storm on social media. Here are five key questions for thinking Christians Who want to engage with the Great Reset from a biblical perspective? Well, that's a good start. Very promising. I'm excited. Are you? Number one, what is the Great Reset? The first question might seem obvious, but there's a significance in beginning with the question what rather than who. Much of the hostile reaction to the great research has focused almost exclusively on who is pushing the agenda and one or two choice quotations rather than what they're saying in detail. Yeah, but what if the Who are Maoist communists, for example What if that's who is advocating these ideas? Should that inform our thinking a little bit? Should we not consider the source? In that case, should we not consider the source always? Whenever you hear something, you should always ask, says who? Who says? It's a legitimate question It's one of the reasons why, when you're studying a passage in the Bible, a book of the Bible, you want to understand who's the author? Who's he writing to? What's the context? Who says? So he's wrong right off the bat. It's not inappropriate to ask who. In fact, it's a must. You gotta ask the question who. He goes on to say Uh the reason that he doesn't like starting with who is this risks descending into ad hominem argument, dismissing an idea because of who is saying it and ignoring what they are saying. I'm not saying you ignore what they're saying and dismiss it. I'm saying you need to be informed about what is the perspective they're bringing to the table. Right? It's it it's important to read what they're saying in context of that, but it's also you can understand understand when you're reading what they're not saying. If you know who it is, you're more aware of what they're not saying, which is sometimes critically important. So then back to to uh Mr. Watkins article. So let's first sketch the what before we turn to the who. The Great Reset is an attempt to seize the moment of the COVID-19 crisis. crisis to build a better society where better means three things greener, more digital, and fairer. Well let me stop there Um the Great Reset Initiative predates COVID-19 by a stretch. So for him to say that they're mere They are using COVID-19 to accelerate it, but it predates COVID-19. The idea of things being greener, okay, that can sound okay, but at what cost? More digital. Things being more digital, is that necessarily better? And things being fairer. Fairer according to who? These are the kinds of things we should be asking when we're having a discussion with People about the Great Reset. Nothing really changed and no measures were taken to stop it all happening again. As we've famously heard said, you never let a good crisis go to waste, right? So he seems to be advocating for that, interestingly to me Now for the Who, he says. The Great Reset is the brainchild of Professor Klaus Schwab, founder of the World Economic Forum. If you don't know anything about them you should do some homework on what the World Economic Forum is all about that gathers many of the world's political and corporate leaders for a summit each January in the Swiss ski resort of Davos The gathering typically attracts corporate luminaries such as Bill Gates and the heads of Coca-Cola, Goldman Sachs, and IBM. Who can be seen rubbing shoulders with presidents and prime ministers and celebrities such as Bono and the Prince of Wales. Sounds like a liberal fest. Right off the bat. Interesting. Behind the glitz, the WEF, the World Economic Forum, has a clear agenda for social change. Alongside co-author Theory Mallaret Schwab argues in his recently published book, COVID-19, The Great Reset, he argues for stakeholder capitalism. they call it. The idea is that capitalism should not just benefit shareholders but also employees, consumers, communities, and the environment, as if it doesn't already. Schwab writes on his website that, on the World Economic Forum website, the world must act jointly and swiftly to revamp all aspects of our societies. That's a quote. And economies. This is all a quote From education to social contracts and working conditions, every country, from the United States to China, must Participate and every industry from oil and gas to tech must be transformed. In short, we need a great reset of capital. Capitalism. The World Economic Forum calls for nothing less than a new social contract centered on human dignity and social justice. A new social contract centered on human dignity is code for a leftist LGBTQ agenda. And social justice, that's the language of the neo-Marxists. That's Black Lives Matter. That's wokeness. All right. Do we have your attention? So number two, Mr. Watkins writes, what has been the reaction? To put it mildly, the Great Reset and its parent body, the World Economic Forum, have caused mixed reactions. United Kingdom Prime Minister Boris Johnson boycotted Davos in 2020. because because quote, our focus is on our focus is on delivering for the people, not champagne with billionaires. So we've like caught it, but not for the right reasons. And finance minister Matthias Cormann was the only Australian senior minister to attend this year. Perhaps predictably, he writes, social media has fomented a frenzy of negativity around the World Economic Forum. Great reset regularly trended on Twitter in the second half of 2020 The main criticism is that it represents a socialist globalist conspiracy in which a smaller transnational, unelected elite are cooking up a self-serving agenda for global control and dominance at the expense of the rest of us Whatever we make of theories like this, they eloquently testify to society's deep lack of trust in authorities and elites today. Lack of trust From which churches also suffer. Now notice the unspoken hints in what he's written and how he's said it, trying to plant seeds of doubt in the mind of the reader No doubt that this is just some sort of you know just some sort of wacky conspiracy theory that's out there, right? Well, you know, I want to say that there are such things as conspiracy facts. So let's keep that in mind. Back to the article. Most Christians who have voiced an opinion seem negatively disposed towards the Great Reset. Well I would say praise God. Particularly in the United States with its strong cultural value of independence. This is a theme these days. Independence and individuality are painted in denigrating terms or dismissed as bad things. That's not necessarily true. Anyway, the strong cultural values in the United States of independence and suspicion of centralized authority. And so it's interesting the way, again, maybe I'm reading too much into But being most of the people I know that are opposed to centralized authority, they are anti-totalitarianism. They're anti-communists, they're anti uh you know bureaucracy that's being used, uh you know um Those sorts of attitudes usually counted as a good thing. You think a writer for the Gospel Coalition might think that there's some good in that He writes, some see in the World Economic Forum the specter of world governments and the New World Order, identifying it with the Antichrist. Others bristle at the wokeness of its agenda, seeing a further erosion of Christian values in society. And it seems that our author here, Mr. Watkins, is not in these groups. That's concerning to me. So how should Christians think through how to respond to a political or cultural initiative such as As the great reset. Here are three ideas to get the ball rolling. Now we started excited, like this is good. Now I'm not so excited. So now I'm reading these suggestions with some suspicion. So he says, how do um how does the Bible diagonalize the debate? Boy, do they like that sort of idea of the gospel coalition or what some like to call Big Eva, the Big Evangelical Church in America. The Gospel Coalition is uh You could almost argue they're fixated on finding a third way to everything. There's not the conservative or traditional or biblical way versus the the pagan leftist anti-God way. There's some middle ground. We should be moderates. We should find a middle path. We should diagonalize the debate, in other words. Wrights, Mr. Watkin does. Time and time again, the Bible disrupts and reorganizes the terms of contemporary social and intellectual debates. In terms of the Great Reset, we're dealing with two camps. The Utopians, which he calls Great Resetters, and the pessimists, critics of the Great Reset. Now It's interesting that he wants to paint those who are in favor of the Great Risa as the utopians. Usually we think of utopia as good, but in this case I would argue I don't have time to get deep into it right now But I would throw out there that it is a faux utopia, okay? Throw all fake news. Well this is fake utopia. It's the Tower of Babylon they're trying to build. That's What's going on here? And then he talks about the pessimists. So those who are who are fighting for truth are pessimistic. Usually that's painting Things negatively. It can often be used in a pejorative way. I'm not saying he's necessarily doing that here, but it's interesting that you have the utopia view which versus the pessimistic view. It's concerning that those are biblical scruples. are uh are are labeled this particular way. The utopians seem to suggest I'm reading his article again, the utopians seem to suggest that a rosy future is ours if only we work together to make the right measures. Take the right measures now. The pessimists see only a cabal of the privileged engaged in a Machiavellian plot to control our lives. He's painting he's making stick figures here. These are straw men arguments, but I'll have more to say about that as we continue to read. How does the Bible diagonalize this dichotomy? By showing that both sides are peddling reductive simplifications of a complex Christian view of time, society, and humanity. Uh the great resetters are not wrong to want to make society better. Okay, but what the Bible defines what's better. Right? We should look to the Bible to see what's better, what's best, what's right, what's good. Not secular humanists Not those who who uh who reject that there even is a creator, much less those of us who want to embrace the creation mandate. And speaking of that, he says, what makes society better? That is part of the creation mandate. But their trust in centralized authorities and concentrations of power without very clear checks and balances is naive about the human heart And the consequences of the fall. Now there's some truth in that, but they're not just naive, they're blind to it. Those that don't have the power of the Holy Spirit, they don't see the way things, the things, the way the Christians see things. They're blind to it, not merely naive about it. Meanwhile, the critics are not wrong to be suspicious of control and Concentrated power, but their cynicism stops their ears to the responsibility we all have to steward the natural and cultural worlds. First of all, that's not true. People who are opposed to the idea of the great research were sounding the alarm about the green great reset. They don't have their ears stopped and they're not rejecting the cultural uh mandate and uh uh and the creation mandate Not at all. That is flatly not true. And then uh Leo So he um he says it's a charge we we're charged with uh being good stewards, all that sort of stuff. It's a charge we cannot meet unless we work together in some form Work together with Satanists? What about being unequally yoked? Should we be concerned about that gospel coalition? In short, both the optimists and the pessimists take part of a complex truth and make it the whole straw man. The great resetters underplay the fall, and the critics underplay the creation mandate. Again. And if not true. I, to speak for myself, I am strongly concerned about the Great Reset. I am warning against it, and I'm not rejecting these mandates from Scripture. So I guess he's talking about everybody else is opposed to the Great Reset except me. Well that's not true. The Great Resetters have an overrealized secular eschatology. Does it matter if it's over or underrealized, if it's secular? Who cares what the secular eschatology for Crying out loud. We should care about the biblical eschatology. While the critics take human greed and sinfulness as a reason not to work for the peace and prosperity of the cities in which we find a c ourselves. Again, the critics are us, the Christians, right? The Christians, the awakened to the threat Christians are the critics, and we take human greed and sin. As a reason not to work for the peace and prosperity of the cities in which we find ourselves Again, that is not true. There is no real-deal Christian who's saying anything remotely like that. None that I know of. None. And if they were, I would correct them on it. And they would come to see their way because the Holy Spirit would move, because they're Christians By contrast, Christians who want to offer a full-orbed biblical response should give full weight in biblical proportion to creation, fall, redemption, and consummation. to human potential and to human perversity. Well, of course. Of course. So he gets that part right. But you know what? When we do that, guess what happens? We reject the gray reset. That's what happens. So he gives says, here's what we need to do, and by doing it, you have to fight against the recurrent reset, and yet he's telling us we shouldn't fight against it. Talking out of both sides of his mouth Very discouraging that this is published by the Gospel Coalition. Incredibly discouraging. So his fourth bullet point. What's the biblical alternative? It's easy, he writes, to be an armchair critic or indeed an armchair cheerleader for an agenda like the great reset, but neither of these responses comes close to capturing the radical, powerful vision for society that flows from a deep engagement with the Bible Okay, fine. That's good as far as it goes. We'll give him a gold star for that short paragraph. We Christians should not be content to fall into lockstep with an in initiative like at the Great Reset, nor to take pot shots at it from the sidelines. So warnings against a system that makes humans godlike, right? Makes these elites like their gods who are gonna tell everybody else how things should be done. If we warn against that, we're just taking pot shots Watkin writes, we must let the Bible set its own set its own table, so to speak. Speak, not simply responding to the terms of the debate set out in the Great Reset, but showing how biblical patterns can shape a society for the good of all people in areas such as debt, social cohesion Inequality and welfare. I don't know who he hangs out with, but this is what faithful pastors and faithful Christians do every day. Who is he talking to? Who is he trying to call to account here? I have no idea. Christians will disagree on the details of a biblical vision for society. Of course we will, and that is not a Nor are we alone in our disagreement. Secular commentators are also at lobberheads about how principles such as justice or equality should be embodied in social policies. and institutions. Do you notice the the uh the critical theory language in that sentence talking about now the Bible talks about it too, but in today's context, whenever somebody's talking about equality and equity or justice and social policies, particularly as it relates to institutions, institutional racism, for example. But unless we work hard to articulate to articulate and commend our best understanding of a Christian vision for a flourishing, just, sustainable society, two things will happen. I wonder what they are. First, we will find it hard to analyze initiatives. Such as the Great Reset, because we will have no biblical pattern against which to judge them. What is he talking about? Scriptural teaching is exactly why we must judge the great reset as a great evil. Continuing with this sentence. And this will lead us to cherry pick one aspect of their agenda, such as commitment to woke social justice, or indulgence endorsement by political and global elites and take that for the whole ball game. In other words Don't judge them, the people that are advocating for the great reset. Don't judge them for their faulty foundation because, well, thing mean well They mean well. They're going to put us on the highway to hell, but hey, they mean well. They're dangerous, but you know, let's let's let's not Let's not be too harsh in our criticism or too or too stark in our warnings. Anyway, second, we will be forever on the back foot, Christians, he's talking about, responding to the latest trends and initiatives Perhaps occasionally sprinkling them with a little Bible dust rather than engaging with them on the front foot, equipped with a compelling and fresh biblical vision for society that can, in the words of John Milbank, out-narrate its secular alternatives. It's interesting here. He swaps at what he calls sprinkling it with with with uh mere Bible dust when he hasn't even yet once in this article, and we're almost done, he hasn't even once quoted or even pointed to biblical scripture. one time. And spoiler alert, he won't. I'm going to finish this and he won't cite one verse. He won't allude to one passage. He won't articulate any biblical concept from the pages of our Bibles. Not one time So he's going to criticize others for sprinkling what the Bible does. He doesn't even do that much. Then his final point. So how should Christians respond? Enough caveats and grand principles. Let's get down to it. How do I think Christians should respond to the great reset? Here we go. Separate the message from the messenger. No. No. Knowing the messenger helps one to understand the message. He is flat wrong. The World Economic Forum has some strange, naive, and alarming ideas. Yeah. That doesn't of itself mean this particular proposal or the aims it contains is worthless. Yeah, you know what it means? It's worse than worthless. That's what it means. It's anti-God. I gotta get calmed down here. Take the issues one by one and pass them through a biblical lens. There are three prominent pillars of the Great Reset: justice, sustainability, and digitalization. Let me offer just one thought in relation to each Okay? So there's like three more paragraphs, something like that, so we'll be done shortly. What uh distinguishes a biblical concern for justice? One major element is a concern. I'm sorry, I'm sounding mean spirited, right? I'm sounding mean spirited. That's not what Biblical justice is. Biblical justice is not concern for the poor. That is wrong. He's wrong again. He's repeatedly wrong. Justice in the Bible is about equality before the law. Having even scales. Treating people with justice means treating them properly and appropriately before the law. Talking about the poor and you know and he goes on forward for the widows and orphans who are disenfranchised and have no power, no status, no voice. Oh, the oppressed oppressor dynamic that social justice brings into it. That's not the biblical view. That's not justice. We are to care about widows and orphans and the disenfranchised, those who have no power and status and no voice. We are to care, and you know what that's called? It's not called biblical justice. It's called mercy. It's called generosity. It's called compassion. It is not called justice and the gospel coalition should know better. They do know better. So why are they publishing this crap? The corporate and capitalist focus of the Great Reset, along with this privileging of certain minorities at the expense of others. Parenthetically he says I can find no mention of religious minorities of any creed, for example. Relatively underemphasizes these unglamorous populations. The Christians should be vigorous and advocating For their inclusion and flourishing. He says that we should be vigorous in advocating for the inclusion and flourishing of these unglamorous populations, meaning these oppressed groups, because that's what this is all about, the social justice, right? You've got intersectionality. We've talked about that here in our discussions. You know, we got the the lesbian group, you got the female group, you got the the uh gender confused group. You got the the undereducated group. And if somebody has all four of those things going for them, they're a uh a a poor, gender confused female lesbian, well then they got four intersections and they're really uh uh an unglamorous population to use his words and so we should we should advocate for representing and and and talking about those specific groups and I'm saying that's not what the Bible teaches. That's what we've been talking about talking about for months now here on our on our video cast. We don't want to add more divisions. We don't want to to to prop up the per the heretical idea of the intersectionality, that we're trapped in it, that we're trapped in these oppressed groups. We do not want to prop that up Sustainability. The desire to preserve the world in order that we may continue to live on it does not Claims to oppose. It just pushes out its borders a little. A deeper transformation is needed. One that de-centers human beings. And makes us accountable to a tribunal not of our own devising. This sort of radical transformation Is achieved by the shift from the paradigm of sustainability to the Christian idea of stewardship, taking care of the world because it is God's, not primarily just so we can continue to live on it for a long time. Yeah, we should take care of it because it is God's, but that doesn't even capture the fullness of what the Bible teaches. We're going to take care of it, yes, because it's God, but what else do we know? God has given it to us to have dominion over. So we have responsibility there. We take care of it because it's God, we should steward it for God, but we should steward it over it as rulers who have dominion over it. We do not want to de-center human beings. The human beings are the ones that have dominion over it. They're at the center. Everything up until Adam and Eve are created, the creation is good. And once Adam and Eve are created, the creation is very good. We do not want to de-center human beings Technology. Without seeing the Antichrist around every corner. He just made fun of you, by the way. You see Antichrist behind every corner and well around every corner then there's something wrong with that. He just made fun of you. But you're in good company because he just made fun of the Apostle John, too A biblical anthropology strikes a note of caution and amid the utopian technological dreams of the Great Recess. Human beings are gloriously made in the image of a loving and wise creator. Oh, hey, see, they know better But you and I are also fallen and capable of great evil and self-deception. Yes, this is true. This is why the separation of powers and body and large a good principle. Agreed. It prevents too much control being concentrated in any one person or body. Any increased digitization should build this principle of dispersing power into its DNA. and resist control by a small number of multinational corporations, governments, or individuals. Is this the same author? Did somebody else write that paragraph? Because that's a radical downshift. He just stripped his gears on that one. Last thoughts. In a few years' time, the Great Reset brand will most likely become a curiosity for the history book. Books. Boy, I hope so. But the questions of how to build a just, sustainable, and digitally fair society, what does that even mean? What is a digitally fair society. In order to do that for all people, uh see Oh, so the the curiosity of the great reset will go away, but the uh the questions about these sorts of things, doing this for people, that those questions will not go away So let's play the long game and engage with those issues, nudging the public debate. Nudging. You'll notice increasingly the authors of the Gospel Coalition and others that are big evangelical leaders, they use words like this, nudging. It's always so limp-wristed, you know? How about we boldly enter the battle of the of the spiritual warfare and we tell the so-called elites that That they're not God. And we know for a fact they're not God because Yahweh is God. How about that? How about boldly speaking the truth instead of gently nudging things? Anyway, uh nudging the public debate where possible towards a biblical understanding of what's at stake in rewriting the social contract. We are not called to nudge the discussion. We are called to proclaim and placard and pronounce and defend the truth of the gospel of the kingdom of Jesus So he wraps up here with a few thoughts that almost sound like he's beginning to argue against That's the great reset when everything before that was giving them all the rope they could possibly want. So what is that? I mean, is he arguing for or against it? You know, you might think, oops, did he lose his mind like that joke? Did somebody else write the last paragraph and a half? Well, I I I I wonder doing something like this does allow him and others who do this sort of uh word-sallad trickery It allows them to continue to lay claim to their conservative bona fides. Oh no, no, you misunderstood me. Didn't you read the last paragraph where I kind of spoke against it? Yeah, I I I I I put out there a fifteen hundred word uh article and the last two hundred words were s were against it. The first fifteen hundred were giving it a wide berth and saying it's okay, you shouldn't be critical. But at the end I I said a few things, so I'm still a conservative, you can still trust me me. I'm telling you we should be nervous about this and what it's doing in our church. We gotta wake up. We've got to wake up, we've got to push back, and I'm not saying you can't go to the Gospel Coalition and read their articles because a lot of their stuff is good, particularly the stuff that's been up there for a long time. You know, before they have drifted so far into the woke world. They've been woke, increasingly woke for a while. But not all of it is. And not all of the authors are So just a word of caution. That's I know that that that's a lot to be said, and I've uh maybe I rambled on a little longer than I should. I don't know, but we gotta wake up. So now for some fun stuff Advent, wreaths and candles, and uh you know the history and tradition of of different things that that we were involved. I talked about this uh last year uh in a sanctuary uh with a church that I was pastoring. I was talking about why I'm not a fan of bringing some of these elements into the worship service because the Bible doesn't have any mention of Advent Reeds or the lighting of Advent candles inside of a worship service. uh doesn't talk about you know decorated evergreen trees uh and so doing those sorts of things inside of a sanctuary uh making them part of the worship experience uh uh uh i i it it's uh it's concerning to me at a at a certain level. Outside of a worship concept, if it helps you to understand, gives you object le object lessons for teaching about Jesus and and and the miracle of his advent and and uh and the hope uh and the and the assured the assurance of hope of his second advent coming If you can use them you know, my daughter would remember during Halloween, you know, we would we would carve a a pumpkin, but we'd use it as an object lesson to to talk to to to teach us So if you can use these traditional tools in a way that can say, hey, the world's doing all these things, and you know, maybe by accident the world's helping us know something about Jesus. So every time you see a jack-o'-lantern, think about these things and replace the negative worldly evil stuff with a gospel centered thing. So if you can do that with some of these Advent traditions. That's not a bad thing. Advent, not everybody knows, so advent means arrival or coming. Um it's an English uh translation. of the Greek word parusia, perhaps you've or or or or parousia, some people pronounce it, so maybe you are you've heard that word before. Traditions vary by country, so the way we do Christmas and During Advent season here. It's not the same everywhere, but uh if you've been going to church for any length of time, you know, with a traditional setting and you've probably seen Advent wreaths and candles, you might have an Advent candle calendar and your home and that sort of thing. So what's the history on some of this stuff? Well the history for m uh most of this goes back to uh the fourth century. That will be the three hundreds AD So it's been around a long time, but it doesn't go back to the very beginning. I want you to make make note of that. These Advent traditions, Advent season traditionally, originally a time of fasting and prayer for new believers. That's not our tradition anymore, I don't think. In fact, we're gluttons this time of year. We stuff ourselves with food. We don't fast and and pray. Uh and then gradually that those traditions uh developed and and kind of became a season that stretched out uh across the uh what we now kind of recognize as the season, the four Sundays that lead up to Christmas We tend to think of Advent season as merely symbolizing Christ's birth, but when thought about properly, it also points to Christ's final return. what we call the Second Advent. So the Advent Wreath. Historians tell us that the first Advent wreath appeared in Germany in 1839. Apparently they know this. Uh so that's less than two hundred years ago. So it's clearly not a biblical tradition. It's not two thousand years old, it's two hundred years old. It was a Lutheran minister apparently who created a a wreath out of a uh uh out of the wheel of a cart and he placed twenty small red candles and four large white candles inside the ring and that was the first wreath. Over time the wreaths became uh made out of uh evergreens. We now will teach in a as an object lesson. Well, the evergreen symbolizes everlasting life, and you can have everlasting life in Jesus Christ. And the shape of the circle, we can use that as an object lesson to say this is a re- a reminder of God's unending love and also the unending eternal life that He grants to His people. Um and the light of the candles, we can use that as an object lesson, that Jesus, he is the light of the world. Um you know the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it And a lot of the Advent Reese will have red berries peppered within them, and you can use that as an object lesson. Say, well, those red berries, they symbolize the uh the sacrifice of Jesus Christ on the cross. cross and his bloody his bloody death, the shedding of his blood for a remission of our sins. And then sometimes there are pine cones that are added into the Advent wreath, and you can use that as object lesson uh as a symbol for new life because those those those pine cones have seeds and they spawn new life. Of course new life is brought By Jesus through his resurrection. The most common Advent candle tradition, there's some of them have a whole bunch of candles on them, but the most common tradition involves four candles around the outside on the wreath and then one candle in the middle. Uh typically there's one candle lit on each of the four Sundays leading up to Christmas and then on Christmas Day. the middle candle is lit. Uh usually the the the candles on the outside are uh um are purple or or blue with one being kind of a pink or rose Rose color. Um the purple usually has to do with the church whatever our denomination's uh traditional vestment colors are. So if if if uh church has purple vestments, their candles are purple. If they have blue vestments, their candles are blue. But you can also have an object lesson there because blue and perfectly purple, uh the color of royalty and Jesus Christ is our King, the coming king. The first candle is called the Hope Candle, sometimes called the prophet's candle. The second candle, the faith candle, or the Bethlehem candle, of course the Messiah born in Bethlehem. A third candle, the joy candle, or the shepherd's candle. of course the the Great Shepherd and the fourth candle is the peace candle, sometimes called the Angel's candle. Candle named after the angel. Um and of course he is the Prince of Peace. And so again, all these things you can use them for object lessons. Again, I'm not a fan of using them inside of a worship service. But if you have them in your home or something These are things you can teach your kids around. And then the fifth candle uh is is almost always a white candle representing a light and purity. It's called the Christ candle. And of course he is he is He is light, he is purity, and the white candle can also symbolize the victory. So, some other Advent traditions in the East uh churches participate in the nativity by fasting, going back to the old tradition from a long time ago. So you have Eastern Orthodox friends. They they they're most of them if they're faithful in their in practicing their traditions, they're fasting right now. They've been fasting since the Middle of November. Um if you have an Advent can uh calendar in your home, well apparently the first of the Advent calendars is just a little over a hundred years old, nineteen oh eight at the first Advent calendar, a German guy. Let's see. His mom, she sewed 24 cookies onto a lid of a box. And then she Let him eat one cookie a day leading up to Christmas, and this gave him the idea to create a calendar that we now call the Advent Calendar. Christmas trees. Well, they're green. like the advents representing everlasting life. Um I think a lot of people know the Christmas trees that we think about in our traditions now the tanumbaum with German descent and German history behind them. But actually using evergreens uh and and and and wreaths and green garlands and things like that to symbolize a Eternal life uh and some sort of a religious custom. That goes all the way back to the ancient Egyptians, the ancient Chinese did it, um and even the ancient Hebrews, some historical sources will tell us it's not as distinctly Christian practice by any means. And also, we want to want to be aware of this in our current culture, but tree worship was Common among the pagans in Europe. And that's actually our tradition. They were worshiping the pagans were worshiping these trees and they were doing it during this time of the year, and Christian Moved in, they co-opted those pagan traditions and repurposed them to use them as object lessons to point people to Christ. Let's see. And so the first trees they had apples hung on them. Now we have ornaments. Um actually they had these evergreens near near the entrance of the house most Sometimes they'd bring them into the house, but they would put apples and candles on them. There was a fire hazard involved, and so not all the trees were in the house. And so they also had these these uh And they would call them paradise trees, by the way. So it's supposed to re the apples were on there representing the the Garden of Eden and that sort of thing. sort of a thing. And they would hang other food, wafers, different things like that. So that's where the ornament uh idea comes from. And the wafers were meant to represent the Eucharist because there's strong Roman Catholic tradition um at the time. Um and then they also had these Christmas pyramids in their house, particularly if they had the trees outside their house, I guess. They would they had like this Christmas pyramid and they would decorate the Christmas uh pyramid. Uh the it's the it was a shelving unit and on the shelf uh shaped like a pyramid and they would put candles or different greenery on the top of the pyramid. They would for the star. Well eventually the Christmas pyramid and the paradise tree merged into one tradition, and so that's why we have uh the stars on the top of our that's how we came about to have the stars on the top of our By the way, that merging of the paradise of the uh of the Christmas pyramid and the Christmas tree into one thing, that's like about 500 years old. So the first 1500 years of Christianity, these sorts of traditions did not exist for the most part. And then the way we decorate now and the tinsel and some people popcorn around their Christmas trees, you've probably seen that, and and uh decorating the tree with toys and and putting gifts around the tree and and uh and and those sorts of things. out paper figurines and they drape their trees in in paper figurines and stuff. Where do those traditions come from? That's the English tradition. So when the when uh Prince Albert, who was German, married Queen Queen Victoria, who was the Queen of Britain And he was living with the Queen in England and he brought his German traditions to England with the the the Christmas tree and they they added English touches and that's pretty much the traditional That got brought to America. The first blown glass ornaments, which are very popular these days, they first came into existence about 150 years ago. fifty years ago, so that's a pretty new idea. And then the idea of uh of uh artificial trees, plastic trees, that sort of thing. stuff that's within the last hundred years. Actually plastic trees is really within the last fifty or so years. So the reason I share a lot of that is one, it's helpful to have some of that information, but I don't want to say get hung up on these relatively modern um and romance uh era uh um traditions and make the the advances all about that. It's gotten so bad now that you you drive around, you see people have their houses all lit up and decorated. And they got a billion lights, and they've got a Santa Claus and they've got a snowman and they've got a reindeer and they've got uh uh what that that guy name from uh frozen. Olaf. Olaf. Yeah, they got all that sort of stuff uh in their yard and No manger scenes, no cross, no anything that would suggest it's Christian. It's just the winter holiday. And so we we want to be careful that we don't make uh the reason for the season something other than Christ. Um and let's not get hung up on on that necessarily either. The Bible doesn't tell us exactly when Jesus was born. To be honest It's unlikely that Jesus is born in December. But it's okay to draw attention to Christ's birth. We should definitely be doing that. Recognizing that His coming is of huge importance. And uh so not opposed to the two having the traditions, not opposed to you having these things in your house. Don't misunderstand understand me. Just be careful how far we take it and be careful of what's called syncretism, where you blend Christian things with worldly things so much that you lose the Christian thing. And the secular winds out it swallows up the Christian. So just be careful about that. Anyway, any thoughts or comments on there or anything you guys wanted to? Kathy said it was very sad that many traditions we hold near and dear had nothing to do with Jesus. Yeah. Well, there's all of the traditions that we tend to hold near and dear have nothing to do with Jesus on their face. We can again we can use them for object lessons, but there's n you know, we're dreaming of a white Christmas. Well there wasn't a white Christmas in Israel, uh when Christ was born. Uh so that whole idea. So all these these ideas when we think about Christmas That's not really what it's about. They if we're not careful they can become distractions from what it's supposed to really be focused on. So you guys have any thoughts about the Great Reset, the Gospel Coalition, Advent season, our tradition Yeah. Sh you would a whole lot of stuff. Yeah. The only thing that I would say about the Great Reset i it it picks up on the last point that you made about how how how he wrote his article. And uh it it seemed to be a little, uh I guess schizophrenic, you know um good word. It it it didn't it It seemed like he was advocating strongly for one thing and then he was seeming to s shift direction or shift gears and advocate for something else. And I I think that that itself is um always an astute observation to make when you're trying to assess where somebody is coming from because um when you want to and Well, if the goal is to confuse, I don't know if if the goal is is to do this on purpose, but let me say that differently. Um if it if there is an ungodly spirit behind what somebody is doing. There will always be um a little waffling uh some contradictory kind of thing going on. So and and and and and and I think that the reason for that, spiritually speaking, is so that you can make it be whatever you want it to be. in the moment w with respect to who you're dealing with to draw them in. So you can always go back on uh oh no I didn't mean that because I actually meant this you know the the thing that comes to mind when I when I think of that is the Affordable Care Act. Nobody ever really understood what it meant. Because it could mean anything you wanted it to mean Because it was confusing. You know, it seemed to advocate for this and then you read it, no, not quite, and then and and that's that's the mark of something that is that is not of God. Because if it's of God, if it's of God you may not understand it, but initially, but it's of God it's God message and not a point that once you unravel you will you you will understand it once you unravel you know, once once you unravel the the the understanding behind it. But but you know the truth has a has a veracity to it. It you know, i it it it it is what it is, whether you like it or not, that kind of thing. It has a steady steadfastness to it, a str but you know, things that are are have like a satanic spirit too. You know, they they're they're they're wishy washy, they're you know. So that yeah, uh the thing I want to say, you know, I think what's going on here is is to give the people that who are writing like this for the Gospel Coalition, to give them some benefit of the doubt, I think they truly are meaning well But I think they've lost their way. And the reason I say that is I think their motivation, based on conversations I've had outside of this contest and things I've read and and online interactions I've had. I think what's going on is they want they want to help Christians. They want to help you if you're a Christian. Uh you know, if you're a follower of Christ, they want to help me. They want to help you know Angela and Dina, they want to help us to present our biblical views in a way that is respectable before the world. Because people are afraid of being dismissed as as robes, as the great unwashed, you know, the the great deplorables who you know are clinging to God God in their Bible, right? Yeah. And so we don't want to come across that way. So we want to be respectable. And well what's respectable these days is academia. And these guys are smart Guys, they have multiple degrees and they they cut their teeth in academic circles, and so they want to be respectable themselves and they want to help others be respectable. So they want to find this way to navigate But there are people who are not Christians that are somewhat traditional in their views, which is one way, and you've got people who are not believers and followers of Christ. who are therefore progressive and liberal and Marxist in their way, and they say, well there's a third way. No, no. There's God's way and there's no other way that's right. And so Christians are c to proclaim the truth. Because to be honest, there's more than two ways. There's like seven billion people on this planet. That means there's seven billion ways. But there's only one way that matters, it's God's way. We need to dive in to figure out what that is, and then proudly, boldly accurately put that out there. People want to say, well, you're just a rube. They're not criticizing you, they're criticizing Christ. And we got to be okay with that and try to help them, well, okay, you want to be critical of Christ, but let me tell you why I think this. I I I think they're meaning well, but I think syncretism, they're wanting to be liked by the world and they've allowed syncretism to infect the way that they're teaching other beliefs. Well I will say this. As Christians we have the Holy Spirit which reveals truth. So no disrespect for to you or anyone who's gone to seminary or I don't need to have someone who is you know know a scholar in order to have the gospel. The gospel is simple. Now you want to dive into other areas of things where Or maybe it's not so clear, there's, you know, you need the Greek, you need the, but the actual gospel, simple. Whether it's Greek, Hebrew, whatever language, simple. And that's really all we need. Yeah, and I and I agree with you. So I will say this. Um But that's not the gospel. And that's what I'm saying. Well it's not even the Bible. He didn't he didn't even mention the Bible. To advance his message without using biblical principles. Because, like you said, he didn't even reference the Bible, but he takes things out of the Bible like, you know, concern for the poor and he uses that theme to give Very popular these days too. Right. Right. But he can't truthfully and and and and and and accurately use the Bible to support because like you were saying the Bible doesn't teach what he's saying. You know, but it sounds really good because he at least references the Bible. You know, but um you have to be skilled which you are at detecting what's off about it and what's off about it is you know it it it it Is his is the is the the the inconsistency of his message that in and of itself is troublesome. Yeah, it is wishy washy. Yeah. And so to your point, um and I'm that's I'm not a s not necessarily a huge fan of seminaries. We only have and need seminaries because the church has done such a horrible job of discipling believers. over the years. And so now here we are, we have a vacuum of leadership. We don't have enough people who are equipped for leadership because they haven't been properly discipled growing up and coming up through the church and so they have to go to the they have to go to seminary to learn the Bible. So but study of the s of the scriptures And and and standing on the shoulders of the giants of the faith who came before us and learning from them. That's all important stuff. But you but you're absolutely right. You don't need that to recognize the truth from the lie. But I'll use an uh an analogy. I'm in the radio business. My wife is too. We're radio professionals. What separates us from Angela, who's not a radio professional, she's a professional in other regards, but she's not a radio professional professional. She's a radio listener. You might be a radio listener. You listen to a good radio station and you're like, yeah, I like that radio station. This is a good radio station. You listen to a bad radio station, you'll go, ooh, I don't like that radio station. That's not a very good radio station. So you as a radio listener with some familiarity to radio, you recognize good and bad, just like the radio professionals. recognize good and bad. But we're well st my wife and I are well studied in the radio business. And so we not only recognize what's good and bad, but we can tell you why. Say that's a really good radio station. And they're gonna say, you know, I think so too, but why do you say so? And I could give them a list I give them a list of reasons. They won't really be able to give me a list of reasons other than, well, I just don't like it. Or they might stumble upon the truth a little bit like, well, I don't like the way they do that. Actually that's a pretty perceptive idea. You're right. That's something bad radio stations do. Well same with the scripture. When you're studying the scripture and you're spending time on the word, you're spending time reading again those giant and the fate before us who you know brilliant and faithful men who bravely stood for the truth that often at great cost to their to their fortunes and their lives to advocate for the truth. There's so much there. So it pro it it equips us to do more than just like this article by uh by Chris Watkin, there's something wrong about it. That's not the Bible. There's uh my spirit's unsettled. That's just not true. I don't trust The Holy Spirit will do that, but could you then explain what exactly is wrong? What's missing? What's being said that's not not biblically accurate? Studying scripture will help you do that. Or you're talking to your friends and you and you You say I'm a believer in Christ because you can tell me anecdotal stories about how you know uh being a follower of Christ has changed your life. But they start pressing you for answers to defend the faith. Um Um you're more prepared, better able to give a defense of the faith and to maybe be used by God to lead others to Christ because you're familiar with the arguments. That's a big part of what seminaries focus on. It's not. I was unaware that when I entered seminary, I didn't realize how true this would be. Probably a third of the classes I took were studying the scriptures. Um another third were uh were were practical matters about the church, how to lead a church, how to minister to people, how to be a pastor, how to you know, how how to be a good communicator or whatever, those sorts of things. And I'm I mean these third third third is I'm guessing the percentages. And the remaining third is studying all of the lies out there and the various forms they take so that you recognize them when you see them and you know how to address them. So there were classes where we learned about this is what Islam teaches. This is what you know the Latter-day Saints teach. This is what Buddhism's all about. This is so that yeah this is what new ageism is. So that you're not being caught completely flat footed every single time you run into that. You're like, oh I remember this. Well, that's coming. The uh the the the faithful church of uh seminar well faithful churches I pray, but the seminaries too, uh the faithful seminaries they're gonna start having classes. And too many of the seminaries now it really mimics are teaching it. Elements of the truth. Right. Which is why it's probably the most dangerous movement we've seen so far. Yeah, the the the the most dangerous lie is the lie that that looks just like I mean Buddhism, well it's clear. You know, all the easy clear. Very clear. But this? Wow. And so we're starting to run long here a little bit. I don't know if there's anything else on there we need to address. But I I I maybe I want to say this. It's attractive and uh especially especially deceptive and deceitful because they're using a lot of words that we know and we like. I'm a Christian, I like justice. Mm-hmm. And I'd like to know I had my part in playing justice. I care for the full. I dreamed it treated my wealth. It's all about it's a wealth And I'm opposed to the reason it is. And I'm opposed to showing partiality against somebody with a different ethnic background. So I agree with that. And I want fairness and I want equality in those sorts of things. I uh uh so there's a lot there, but you gotta understand how important it is to define the term So when somebody talks, you talk to somebody who is part of a Christian cult, and they'll talk about Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. And you gotta ask them, okay, so who is your Jesus Christ? When you say Jesus Christ, who do you mean. Can define those terms. You talk to a Muslim, they believe in God. They believe Jesus is a prophet. Let's define those terms. Okay, when you say God, what do you mean? Who do you mean? You've got to define those terms. When you say justice, how are you defining that? You talk about equality. How are you defining that? You've got to define terms, and you've got to know what the biblical definitions are So you're equipped to deal with the ones that aren't biblical. And if you get involved in a discussion with somebody and they're maybe they're sharper in their game than they are, because we're immersed in this. It's easier for them them to be sharp. You gotta work to dive into the scriptures and figure it out. You can accidentally pick up wokeism. It's all around you. You can start talking the language and know what they're talking about pretty easily if you're paying any attention at all to the world around you You've got to work at diving into the scriptures to defend your point of view articulately. So if you get involved in these discussions and you're a little flat-footed, it's okay to say, you know I'm not sure I can agree with you, but I'm going to have to think about that and get back to you. And then go read the Bible. Go talk to your pastor. Message me if you want, whatever. And and we can get you know because we're the body of Christ. We can work together. We can be the hand and the feet collectively together, you don't have to do it all yourself. But you gotta engage in the battle. It is a battle. So I got a little bit animated today. I'm not sure if that was good or bad. If it was bad, I apologize. If it was good, you're welcome. I don't know. I don't think it was bad. So all right, are we done? You want me to close us in prayer? Father, thank you so much for this time together. We pray that it would be a blessing. would be used to train up the body of Christ that you would unify us because we are unified through the power of the Holy Spirit. Make that ever so more intense and As we grow nearer to the end days, root us closer together through the power of your spirit. I ask that we would truly be changed by your will word. We promise to not leave us as you find us and we thank you for that promise. We ask that you would be glorified. We pray that your will be done and that you would protect the body of Christ. We know that you preserve the remnant. Father, we cling to you and ask that you not let one of us go like your promise. Your word says you will not let one of us go One go. We will not even let one fall. Pray that we would be encouraged by that, that we would have confidence in that, that we would um not at all be shamed Shaken by what's going on in the world, but we would hold fast and fix our eyes on you, our only hope. It's in your name that we pray, Lord Jesus. Amen. Amen. One last thought. I mentioned Chris Watkin by name, the author of the article, and some might be critical of me calling him out publicly. I gotta say if it's a private offense, you deal with it privately. go to the same church, I can talk to them, but this is published on a huge platform for all the world to see. It's a public problem that needs to be addressed publicly So I'm not meaning to call him out in a in a bad way. I'm trying to call out the ideas in a bad way because the ideas are bad. So there's no personal attack meant on the author uh of the article, at least not necessarily Next week we'll get back to our normal way of doing things. We're going to be looking at a portion of uh uh the Gospel of Luke, looking at uh part of chapter two in Gospel uh Luke, so if you want to look at that between now and next week, um I encourage you to do so. Till next week, God bless