Well hello, welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ, uh weekly Saturday gatherings at six o'clock Eastern time. As I mentioned quite frequently, if you live within driving distance of Frederick Maryland, you are uh welcome to be a part of this in person. So just private message for me if you're on Facebook, if you were watching this later on YouTube, um you can put something in the comments. Uh section to say you know we can try to connect somehow and I can give you all the particulars of of what we do and you know when we gather and and that sort of thing. So um and uh in the spirit of that if you're not within driving distance We need to be in the habit of gathering together as God's people. And so if this is something that you you know, uh view and listen to and participate in as a supplement to that sort of thing, then God bless that. But if you're using this as a replacement for going to church, uh I don't know that God's going to bless that. So you need to find a church that you can belong to. Actually I just heard a doorbell, I believe. I'm going to double check. Yeah, double check. prayer and then I'll go check the door real quick just in case. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for another opportunity of fellowship around your word. We pray, Father, that during this time of fellowship, that your word would be magnified. We pray, Lord, that your word would be magnif be magnified beyond our opinion, beyond our feelings, or the feelings or or the feelings and opinions of anyone who would join later. to watch this Lord. That your truth shine through, Lord. Let your word be the plumb line, Lord, for for us making decisions about what to believe. What to not believe how to guide our lives. We pray, Lord, that you would be with Pastor Troy during the delivery of his message. And that you would open up ears and change hearts because of the message. And we thank you and ask you for this in the precious name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Alright, so it wasn't the doorbell. Must have been your phone. The reason I thought it might be is uh one of our neighbors uh thought that he might be joining us this evening, so I wasn't sure if maybe he was arriving right as we're getting started, but he's not here yet, so I don't know if he's coming or not. And interestingly, this was shaping up to be maybe our largest gathering ever because uh we thought there was an a like a family of five was going to be joining us too possibly. We might have had like ten people which would have been like through the roof for us, right? But as it turns out because those plans got changed and our our neighbor down the street looks like maybe he's not coming and and uh Dina got pulled away to a function that she had to do related to uh a Christmas celebration that her uh workplace is involved with Well from probably looking at our largest gathering ever to what is probably our smallest gathering ever. But uh God's gonna be a a blessing uh to our time together. Regardless. Um I guess we'll go get over here and get started on the message. And if you want to uh start to get your Bibles ready, we're gonna be starting spending some time in and around Luke chapter 2 today. So feel free to jump over there. And before I formally get into the message, uh I just She's probably saying this more often than I do, but it is always an honor to be granted the responsibility of sharing God's truth with those that gather around us us in person and those who are watching online. Um I do not take it for granted and it's it's really a joy to me to be able to to do this. And particularly when I get to focus on a really personal favorite topic like I'm gonna be spending this week and next week. Um now many who watch online might not really know me all that well. watching a series of the videos online, then you're beginning to get to know me over these last several months. Certainly you're getting to know me well enough to recognize that I am a sinner Hopefully you're recognizing the truth because I am a sinner, horribly depraved sinner, actually, saved by grace, through the blood of Jesus Christ And it is my hope that through these messages, through tonight's message, through the second half of this message next week, that you will come to recognize just how true This is for you too. That you are a sinner in need of a savior. And if you are a follower of Christ, then you are washed clean by the blood of Christ through God's creation. And so that's what we're aiming at and hoping for here. I know that uh um Well, I was uh I was gonna go on a tangent, but I don't think I'm gonna do that. I'm gonna stay true to what my plan was, so pardon that pause. So let's uh let's jump now into the into the map. Daddy, tell me what it was like when you were a kid. Mommy, read me a bedtime story. You know, from From the time we're little children, we love stories. Tales of long-go ages, faraway places. But the very best stories, those are the true stories. Right, especially those stories that still affect us today. And I think this is why so often it's so common when company comes over for generation There's little ones in the house, those little sons and daughters, they're constantly prodding their parents to, hey, tell them about that time when you first went on a date. Tell them how you met Tell them about when you had to rush to the hospital when I was born. Go on, tell 'em. And then they're they're quick to correct you if you get any part of the details of the story wrong. They're hanging on all those those details because those are important They're important stories, they're true stories that really affect them. But what's your favorite story? In today's contemporary context, you might answer, I don't know, the Lord of the Rings That's pretty popular. Or possibly a Harry Potter, that's still pretty popular, I think, right? Star Wars, I know that's still popular, so maybe that's your favorite story Yeah, there was a time when my son Tyler might have said that his favorite story was Speed Racer. Or my daughter might have said high school musical. You know, but these all these examples of stories are all they're all fictitious But not all stories are fiction, of course, right? So maybe your favorite story is, I don't know, that of the Reformation. Or the American Revolution. Or perhaps it's a biography about the life of someone famous and important history like I don't know, maybe Gandhi or something something or other historical stories that are are rooted in reality like that. Well what kind of story are we given with regards to Jesus Jesus. Tonight you are going to hear about the greatest story ever conceived. And the next week you are going to hear a personal story that illustrates in an intimate way. How this greatest story ever told continues to be retold in new and wondrous ways, even now. In the lives of those around you. After the message, these next couple of weeks, you are gonna know my family quite a bit better than you do now Now, and by God's grace, you will know in the marrow of your bones what it means to be a part of God's family. It's a powerful, powerful truth. And as I alluded to at the start of me speaking Yeah, I'm sometimes barely able to contain myself as I await the chance to share this once upon a time with you so that your heart will be stronger for the hope that is happily ever after. So if you would turn in your Bibles to Luke chapter 2 And actually, now if if you haven't done that yet, flip there. It's the third book in the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and you're looking for chapter 2. And stick a finger there or a pencil or a piece of paper some s sort of a bookmark there, because we're going to turn right back to it here quickly. But while you're in the New Testament, jump forward in the New Testament to Matthew, the very first book in the New Testament. And let's look at the very first First chapter of the New Testament. And I'm not going to read from it, I'm going to allude to it, and I'd like you to just kind of see what I'm talking about, and you can go back later in your own personal study. examine it. But Matthew chapter 1. There we find a genealogy. This genealogy is broken out into three sets of 14 generations. From Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to to Judah and David and Solomon through Ahaz and uh Azor and Joseph, and it wraps up with Jesus himself. And now flip back to Luke and go one chapter four from where I asked you to bookmark. Let's look at chapter three of Luke. Luke for half a second here. Because in Luke chapter 3, we're also given a genealogy. And this is a genealogy that works backwards through seventy-seven names, including Levi and Amos and Judah and Boaz and Jacob. Isaac, Abraham, Shem, Noah, all the way back to Seth And Adam, before wrapping up with God Himself. And now, Luke chapter two. So flip to chapter 2 of the Gospel according to Luke, which begins in those days. Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world. This was the first census. That took place while Quinerius was governor of Syria. And everyone went to their own town to register. So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth. In Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem, the town of David, because he belonged to the house and line of David. He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him. And was expecting a child. While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born, and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She wrapped him in cloths, placed him in a manger, because there was no guest room available for them. This is the word of God infallible, inherent, and inspired a perfect rule and guide for faith and life. Those who have ears to hear, let them hear. So, what's one thing that we can gather from the long lists of forefathers in Matthew chapter one? In Luke chapter 3 and in this little story now that I read to you from Luke chapter 2. What's one thing we can gather from this about Jesus? Jesus is a real life human This is one of the reasons the Bible provides us with his genealogy. Gives us details about his birth. Like you and I, Jesus has parents, grandparents Great-grandparents, great-great-grandparents, and so on. They really truly existed. They were real people living in real history, just like Jesus Just like you and me. Just like us. Stories about Jesus are presented in the Bible as historical. He really lived in the real world. This isn't a story in some make-believe land. Once upon a time, it's it's a story that takes place within historical context. As we just read in Luke, it's when Rome ruled the political world It's when Augustus was Caesar's, when Quinerius was governor. This is not some the Mysterious land far, far away. This is Nazareth in Galilee. Bethlehem in Judea. Just like us gathered here in this room. Frederick in Maryland. The Bible gives us the true story of real people in real locations taking place in real time. Jesus is real, just like you and I are real He is human. He was born a baby. He grew and became strong, filled with wisdom, as we're told in Luke chapter 2, verse 40. Now we're not told very much about his childhood, but we are told enough to know that he had a childhood. And we know that he lived as an adult, even from non-biblical sources. Like the ancient historian Josephus. And of course, we know about his adult life with some detail from the Bible, in the Gospels, in the New Testament. We can see that Jesus lived a life much like ours. He went to parties where he turned water into wine. He needed rest, even sleeping during a violent storm on a boat. He ate and drank both before and after his resurrection. He felt stress, coining perhaps the phrase, never let him see his sweat, blood. He got angry overturning the tables of the money changers in the temple. He cried More than once. And ultimately, he even died Absolutely. Jesus is a man. This is what the Bible tells us. And most will grant this point, admitting perhaps only that Jesus was merely a great prophet and a wonderful teacher And that's true, but in addition to this, Jesus is the real, life-giving God. Jesus means God is salvation, God is deliverer, God is rescuer, or simply God saves. The writers of the New Testament, they tell us that Jesus is God by his words and show us Jesus is God by his words. Deeds in Matthew chapter 1 verse 23, it tells us that even Jesus' name Emmanuel means God with us. And we see this demonstrated over and over again. Three dozen specific miracles are recorded in the four gospels. We have twenty or so that are described for us each in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. They're not all different miracles, of course, because there's some overlap between what are called the synopsis. Gospels, and then in John's Gospel account, we're told about eight miracles there, and most of those eight are unique to John's account. But the point is, God authenticates his word Throughout Scripture, with supernatural occurrences, with miracles. He authenticates his Like the plagues in Egypt, they vouched that what Moses said was true Like fire from the sky prove that Elijah served the one true God. Like the great flood, the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, the tumbling down of Jericho's walls, the pregnancies of really old women. Well, Jesus is the word in And he is authenticated by his miracles. So what we see throughout the Bible, we see specifically With regards to Jesus. And this shouldn't be a surprise. The entire Bible, we're told, is about Jesus. Jesus himself tells us this. And the Bible is, of course, about God and his relationship with man and this relationship itself. Centers on Christ. The whole Bible is about Christ. So from wherever you are in your Bibles now, let's thumb ahead. I guess you're in Luke chapter 2 probably, right? Let's thumb ahead from Luke chapter 2 to Luke chapter 24. So we're jumping ahead, 22 chapters in Luke's Gospel. And then once you get there, I'm going to ask you to put a thumb or a marker or a pencil or something there for half a second, so we're going to bounce there in just a second. But from Luke chapter 24, again, holding your place there, jump ahead a number of pages to John chapter 5. Should be easy enough to find. John is right after Luke. So you're looking for John chapter 5. And once you get to John John chapter 5, you're going to be looking for verse 39. I'm waiting for the people in the room. Once they have it, I'm going to assume that you have it. It has Jesus speaking, and Jesus says, You study the scriptures diligently. Because you think that in them you have eternal life. These are the very scriptures that testify about me, Jesus says. And what scriptures is he talking about? The New Testament hadn't been written yet. The only scriptures they had at the time were the Old Testament, and Jesus is saying, those Old Testament scriptures, what we now call the Old Testament scriptures, They're about him. Now let's go to Luke chapter 24. We are looking at two verses here, verse 27. And then verse 44. So beginning with Luke 24, verse 27. Beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he, Jesus. Explain to them what was said in all the scriptures concerning himself. I want to underline that concerning himself. And then look at verse 44. He Jesus said to them, This is what I told you while I was still with you. Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me in the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms. You might want to underline about me. The law of Moses, the prophets, the Psalms are about Jesus, he says. Now the law of Moses, that references the Pentateuch. The first five books of the Bible. And then the prophets and the Psalms. That's a shorthand reference to the rest of what we now call the Old Testament. With this phrase, Christ is talking about what was, at that moment, the entire canon of Scripture. He's talking about the entire Old Testament. If you think about it, we still talk with these sorts of idioms today. You know, Jesus says the law of Moses, the prophets, the Psalms. It's like an idiom to talk about all of the scripture. Just like we might say, from New York to Chicago to LA. And by saying something like that, we mean the entire United States of America. So Jesus is talking about what was the entire Bible at that time. And he says it's about him. And we know the New Testament is about Jesus Christ. And so consider the Bible. All 66 books. They're about Jesus. What does What does it say about him? I mean, that what does he say about himself? Jesus claims to be God. Nineteen times in the four gospels he's says that he is the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies that point to God saving his people. Twenty-three times he calls himself the Son of Man with Which is actually a most powerful claim of deity when it is understood in the context of Daniel chapter 7, with the image of one like a son of man coming on the cloud. In addition to this, fifteen times he says that he is the Son of God. Thirteen times refers to himself as the Messiah, the Christ, the Savior. Only God saves. Twice he says he has the authority to forgive sins Only God can do that. Thrice he refers to himself as Lord, and dozens of times he utters the words, I am. A covenant name that God announced to Moses from the burning bush in Exodus chapter 3. Jesus says of himself that he is God. And he backs up what he says about himself with his miracles. And ultimately with his resurrection. And ascension. Now the resurrection, that's sometimes said by people to be God's greatest miracle, and it's certainly in the running for that designation. But I tend to think of it as his second greatest miracle, with the greatest miracle being creation. I mean Think about it, God made everything out of nothing. He made even time and space. You ever pause to ponder that? Until he made it, there was no time. Not only did he make everything that is part of the creation, he created the space within which to place it. Wow. And he brings order, right? God brought order. Without him, there's there's chaos Well, in the opening of John's Gospel, it tells us that the Son of God performed even this. greatest of all miracles. I can't remember if we left off in the latter part of Luke or John chapter five, but we're right in the ballpark of John chapter one. So why don't we turn Turn to John's Gospel, chapter 1. And John's Gospel opens with this opening salvo to tell you who Jesus is, a very high Christology. Here we find in John. And this opening salvo is book-ended with the first four verses and then verses 17 and 18. So we're gonna we're gonna focus on the bookends. So we're gonna start with verses one through four and then jump to seventeen and eighteen. So this is first John verse one. Not first John. John chapter one verse one. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and that life was the light of all mankind. Now jumping ahead. Verse 17. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God but the one and only Son, who is Himself God. And his enclosest relationship with the Father has made him known. From before creation, the Sun has been God Amen. Amen. But what I want us to remember In earnest at this moment, is that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King Right now. Right now. Back then? Yes. But also right now. In the future? Yes But also right here, right now, Jesus is Lord, Jesus is Savior, Jesus is King. Right now. Next week, I am going to share with you a personal story from our family. That helps to illustrate that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King today. What that will await. next week. So for now, let me close with a word of prayer. Oh God, Father, we adore you, we love you, we praise you. You are our Savior who helps us. Despite the fact that we are slow to learn, we are prone to forget, we are we are weak to climb. We're in the foothills when we should be on the heights We're so often pained by our graceless hearts, prayerless days, our poverty of love. Or sloth in the heavenly race, our silly consciences, our wasted hours, our unspent opportunities. Too often we find that we remain blind when the light shines all around us. We ask that you would take the scales from our eyes, grind to dust our Hearts of unbelief and make it our highest joy to study you, to meditate on you, to gaze on you, to say like Mary at your feet, to lean like John at your breast, to appeal like Peter to your love. To count like Paul all things in comparison to Christ to be only dumb. Well, we believe. We ask that you would help our unbelief. We believe that you sent your son. That he grew up before you the Father like a tender shoot, like a root out of the dry ground. And we're told in what we call the The Old Testament that he had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him, nothing in his appearance that we should desire him. He was despised, rejected by men. Man of sorrows, familiar with suffering. It was like one from whom men hide their faces. Utterly despised, not esteemed in the least. And surely he took of our infirmities and carried our sorrows. As we considered him stricken by God, smitten of But we know by revelation that he was pierced for our transgressions, crushed for our iniquities. And the punishment that brought us peace was upon him. And it's by his wounds that we are healed Now we are able to live lives as followers of our Lord, Savior, and King by the power of your Holy Spirit that indwells our hearts. We sang just within the hour about Christian soldiers engaging in the spiritual war. War. Give us your heart, Lord. Give us hearts like lions to wage the war that you've called us. To participate in his faithful soldiers. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Alright, so where are we on time? Let me see. Okay, we're in good. We're in good good shape. Alright, so any initial thoughts or comments? Anything that you've noticed on Facebook that anybody might have chimed in or done a shout out? Recognize them if possible. If not, no worries. We'll take care of that later. I mean it's really a pretty basic kind of a story, right? But We need to be reminded of these basic truths because all around us we have professing Christians who would deny these basic truths. Right? I mean I don't know how many friends you have that would call themselves Christians or identify as Christians anyway if you were to press them and ask them. So what do you believe? Well I I guess I'm a Christian. Oh do you believe that you know Jesus actually Existed existed in history, or is he just a mythological figure? And they've done polls on this sort of thing, and a lot of people that claim to be Christians think of Jesus as mythological figure or or maybe he really existed as a human being but that he isn't actually God. There are some that would claim to believe in Jesus Christ, but don't believe that he died on the cross. They're very basic fundamental things. And at this time of the year, you know, the Advent season. You know, this week we're we're celebrating the first advent of Christ, you know his arrival, uh uh taking on human form, condescending to become a man. And that is so crucially important, the reason why we recognize and celebrate that fact, because if he doesn't come as a man, he can't then live a perfectly obedient life as a man, and then he can't die the death as a man, as our representative as human So if he wasn't really a man, because that's also a heresy that you know people that would claim to be Christians, some, it's a minority group, but there are some that say, oh yeah, no, he really existed, but it was like a spiritual almost like a like a 3D projection or something, you know. You know, it wasn't really human because, well, you know, God's above the fray and we're all sinful and dirty and evil, he can't bother with that. He can't touch that. It would sully God to to become human. You know that that's kind of at the core of what Gnosticism teaches. example, and there's a lot of modern-day Gnosticism going on. So we say, oh, it's pretty basic. Yeah, Jesus actually lived as a man. Well that's controversial in some circles, believe it or not, that Jesus actually is God. Well that's controversial, even in some quote unquote Christian circles. And so uh and and and science tells us there's no such thing as miracles, so all these add is saying of proving that who he is are denied. You better say something I kept talking. Yeah, you're fine. We just wrote about that in John 1 1. Christ said yeah, the word was the word and the word was with God and the word was God. Right. How do you yeah? And then in first John, first John says that the the spirit of the Antichrist is the one who would deny that um that Jesus came in in the flesh. In fact in fact I believe it's the fourth chapter of first John that says to test what kind of spirit you're dealing with, just ask that very question. Ask did Jesus come to earth as a human being and the person that would deny that is that they're carrying they're speaking by the I'm paraphrasing but it's it it's it says that you know that person speaking by the spirit of antichrist. So I just uh these people that come up with these you know explanations, you know, they I don't know whether they know it or not. You know, they just um They're just proving the truth of that scripture and um uh it it's um it elsewhere in the Bible, I forget the the exact scripture, it says that you know it was It was a first it was a man who lost it all for us, and so Jesus came as a second Adam to get it back for us. So I mean it's just it's said over and over again in different ways that um The Son of God, you know, in addition to the Luke story which says he was born for a woman, um I mean there's just proof after proof. Um in the Bible That, you know, Jesus really did come as a human being. And um, even though he's God, you know, and um So it's just, you know, it's just the the truth being played out when, you know, when about the spirit of Antichrist being here and people denying the Father, denying the Son. just denying him in in various ways. And that's that's a major way. Because if he didn't come as a man, he couldn't have like you said, he couldn't have died as a man and saved us as a As a human being, um, to undo what Adam did. Now there's uh for those who are of the scholarly types uh watching and have dug deep into some of the controversies that the critical scholarship would want to throw at uh traditional Orthodox Christian belief. The passage that Was kind of the the core of what we talked about today, Luke chapter 2. It talks about uh Quinerius being governor over Syria, and there are some debates And controversy over whether or not Luke has his dates right. Because they say, well, Quinerius, he was governor from this period to that period, and you know, we know that Jesus was was born at at this time and that couldn't possibly be true and this is not a Sunday school class, it's not a lecture and so I'm just gonna allude to it. I don't want you if you're a scholarly type to feel like, oh Boy, Pastor Troy Skinner doesn't even know anything about that controversy. I'm fully aware of the controversy and it's um from a faithful perspective one can navigate through the controversy so that there's no contradiction, there's no need to charge uh the physician Luke with uh with an error here First of all, we don't know with precision exactly when Jesus was born, so that makes it what year he was born, much less what day, right? I I'd be willing that that money it wasn't December twenty-fifth by the way, but but regardless, we don't know the day, we don't know the month, we don't know the year, you know, so we plus within a decade, I think you can pretty possibly say within this decade he was born, you might We don't know that. And then the ancient records, it depends on how you want to look at Quinelius as the governor. Like for example, um I'm trying to think of of of a good example. George Delped wouldn't be charged until today's climate was he'll be understandable so I'm going to go back to W. George W. Bush. If you meet George W. Bush on the street, how would you greet him? You would say, well hello, Mr. President. What an honor. to meet you. He's not the president. He hasn't been the president in twelve years. But you still call him the president. And so these these These uh titles of honor and when it comes to governorship and stuff, there's a there's a loose uh application of that too, and that plays a role in how you would identify Quinarius as governor. So anyway, I'm not going to get bought on the weed, but it's for those who are scholarly and say, well, what do you make of Quinarius? I'm telling you there's there doesn't need if you want to try to find reasons to poke holes in scriptures and say there's errors all over the place, you could point to this one and say that one's kind of problematic. And on the surface it appears to be problematic until you really dig in and you say, you know, it It's not nearly as problematic as the critics want to say. So anyway, I just wanted to address that real quick. Sorry, that was a bit more of a ramble on that than I intended to. And something else that occurs to me, you know, there's there's uh there's a movement, particularly in Pentecostal circles, it's uh it's a oneness movement. They they they they I want to say this. Those who are critical of their view would would say that they're denying the Trinity. They would be uncomfortable with that That accusation because they say that they believe in the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit and therefore they're Trinitarian. The problem is that they're not um They're not using the word Trinity the way that it's been defined by church history. So they're calling themselves Trinitarian, but meaning something very different about So basically the that idea is that there's one God, which we agree, and that one being which Trinitarian agree too is also one person and that's where the Trinitarians would agree disagree say no one God one being that one God all one essence and yet three persons and it's a mystery how that works And so they would say that the Father is God and the Son is God, but they're one and the same person and they just take on different manifestations. in different forms. And so then you get into all sorts of heresies, like one that's called Patripassionism, which means the father is the one who was sacrificed on the cross and not the son, although it was the son too, but like all three uh labels uh right they would accuse us of just having these different labels. But the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit all uh were on the cross And so the Father sending the Son is really sending himself. And it causes causes all sorts of problems, in my opinion, that cause all sorts of problems for them that are unnecessary. necessary. You know, when the son is praying to the father, he's praying to himself? Yes. You know, he's crying out, you know, why have you forsaken me? Like is he talking to himself? And there's l and you know the passage we're talking about here about uh you know the the word was with God and the word was God. Okay, well the word was God. That would fit fit a oneness mindset. But the word was with God. Well if the word is God and he's with God, that makes it feel like there's two gods, but we know there's not two gods. But there's two persons within what the Bible tells us is the Godhead. And so there's some passages here that maybe can help us to understand Understand uh that the tr th the the the the the Bible clearly tells us that there is God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, and that they They are um uh they're of one mind, of one purpose, of one will. Well uh and yet there's a difference in personhood, there's a there's uh some sort of a hierarchy, right? The son submits to the father, for example. Doesn't mean the son is lesser than like using analogy is like in a marriage, a good healthy marriage anyway, you know, the the wife is submitting to the husband. Doesn't mean the wife is lesser than the husband. Right, the wife just has a different role to play. So um I if anyway. a philosophically deep question. I I think one way that has helped me in um uh to to understand how God God is a Trinitarian and yet one God is is is looking at the Godhead in terms of relationship. For me If I view God as three distinct personalities, which I believe the Bible teaches, they eat they all have roles. Jesus said, I will send you the Holy Spirit After I'm gone, it's a good thing that I leave, because then if I don't leave, the spirit won't come. So he couldn't have been talking about himself when he was talking about the spirit. Because he said, It's good if I go. So he said that It's good if I go and that way I continue this spirit. The way that the way it helps me understand them to be three yet one is to look at it like this. They are so unified in in will, purpose, and essence it's really not proper to think of them as three individual different gods. It's not it's it's inappropriate and it's not true So we knew God was made and neither shall there be any effort. And I think that that the the relationship on earth that is the most supposed to ref Present that is a husband and wife relationship in which they should be so close, it's kind of improper in a way to think of them as two somebody's probably gonna push back on this, but to think of them as two different people because they are two they are so unify in purpose that they become one flesh, you know. And that's why marriage is so beautiful for this. And it's only two, right? It's not three. But Bible says that when the man and the woman get married and they unite, the two shall become one flesh. And so they become one entity, one there's there's this one thing that they become. And yet they are distinct people with distinct personalities and distinct roles. Exactly. But they are to be of one mind and of one goal that they're working together towards and helping each other towards and so there's a there's a unity there and because we're fallen and sinful and finite uh it's not a perfect analogy with uh God who he's not bound by space and time Because he exists outside, he exists within space and time, but he also exists outside of space and time. Otherwise, he wouldn't have existed before he created space and time. Oh. It's it's like a a second comment. What is this heresy? Exactly. So um so I I think that that's exactly that's a really good way of thinking about it And um uh there are heresies flying all over the place these days. I mean we are in uh uh uh a heresy gumbo. Uh in In the church right. I mean it is it is nutty. It's like it it's it's ramped up, you know, like it it's just it's just it's it's it's a it feels like an assault to me. You know, like Like an attack of parents again. When I would you know first learn about some sort of you know thing happening, this was years ago and I was newer into faith and I was talking to my past saying, Wow, did you hear about what they're doing over here like in in this country or that country or this church over there in this other state or something and say, oh yeah I know what that is and he'd have the label for it, you know, and he'd say there's nothing new. All these heresies exist. Something that feels different now is if you go through church history and identify all of the heresies that have been a huge problem for the church at different moments in church history. They're all huge problems for the church right now. All at once. It's insane. None of the heresies ever truly die out, unfortunately. But there's an ascendancy of all of them. And they've got these people that are mixing the heresies. You know, it's nothing they're not just heretics in one way, they're heretics in twelve ways. It's really unbelievable what's going on But the church is the truth is under attack. So big time. But let me think about the oneness and the Trinity thing, particularly when we were looking at John chapter one, verses seventeen and eighteen. Where it says, grace and truth, truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God, but the one and only Son, who is himself God, and is in closest relationship with the Father, has made I mean a plain reading of that makes it clear that there's two people there. Right? But it's saying that he himself is God, and so we're not talking about two gods, but we are talking about two people. That's what the the the the doctrine of the Trinity is trying to to grapple with is okay the Bible makes it clear there's one God and three persons, how does that work? And then we come up with some very carefully crafted language that we all get some cognitive rest over That doesn't fully explain it. You know, the way it's been explained to me is you know sometimes we just don't get settled until we can wrap our arms around an idea so much until our fingers touch. But In the case of the Trinity, you can't ever quite get your fingers to touch. You know you keep y y you you move this arm closer over here and as a result this one slides. So then you move this hand to get over there and that one slides, and there's always this gap in your You're covering the gaps, but you're never covering the entire gap all at the exact same moment. Like there's no way to crystallize it down to boom, we got it forever now. It's just not quite that way. It's the same challenge we had With the idea of Jesus being fully man and fully God, which is a major theme in tonight's message. How's that possible? How are he truly God and truly man? Which one is he? Yes. Just yes. And so it's the same with the Trinity. And so anyway, you kind of missed the discussion, but you've heard this sort of this teaching before, so Anything else? Anything you want to say? No, I don't feel it's appropriate for me to chime in. All right. So any additional closing remarks? Long live Jesus. One one thing that um helps me to keep God three and one in my mind also is I I very much think of the father as my father. Um and um because you know I didn't really have a father growing up. And so you know how God is supposed to be all things to you? So Um he's my father. And then, you know, and and because I I'm divorced, you know, Jesus is my husband. Mm-hmm. And and And and the Holy Spirit, because I I I'm I'm studying the word and I need to understand he's he's my teacher and my counselor. And yet in in my mind, when I I pray to the Father through the Son with the help of the Spirit, I just kind of see them as one God, you know. It's and I just I don't know that we Christians even have the burden of trying to fully make somebody understand that. You know, we can introduce a concept, but I don't think it's a burden for us to kind of force them to understand it any more it would be than it would be a burden for us to explain to them, you know, exactly how our cell phones work. work. I mean, you just know that they work. You know? Uh you don't have to understand everything to the nth degree. And and the the fact is in life most things that you encounter you probably don't understand to the nth degree, but you can still have faith that it works. And so I I I I push back a little little bit on people, uh you know, it it makes me feel like, okay, do you just really have an do you just want an excuse to not believe? Because if you want an excuse to not believe, it doesn't matter how How will I explain it to you? You're just not going to believe and and but you you're you're you're you're you're obfuscating that with well you just didn't explain it good enough for me. No He's God. He's one. He's the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and He's one God. And because He is God, by the way, because Because he is God, he probably should be a little too deep for you to totally understand anyway, otherwise you're not worthy of being all God. You're finite he's not. So You know, I I I get to a point where I start pushing back a little bit on that kind of thing because I think, you know, people just trying to pick an argument with you sometimes and you just That's why you need to have faith. You've got to have some degree of faith. And you exercise faith every single day. Um in other ways. And so if you want to give your heart to God and you want the salvation, then you're not going to demand that your little you know tiny P human brain can understand every aspect of God. Paul t tells us in the book of Romans that no one has an excuse for not believing that there is a creator, that there is a God, right? The creation itself is evidence that there is a God. There's this intelligent designer and and he's a personal God because of the personal touches he's placed on his creation. So nobody has any any excuse. And yet, you know that's a general revelation that's what it's called. And then we have what's called the special revelation, which is the written word of God that we have now, the scriptures. And it's in the special revelation that we can understand more the intricate About who God is, the nature of his relationship, and even though who we are, to know ourselves better, and all of that. And uh we can know that there is a God through General revelation, but the the details about God we can only know as much as He reveals in special revelation. And so we turn to the scriptures to glean from there everything that God has shown us to properly understand that, and where God has chosen for now, maybe forever, but at least for now, to remain silent on certain questions, God has revealed that He exists as He has revealed that much. He hasn't revealed to us exactly how that works. And it might be that our our minds can't Can't comprehend that sort of a a mystery. Maybe you know we're not wired in such a way in in the here and now to be able to understand that, or maybe it's not something that God feels like we need to know just yet. Maybe we will know after the second coming. Just from our own imagination. And sometimes our imagination can be close to right. Sometimes our imagination could conjure up something that is accidentally exactly right in certain specifics. Can't imagine everything exactly right. So we've got to lean on what the scriptures tell us, and we want to go as far as the scriptures do. We don't want to make the mistake of not going as far as scripture tells us. So we don't want to say, well, Jesus couldn't have possibly actually been a man. It's gotta be just a spiritualized God as an apparition that he never actually became man. Well that's not Going as far as Scripture tells us. Scripture tells us he actually became man. So we've got to go as far as Scripture tells us, but we've got to be careful with not going beyond what Scripture tells us. So we're going to be right in the Word. In it On it, around it, through it, like completely consumed by it, but nothing more. And that's the challenge that uh that we face. So I think it's good for us to be curious about how to try to understand These things and say, what has God taught us about what we now call the Trinity? Because the word Trinity doesn't exist in the Bible, but the concept is there. What does God reveal about Himself that's related to the concept? And understand that. One, so if you have honest inquiry from somebody and they say, How do the hell Trinity thing work? You can try to walk them through it as best as you're able. can do is it can help you to recognize the frauds when you see them, when you know the truth as well as possible. When somebody misrepresents that truth, you see it faster. Actually we'll be talking about that in coming weeks. as we move into our as we complete our series on the letters of John. We finished first John, we're focusing on second and third John. We'll be talking about some of these same things actually in the coming weeks. So here's the plan. Next week we're going to finish tonight's message and I'm telling you you're going to want to hear next week's message. It'll be the best message you hear all year. So you're going to want to catch that one. Wow. And then the week after that I'm undecided, but given where we'll likely be in the American context of things and therefore the world context Uh I might change my mind, but right now I'm leaning towards we might just do an hour of prayer that particular Saturday evening. We are living in momentous times. So I'll see. I might decide to have a message too. I don't know. I'm just I'm undecided right now. But then we'll jump into second and third John. And I have begun my studies for uh the book of Revelation. And so my hope is that at some point in the coming year we'll begin a tour through the Revelation. So that ought to be interesting. Um so that's uh I think that's all I got. Sure. Okay. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. for allowing your word to come alive to us through the power of your Holy Spirit. We ask that it would speak to us not only this evening but throughout the remainder of the weekend in here. into next week. May it guide us. May it direct our paths. May it also make us um come in alignment with your will. We pray that the concept of the Trinity would be more understood by us, if there are any sort of questions that you would help us through the power of your Holy Spirit to understand things more better. We ask, Father, that your will be done in this nation in regards to everything that's going on. To understand that you have a plan, you have a purpose, although it seems out of control, you are very in control. You can be everywhere. all the time and you are. And so we thank you for that. We thank you that you knew the or know the end from the beginning and you planned it that way. And we thank you also for your plan of salvation that is found in our Lord and our Savior, Jesus Christ. We ask all these things in your name that we would be protected throughout this week that you would lead us not into temptation, that you would deliver us from all kinds of evil. In your name that we pray, Lord Jesus. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well thank you for uh viewing uh along with us. And if you can have any comments, thank you for your participation that way. We'll talk to you next week, which will be December twenty-sixth. So let me say now, Merry Christmas