Yep. Okie dokie. It looks okay to set it up. Yep. Alrighty. Well I think we're maybe a minute or two later than usual My phone turned off on me and had to restart it, so sorry about that. Um I'm gonna jump right into reading something and then we're going to uh have uh scripture reading from 1 Corinthians chapter 15. If you want to read along and grab your Bibles, you can have that ready. The 15th chapter of 1 Corinthians, we're reading from that, and then we'll have our uh official opening prayer at that point So a couple of weeks ago, and maybe three weeks ago as well, I was reading through some emails sent to the church and uh I'm picking up on some of those things now. This week. So these are things that were sent to the church. And the reason I'm doing this is uh not everybody who watches these Facebook Live uh broadcasts uh is on the email chain. Uh not everybody who's even on the email chain has the ability during what's going on right now to access a computer the way they normally would to check their emails. So and some people might be getting emails but not having actually to read them because of those disruptions in life, who knows. So not everybody has been seeing this. I'm trying to keep us on the same page. So here's what I wrote uh a couple weeks ago. Welcome to another week, brothers and sisters. Thank you to those who were able to participate in last night's service. We had four worshiping in our home, and 114 people watched at least part of the Facebook Live broadcast. What length of time these people watched is unknowable, but based upon the comments posted under the video and also via private messaging, we have reason to believe that maybe 20 people watched most or all of the broadcast Um during these uh Facebook Live videos, by the way, the numbers have been pretty consistent. We've had four or five people in our home. We've had um Between 110 and 130 people watching most of the videos, I think, and probably in the ballpark of 20 watching each week. So I guess that's an encouragement for us. During the message last night, this is going back. a couple of weeks ago, I mentioned that about a hundred and twenty million people die worldwide every year. To clarify, in case anyone does a fact check and then scratches their head, that number includes abortion. Believe it or not, abortion accounts for approximately half of all deaths around the world each year. Well, talking staff, here's something I shared on social media a number of days ago. So the data is a bit dated, but it still might be of an encouragement to you. This is the social media post. If this, and then it uh points to a link uh about scientists finding that 86% of coronavirus infections might be going unreported. If this is true, and who really knows anything for sure about the data these days, then this is very encouraging news about the COVID-19 mortality rate. As of right now, the Johns Hopkins Tracker reports 197,000 confirmed corona cases with about 8,000 deaths. This calculates to a 4% mortality rate among confirmed Cases. However, if the total confirmed cases are in fact only fourteen percent of the actual number, then that means there have been more than 1. 4 million people actually infected. Doing the math would make the mortality rate between 0. 5% and 0. 6%. This is far less scary than the 4% number or even the 3. 4 mortality rate number that dominated news reports for Weeks. Something else to consider, if 86% of cases are unconfirmed, then the mortality rate for people under 60 years old would be in the ballpark of 0. 1%. Fear is a powerful force, crippling those infected, and often it's more contagious than medical conditions. Standing on a ladder to change a light bulb is not statistically life-threatening. Yet someone with fear of heights can literally become paralyzed by this fear when Standing atop the ladder. Ironically, this paralyzing fear then places the person at far greater risk. Irrational fear is more dangerous than the height. As I know you agree, feelings and emotions are important. Science and facts are valuable too, so are reason and to intuition. But truth, wisdom, and discernment shouldn't be allowed to be sacrificed on any of these In doing so, we permit chicken littles to convince us to surrender hope for what the Hebrew language calls shalom. Let's not Surrender. And I included a couple of links. One, an article, four lessons from church history, and another was a video to watch. And I'll include links to these things that I mentioned tonight. in the comments section of this video uh later on tonight. And I close standing on the battle lines, Pastor Troy. And so now we're going to have our scripture reading, 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verses 1 through nineteen and then Angela's gonna also uh have an opening word of prayer for us. Thank you. First Corinthians fifteen one. Now I make known to you, brethren, the gospel which I preach to you, which also you receive, and which also you stand, by which also you are saved If you hold fast the word which I preach to you, unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received. That Christ Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures, and that he appeared to cease us Then to the twelve. After that he appeared to more than five hundred brethren at one time, most of whom remain until now, but some have fallen Asleep. Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles, and last of all, as it were, to one untimely born. He appeared to me also. For I am the least of the apostles who am not fit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by By the grace of God I am what I am. And his grace toward me did not prove vain, but I labored even more than all of them. Yet not I, but the grace of God with me. Whether then it was I or they, so we preached and so you believed. Now if Christ is preached, then he has been raised from From the dead. How do some among you say there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there is no resurrection of the dead, not even Christ has been raised. Been raised, then our preaching is vain, your faith also is vain. Moreover, we are even found to be false witnesses of God because we Witness against God that He raised Christ, whom He did not raise, if in fact the dead are not raised. For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been Raised. And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless. You are still in your sins. Then those also who have fallen asleep Sleep in Christ have perished. If we have hoped in Christ in this life only, we are we are of all men most To be pitied. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for this word of life that reminds us of all the witnesses. of the miraculous resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And it gives us, Lord, the witness of the apostle Paul, who many consider uh the most the most preeminent of Christians. And Lord, it just reminds us that our hope is in Jesus Christ Our hope is in that resurrection. And our faith, Lord, is based in the resurrection of Christ, whom so many witness being raised from the dead. We just pray, Lord. Lord, that you be with Pastor Troy as he expounds upon this word and other words, Lord God, because we know that we have a faith that is not in vain. That Christ has been raised from the dead. And we thank you for that knowledge. And we ask you to build our faith up even more because of the word released this evening. We thank you, Father. and we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you for that. And uh yeah, most of us um in in uh Christian circles think that resurrection Sunday has already passed, but our Eastern Orthodox brothers and sisters are recognizing that day today. So a joyous Resurrection Sunday to you. So moving on to the next message that I share with our church a couple weeks ago. I said, contemplating what's next on this beautiful Tuesday, my brothers and sisters. If you watch the news or participate on social media, you'll likely have noticed that some feel the response to COVID-19 has been inadequately too little too late. Others feel the response by society and government has been dangerously over the top. Some might feel like Goldilocks that the response has been just right. No matter who's right, we now have a new current reality needing a response. Our community needs to prepare that response. Now, right now, especially the body of Christ. The number of people battling psychological depression is likely about to spike Neighbors we know are likely about to wrestle with their emotions and start having suicidal thoughts. Families around us are likely to experience increased instances of domestic violence. Law enforcement officials are likely about to more frequently be placed in harm's way as they deal with an anticipated wave of crime. 911 operators and EMTs are likely about to respond to more overdose calls. Substance abuse centers are likely about to be pushed to their capacity. Not-for-profits are likely about to be pressed to help more people while having less resources. Homelessness is likely about to become more prevalent. Fixed income retirees are likely about to have a harder time finding the money needed to pay for their utilities or even remain in their houses. And people we love are likely about to experience a crisis of faith. The corona crisis is real. Our reaction to it has either made it better or worse, and that's a debate for another time and in another context. Let's learn from our shared experience. in recent weeks, let us right now, in our own lives, work out appropriate and impactful strategies for dealing with the cultural crisis dissent As with the virus, this cultural crisis is very real, all too real, and it won't be over in a matter of weeks. And it won't necessarily in all circumstances be solved by staying home. I feel that I'm beginning to see the emerging problems more clearly, but the Solutions are fuzzy. I'm open to suggestions. Here's a list of 12 pretty good ones. I then posted a link that had uh 12 items on it. I'll put a link in the comment section of this And then I also included a link to something from the ministry of uh Chip Ingram that uh was offered for your advocation and encouragement and again I will include that link in the comment section later on tonight as well. Let's see if we can't tackle singing a song. We don't have uh we don't have a worship leader type with us. Uh we we kind of know these songs, but not well enough to lead them usually, so we're gonna see how this goes Uh the first one to but to God be the glory. Where do the um though? Oh, this one? There should be a good one. Oh I don't know. I mean, is it on your lap? It's not, honey. You took it. I took it. Well, this is Facebook Live. Welcome to our life. So Where are my glasses? They're on your head. No, they're not. Yes, they are. To God be the glory. Um the lyrics for this I think are posted in the comments, right? So if you want to try to sing along, I wish you were here to help lead us. Can we get it started even? What would you like to start this? To God be the glory of great things He has done So was he the world that he gave us his son, who healed with his life and atonement for sin and open And the light gate that all may go in. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth hear his voice. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people Glory joy, will come to the Father through Jesus, the Son, and give him the glory, great things he has done Oh perfect redemption, the purchase of blood to every believer, the promise of God. The wildest offender who truly believes that moment from Jesus a pardon received Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth hear his voice. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people rejoice. Oh come To the Father through Jesus, the Son, and give him the glory. Great things he has done. Great things Things he has taught us, great things he has done, and great our rejoicing through Jesus. Pure and higher and greater will be all wonder and transport are to Jesus we see. Praise oh no we will be see there you go praise the Lord Praise the Lord He will Oh my gosh. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. To Jesus Christ, and give him the glory, great things he has done That was a joyful noise in every way, sense of that Well if nothing else we need to do. Darlene and Scarner watching, Darlene, you should just be here Please helping us. We understand why choirs practice. Goodness. We understand why Jesus put makes Yeah. So anyway. Alright, well this is a good start for the next uh the next message uh email message. I'm going to read to you. Today is the April Fool's Day edition of Pump Day, brothers and sisters. This morning I share with you the words of a longtime friend of mine, Paul Michael. Monday, which appeared in the local newspaper last week. And here's what Paul wrote. What is happening? Suddenly the coronavirus has descended upon us, canceling our lives. Some believe the virus is a sign of the end times, as the four horsemen of the apocalypse gaver uh gallop ever closer, a reference to revolution However you frame it, COVID nineteen as a reminder, we are not in control. We are susceptible to a world fundamentally fractured, fallen, and diseased in need of a great physician and so cling to the great physician cling to Jesus for where shall I flee from from your presence if I make my bed and Sheol, you are there. If I dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall leave me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light uh above about me be night Even the darkness is not dark to you, O God. The night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you. Psalm 139 And so, yes, it is dark. But there is also light. For the darkness is as light to God. And so as we open up to light in the darkness, how might we navigate this bleak time? This pandemic. Well, navigation prompt number one. Confess it's alarming. Persons of faith tend to sweeten the jolting reality of life, but God loves honesty. And so just say it. This pandemic is upsetting, disrupting life in a scary way. The biblical character Job models bluntness. What's the point of life when it doesn't make sense? Instead of bread, I get groans for my supper. Men leave the table and vomit my anguish. The worst of my fears has come true My peace destroyed, no rest for me ever. Death has invaded life. That's from Job chapter 3, the message translation. Navigational prompt number two, look for man Manna. Remember manna. It was the nourishment God gave the Israelites in the wilderness of their suffering and abandonment. But it didn't arrive in one delivery. Instead, God provided just enough manna for each Then the Lord said to Moses, I will rain down bread from heaven for you. The people are to go out each day and gather enough for that. I have heard the grumbling of the Israelites. Tell them, at twilight you will eat meat, and in the morning you will be filled with bread. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God. Exodus sixteen. Did you catch both God the tentiveness and God's timing? God hears our grumbling, and God is responsive, but according to God's perverted provision. and schedule. And so be patient. But affirm, God will provide. Expect manna. Look for neighbors running errands for neighbors. Look for grocery stores restocking shelves and extending hours. Look for physicians adding services and sharpening attentiveness. For in a myriad of ways, even in the wilderness, God will deliver. Navigate Occasional prompt number three. Expect new creation. Scripture is filled with hopelessness, wasteland, and desert, but consider Consistently, Scripture assents God's promise to make a way where there appears to be no way. A road in the wilderness and paths in the wastelands. As it says in Isaiah 43. New creation. Over Christmas, Paul writes, my wife Robin and I visited the 9-11 Memorial in New York City One of the remarkable aspects of the memorial is the calorie pear tree, known as the Survivor Tree, buried under the rubble of the The tree and nursing it back to health over time. A long time. But now the Survivor Tree stands proud and secure as new small Smooth limbs extend from old, gnarled, charred stumps, an unmistakable symbol of resilience, survival, and rebirth. But there's more. Each year, the 911 memorial identifies three communities in the United States that have also suffered a tragedy and provides those communities with seedlings from the Survivor Tree as a living Reminder that over time, blessing can emerge from brokenness. Hope can emerge from horror. Promise can emerge from pain Through God in Christ, blessing can emerge from brokenness, hope can emerge from horror, promise can emerge from pain. For Jesus is the ultimate survivor, demonstrating through the cross that even Even the greatest tragedy, abandonment, suffering, can result in redemption, reconciliation, and new creation. Look to Jesus and know New creation. Wherever you feel gnarled, charred, and hopeless, receive a seedling from the Christ Tree and be renewed. For surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light shall About me be night, but even the darkness is not dark to you, O God. The night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you. Again a reference to Psalm 130. Over time let that truth register. But boy, is it a process. But be expectant, for God does make a road in the wilderness and a path Paul has a gift with words, does he? I provided a link to a video that I was hoping would put a smile on your face. I'll put that link in the comment section of this Facebook post. And then I also had another link and I introduced it by saying, here's a link with words crafted by a very dear friend of mine mind. Bill was once my pastor and was even one of my seminary professors. He is a brilliant thinker, but even more important to me is that he has a deft pastoral touch. His open letter is a beautiful explanation of what What his supersized church has decided to do in their context. I would have expected nothing less than this sort of quality from the keyboard of Reverend Dr. Fulilove. Blessed day, Pastor Troy. So look for that link if you want us uh if you want to see uh a really good exposition of the churches that have decided to take a break for meeting right now for uh reasons particular to their situation. He does a really masterful job of explaining it and so I would encourage you uh to do that. I've got some other things I'm things I might link to that that will explain uh the thinking for those that have decided to continue the meeting meet uh as well. Um we haven't done announcements yet. Let's let's do our announcements now. Am I starting with a joke? Yeah, we got a joke? Okay. I'll try do this uh as best as I can. So husband and wife, you know, we've all been in self quarantine for going on five weeks now. So they're sitting on the couch just hanging out with each other and the husband turns to his wife and says, honey, I know it's been hard on you. It's been hard on me. It's been hard on us as a couple. This is what I want you to do. When this is all over, I'm going to take you anywhere. Anywhere you want to go. So it holds up this map puts it on the wall you know in the kitchen they're just kind of you know let's let's just let's just go wherever I'm gonna put this map up and I want you to throw a dart anywhere lands on this map, we're gonna go. Could be Alaska, Australia, you name it. We're gonna go. So, oh, this is great, she thinks to herself. She takes the dart. Wind up right behind the refrigerator. So we're going. Right behind the refrigerator. That's it. A trip behind the refrigerator. Yeah, I gotta say I'm not a huge fan of the French line, but the joke was well told. All right, I won't put my days up, don't worry. Um so some exciting news, our church Living Faith Ministries has a new logo, so if you go to the website you I don't know if you can see it all that well. Let me see. Oh, I don't know. Everything's delayed. Oh, well. So it's hard to see? Let me know it's is it showing off? Well, I got a heart Yes, it is showing up. So good. It showed up. So that's kind of exciting. Yeah, if you go to our Facebook page, you'll see it. Yeah, of course we're hoping to get back together sooner rather than later. We have the event of having a very small congregation, 10, 12, we're like the disciples. We're few but faithful. So we could literally um sit twelve feet apart. Actually probably twenty four feet apart. And not even come close to filling up the sanctuary. So because we read we kind of use an existing church. So we're hoping to get back together sooner rather than later. You can obviously call any of us anytime you want. You can reach out to us via email, on Facebook, private messenger if you need any for anything specific if you need counseling, if you need pastoral counseling, if you just want a female perspective, I'm a good listener. I don't always have advice, but I'll find doubt something if I don't have the answers to it. Should tell you a joke. I will not. I'll spare you the jokes. Um and then we've got some prayer items. Do we want to do that now? Just kind of we did touch base with um well actually troy touch face with everyone within our congregation so we just want to share here the prayer warrior type and we'll touch on these two with prayer um vic and charlene They have a neighbor neighbor Carol who's going through cancer, and so if we could just be in prayer for her for um just her comfort, she knows the Lord, she's not afraid to die, so that is already appraise. She did lose her husband about two years ago to cancer. Jamie has had uh a physical He has one scheduled for tomorrow. Oh a physical, that's right, to do a job that he's been wanting to do. He has to Cast like a soup to nuts physical. It's not like, well, we go to uh to get a physical. This is specific to his job performance editing. That would be hard. Uh And Rose in Florida are awaiting some surgeries. Rose needs to get a plate out of her leg and Kip needs a double hip replacement. Well I don't envy you that anyway. So so if we can be a prayer for them. Um cookie is concerned for her cousin Joanne who's in New York as a nurse. But the good thing that we know from Cookie is that they have all the supplies that they need. They're not short of face masks or ventilators, they're not overcrowded. So we can be thankful for that and praise God for that. Darlene has started her new job with a trucking company, so we are praising the Lord she's watching. So yay! Woo, woo, woo. We're happy for you, Darlene. Um David is with Wishing that he and his wife obviously remain well during this whole thing. Um Cole's eye was been strengthened, our nephew. Yeah, well they're still working on it. They're still working on it. Okay, so we still need prayer, but it has been showing some signs of Well, it hasn't gotten worse. We'll pray God for that. And we'll ask the Lord to continue to speak. You know, it's it's not doing as much as they would have hoped, so they're extending the patching and hopefully that'll take care of it. And we did get a good report from mom she had kind of a a mini scare from with the doctor But it looks like everything's fine with her. Um, Tyler, our son, has been stressed to the max, which means we are stressed, just major fit on Friday night, and I thought But wow, maybe I should take up drinking. This is that bad. So we are past that. So just um yeah, extra prayer that this is hard on special needs population. Not all of them but some of them more than others. And when someone is used to going out and has a schedule and goes to routine number of stores and you're told you can't go anywhere, and we used to, and we still do. That's always been used as a punishment. So now he feels like he's being perpetually punished for something he hasn't done. He's done nothing wrong and he's been perpetually punished. So he's not quite understanding that and so we're getting bouts of anger. anger, which I get. I totally get. I have a torn rotator cuff, so if you could please be in prayer. My prayer is that the Lord just a psh and fuses it back together. He can You can do anything. So I'm like, okay, Laura, just there. Just that healing balm and then woof, we're done. No surgery needed. I am starting physical therapy. 15% don't need surgery, I can be one of that fifteen percent. Um let's see what else is going on. I think that's it. Yeah. Okay. So those are the prayers of the people. Okay. Well no, those are the announcements and the prayer requests that you just went through. Sorry. Well we do have the prayers of people in in a little bit. All right, so let me read um another one of the emails from a couple weeks ago about a week Two and a half weeks ago, probably at this point now. Welcome to another day, brothers and sisters. Yesterday I emailed to you some words written by a friend of mine. Today I'm going to do the same, but from a different friend who is also a former mentor of mine John Frost writes, The antidote for anxiety is calm. The antidote for fear is hope. The antidote for bad news is encouragement. The antidote for despair is to be uplifted. The thing we need to do is to double down on why people come to us in the first place, because that's the benefit, the value they need. Now more than ever. Trust is not impulsive. Trust can only be built over time. Trust is built with a mindset of a farmer, not that of a hunter. Plant, tend, plow, fertilize, weed, repeat. Build relationships and be there when they need you you. What is your role while the coronavirus is in the headlines and impacting people's daily lives? Consider three things. Number one, practical information. Balance the latest news, mostly negative, with context. For instance, did you know that ninety-three percent of all cases are from only four countries in the world? Did you know that the coronavirus is ki has a greater likelihood of affecting older adults who already have lower immune systems or existing health issues. Did you know that no cases have been reported in any child under the age of fifteen? Eighty percent of those impacted by the virus have have recovered. And then he goes to say obviously these numbers change daily and they have changed since he wrote that, obviously. Avoid what one psychologist called gloom and doom entertain I'm not suggesting we minimize the severity of the situation, only that we offer context. Number two, expert advice. Dwight Bain says The more you panic, the more your immune system goes down. A strong immune system will fight any virus or bacteria. We want our immunity system to go up. When you panic, your immunity goes down Down. Also, you can be a good neighbor and remind your friends how they can best protect their health while not panicking. And number three, faith in where we find our hope. Be a constant reminder and a contrast to the media of the true hope we offer every day of the year. Fear not is the most frequently mentioned command in the Bible. In fact, it's given 360 I have recommended consistent daily prayer with believers praying for the containment of the virus, the protection of our community, and for the researchers and Scientists who are searching for a cure. This is also a great opportunity to utilize social media to connect our purpose to others. Want to supercharge your immunity system? Focus on positivity over fear The more you laugh, the more you meditate on scripture, the more you practice diaphragmic breathing, the more you pray, the stronger your immunity grows. Breathe, trust, believe. That's how to increase faith over fear. And those last words he was quoting, those very last words So John Frost, he's a very wise observer of life, isn't he? Um and I ended by saying, maintaining hope that we'll all see each other again in person very soon. And then I added Added a uh a link that had some uh solid answers for the questions of how to confront fear of COVID nineteen, and I encourage people to read it. And uh I will again all these things I mentioned as links will show up in this Facebook uh feed before the night is out. That's that's the plan, God willing, anyway. Alright, well I try want to try one more song, see if we can do it. Sure. So we're gonna we'll we'll try one more. Great is great as thy faithfulness. Let's try it. Okay. All right. And here's Poor Angel, sorry she hasn't run. But she's partly deaf. That's probably why the dog is around. Oh, she's like way. Great is by faith, right? Yeah. Faithfulness. Right? Yeah. Well, I think it's wait a minute. Great is by faithfulness Oh my father, there is no shadow of turn with me thou changest not thy compassions they fail not as thou hast been thou forever Will be greater thy faithfulness, greater thy faithfulness Morning by morning, university thy sea. All I have needed, I am afraid. Lord unto me. Sump it so Summer and winter, springtime and harvest, sun, moon, and stars in the We're butchering it. Joe. We're getting like every other line right. But not consistently so. Oh Lord, I'm sure you see how great is that faithfulness. Great is thy faithfulness. Morning by morning, new mercies I see All I am needed, thy hand hath provided. Great is thy faithfulness, Lord unto Alright, short for sweet. There's a lyrics to a third song in the comment section. You can sing that one on your own as homework. And create the tunes. I'm so sorry everyone. Well on that song we learned why they sometimes they have a little starter note, the little note to get you started on the right note. I even think that would help us. Alright. Well, greatest thy faithfulness, not so great is thy singing. And another weekend is nearly upon us, brothers and sisters, I wrote. I've recently heard plenty of fresh perspectives to contrast with what is heard from mainstream media perspectives that can actually be helpful to people. Here are some listed below. Quote, when the story of COVID-19 is just a story we tell Let's make sure our stories are stories worth telling. Andy Stanley. Quote, the more messages that get out there about how we should behave and how we should respond to This dilemma of the coronavirus outbreak, the more we can all work together in the face of this crisis. Stephen Dragotas. Quote, our God is the God that takes these difficulties and turns them into opportunities. Hearts are soft. People are listening. Quote, while I can't control the situation around me, I can control my actions. Doing breath work, calling loved ones, getting enough Sleep and proper nutrition, prayer, and doing activities I love at home will all help during this time. Also washing my hands regularly, avoiding close contact with those who are sick, and reminding others where to find I hope that we all feel the privilege that it is to be a Christian during the During this unusual season. After all, this is what we practice for. God bless you, dear ones, Pastor Troy. And then I added the P. S. Saw this on social media and it captured my attention. Quote, in three short months, just like you did with the plagues of Egypt. God has taken away everything we worship. God said, You want to worship athletes? That will shut down the stadiums. You want to worship musicians? That will shut down civic centers. You want to worship actors? I'll shut down the down theaters. You want to worship money? I will shut down the economy and collapse the stock market. You don't want to go to church and worship me? I will make it where you can't. go to church. Chronicles 7. 14 says, if my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked way. Then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land. Maybe we don't need a vaccine. Maybe we need to take Take this time of isolation from the distractions of the world and have a personal revival where we focus on the only thing in the world that really matters: Jesus. Start the revival in your home, spread the love. And I also added a link to a lengthy article that had loads of practical tips for maintaining health and managing stress while confined to your home. And again, I I'm going to include that link in the comment section later on this evening as well. He alluded to the fact we'd be having the prayers of the people coming up shortly. So here we are. So if we were in our sanctuary right now, what would happen is one of the members of our church would open in prayer, and then anybody else who feels led to pray aloud would pray aloud as well in turn one at a time and then after a period of time I close in prayer. Well we've got a smaller version of that. So what's going to happen here is Dina's going to open us in prayer. And I I imagine Angela will probably pray and then I will close us in prayer. So if you and I'll let the dog out while we get to get that going. I'm opening? Oh no, okay. I just was Heavenly Father, thank you for allowing us to come into your presence. Through the sacrifice of Jesus, we are so thankful that we have direct access to you now because of the shed blood of Jesus. We come to you with our prayers. And our petitions, but also our thankfulness. We are thankful that regardless of what's going on, and regardless of the fact that there's just three of us, wherever two or more Gathered, you are there. And so we are thankful for that that you are here with us right now, that you hear our prayers. Not only that you hear our prayers, but you answer our prayers in accordance with your will. And we are Thankful for that. We do praise you because there are some good reports in the land. We hear people being healed. We hear more and more of states being able to open certain things up and we thank you and praise you for that. We ask that you would keep people well, that your hand would be upon all of these efforts to bring people back. to work. We we pray for those who are not able to go to work and who are struggling now, can't get even any sort of financial assistance because the system have been flooded, but we know that you are our sustenance and you are our provider. So we lift them up to you as an offering and we ask that you would provide for their needs. And you know exactly what they are, whether it be food, clothing, whatever those things are, and ultimately a way to be able to live again and to be able to make a living. We pray that you would please Take care of this situation speedily, Father. We ask for truth in the matter. We pray that you would reveal what is going on in truth. You are a God of truth and so we ask for that to be revealed. We pray for the leaders who are making decisions that they would be godly, that they would not be self-motivated. But they would be motivated by serving the people. No matter what parties they are, they've been elected to serve the people, your people. So we pray that they would do that indeed, that you would strike their conscience if there's something that they're doing that is not above board, that you would convict their hearts, that you would soften their hearts. so that they hear you. You are a God of all people, not just those who call upon your name. And like the channels of waters, you move the king. hearts to do what you want them to do in accordance with your word. And so I thank you that you ultimately are going to have your will be done. You are still sovereign. You've never stopped being on the throne. You are still God of all. You are still in control. And so we praise you and say hallelujah for that. We thank you that you will be glorified. You deserve all glory, honor, and praise. And I ask that you would just get all the glory out of this, even more so than that we're giving you even on a daily basis. Through our prayers. I pray that you would be magnified. I pray for revival in the land. I pray that we would again be able to serve our communities like the church has been called to do from from times of old. I pray that we would be able to serve each other again, that we would be your hands and your feet, not just virtually, but hand to hand that we would be able to do that, that we would be able to embrace one another again sooner rather than later. Thank you, Jesus. Gracious Heavenly Father, I just echo my sister Dina's prayer of gratitude to you for what you are doing through this crisis. Lord, because you are on the throne. And because you are on the throne and you are good, you are making good come out of this. And we are grateful for that, Lord. We are grateful that you You have used this situation, Lord, to expose the idols in the land and to bring people to repentance from those idols. We thank you, Lord, that the you are using even the fear that people are experiencing, Lord, to draw them to yourself. Because Lord, it is when we are incapacitated that we stop looking around to us. other people to help us and we stop looking to ourselves and we start looking up. And that's where our help comes from. When we look up and when we look up to you and we finally surrender to you. our help comes from from you and the solutions come from you and we thank you that you are bringing many many souls to repentance from the idols in the land that Pastor Troy mentioned. We thank you, Lord. I do believe that revival is not, Almighty God. We thank you. We deeply thank you for that because our country is so in need. of revival. So in need of a spiritual revival to sweep through the land and save people. And so we thank you so much for that. Lord, we thank you for this gathering, Lord. This gathering we have come together to honor your name. And as Pastor Troy was mentioning, our moods can can contribute so much to our health. And Lord, without even trying to and we we lifted people's moods just with our singing. So we thank you for that, Lord. But it was it was done to honor you. And you know that. You know our hearts. And so I do believe it that really was precious to you because you honor the heart. And it was heartfelt. You and we you are not a God that fixates on performance. You know you care about what the heart heart where the heart is. And so Lord, we believe that that sacrifice of praise was precious to you. And we we thank you that you are that kind of God. And then and um Lord, we just thank you for this day that you blessed us with. Lord, this is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. So we are glad in this day because you are You're still our God, you're still on the throne, you're still in control, you still love us, and in Christ Jesus, who was resurrected from the grave, we have overcome. And we thank you for that, Father, in Jesus' name. Father, we recognize In only small measure how magnificent you truly are. We thank you for times such as this that we're reminded. Of the immensity of your holiness and power and authority. We know that you are completely powerful and omnipotent. You are not weak or Frail in a situation such as this. And so we know that you have the ability and the will and the desire to work all things together for the good of those who are yours. And that you are doing so, even as we might struggle to see how that is so from our perspective. And we thank you that we can rest on the assurance that while this situation we find ourselves in came as a great surprise to us. It was of no surprise at all to you. Nothing is surprised to you. You see all things, you know all things, you are in control. Always. You are a sovereign God. And because of that assurance, we know that we should be able to walk with confidence, absent of fear, with boldness. For Christ, being busy about doing the work of the kingdom. And yet we are frail. We pray that your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Yet we are not in heaven just yet. And so we struggle. We still battle against sin and weak dispositions. We don't pray as we should, press into your word as we should, serve with one another shoulder to shoulder as we should But we know that all the things that we should do, should have done, and should do in the future have all been perfectly accomplished in Christ We thank you for the wisdom of seeing how much we would need salvation through you, that we could not earn our way, work our way, climb and claw our way. We thank you for the presence of your Holy Spirit here among us in this room, among all who are Gathered with this Facebook Live broadcast, but also your spirit that dwells within the hearts of believers all around the world. Help us expand our view to recognize that It's not just us in Maryland or other parts of the United States, but it's the entire world that is going through a crisis right now. And whether it's the coronavirus or something else, there's always a crisis. That the world is going through because it is frail and fallen and broken and sin-riddled. So we pray for the lost ones around us, all around the world. That they would hear and respond to the truth of your gospel. We pray for our brothers and sisters, so many who are in more dire circumstances than we are. Who need encouragement from you? May our prayers somehow be useful in that through a supernatural Natural means, and help us to never lose sight of the fact that this is a supernatural battle. There is a spiritual war being waged. That there is one like a lion prowling around looking to devour us. And we know that it is, you know From our experience, and we know from what you tell us to expect in your word that navigating life through this brokenness is not easy. And it is particularly hard. To try to live as a Christian when the rest of the world does not understand and recognize your truth and recognize who you are. So help us to bolster Each other's faith, to be encouraging and edifying to one another, to find ways to be there for each other, even as it's time such as this. We thank you for continuing to provide for us, providing for us the technological means and the physical means to even do what we do now. And we thank you for the love that we can have for one another, the unity we have in Christ, and the things that bind us together in the faith, held together through the power of your Spirit. It's in the precious name of Your son Jesus, our Lord and Savior and King, that we pray. Amen. And oversight, we didn't include specifically the things we mentioned for prayer requests, but we're praying for those that are personalized and uh that were mentioned. So hopefully you'll be praying for those things in your personal lives as well. Let's see what I thought I'm missing. So The next email that I wrote said We again prepare for worship tomorrow, brothers and sisters. This was a couple weeks ago. Today I have an item to share that is adapted from something I read by Christopher For Wesley. Life can feel pretty draining in the season we're in. Stress can drain you to the point where you wonder, why bother with anything That's why it's so important to practice what we've been taught and lean into our need for prayer. So many burn out or are tempted to give up because they ignore The basics of the faith that we share with others. We need prayer, but it can be easier said than done because it's too easy to confuse it with work. Or we assume we'll get to it in a moment because it's readily available. Or busyness takes over, or we invest in what others say about us, over God, etc. No matter our reasons, we need to have discipline in our spiritual life and practice How? Embrace the challenge and surround yourself with Christians for accountability and always have quick access to Pick up the scriptures, confess your sins, have quiet time, and attend weekly worship in whatever ways are available to you in your situation. The reality is faith is evidenced by work. Embrace the struggle and remind yourself it will be hard at times. But it's worth it. Set prayer as a priority. Are you starting out your day and various aspects of your day with prayer? Whether it's prayer Personal or professional, prayer needs to consume everything that you are doing. You need to consciously involve God in every part of your everyday Many advocate that the most important time to incorporate prayer is in the morning. Whether getting up at 5 a. m. or noon, we need to make sure that we are giving God thanks and seeking his guidance. Perhaps you should build it into your daily habit by putting it into your schedule and working at it. Create boundaries Mixing prayer at work isn't a bad thing. However, you do need clear boundaries. Set aside time when you just go with your family or on your own for times of focus prayer. By committing to prayer without ceasing and prayer focused in regular moments of intensity, you'll experience God filling you with his joy. Build in accountability. Because you need people to sharpen your faith journey. We all need people making sure that we are constantly growing. You need people praying with you and for you in your journey. Take time away to retreat from the messiness of life. Sometimes we need to step out to purely and intently focus on Christ. When doing so, you can offer up all your worries and anxieties to become rooted in Christ. Prayer is one of the most essential tools that we need for the long haul. Above almost everything else, make it a priority in how you live your life. It might take work, but the benefits always outweigh the labor. prayer with God's people, Pastor Troy. And then I added an uh a P. S. attached to the most recent newsletter from the Weirsma family, dear friends of mine. Serving in long-term overseas missions. I've included this as a reminder of what's going on throughout the world right now. Let's be sure to pray for all of our co heirs in Christ all around the world and for the lost and broken people. I'm not gonna be able to attach that in the comments section because it's a PDF and not a link. But I will say, you know, the weird Albania, thank you. In Albania, which is like a third world country in Europe Okay. It's it's it's you know it's kind of a mess over there and they've spent decades not hearing the gospel in in an open environment because because of what was going on during the Cold War era. And so you know they're needing to hear the gospel and they're hearing it afresh, uh an entire generation is hearing it afresh. And we've got some difficult things going on here with the government. From what I understand from their newsletter, uh it's even worse there. So uh keep the Albanians and the missionaries all around the world, uh and those who are in Tighter lockdowns than we are experiencing, keep them in your prayers as well. We were going to do abide with me here, but I don't know that we've done all that file, so we're going to skip abide with me and Um we can just take a moment for some shout outs and that sort of thing. I don't know. So I do want to acknowledge everyone that's joining us, our daughter, Danny, and your sister. Carrie is watching along with Darlene Scott. Darlena Hartman and Steve Barrett is watching Hi Lee. Andrew's granddad is watching. Abby's watching. Hi, Abby. And Susie. Hi, Susie. And Liz Matovich. Hello, Liz. And Ted Neves. Hey Ted. And Anna Newton. Hi Anna. And I believe we and Chris Kennedy is watching. And Mary Richard. Hi Mary, can't we see you right in your basement? Diane Foot is watching. So thank you all for watching and for joining us and worshiping the Lord together with us. All right, no comments or any questions. Yeah, no quite I mean just you know typical Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Amen, that's what it's like and about our singing, but we'll s I'll spare you those time. Oh yeah? No, no, no, it's okay. big fan, regardless of my name. Ankie or Aki, that's my nephew. Thank you, Paul. Alright, well good. Alright. So I got one one more thing. I thought that's the one touch off. One more thing I'm going to read and then I'm going to ask Angela if she would close us in prayer at that point. So we're uh we're just a couple minutes away from from wrapping up. So I wrote a couple weeks ago, Palm Sunday is upon us, brothers and sisters As a member of our uh a member of our church sent me an interesting meme this past week. I truly appreciate that he shared it as it's a meme that certainly captures Many of us might have questions about how we should understand such statements, and so I feel it could be helpful to you. Here's what the Internet meme says. Quote The Lord commanded a lockdown during the Passover in Egypt that every member of the house is just being tested and strengthened. We are being taught something and God is doing a work. Be still and know He is God. End quote. What are we to make of this quote? Well, here are a few thoughts for your consideration. This meme contains at least a sliver of biblical truth. But as with any meme, it is too lacking in substance to maintain status as the final word on the matter. Biblically informed conscience, the God-honoring thing to do is to avoid gathering corporately for at least a short while. Some church leaders and churchgoers have determined that in their context and within their biblically informed conscience The God-honoring thing to do is to continue gathering corporately for at least the moment. Both groups can be correct. How? Because their circumstances are different. This group might indeed have strong biblical support for their decision, but using the argument found in this meme would be to mis demonstrate their worship of Him. God's people weren't cowering in fear of a sickness, but were obediently following God's life-giving instructions. God's people weren't giving in to fear of proximate worldly enemies, but rather gave evidence of a righteous fear of our ultimate supernatural God. Put simply, the people who were spared by the Lord had an appropriate and honoring fear of God. Put conversely, the people were not spared from death on that particular night due to having an Inappropriate and dishonoring fear of the world. God's people found protection from the judgment of our holy God by trusting in the blood of the Lamb. This is a profound corollary for God's people today who find ultimate and eternal protection from the judgment of our holy God in the blood of the Lamb. We must always remember that Jesus himself teaches us in Luke 24 and John 5 that the whole Bible is about him Until we uncover how all the passages, including those of the Passover, instruct us in the revelation of the Messiah, we have not found the intended meaning of those passages. Exodus 12 is about Christ who will come in judgment to destroy his enemies while at the same time Protecting those who are his. And we recognize those who are his by their obedience. This is a central theme for us to glean. from the story of Exodus. The question of whether or not to take a break from corporate worship gatherings is a question of obedience for pastors and for all believers deciding to take a break and deciding to not take a break in our current worldwide situation can both be the right decision and they can both be the wrong decision Immense trust in God to provide wisdom by the guidance of His Spirit is needed in dramatic ways right now. So please include all pastors everywhere in your prayers at this time. Too many are being too quick to be too condemning. Of pastors and congregations thinking differently about what they should do at a time such as this. We are called to give evidence of the fruit of the Spirit in our lives. So when thinking about fellow believers, let's think in terms that are loving, good, kind, patient, and gentle. If we can demonstrate this level of self-control, then we are likely to witness more joy, peace, and faithfulness among God's people. Standing with all the brothers and sisters, Pastor Troy. And then I included a PS. Here's a link to a very pastoral article addressing the same subject matter I've written about in this email. I surely hope that you will read it and I will include this link. It's titled COVID-19 and the Valley of Decision: The Unbearable Pressure at Your Senior Pastor is under. So whether you agree or disagree with decisions certain churches are making, I'm I'm I'm assured that almost all the pastors are wrestling over what the right decision is for them. in their situation. And then I ended very much looking forward to seeing you tonight or at least sharing with you via Facebook Live at 6 p. m. And so that's the end of that. And so if you would, Angela, close us with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we now come thanking you, Lord, for the message that was released today, Lord, for all the encouraging words, for the reminder. of what your word says, Lord God. We thank you for your grace, Lord God. We don't always extend grace to each other perfectly. But um Lord, we thank you that you always have perfect grace for us and we know that you are in each situation helping every pastor. come to a decision that um that is honoring to you and is and is good for their particular congregation. And we just ask Lord God that you would Protect us. We just pray a blood shield of a lamb around us in our families, our homes, all that you've given us. We choose faith over faith. fear word god we know that you are protecting us and uh you are providing for us and um um we can rest in that almighty god we are very very Grateful for it. Your faithfulness and knowing who you are is especially precious to us during these trying times, Lord God. And we just pray that that what we have Lord that others will come to have it as well. We are trusting in you to work that into their lives. And so we just bless you and we praise you. You never leave us, you never forsake us, you grow us through these challenges, Lord God. We are very grateful for the increase in fellowship, the increase in wisdom. And we just ask, Lord, that by the power of the Holy Spirit that you would just continue pouring out your love in our hearts so that we can love each other better, better because of this crisis. We thank you that there's a light at the end of the tunnel. And as always, Lord God, you win. And we win because we belong to you. We thank you, Father. We ask all these things in the priceless name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Shout out to Jerry who joined us later. Hi Jerry. Hey Jerry. Alright, I'm gonna hit off on a part of the Google clip video