And okay, we're rolling. Well hello uh Facebook and if you're watching this later, hello YouTube. Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ and our uh our Christmas weekend gathering Uh you're going to hear tonight the second half of a message that began last week, but really the way the whole message was structured, it's kind of last week was a standalone message and this week is a standalone message but there is a a unifying theme to both messages that does uh have it make sense when you hear both has at the same time. If you missed last week's uh message and you'd like to hear how the two go together then uh if you Go and find uh you can scroll through my Facebook page if you want, or just go to the YouTube channel for the Household of Faith in Christ, and all of our videos are stored there. And so you can capture it there. So any special announcements? I don't think so. All right. So I'm going to ask Angela, as we typically do, to open us with a word of prayer, and then we'll get started. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you, Father, for blessing us to see another Christmas Day. And we thank you for blessing us to see gather here today, one day after Christmas to continue in our celebration of our Lord Jesus Christ. Uh tonight, Father, we will celebrate your Your miraculous power in the Lord in a very special way that's personal to each one of us. We thank you, Lord, for the people that you have brought to Hear this testimony. We thank you for the lives who will be touched and changed forever because of it. And we just give you the praise and glory for what you are doing. We'll do through this message. Amen. In the most mighty name of our Lord, faith of Jesus Christ. So I alluded to this is the second half of the message if you missed last week and you don't and you don't have time now to go and uh take it in before you were doing tonight. Uh just gonna recap really quickly. We talked about the importance of story last week. Um talked about People have different kinds of favorite stories. We're all riveted to stories. You know, kids love to have their parents tell the stories about when they were growing up and how their parents met and all that sort of stuff. We have favorite movie series or book series that are favorite stories or favorite biographies. Favorite stories, you know, moments about important times in history, those sorts of things. Some stories are fictitious, some are rooted in truth, are historical. So we have the question, what kind of story are we giving with regards to Jesus? And then we walk through what the scriptures have to say that makes it very clear that the life of Jesus is set in real history. There's historical contacts with real rulers who ruled the land of real nations at the time in real cities with real people. Jesus has, you know, grandparents and great grandparents and that sort of thing. He was a real person, a real man who really lived, like you and I really live. And we we took some time to drive that home point. That that drive But then we wanted to add to that that it's not merely that he's a man like us, but he's also the life-giving God. He is truly man Truly God. But he's not a man like us because we are humans who sin. He is a man without sin. And so he is able to He was able to provide a sacrifice for us by living a perfectly obedient life, fulfilling all the requirements of the law, which we don't do. So he was we celebrate right now this weekend, right? We're celebrating his coming, his incarnation. He comes, he he he condescends to become man, to enter his Human history as a man, so that he could die and be risen again, uh demonstrating his victory over even death. That he is the Lord of all, the maker of all, creator. He is the judge and righteous ruler, the perfect prophet, perfect priest, perfect king. And that's the story we get from the Bible about Jesus, that he is real. And we the last portion we were really driving home the idea that not only is he real, and not only is he really God and all of that, but All these things put together tell us that Jesus is not just what would happen almost 2,000 years ago. It's about what's happening even now. We have a tendency sometimes to think about what's going to be happening in the future. And that's important too, but what is happening right now, and went out of my way to make the point last week that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King. Now, he's Lord, Savior, and King today, at this moment, right now, Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King. And sometimes We lose sight of that. We know it, and yet we lose sight of it. It's a weird thing. And sometimes God blesses us with happenings that remind us in profound, unforgettable ways That he is Lord, Savior, and King. And I alluded last week to the fact that we'd be sharing a story this week that helps to show in the lives of people all around you There is, if you're looking for it, you can oftentimes see, and sometimes you don't even look for it, just wax you over the head with a frying pan that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King today. And so now the personal testimony that I alluded to last week. One day it is my hope that Tyler will be able to share this testimony himself. But in the meantime I'm going to share Tyler's testimony on his behalf. Those who uh don't know, or those who might know but don't know some of the profundity of it all, uh my son Tyler was born Very, very sick. One of my earliest memories uh following his birth, because I was there for his birth, one of the earliest memories I have was his breathing. breathing. He um there were a hard time because his entire body was convulsing in and out so violently that I kid you not, it was as though his ribcage, the front of his ribcage was touching his spinal column. I wouldn't have imagined it was possible for a human body to do that if I hadn't seen it with my own eyes. He was struggling to force down Every breath, and he was failing in the struggle because for some reason his lungs weren't capable of doing their job. And I thought for sure he would die with Minutes. He didn't. And so fortunately, over the course of a few days, his breathing finally steadied, but He had purple dots all over his skin and he was yellow. I mean really yellow, caused by elevated bilirubin and the blood. You might know this as having jaundice. Now bilirubin that's the junk that is supposed to be cleared out of our blood. And a normal bilirubin Count is I'm told something supposed to be something like you know 00. 001. Basically it's supposed to be zero or very, very close to zero. And sometimes the baby has their bilirumen be elevated, and it's a bilirumen count of one or two, or maybe even a more serious three or four. And so So in situations like this, the doctors they place lights over the baby. Maybe you've seen this, and somehow that helps to bring that that number down. Well, in Tyler's case, his bilirubin was well over three or four and it kept climbing. Now the liver that's what's supposed to clean all this garbage out of our blood and Tyler's liver it wasn't working. And it's John This number, it just kept going up, it kept climbing. And the doctors, they assured us that as long as that number didn't go into double digits, you know, we'd be okay. And then it went into double digits. So then they revised their stories. Well, there's two parts to Billy Rubin, there's direct and there's indirect. And as long as the direct Number stayed in single digits, we'd be okay. And the direct number went into double digits And that was skinny wasn't yellow. It was green. I mean seriously, no exaggeration. It was green. And sometimes he'd have this scrunched up look on his face, and he looked like the Grinch of Stole Christmas. I'd sometimes try to break the ice and joke and I say it's not easy being green. And the Billy Rubin climbs to well over 20. That's when I asked the doctors, I said, how high can the number go? And they said, that's really a good question, because we've been calling around and And checking the archives and doing our research and trying to get some handle of what's going on here. And they couldn't find any record of anyone ever anywhere ever having a number as high as Tyler's was at that moment in time and it kept going up all the way up to thirty point five So Tyler had a liver biopsy and he underwent liver liver surgery and consultation was sought from leading medical experts all across Prostination and nothing helped. We thought for sure that he would die within weeks He didn't. My child was sent home from the NICU, the NICU, or the neonatal intensive care unit. uh after two months and we remain convinced to this day that he was sent home to die. He was sent home still needing to see eight different specialists, and each of the specialists needed to see him every week, and some of them needed to see him too. Three times a week, which means that we were taking you to doctor's appointments, several doctor's appointments, every single day. And he was on twelve different life saving medications and we fed him by using a syringe to shoot the food down the back of his throat because he was too weak to And he'd be back in the hospital in about a month and he We had biliaria atresia surgery and bilateral hernia repair and hypostadious surgery and strabismus surgery and exploratory procedures and gastro Intestinal intervention for reflux and esophagitis and thrush and other issues, both serious and relatively minor. And because of this He needed to eat every two hours. And we would spend what about an hour getting all his various medications perfectly measured and put together and prepared and get his food ready and then put into a stomach with death syringe and then spend the next hour cleaning up his projectile vomit All day, every day Tyler was sick. Everyone thought for sure he would die within months. He didn't. And the biggest threat to his life, I haven't even mentioned yet. Kyler had hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and pulmonary stenosis. In other words, his arteries were way too narrow and And the wall to his heart muscle was way too thick. Four times thicker than it should have been. He weighed just five pounds and his heart was as thick as that of a 40-year-old man. We asked our cardiologist to Please just tell us the truth and shoot straight with us. We needed a an honest prognosis. And the doctor, of course, you know, he hemmed and haunted a little bit and they don't want to answer those kinds of questions. They don't have to, they still want to be careful in ginger when they do. But after his hesitation, he said, well, there's no medical reason why Tyler is even still alive right now at this moment. And he very likely would not see his first birthday and there was just no Possible way he would see a second. He should have died. In less than two years. He didn't. Why? God has a plan and a purpose for this boy born sick. So now let's fast forward a number of years to the point where we have a tenure year old boy who still couldn't eat solid foods. Everything had to be put through the blender first and pureeed. Now he had recently by this point learned to feed himself with a spoon, his puree, but and that was good. But we pray in the name of Jesus Christ that And we prayed not just ourselves, we prayed with a dedicated circle of prayer warriors. And when Tyler was thirteen He was finally able to eat non-blenderized food for the very first time. So we threw a party. And we celebrated this answer to prayer with all of our prayer warrior friends. We invited everybody over. We had the invitation to this party blown up to poster size. Everyone who was in attendance at that party signed it. And it still hangs in the foyer of our home today. If you walk in it's one of the first things that you will see Stands as a testimony that God answers prayer and heals the sick So the lung problem went away, resolving itself on its own. So the doctors told us. The liver problem with the impossibly high bilirum account went away in spite of the failed efforts of The medical community. Now many of his physical and developmental issues they were successfully addressed by highly trained doctors and therapists With unreal effort and love and patience from my wife, sustained by God's grace And now here we were, Tyler, he could eat real food. Not all food, mind you, but solid food. Amazing answers to prayer. But there was still the ticking time bomb. It's hard. The hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and the pulmonic stenosis, they were not getting better. And he saw specialists all across the country. Saw specialists in Orlando, New York, Syracuse, Buffalo, Baltimore, DC. The best in the world at what they do. And there was nothing to be done. Every few months he needed to see his local cardiologist, a beautiful Muslim man. Named Dr. Asan Abdallah. At every visit, Deena would say to the doctor, We're praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And he would smile and he would encourage. And then Tyler started having episodes where he uh he couldn't get his breath and he would come into our room room late at night you'd be panicked and uh turning gray and Dina would Hold him and rock him and pump his arms and legs, try to get some blood flow and take him into a steaming shower. And Dr. O'Dalah, he now asked to see Tyler every month. And every visit, Dina would say, Well pray for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And then the doctor he saw more opinions, second, third, fourth opinions and was sending Tyler to medical facilities throughout the region where we live and uh at this point the Dr. Abdallah he stopped uh accepting payment For Tyler's visits, and we couldn't understand why. It was only later that we found out that he stopped accepting pain is because Tyler was dying and Dr. Galaxy. He couldn't bring himself to tell us. His heart was breaking for us as Tyler's heart after he Years of struggle was ready to call it quits. This is why he couldn't breathe sometimes, and that's why he turned gray. He was in heart failure. And The doctors had exhausted all of the options that their training and technology Gave them. And yet Dina kept trudging Tyler to doctor visit after doctor visit, and after seeing so many echocardiograms, and he came geez, she was becoming a bit of an expert at reading then. I mean dozens and dozens of echoes and very often the doctors and the technicians they would be Explaining to her what it was they were seeing, what they were looking for. They say, you know, here's where the problems are. See this? And then they show her what a normal echo should look like. And it's actually really rather fascinating in a way And then it was time for another visit to Dr. Ugala. And as usual, Tina, she greeted him saying, we're praying for a miracle, Dr. Ugala. And as usual, Dr. Abdali politely smiled and he got to work. And he performed the echocardiogram and DIMA She watched as usual, but somehow this didn't seem as usual. The echo looked different to Dina. And Dr. Gala, he knows too. And he kept looking and he adjusted his view. He'd go back and double-check things. He's already looked. It's taking far longer to perform the procedure than he normally would. Way longer And Dina began to think she understood why. And then the doctor, he turned to Dina and he asked her, do you Did you see that? And Dina said, yes, it looked to her like the image of Tyler's heart was normal Dr. Abdallah removed his glasses and he wiped a tear from his cheek. And he looked Dina straight in the eyes and he asked her, Who do you pray to? And now Nina's eyes were flooding with tears and she answered Jesus. We pray to Jesus And Doctor of Dallas said, Well Your Jesus has healed your son. His heart is normal. And then they embrace and they enjoy a long cry together. And they rejoiced together at what Jesus had done, one of them having just been reminded of who Jesus is And the other one having just been introduced to who Jesus is. I know that this story seems utterly fantastic. But it's just True. Completely true. As documented medical evidence that this Really happened. I'm going to share with you a portion of Dr. Abdallah's medical report that he wrote to Tyler's primary care physician. We had it framed and it hangs in his bedroom as a constant reminder that we serve and worship a miracle granting God I had the pleasure of evaluating your patient, Tyler Skinner. This was written to his primary care physician. Howard Skinnery, 13-year-old young man with Williams syndrome. He had bilateral branched pulmonary artery stenosis and severe hypertrophic of the right ventricle. Since I saw him last time, he has done tremendous progress. He does not have any chest pains. He is more energetic. A two D echo revealed the presence of normal segmental cardiac anatomy. The systemic venous return was normal. The right atrium was normal. There was no atrial septical defect. The right ventricle was normal. Both arteries demonstrated normal color and The left ventricle was normal in size, the aortic valve was normal, the supravalvular aortic area was normal There was no aortic or supraarctic valve stenosis. The peak systelic velocity across that area was 1. 2, which is normal. The aortic arch was normal There is no patent ductus arteriosis. There is no percardial effusion. Conclusions. I am truly amazed. At the spontaneous resolution of this child's cardiac findings. This is not what we expect. to see an atypical patient with Williams syndrome. The natural history for the branch pulmonary arteries in patients with Williams syndrome Is progressive worsening, progressive right ventricle failure and dysfunction. This patient currently does not have any cardiac abnormality Looking at the other outstanding improvement that happened to this child with no medical intervention at all. Just makes me feel miraculously touched that this thing happened This child, as you know, was doomed at birth, that he will not live with multiple failures And his cardiac was severe at one point by more than one pediatric cardiologist, including myself. I only thank the God for how good this patient is doing. Recommendations. Normal treatment for age. Signed the son of Dala M D Let me review for you the basics of Tyler's story. Tyler was born Sick. Trust in God prove to be the only option Our efforts and the medical community's knowledge failed But God had a plan and a purpose for this boy riddled with sickness. And when God healed Tyler, the Muslim doctor asks, who do you pray to? Now let me review the basics of your story. You were born sick, dead in your sin, in fact. Trust in God. It's your only option. Your own efforts Even your increase in knowledge fail to rescue you. But God has a plan and a Purpose for you, riddled with sickness. And so now as you're Reflect on your personal story of healing. If you're a believer in Christ, you have a personal story of healing. Let me ask. Who do you pray to? In whom do you trust Trust. Like Tyler, all of us were born sick. A death sentence hanging over us. Nothing that anyone but God could do about it. Like Tyler, we must fight to persevere, to overcome To allow others who are around us to come into our lives, to minister to us with the talents and gifts that God has given them We are just like Tyler. All of us. Exactly the same scenario. Just minor differences in degree. Tyler's heart is healed Today, because Jesus is Lord today, your spiritual heart If you're a follower of Christ, it is healed today because Jesus is Savior today. Christ's kingdom is advancing today, even to the witness of Busalum doctors, because Jesus is king today Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King. Right now Don't forget it. Don't neglect to proclaim it In a lot of circumstances, that would be the ending of the sermon. But what are we to do with the fact that Tyler still has difficulties despite the healing of his heart and the other healings I mean he's still affected by Williams syndrome and autism spectrum disorder. Well, we see a connection between Tyler and our condition here as well. Christ Tyler is one hundred percent healed. Right now. We Just cannot fully see it yet. As it's written in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 14, it says, For by a single offering He meaning Jesus, for by a single offering, Jesus has past tense. has perfected all time, for all time, those who are being sanctified. Now in heaven We will see Tyler's full healing perfectly. And that's just like with us. In Christ, we are already healed. But we cannot yet see the absolute fullness of this. Until we arrive in heaven. So don't allow yourself to be distracted by what your eyes can see See through a glass dimly. The truth remains clear to those whom God has given eyes to see. We needed God to come and live on earth as a man. That is What's going on during this season on our calendar? So we're celebrating. We needed him to come and live on earth as a man, to become incarnate, to rescue us from being dead in our sin. And he did this for us. He limited himself. He condescended to become Man. The true God truly became man And he is the Savior of the world today. He is risen. Mm trust God. He loves you. He made you He has offered you the promise of heaven Not because you deserve it. Nothing you can do to earn it. Just love them back. Just let him back. You know, once upon a time, and happily ever after. And right now. Let's pray We thank you, God, for your creation, for the trust that we can have in your never-ending wisdom and reward. Ruling over it. We praise you for your plan of salvation. Revealed to us in your written word and And in the life of the incarnate word, Jesus Christ. We celebrate the things that you have done In our lives and throughout the ages, we yearn eagerly for the consummation of your work in us at the time of the second Please, Lord, we ask that you would slam open the eyes of our heart and keep them open. To the comforting and courage inspiring truth that you reign in our lives and in the entire world Right now, as Lord, Savior, and King, praise be to your name Now and forevermore. In the name of your transcendent and imminent Son, Jesus the Christ, we pray Amen. What time is it? Six forty. Okay, so we've got time for some chatter if we want. So now I've a lot of exposition of scripture in that but uh I guess that's what personal testimonies are like. You don't necessarily reference scripture, you tell your story. And uh before we get into the conversation, one thing I want to say is that's a pretty profound kind of a story. I mean it's in my personal arsenal of stories, it's the best story I have. But you know, you have a story too. I would encourage you, invite you to pause and think about where does God move in your life in a way that is dramatic? A way that sometimes you've allowed yourself to even forget. Think about it, when God has rescued you or he's healed someone or he's done something so unexpected and undeserved, I can't believe he blessed me in that way. Or bless this person that I love and care about in that way. And don't hide from that story. Practice telling it And by practice, Kelly, I mean, like don't stand in front of a mirror. I mean go out there and tell people the story. Tell them the story. People love stories. Especially the ones that are true. So you have a story and you might be thinking thinking, oh I don't have a story. You have a story. Wow, a story like that. You might have a better story. I don't know. You might have multiple stories. I'm sure you have multiple stories. stories. So and if you're a follower of Christ, you know the the wickedness of your own heart. You know what he's wrong rescued you from the rottenness of your own self, right there's your story if you need it. So anyway. I know the story. I loved it. Any aspect of the story that's not shared in that testimony that you think should Yeah, I mean so there was a lot. in that season of life that God was dealing with in my heart. And one of the things that God was dealing with in my heart was idolatry. And the idolatry of of Tyler and how Tyler had become through you know the enemy is constantly twisting what is good and perverting it. So what started out to be good was me caring for Tyler as his mother and it became an obsession and an idolatrous relationship where I was serving Tyler as opposed to serving my God. And through the course of praying, God had kind of started to work on me in that area and my whole thing was my defense very was of a defense Adam and Eve it was like the woman you put here she did it well my defense was you gave me this son who was sick. I have to care for him. I have to do everything I can. I have to do everything I can. It became about me and time That became the most important relationship in my life as opposed to the relationship I have with Jesus. So one day it was one One of the episodes that Troy alluded to in the story, Tyler came into me not breathing. He was completely gray. I scooped him up, brought him into the bathroom, turned on the shower. And I just started praying over him. And God spoke to my heart. It was as if God was audible in my head and said, Give me your son. And I knew what God was was saying. God was saying, I'm taking him from you right now. And I said in my heart, but he's my only son. You don't understand and who is this God said oh young lady and is and and I remember hearing the voice say don't tell me I don't understand about having an only son. I gave my only son for you. And you need to give me your son because you have made him A God. And he is taking the place where I should be. And I was so humbled in that moment that in my heart I presented Tyler as an offering on the altar and I literally, he was in my arms, I literally held him out and he was not breathing. And the s Second, I surrendered Tyler to God, he took a breath. And in that moment, in that bathroom, I knew something changed. I knew it. I didn't know what had changed, but I knew something had changed because God dealt with my heart. He could then deal with Tyler's heart. And it was within a very short time frame that we had the visit, the actual you know, the visit with Dr. Abdallah. And um and it was It was so interesting how God God has to deal with you before He'll deal with anything else. And if you if your relationship if there is sin in your heart, if there Sin in your life that's unrepented, there's always sin. But if there's unrepentant sin, God can't. I mean it it violates who He is. He is a holy, righteous God. God. So once that was dealt with, once I was able to repent from my sin, and he knows us, he knows our heart. He knows if we're truly repenting or if we just Once there was an actual repentance on my part, there was action on his part, like immediately. Immediately. Immediately And it was just um you know, and obviously there's still ongoing things that God's working on in my life. Um and we've been praying now ever since then for God to continue to work a miracle in Tyler's life because there is no way that the genetic makeup of Tyler can be repaired through anything that science can give us. four doctors, the technology is not there. So it would have to be a supernatural miracle again for Tyler to have the Williams syndrome reversed. I mean there's a deletion of a portion of the chromosome and the elastin gene that's not there. That would have to be supernaturally put in and I believe that guy can do that. So I you know I'm not Stopping my prayer and I you know, Angela and I pray together and you know, we've got Troy and I pray together, you know, we still continue to pray for Tyler's healing and the autism, you know, that That's the result of all sorts of things from our environment, um, you know, in in inf inflicting him. And so we pray against that that God would reverse that And all the all the effects from that, you know, I look to the word of Joel where he'll restore the years to locacy. And um on the heels of that I just want to share with everyone that one day I was just going about my business and the Lord spoke to my heart. about Tyler. I had recently been reacquainted with Troy and Dina. And um I mean we used to go to the same church together and then we started going to separate churches and our lives just kind of diverged for a while and then the Lord brought us back together in relationship and not too terribly Long after we got reacquainted and you know really started being a part of each other's lives, the Lord spoke to my heart and He said In a way that is more forceful than he has ever spoken to me before, I will finish healing Tyler. And it was so forceful and so overwhelming that I was taken aback by it and I had to kind of process it a little bit before I could even share it with DNA. It was just so stringent and so strong. And you know, we're We are witnessing miracles in our nation. It's it's it's a it's individual miracles, but in our whole nation. We are witnessing miracles and um there are many people there there's a lot of division and a lot of disorganization Organization, even within the body of Christ. But I believe that we are about to enter a season where we will see all Off the chart miracles, not only in individual lives like Tyler's, but across the entire nation. Because God is moving. He is. This is a precursor to the to crazy miracles to come. I I am 100% convinced of two things. I'm convinced Tyler will be healed in our life in my lifetime. I I believe it's going to be sooner rather than later. I don't think it's going to be like 20 years from now. I think it's going to be soon. I'm convinced that the Lord's going to save the United States of America. I'm totally convinced. Well it would have to be a miracle. It's going to be a miracle It's going to be a miracle, but guess what? Jesus is up for it. Amen. He's up for it. It's not too hard for him. He is going to save in all kinds of ways. He is going to save in every way that people need salvation. It has to be revival. I mean I've been praying for rehab we've been re praying for revival for years. I am part of a major prayer ministry where so many prophetic voices have said Revival we're on the cusp of revival. And I believe that. I believe we are on the cusp of revival and we will see crazy miracles. Just everywhere you go you will see you will see miracles. Um I fully believe that. And I believe That the Lord has already acted to give us the faith to keep holding on. For him to He's already given us a taste, taste to see that the Lord is there. But once you've tasted it, then And you can believe for more and I believe that that that this miracle that Tyler is obvious he is actually a series of miracles because to even live past two was a miracle. Yeah, definitely. And he's in his twenties now, so and and his heart is fully healed. I believe Tyler is going to have uh everything, there will be nothing missing, nothing lacking. Nothing broken in Tyler. That's what I believe. God is going to do that. And He is going to sweep through the United States of America and He is going to save this nation. He is exposing everything that's wicked and evil and rotten right now, and it looks like a terrible, horrible mess. But There's a purpose in that. He's you know, in in order for the for the healing to come you have to you have to deal with with the sickness. Oh. There has to be repentance. There has to be sickness. So there there was there was sickness before you you could see Tyler Healing, you had to see the sickness. And I believe that that's even a metaphor for what's happening spiritually in our nation. God is on the move. And I just hope everyone walks the way not with just encouragement about maybe your own personal healing from Tyler's miraculous story, but believe in God for for for things that are absolutely humanly impossible. Just like it was humanly impossible for any doctor to heal Tyler. Believe in that for your own personal situation, believe in that for your family, believe in that for your nation. Because Jesus is still King, just like Pastor Choice that he's still king. He's still reigning, he's still ruling. But and I d and all that I totally agree with, but the one thing that was so important for me to understand was God is so holy and I know you know this and so righteous that He He's not gonna put up with our nonsense without there being Absolutely. You know, they're and he's dealing with his church right now. And there there's so there's so much um so much going on with the church right now with not not holding true and fast to the gospel with having the social gospel moving and and the woke movement and all that movement and so there the God is dealing with his church And there needs to be repentance in the church in a huge way. And I believe there's a remnant that has repented. I believe there's others who won't, and God will deal with with them. But the remnant that's repent that has repented is through whom he will usher in revival. And it will benefit everybody. It will benefit everybody but he does have a faithful remnant and by the way he always only had a remnant to work through right throughout scripture right I mean the the Moses And and and his eight people. Right. I mean no no matter where you look, there's always just a remnant. But whenever Israel, you know, they got into big trouble, it was a remnant that came back and rebuilt the wall. It was a remn Yeah. He it's always a remnant. I believe that there is a faithful remnant and we will see wonderful miracles. But um this is the first time I've heard in detail, you know, just how what a struggle it was since day one with with um Tyler. And I no I just I just don't believe that he that I I believe you're a comment, there's not a it's not a period. It's just a com it's just a pause. And then much like what happened before One day it's it'll be a suddenly. Yeah. It'll be a suddenly. I I fully believe that. God spoke that to me. He's never spoken that strongly to me to be about me. Which is you know even about me. You know if you ever spoke it that strongly it I was taken aback. 'Cause you know you just kinda In your own world doing your own thing and then I'm going to heal Tyler. I wasn't even thinking about Tyler. Glory to you, Lord. Everyone and if you have not repented, if you if if the Lord has brought you across this teaching and you know in your heart you need to repent Oh my gosh. Don't hesitate. Do not hesitate. Repent. Give your life to God because He is about to do something major, miraculous, and you don't want to miss out. Tyler, hold on, it's not seven o'clock yet. You don't I'm in it, buddy. Hey Tyler Speaking of the devil. I put a button on it by by highlighting the the repentance thing. You know, we want we want a revival and we're waiting for God to move. Well God's moving. God's already moved. Uh you know, Jesus in the New Testament talk, can you step out of the way you're blocking the whole camera? Come sit, honey. Come sit next to mommy. You're okay. Hi, come sit. Here, hold on a second. Let me do this and I'll turn the volume down and you can see it is not on, okay? Okay. Yes, yes. Anyway, Jesus says repent for the kingdom The kingdom of God is at hand. The kingdom of God was there. You know, the king was walking right there in front of them. It was at hand there. So he's just saying, repent. Turn From what you're doing and walk in my way. So that's really what revival boils down to. Revival is when there's kind of a collective movement, but it's a collective So have the spiritual disciplines, you know, read your Bible and pray and fellowship. With other people and share the truth of the good news with those who need to hear it and all the things we know to be true, and do it. And start with the revival in your own heart. And then in your own home and your own sphere of influence, your own church, your own workplace, your own extended family, if you start like that, you'll look up and you realize, holy cow, there's like millions of people repenting what's going on how you can be a part of that. So um so I guess we'll end with that, right? Repent. The kingdom of God is at hand. Amen We have a king who's ruling right now. Follow after him. That's all. And I know faith is a gift from God. You don't generate your own faith but yet in some mysterious sort of way, there's there's active participation that we're called to do as well. And so and I would say kind of the way I ended the message today, you know, the act Active participation is love and back. That's it. And if you don't know what that means, but how do I love him back? The scriptures are full, replete with uh examples. and lessons about how to love him back. So, and if you heard messages here in other places, then you know you've you've gotten those messages. And uh I feel a weight to say this with some regularities I'm gonna say it again This week, I've said it a few times already. If you do not belong to an actual church somewhere that you fellowship with and that you have spiritual oversight from a pastor and that sort of thing What we do here is not a replacement for that. You need to find God-honoring, Bible teaching, you know, gospel proclaiming churches to play And if you're within driving distance of where we are here in Frederick and you don't have a place like that, this can be your place. What I'm saying is don't merely take something in via the internet and think that that's good Enough that is not good enough. It's better than nothing. But oh my gosh, you're leaving so much blessing on the table. See you need to get involved with an actual real church, which are harder to find these days, granted. But there are some, as Angela said. There is a remnant. There are faithful churches out there. They're few and far between, but they do exist and I will encourage you to find one. So maybe we'll close this in prayer and we'll wrap up. Lord, thank you so much for this time together. Thank you for being who you are. Thank you for for saving us. Thank you for rescuing us. Thank you for faith, which is a gift from you. I pray that you pour out through the power of your Holy Spirit on each and every person that comes across this and watches it that they might take a knee and bow to you and give their and just surrender to you and receive the gift, the gift of eternal life. May it be a blessing. May we repent and truly, truly worship the one true King, our Lord, our Savior, Jesus Christ. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. Amen. Well thank you for participating virtually. Hope to see you in person one of these times, maybe. Um be late and Merry Christmas and an early happy new year to you. God bless.