Looks like it's rolling. Hello, Facebook. And if you're watching this later, hello, YouTube. Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ. And welcome to the 21st year of the 21st century. We thought we would have made it, huh? If 2020 taught us anything, it's that we can't wait for heaven to get here soon enough. Amen So with that in mind, um I've been involved as as a pastor and an elder in a variety of churches over the last you know couple of decades. And in a number of those places, it was kind of customary for us on the first Sunday of the new year to do a kind of a state of the church address, if you will. And I'm not going to do that. Um for re But I did want to talk a little bit about what the state of of the church is, more specifically uh to start with the state of our church, the household of faith in Christ. Christ. Um we are here to stay when we started this earlier in uh last year, you know, middle part of last year. We weren't sure we were in transition, weren't exactly sure what it was gonna be, where it was gonna lead, but I think we've decided that, you know, whatever comes of this, the household of faith in Christ will continue on um until we're not here anymore. So uh so So it's no longer a transitional thing, it's something that we're doing. So with that in view, a website, hopefully a top-notch state-of-the-art website, is in development. It's going to be a place for us to house our message Messages and other uh things that we uh as a household of faith in Christ are involved with, different ministries and things like that. But also uh to be a hopefully for you and And anybody else who stumbles upon it, a trusted uh place to go and find curated information, links to trusted resources. So the the the goal is if you're not sure who to trust what to believe. If you come to our website, you're going to find links to people and places and organizations that are still at this point trustworthy. So that's a big part of what we're we're looking for. to do there. We're going to finish our tour through the epistles of John. So we've just recently finished 1 John, so we're going to do 2 John and 30. 3rd John next. We'll start with the first message on 2 John next week. And when we're done with that, by request, we're going to then tackle the book of Revelation. We'll probably have a few messages interspersed in there that are specific to Palm Sunday and Resurrection Sunday and things like that. But for the most part it's going to be 2nd and 3rd John, and then Revelation. So if you want to be reading and studying those books to be able to participate in a discussion on those things, you are encouraged to do so. And I've said this a number of times, I'm going to say it again. If you do not belong to a church, or if you belong to a church that just refuses to meet, Uh that's like not belonging to a church these days. Um and you're within driving distance of Frederick, Maryland, where we are, or t walking distance even. Um feel free to let me know. Reach out to me. We get together Usually you know 5 30, 5 45, uh we we get together, we sing praying praise and worship songs, we do a little bit of time, uh spend a little bit of time in fellowship, um, and then we go live on Facebook at 6 o'clock. We wrap that up usually right around 7. And when that's over, it's not over for us here. We continue to do some praise and worship singing. Tonight we're going to have uh communion together. We pray together, we you know we're we're trying and and as we do this more and get better at figuring out how to do what it is we do, I think the fellowship will be even strengthened. So and the more people that come and participate The more strengthened that uh feeling of fellowship will become too. We'll feel like we're impacting a larger community and uh and have more people speaking into our lives. as well. So if you're within driving distance, I encourage you to you know to to think about joining us on Saturday evenings. And if you you're not joining us and you're not going anywhere else and you're like, oh just streaming church is good enough for me. I'm telling you you you've got to find a church you can go to. Alright? So if it's not here, that's fine. Find a good Bible-believing, gospel proclaiming, Christ-focused, Holy Spirit-obedient church that you can actually physically be involved with. So that's kind of what's going on with us at the local level, of course at the the the national and international, the global level The church is really in an interesting place historically. It's under attack, which is not new. under attack since the beginning, but what feels new in my lifetime is how insidiously it's under attack from within. It's w we are infested with wolves in sheep's clothing and it's so hard to know who actually has the truth anymore. And so we'll be praying about that tonight, among other things. And the church has in this country anyway has kind of been a last stand for defense against the ways of evil. Uh the media is not fulfilling that role anymore. They're no longer speaking truth to pilot power, they're no longer speaking truth and they have all the power. So uh that's gone. We can't trust our elected officials because they don't govern the way that they claim they're gonna represent us when They come into power and so they let us down over and over again. We have judges and justices who refuse to make rulings on cases, even hear cases. So without a judicial system, where do you go? Where do you turn? And And I I could keep going down right down the line. You know, you say, Oh well we can elect those knuckleheads out of office and and replace them. Well we can't even do that when the elections aren't conducted in a way that people can feel is fair and transparent. So everything is beginning to crumple down around us and the one thing that has stood in the gap uh and and provided a foundation even more than stood in the gap provided a foundation foundation has been the Christian church. And we're in such disarray with the social justi justice warriors, you know, the whole woke church movement, the you know the BLM uh uh organization and the influence they're having on huge sectors within the church. It's a mess. And then it continues to be a super challenge internationally. Uh the number of Christians who are persecuted is at dramatic levels, uh churches being burned down, uh uh witnesses for Christ being beheaded. Um People in China being uh all but forced uh to remove Christian symbols from their home and their churches and replacing it with secular s uh symbols and pictures of their their government leaders and uh and under penalty from the government if you don't uh don't go along with that. Um and then again In this past year, you know, the reports are the leading cause of death across the planet, abortion. And it depends on which numbers you want to look to. The conservative estimates place it in the forty something million deaths due to abortion. Those are the conservative estimates. The more aggressive estimates, and to be honest, I think the more accurate estimates peg it closer to 60 million. Um which is an insane number. And to show you how insane the number is, not counting abortion, the number of deaths on this planet every year is estimated to be about 60 million. So you have as many deaths, possibly, due to abortion compared to all the other deaths combined. That is a gross injustice. And we need to even pray about that, and I'm sure we'll be praying about that tonight. And then all the challenges that have been brought by the lockdowns and the reaction And the fear inducing from the propaganda machines. And suicides way up this year. Drug overdoses are way up this year. Spousal and child abuse way up. Sex trafficking is Uh m mind-blowing, how horrible that is. Um it's a misnomer to think that the age of slavery has ended. It has not. It has just morphed into to a new and actually perhaps arguably more insidious form, believe it or not. And then personal lives or amassed marriages are stress, there's more adultery, uh alcoholism. I mean we're we've we're we're having a rough go of it uh as hum as humanity these days And so because of all of that, because of our aspirations here at the local level, within our own lives and what we're doing with household of of faith in Christ and also um our understanding of what the call for the church overall, the the bride of Christ is. We need to be on our knees in prayer. So we're going to spend the majority of our time here with Facebook Live Praying. I would encourage you to pray along virtually. You can pray out loud if you can pray silently. If you pray out loud I'm not going to hear you, but others who might be in the same room with you, uh they might. So to kind of set the stage and the tone for that, we're going to read a few very short passages. from scripture where it talks about God's people seeking out God in prayer, in repentance, and asking him to hear our voices. And as Christians we know that he does. That's part of the good news. So I've asked Angela to start. She's going to read 2 Chronicles chapter 7 verse 14. And then D is going to read Jeremiah chapter 50 verses 4 through 7 and then Landon is going to read two short sections from Daniel chapter 9 verses 3 through 7 six and eight through ten. And then at the conclusion of our Facebook Live part of this evening, I'm going to read from Acts chapter two. And In case you're curious about different ways to learn how to pray better, this isn't exactly a Sunday school class, we're going to do that, but I wanna I wanna have some aspect of teaching in what we're doing here. That's part of what we're called to do. do this six to seven o'clock part. I'm going to be praying spontaneously as well, and so will everybody else, but I'm also one of the really helpful ways to pray and to learn how to pray better and to use uh biblical words in your prayers and that sort of thing is to pray God's word back to him. And one good way to do this is to pray through the Psalms. And so I'm gonna be actually uh throughout our time of prayer I'm going to be uh praying through and referencing and playing off of two of the psalms of King David, Psalm 32 and Psalm 51. These are uh prayers of repentance that David uttered and not just David, I mean uh the whole church. He's representing the the whole the this you know the the the Psalms are the are the Christian hymnal uh that's been inspired By God. And so I would encourage you to kind of learn from the example, I guess, and you can learn how to you can begin to do this in your own prayer life. So without further ado, Angela. if you would uh read from 2 Chronicles. If my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and pray and seek my faith And turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land. Jeremiah fifty. Yeah, Jeremiah fifty four through seven. In those days and at that time, declares the Lord, the sons of Israel will come. Both they and the sons of Judah as well. They will go along weeping as they go, and it will be the Lord their God they will seek. They will ask for the way to Zion. Turning their faces in its direction. They will come that they may join themselves to the Lord in an everlasting covenant that will not be forgotten. Lost sheep. Their shepherds had led them have led them astray. They have made them turn aside on the mountains. They have gone along from mountain to hill. And have forgotten their resting place. All who came upon them have devoured them, and their adversaries have said, We are not guilty, and as much as they have sinned against Against the Lord who is in the habit habitation of righteousness, even the Lord, the hope of their fathers. Chapter 9, and it's uh that there's going to be a little gap in between three through six, and then jumping to eight through ten. Then I turned my face to the Lord God, seeking him by prayer. And please for mercy, with fasting and sackcloth and ashes. I prayed to the Lord my God and made confession, saying, O Lord, the great and all God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments. We have sinned and done wrong, and acted wickedly and rebelled. Turning aside from your uh commandments and rules. We have not listened to your servants, the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes. and our fathers, and to all the people of uh of the land. And then two verse eight. To us, O Lord, belongs open shame To our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against you. against him, and have not obeyed the voice of the Lord our God by walking in his laws, which he set before us by his servants, the prophets. So the theme here is not just we're seeking God in prayer, but you can see it, it's it's a prayer asking that God would forgive us as people We have not done a good job of being obedient. That's not to condemn, that's to acknowledge their facts and to uh to ask God for forgiveness and then to act upon the forgiveness he grants by repenting and turning from our evil ways onto more righteous ways. If you've been following along over the number of months of how of how we typically do things. It's not it's not at all unusual for us at the beginning of our service to have Angela open us in prayer to kick things off and then we get into the message. So in I guess in the spirit of that habit, I'm going to ask Angela if she wouldn't kick us off for our time of prayer and then um the rest of us will you know pray as led and then if we're not done as we get close to Or shortly after seven o'clock, I'll find a way to try to wrap it up. But um and again, even though you're virtual, uh hopefully you'll join us in the spirit of prayer, but you can certainly feel free to join us in In the uttered prayers during the uh the gaps and silences that we might have. Almighty God, our Father. We, your remnant church, come together in the name of Jesus to acknowledge the sins of this nation and our individual sins. We acknowledge Lord as the people of old that we have sinned committed iniquity we have done wickedly we rebelled we've departed from that standard that the founders of our nation sit. And uh we we come before you Lord to we come before you with shamed faces to you belong righteousness as as Daniel says, but to us belong shame faces as we look at the state of our nation and all of the terrible things that are going on. That we could not have even imagined just a few short years ago, and now they're happening on a daily basis. And we come before For you, Lord. We we admit our guilt and we admit our shame and we uh renounce the sins of our forefathers who Who departed from the founding fathers in obeying your word, following your ways. We renounce those sins. God that have allowed things like abortion to flourish in our nation and all kinds of sexual sin, Lord, and all kinds of idolatry. We renounce those things and we are sh shame face at those things and we come before you Father and we say we are sorry. We are sorry. We are sorry for for the failure. That has occurred that has allowed the name of Christ to be dishonored in our land and has brought all this trouble upon us. And as we begin our time together, Lord, your word says that if your people are called by your name, if we will turn from our wicked ways, and then and you will hear us from heaven. And you will forgive our sin and you will heal our land. Lord, we know that we as your remnant, it is dependent upon us. It's not shows who don't know you, who can come before you and and and and and and expect you to hear them. It is we, your people, who are called by your name, Lord Jesus, Christian. It is we who need To repent from our sins so that you will hear from heaven and heal our land. So we come before you, we admit the guilt of America. We admit all of the sin, Lord God, as Daniel did. Every bit of it. Every kind of ism, Lord, that has occurred in this land. Um every kind of a murder in every form that has flourished in this land, Lord, every kind of idolatry that has flourished in this land. We renounce that right now. the name of Jesus Christ. We don't agree with that. We call it evil. We repent from any form of these things in our individual lives, Almighty God. And we agree with you and your righteousness, and we turn to you and we say, Lord, heal us and heal our land, Lord Jesus. We need you Lord, we are in a mess, in an absolute mess. That is shameful and it is terrifying. And we need your Help, we have we're in a hole that we can't dig ourselves out of. We need you. We repent on behalf of ourselves. We renounce on behalf of our faithless forefathers whose faithlessness allowed this allowed things to mushroom to the point where they are now And we ask you to forgive us. To forgive us in our faithlessness. Forgive the faithlessness of our forefathers. Lord Jesus, we welcome you back. On the throne of this nation. We welcome you into our individual lives, on the throne of our hearts first and foremost, and we welcome you back into the United States of America. Even as our founding fathers welcome you, we ask you to hear us, Lord. Forgive our sin and heal our man, Father, in Jesus' name. Lord, it's only because your long suffering that your judgment has come upon this land in such a fierce and ferocious way because we are so deserving of your judgment. We have turned towards wickedness and away from righteousness. I echo my sister's prayer and ask for forgiveness. I pray that you would do an outpouring of your Holy Spirit to not only convict us. But to cause us to repent, that we would not only confess, but that we would truly repent, that we would stop just giving you lip service, but that we would have hearts that would be circumcised has been turned turned back towards you. But we also confess that we can't do this apart from your spirit. So I pray for an outpouring of your Holy Spirit in your church in the church of Jesus Christ, those who claim your name, I pray that you would pour out your spirit, that you would separate the wheat from the That you would do a great work in your body, Father. We don't know who the enemy is. We don't know who's for you, who is against you, even among those we consider brothers and sisters in Christ. What lunacy, Father. We confess that we need you. We need your wisdom. We need your discernment. There are those in the body that are running scared. They're running scared because they don't even know who to trust anymore. So all eyes are on you because we know that you are faithful and you are trustworthy. We look to you knowing that you're the only place that we can turn where our health comes from. Our health comes from the Lord. So we stand on that truth. We know that you will show us who is for you so that we might have the body be built up with one another. It's a hurting body right now, feeling that That it's just in isolation separated from one another. The body is feeling very broken right now. But we know that you are such a good good God and you can bring us back together through the power of your spirit. I pray that you would strengthen the body of Christ that we might indeed do your good works that the gospel would truly, truly bring joy, not to the world, but to the body of Christ. We need We need to hear the gospel, even those who belong to you every single day. We need to be reminded because we are like lost sheep. We go astray all too often. Even your own children go astray. We need to know the truth of your word. We need to meditate on the truth of your word. We need to daily come to you and repent so easily we fall away. Forgive us, Father. Forgive us, Father. And thank you. Thank you that you who began a good work in us will see it too completely. We don't have to do this on our own. As a matter of fact, we can't do it on our own. That's the beauty of the gospel. We can't even come to you on our own. It's in the power of the Holy Spirit that we can acknowledge our sin, that we can even see it in the first place. Be glorified in that, Father. Be glorified in the fact that we need you. We need you We yearn for you. We want you. Again, I echo Angela's prayer. We invite you back into our lives. Forgive us for kicking you out in the first place. Please. Have mercy on us, Father. Have mercy on us. Lord Jesus, come. Lord Jesus, revive us. Thank you in your name. Hallelujah. Father, we bless your name, knowing that you bless us whose transgressions have been forgiven, our sins covered, atone for. Pardoned. We have a covering for our sin through your Son Jesus Christ. We praise you and we thank you for that blessing. Forgive us for not often enough taking account of just how blessed we are. We are so very blessed that you do not count our sin against us. Because we trust in one who never once sinned. No deceit was found in him. And he has now sent us. His Spirit to convict us of those times when we continue to sin. Help us to acknowledge our friends. And our failings, and to hold others to account, to be bold in doing so. When we remain silent We personally begin to waste away, and the church begins to rot from the inside out. So here we are now groaning to you. Asking that your mercy would be obvious and clear to us. Acknowledging that we are in need of a rebuke. We have to be gentle in doing so. That your hand would not be too heavy upon us. But we know that you would never burden us beyond what is necessary, so we trust, we trust ourselves to you. Your church has been disobedient, Lord. Too often we've disobediened Denied Christ. There are those among us who would deny the deity of your son And too often we say nothing in response. We continue to financially support. institutions that do a measure of good, but do it while denying sufficiency that's found in Christ and His provision. Help us to not just in moments like this to reflect upon our own need for repentance, but to have it on in mind all the time. And to do so with confidence, knowing that you are a God who forgives our sin, that you have forgiven the sin of those who belong to you you. You do not hide from us. You do not call us to hide. So we ask that you give us more encouragement, the strength of faith faith, more more assurance to to live a a bold life, to not seek to be safe. Lord, I don't get the sense that you've called us to be safe. You've called us to be bold, to speak the truth, to share in the sufferings of Christ, and to count it a privilege to do so. To be active in our faith, to pray expectantly To anticipate your move among your people, to provide for your people, to protect your people. You keep us safe. We don't need to be worried about keeping ourselves safe. We're safe in your arms. Help us to stay focused on that truth. Just keep our eyes focused on Christ and not the storm that swirls around us. And we know that that storm sometimes is significant. And we pray for our brothers and sisters and all those who aren't our brothers and sisters that are struggling right now with with persecution or with illness. With addiction, with depression, various forms of abuse, with cancer. Heart disease, liver disease, kidney disease, and even COVID-19. And we pray for those that are so confused. They've been bought into the lives of the world that a boy isn't really a boy and a girl isn't really a girl and A marriage doesn't really mean anything. It's just a piece of paper. The church is no different than the social clubs and the civic organizations. And the solution to all our problems is found in building a new tower babylon. Um better governmental systems, larger bureaucracies, more all encompassing controls Based upon our own so-called wisdom and not on the truth of your word. So I pray for Your church broadly, and more specifically, I pray for those of you who placed in leadership within your church, that your pastors would be faithful, that they would actually pastor their congregations, that they would shepherd the sheep you've entrusted to them. That they would make disciples by proclaiming the truth uncompromisingly And that we would be salt and light. And that we would be on our knees in prayer more regularly. We'd be praying for our president and vice president and the Congress and the those in the judicial system, that we'd be praying for those who are part of that bureaucracy. that is so adrift from being rooted in your truth. We pray for the leaders of other countries. We're making life so difficult for those. who confess Christ, who stand for truth, who seek to live a life that honors you and the image-bearing that you've given us The true creativity is squashed. Being fruitful and multiplying is considered an evil. And Lord, I pray specifically for what's going to happen on January 6th And the days that follow. These are interesting times, Lord. Pray that you would help us to see them more simply and not be confused by all of these interesting things. Well that I pray for our nation and US guide us back to how it should be. Rooted in your word, rooted in your law, not the laws of men, not the ideas of men, but yours and that you would um help us to get there smoothly and soon. Uh and we thank you for what have done uh so far and for forgive us for uh what we have done to reverse that. In uh Jesus name And Father I think you could forgive us as collectively for not being consistent and persistent in uh gathering together. Help us to actually be the body, to sit under the reading and teaching of your word. So that you can instruct us in the way that we should go. We have lost our way. It's no wonder that we've lost our way. We ask that you would Counsel us and watch over us. Help us not to be stiff-necked, to not be stubborn as we Help us to have understanding and to not follow after the ways of the wicked. Help us to trust in you and to demonstrate an unfailing love, an unfailing love that stands for truth. And to do so as we rejoice. And be glad and who you are, who you've made us to be, what you've done for us, what you continue to do, the promise that's held out before us. As we faithfully stay in the race to be righteous. To be people with upright hearts. And to sing your praises to you, to each other. Lord, I know. Because your word says so, that you would even make the rocks cry out, that you would get cr get praise. But I pray that you would Would not give that opportunity to the rocks that you would allow us as your children to give you the praise. That you would forgive us Give us for being silent for so long. And that you would allow us another opportunity to do that, to go forth and share the praise of you, the glory of you of your name, how holy you are a holy God. Pray that we would be holy, just like you are holy. Pray that we would have the honor and the privilege of speaking praise about you. That it would be on our tongue evermore, that we would not be silenced anymore. And Father, I lift up the body to you, those in the body of Christ who are hurting right now emotionally, who are feeling very isolated and alone for various reasons, I pray that you would strengthen each person, that you would strengthen them through the power of your Holy Spirit. Spirit, that you would speak to them in your word, that you would speak to them with people, that you would give them the opportunity to come together, because the body needs to be encouraged. needs to gather. We were not meant to be alone. We're meant to be in fellowship. So I pray that you would allow that to happen. I pray that you forbid anyone succumbing to the lives of the enemy. Just because you're a believer doesn't mean That you aren't tempted, that you that um that thoughts don't come into your head, all the more so as you're a believer, as you grow in your walk with the Lord. We pray against the enemy's schemes. We pray against that in the name of Jesus. We plead the blood of Jesus Christ on each and every believer to strengthen them, to strengthen their mind, to strengthen them strengthen their body. We are not meant to be in this world alone. Father, gather your children together. In the name of Jesus, gather us together, Father. Father, we thank you, Lord, that although it's painful To witness. We thank you, Lord, that those who are faithless are being exposed in this hour. Lord God. We thank you for that exposure. We know that that is a gift to us, Lord God. They've been coasting along, Lord, under a mirror of righteousness but you've used this this ccp virus for God to to to do so much exposing of wickedness at all levels. And now those, Lord, who are just hired hands are being exposed. Those who are wolves and sheep's clothing are being exposed. exposed and we thank you for that because then only then could they be pruned away. We thank you for that The pruning leaves what's behind even stronger. And so, Father, we thank you for this pruning away of the faithless and the fake and the the unbelieving Lord. Everyone with Judas Iscariot spirits, we thank you for pruning them away from the body of Christ. Lord Jesus, at one time you you you had 70 disciples, and they all fell away until you only had 12 left, and you were able to do To work wonders through the faithful few, through the remnants of disciples who were faithful to you, you are able to change the entire world. And so Lord, while we we do become grieved at the things we see and we hear, we just we have this hope in you. Amen. That is beautiful and and it's strengthening, it's encouraging, Almighty God. And we thank you, as my sister said before, we thank you for being patient, for not that letting the hammer of judgment fall on your church the way we deserve, but allowing us to get to the point where we finally were waking up and and And now that we're at that point, Lord, you are exposing like never before. We ask you to continue to expose like never before. Lord, we pray for those who in your word You said, pray for those who are wavering, pray for those who are weak and they are wavering. We pray for them that you would strengthen them to bring them into your body, Lord God. To make them strong in your body, to stand strong for righteousness and not be afraid. But for those, Lord, who are faking, we ask that their continued exposure and removal. Lord God. Wherever they are, wherever they exist, whatever cultural mountain of influence they exist in, whether it's the church, whether it's business, Lord, whether it's the cultural mountain of government, arts and entertainment, wherever the fake believers are. Keep exposing them and removing them and replacing them with your people who are faithful to you, who will stand strong For you, stand boldly for you, strengthened by your Holy Spirit, filled with your truth, filled with the mind of Christ. Unafraid to face down what is wicked and vile and evil and say that's wrong. Uh unafraid to face down the enemy and say, you bow to the name of Jesus Righteousness rules here. You have no authority here. For righteousness rules here. Righteousness rules through me. Righteousness rules through God's people. Lord, it was stated on a prayer call that I'm on that you spoke to one of your people and you told your people you did not give dominion to a voting machine, you gave dominion to man. We have dominion. Your people. And I just pray in the name of Jesus that you just awaken us to that more and more and make us strong in that truth that you gave us dominion here on this earth. You did it from the very beginning when you spoke to Adam and you said have to meet over the fish of the sea and over the the the the birds in the air have dominion you always intended for your people to reign in dominion Dominion over this earth. Help us to do that. Help us, your remnant, Almighty God, to stand in you and rule and reign in your name without Pride, without arrogance, but without apology and unrighteousness, no longer bowing to wickedness, no longer kowtowing to to evil and and being nice. Lord God in the face of what is just evil in your sight. May that end forever now. And may your people, Lord God, may we who are filled with your spirit of truth, Lord God, may we stand in your truth in love, but stand on Apologetically. We ask Almighty God that you season our truth with grace, Lord, so that we are not harsh, we are not arrogant, but Nevertheless, that we are rigidly righteous and standing in truth, not yielding for a moment, because as your word says, when the righteous yield before the wicked It is like polluting a spring. Let that not happen anymore amongst your people. And it that it it begins for God. Or it it it it What assists that is the removal of the compromisers, the liars, the cheats. Lord God, the those the Judas Iscariot spirit who are just faking it. Thank you for removing them. We thank you for replacing them with your people who stand in your truth and love. We'll put it on. Definitely. By the way, as you have mercy on us, as we trust in your unfailing love and compassion. Can we ask that you would blot out our transgressions? Hide your face from our sins, cleanse us of all iniquity. Cleanse us, Lord, of our sins, and they are many. We know that they are many, and truth is we probably don't even realize just how many they are. Our sins are always swirling around us, but we know that as followers of Christ, we don't just lay down and wallow in our sin, but we we work through our sanctification. We work through our faith with fear and trembling even. Because we know that our our sins, we sin against. our neighbors against our brothers and sisters, but we know that ultimately our sins are against you. Our sins are a cosmic treason. Deserving of the death penalty. A horrible evil in your sight. An evil that you judge righteously. We were born in this sinful state because of the original sin. We were conceived in sin. That you desire truth in our innermost parts. You teach us wisdom. in our innermost place. And you cleanse us of the blood of Christ, and so we are clean. You have washed us and made us whiter than snow, those who are your elect. And so we ask even Even during a season that's so in need of of repentance and sorrow that we would hear your good word your blessing upon us that we would rejoice with gladness as your word says Let the bones that you have crushed rejoice. Create in us clean hearts, God. Renew us to be steadfast with your spirit within us. We know that you do not cast your bride out from from your presence. We know that you have given us your Holy Spirit to take with us wherever we go that our very bodies have become temples. So Lord, during this time of distress and difficulty, And discouragement, we ask that you'd restore to us the joy of your salvation, granting us a willing spirit that sustains us. And equip us continually to teach others How to cease from being transgressors of your ways, to turn back from sin, to turn to you, God, to be rescued from our blood guilt. know that you are the one who saves, the only one who saves. As we meditate upon these truths, or this incredible truth, that We would sing your praises, sing of your righteousness. We would constantly open our mouths to literally sing songs of joy. joy and praise and also to to pray to you, to pray to you at specific times, to pray to you in corporate gatherings, to pray to you in our prayers closets to pray to you without ceasing. To constantly be in communication with you, to converse with you, to speak to you, and to take the time And so actually going to do that now, Lord. We want to give ourselves some time to hear what you might be saying to us. us in our spirit. And for those who are joining us via the internet to have a chance perhaps to to do the same and also to share out loud what might be on their heart to speak to you. Why do we now draw to a close this particular moment of group prayer speaking back to you words recorded for us in your very word from Psalm 51 which tells us that You do not delight in sacrifice, or we would bring it. Do not take pleasure in burnt offerings. The sacrifices Of you, God, are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart. And this contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. In your good pleasure, Lord, make Zion prosper. Build up the walls of Jerusalem, the walls of your church, and then there will be be righteous sacrifices, whole burnt offerings that delight you, and then bowls will be offered on your altar You know, these sorts of sacrifices are no longer a requirement that they've been fulfilled in Christ That you've given us new practices that have been instituted by our Lord and Savior that represent all of these things. We will be participating in the supper here. In just moments, those are gathered here in our home in Frederick. Bless your blessing upon that now, as we now wrap up. This time of prayer. Thank you, Lord, for hearing us. For the assurance that we can have if you In fact, hear us. Because we have an intercessor, above all intercessors, who is advocating for us. It's in his name that we pray. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Okay, so I think we have time to Wrap this up in time for Tyler to try to watch his shows if they're even on. I don't know if they're on for sure, but he's he's getting a little antsy. So, what would a Saturday evening gathering be without any sort of a sermon? message. So I'm going to read to you a sermon that's far better than any sermon I've ever been to share that I've written. This is from Acts chapter 2. It's the Apostle Peter. He's addressing the crowd here. And he begins with words from the prophet Joel and then continues with his own message. Which is recorded for us in the middle part of chapter two. In the last days, God says, I will pour out my spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy, your young men will see visions, your old men will dream dreams. Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days, and they will prophesy. They will show wonders in the heaven above and signs on the earth below. Blood and fire and billows of smoke. The sun will be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before For the coming of the great and glorious day of the Lord. And everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. And if you're reading along, we're at uh Chapter 2, verse 22 here. Men of Israel, listen to this. Jesus of Nazareth Was a man accredited by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs, which God did among you through him, as you yourselves know. No. This man was handed over to you by God's set purpose and foreknowledge, and you, with the help of wicked men, put him To death by nailing him to the cross. But God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the agony. Of death. Because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. David said about him, I saw the Lord always before me because he is At my right hand I will not be shaken. Therefore my heart is glad and my tongue rejoices, my body also will live in hope, because you will not abandon me to the grave, nor will you let your holy one see me Decay. You have made known to me the paths of life. You will fill me with joy in your presence. Brothers, I can tell you confidently that the patriarch David died and was buried, and his tomb is here to this day. But he was a prophet and knew that God had promised him on oath that he would place one of his descendants on his throne. Seeing what was ahead, he spoke of the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to the grave, nor did his body seem to God has raised this Jesus to life. And we are all witnesses of this fact. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit, and has poured out what you now see See and hear. For David did not ascend to heaven. And yet he said, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this. God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. Christ. When the people heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the other apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? And Peter replied, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. The promise is for you. And your children, and for all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call With many other words he warned them and he pleaded with them, save yourselves from this corrupt generation. Those who accepted his message were baptized, and about 3,000 were added to their number that day. So, my final words to you this evening. Save yourselves from this corrupt generation. Repent if you haven't already been so. Be baptized. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. to guide you and give you wisdom and comfort and direction in your life that heretofore you have not had Praise God. He is a good God, a praiseworthy God. Well, thank you for joining us this evening. I don't know that we need to call I'm just going to bid you adieu again. We're going to start our series on 2 John, starting right with chapter 1, verse 1 next week. So if you want to read. And I would encourage you to just read the whole thing. Take you like five minutes. It's short. So anyway, until next week. God bless and happy new year.