Sound of pillows. And it's rolling. Well hello, Facebook. And if you're watching this later, hello YouTube. Thank you for joining us here at the Household of Faith in Christ. Uh tonight we're going to have a A message centering the first part of a two-part message on 2 John. So if you want to get your Bibles ready, you can read along and pay attention to what we're talking about. talking about. And by the providence of God, this is a a message that uh I promise you was not prepared this week, was prepared quite a while before this week, and yet um it will feel like I might have actually had a lot of it uh written this morning. So it's interesting how uh God's Spirit moves and anticipates and knows everything in advance. So um if you want to comment in the comment section you are welcome to do And we'll try to incorporate those comments in our discussion time, which will follow the message here shortly. And uh if you want to stick a thumb in the uh book of Leviticus, we're going to reference that during the message as Well. So as it's become kind of our habit, I'm going to ask Angela if she would open us in prayer, and then I'll jump right into the message and we'll go from the discussion after that. Holy Father. We thank you, Lord, for gathering us here together safely, Lord, in your presence to hear from you. We do invite your Holy Spirit Spirit to come and speak through Pastor Troy and to share exactly what needs to be shared. That everything comes straight from the throne room of God. ear that you draw to hear this message. We just ask for the blessing of your presence over everything that's done this evening. May we all glean from it exactly what you would have us to glean from it and walk in the revelation of that truth. In the mighty name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. Amen. Alright, well I see when you get over here. It's always a little awkward for Angela. She's got her back to me the whole time. Sorry about that. What is truth? This famous question Attributed to Pontius Pilate in the Gospel of John chapter 18, verse 38, it still brings out in our culture today. An entire worldview has gained momentum in recent decades Which carry the label postmodernism. In simple terms, this is the philosophy, postmodernism philosophy, that holds that there is no truth Or at least there's there's no way for anyone to really know the truth for certain. Everything is relative. You have You have your truth, I have my truth. If any of us can really actually hang on to even our own truths Do you wrestle with questions such as these? Do you know anyone who does What is love? There is a myriad of answers, thousands of answers actually that have Has been postulated by the Love Is Comic Strip. And been around since the 1960s. It was originally penned by Grove Casserly, and it continues even now Even though she's dead, it continues under her pen name of Kim Castle. The construct continues. One might suppose that it continues even after her death because the quest for understanding love In the end, turns out to mean more than love is being able to say you're sorry. Or love is what gives you a smile from ear to ear. Love is turning his head. Or love is going into meltdown when he kisses you. Is this in the more popular strips of the Love Is comic? Well, do you wrestle with comprehending love? Know anybody who does. What is falsehood? In an age that is seemingly intent on denying the existence of truth and intent on redefining everything as being a mere social construct And by this I'm including things like sexuality and uh and quote unquote race and biological sex, which is somehow come to be called gender. In such an environment can anything even be called false anymore And if so, can any false ideas be of any real importance? Can false understandings Cause problems? Can false teachers be dangerous? You wrestle with Questions such as these? You know anybody who does? Whether you personally wrestle with these kinds of questions about truth and love and falsehoods. We have evidence that the bride of Christ has faced these questions since the initial days of Christ's church Part of this evidence is found in a letter written by the Apostle John. Some say somewhere around A. D. 90. Don't really know for sure. That could be a late date. Early date, hard to tell for sure, certainly the first century. It's a book in the Bible we now call the second epistle of John, or sometimes second John for short, or if you're from Europe, maybe two John? So we're going to read it together. It's only 13 verses long. Actually, we're only going to read the first 11 verses. So if you want if you Already have your Bibles, uh turn there. If you don't grab your Bible, turn to Second John. If you're not sure exactly where that is, it is deep into your Bible. It's toward the very end, one of the last books of the Bible Bible. It's really short, but first, second, and third John are bunched together. So if you find one of those Johns, and this is that you can use the Gospel of John. If you can find the uh 1 second and 3 John you go oh there it is you're looking for number two 2 John and I'm gonna begin with verse 1 and I'm gonna read straight through all the way to verse 11 The elder, to the lady chosen by God and to her children, whom I love in the truth, and not I only, but also all Who know the truth. Because of the truth which lives in us and will be with us forever. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father. Father, Son will be with us in truth and love. It has given me great joy. To find some of your children walking in the truth, just as the Father commanded us. And now, dear lady, I am not writing you a new command, but one we have had from the beginning I ask that we love one another. And this is love. That we walk in obedience to his commands. As you have heard from the beginning, his command is that you walk in love. I say this because many deceivers who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh Have gone out into the world. Any such person is the deceiver and the Antichrist. Watch out that you do not lose What we have worked for, but that you may be rewarded fully. Anyone who runs ahead and does not continue in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever continues in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not take them into your house or welcome them. Anyone who welcomes them shares in their wicked work. This is the very Word of God, infallible, inspired, inerrant, a perfect rule and guide for life And faith, those who have ears to hear, let them hear. And now actually, let us pray for a moment. Father, we praise you and thank you that you know all things Things. And in your sovereignty, you have seen fit to leave for us a written record of your word, of your will for our lives, for your people, your church. We thank you for giving us this truth, for preserving it all these years. We ask that you would open our hearts and minds to receive it warmly and to apply it to our lives diligently We thank you for the indwelling presence of your Holy Spirit that allows us to do so. And we thank you that we can come to you like this in prayer, boldly Before your throne, because we stand in Christ, and by his blood we are washed clean. It's by the name of your Son Jesus Christ, in his name that we pray. Amen. In the 1992 movie, A Few Good Men. Think about that. Next year it will celebrate its 30th anniversary. In the movie a few good men, Colonel Nathan Jessup. Played by Jack Nicholson, famously in the movie, yells out, You can't handle the truth. He had been relentlessly pressed for the truth. Well, sitting on the witness stand in a courtroom. And he was resistant to telling the truth. He knew the truth, but it was a difficult truth. It was a truth that in his mind others weren't prepared to hear. Others would never understand. Or they would misunderstand. And so Colonel Joseph, he kept this truth to himself until that climactic moment when he blows his top. You can't handle the truth Can you handle the truth? If you are a Christ follower You have no choice. You must handle the truth. You have been called to be A caretaker, a defender, a pronouncer of the truth. Let's take a peek back at uh the first three verses. John's letter here for a moment. It'll help help to set the scene for why I've said what I've said so far here this evening. Second John verses one through three. Says the elder, to the lady chosen by God and to her children, whom I love in the truth, and not I only, but also all who know the truth. Because of the truth which lives in us and will be with us forever, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father. Son will be with us in truth and love. This letter is written by the elder. It's widely accepted throughout the church that this elder is John, the apostle, who was one of the disciples with Jesus during his three years. earthly ministry. Now we can't prove that definitively, but there's not really a good reason to spend a lot of time trying to debate that point. right now. Because whoever the author is, we know he's writing to a group of people who believe In the mercy and grace of Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. And they believe this in large part probably because of John's teaching. In some of his other writings, the other books we have in the Bible, some other letters maybe that aren't even included in our canon. And he refers to this group as the lady chosen by God and her children. It's possible that he is writing to Just one particular lady and her immediate family, and there actually are some who will try to make that case. But I believe a more persuasive case is that John is writing A congregation of believers. Now maybe congregation of believers is not that much different than what we have here in my home. This evening, a congregation that gathered in someone's home. So if he's writing to a specific lady, I think at the very least he's writing to a lady who's part of a house church. Given the Christians Trust that the Bible is the Word of God, we should keep in mind. You know, it's been given by God, it's been written and preserved for us, for us as people. Keep that in mind. Then, I mean, no matter Who it was that John had in mind then, when he penned the letter, we can have some confidence and assurance that this book of the Bible is for us today. So we're seeking to do. We're seeking to apply it to us. today. So therefore, all Christian readers, all believers, followers of Christ in 2 John should recognize that they, based on what we're We should recognize that we are loved in truth. We're loved by God for sure. And also by John, and also by all who know the truth. Which means love by other believers. As believers, we are part of those who are all who know the truth. And why can I say this? And why can John write this? this. Well, it tells us in verse 2, the truth lives in us and will be with us forever Those of us confessed in Christ, seeking to honor Christ with our lives, we have grace and mercy from God. Which brings us peace with God. A peace that abides with us in truth and love. So if you are peace prone to think I can't handle the truth. Think again. As a Christian, you are already handling the truth. How well are you handling the truth? That just might be another question. And actually this leads us to one of the key questions that we can draw from John's letter to us that we're looking at here tonight. Notice what he says. verses four through six. It says, give me great joy to find that some of your children are walking in the truth just as the Father Commanded us. And now, dear lady, I'm not writing you a new command, but one we've had from the beginning. I ask that we love one another. And this is love, that we walk in obedience to his commandment. As you have heard from the beginning, his command is that you walk in love. Some of the believers are walking in the truth. Some Some are doing what the Father commanded. Some are walking as they should. Now, in verse 1 of this letter, John has stated that Christians, the lady, the church, have been chosen. We are God's chosen children. God has chosen us Chosen to live among us, to live within us, to implant his truth, the truth with his people And so here is a big part of the truth that we need to remember. The church is chosen. That's truth We, the chosen ones, are God's children. That's truth. As part of God's family. His children, we are called to love the rest of his family, the other children. That's truth. The chosen ones are to love the other chosen ones. And this is the Christian world. Walk. This is walking in the truth. This is a walk of love in the truth. This is the walk of life. As the blues and pop rock band And Dyer Strait sang to us back in the 1980s. After all the violence and double talk, there's a song in the trouble and That song is named Jesus. Because of Jesus, brothers and sisters. You do the walk. You do the walk of life. Are you doing the lack of life? As you've been called to do? Walking in truth, walking in loving service to other Christians We need to understand. The church knows the truth. The truth, it lives in the church. It is with the church. And the true church walks in the truth. In love. Those with the truth love those in the church Those in the church are those in the truth. And this love that I'm talking about. It's commanded. The very nature of this love is that it is obedient to Christ's commands. It is rooted in truth. Now, not one of us is as obedient as we should be Which is to say, perfectly obedient. Not one of us is perfectly obedient. None of us is perfect. Although we are to aspire to do better. We are to live increasingly in obedience. To live increasingly obedient lives. with a goal of being perfect as Jesus is perfect. We call this process of doing better Sanctification. Now we're not rescued from the condemnation that is due to us for our sin by becoming increasingly sanctified. This is not a workspace kind of a thing. We can never become sanctified enough to earn a righteous standing before God. It cannot be done. This is why we need Jesus this. The perfect one. Perfectly obedient. And then lovingly giving his obedient record to his chosen ones. It's an obedient record that includes a sinless life as a human, includes a brutal, unfair death on a cross and a victory over death through his resurrection and ascension back to heaven For he is now ruling in power and authority. He is risen. This is truth Yeah, we sang a song before we got started here. We're gonna sing a couple more later. And you don't have the privilege of doing that when you're watching us on Facebook. You're not that part of it's not Facebook Live We used to sing songs on Facebook Live, but uh we got tired of embarrassing ourselves, so we we get away with that habit. Um but I would encourage you to be singing, you know, and if not tonight, through the coming week. Sing some songs that help you to meditate and focus on truth and living your life out with love in truth, truth in love. So here are some suggestions I was thinking about. might be good for you. There's Phil Wickham's Children of God. Might be something you might want to look up online if you own it. Pop the CD in. Voice of Truth, Casting Crowns. John Ripon has a nice song, How Firm a Foundation. If you're a fan of Mercy Me, you know who Bart Mercy Millard is. Well part Millard, he put out a couple of solo albums, so solo CDs, where he takes old classic hymns and he puts a contemporary arrangement to them. And one of my favorite classic The hymns that he's put a new arrangement to is just a closer walk with thee. I want to try that one. Of course, a good standby is We Believe by the News Boys Rich Mullins Creed focuses on Christians committed to the truth and what the truth is that we believe as Christians. So those are some song selections for you to think about in the coming week. I know I said those maybe a little bit quickly, but this is going to be, you know, saved for posterity. So if you want to jot those down, you can go back and jump For this part of the video later, and John found those artist names and song titles. Now, John in his letter to us, he talks about how he's not giving us a new command. Right, it's a command we've had from the beginning. So in the spirit of that, I'm gonna turn to Leviticus chapter nineteen and and read a number of uh verses from there. So if you want to turn there, this is pretty easy. 2 John is close to the end of the Bible, Leviticus is close to the front of the Bible, it's part of what's called the Pentateuch, the Torah, the Law, the Books of Moses, what have you So once you get to look at the case, you're trying to get to uh chapter 19. And then once you're there, we're going to read I think it's like eight verses or so. So starting with verse 11 and then reading through to the very very first part of 19. So the Leviticus 19, 11 through 19A Alright. So here we go, verse eleven begins. Do not steal. Do not lie. Do not deceive one another. Do not Swear falsely by my name and so profane the name of your God. I am the Lord. Do not defraud or rob your neighbor. Do not hold back the wages of a hired worker over Do not curse the deaf or put a stumbling block in front of the blind, but fear your God. I am the Lord. Do not pervert justice. Do not show partiality to the poor or favoritism to the great, but judge your neighbor fairly. Do not go about spreading slander. Among your people. Do not do anything that endangers your neighbor's life. I am the Lord. Do not hate a fellow Israelite in your heart. Rebuke your neighbor. Frankly, so you will not share in their guilt, do not seek revenge or bear a grudge against anyone among your people, but love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. Keep my decrees. Let me close with a word of prayer and then we will have a discussion on today's passage and the themes that are referenced in it. Father, we thank you that you are God is unchanging. You have given us commands that stand the test of time and knowing that we cannot fulfill them With perfect obedience, you provided a way, the way, the only way to restore a right relationship with you. We ask that you would not let us Allow ourselves to fall prey to thinking, well, I've got Jesus, so I can live my life any way I want because Jesus is my rescuer Your word teaches us that those who persevere to the end are those who can count Jesus as their rescuer. So we ask that by the filling of your Holy Spirit we would be able to live increasingly obedient lives. And for those who might be hearing this that do not yet recognize the truth of your word, the truth of your son, the truth of their sin. Need of rescue. We ask that you would move in their lives even now to humble themselves and recognize that There's nothing they can do. They can't be good enough. So to throw themselves into your arms, trusting in the provision. Given us by your son. And that they would then, out of gratitude, move forward, seeking to live a life of increasing obedience. Press your blessing upon our conversation this evening. That your Spirit would lead our hearts and thoughts. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. So any initial thoughts before I try to steer the conversation? All right, I guess I'll start. One of the reasons I feel like this is so apropos for the moment that we're in Uh we are, I mean, postmodernism has been on the move for a long time. But postmodernism has just about taken over all the institutions uh in our world. these days. And so what was merely a warning call a few years ago is a uh Is a reflexive call to deal with the current reality. And the church even has fallen prey. The institutional church, the visible church, not the true church of Christ, but the visible church. That's why we pray to this. And we need to be sensitive to that and careful about that. And we need to defend truth. In all corners. We didn't focus on it in today's message. We're going to focus on it in next week's message, but you know, John's talking about those who deny that Jesus came in the flesh. basically denying that there's a savior. There's a denying that Jesus is the Son of God. That's sort of a denial. Well there's Christians who believe that, and then there's everyone else and they're Pagans. And the pagans, right now, their worldview, the domino worldview among the pagans, is some sort of a strain of Marxism. And this Marxism is affecting the church, it's affecting individuals. Lives, it's affecting business decisions, it's affecting our government institutions, it's affecting uh our educational institutions, it's affecting everything. There is a battle between the Christians who stand in truth And the pagans who are insistent on having us join them in their pagan. And we need to be equipped to deal with that and fight For truth in all arenas, in love. And that's a tough balance. You get aggravated and frustrated and why are you doing this to us? Don't you realize you're destroying the very fabric of our society and you're angry? And it's a righteous anger, and that's okay. It can be good to be indignant. And you can even express it strongly sometimes, but you It needs to be a motivation of of of love behind that. Speak the truth boldly and unapologetically, but out of love. Because they're not just going to ruin your life. They're not just going to make it hard for the church to ex to to share the message that the kingdom of God is at hand. That's not it. It's not just inward focus. We're helping to rescue them from their cell themselves if they would even if if they could come to acknowledge that. Advocate for the truth everywhere we see the lie perpetrated. And um there was in reaction to what happened on Wednesday, there was a statement by The Speaker of the House, who referred to the Congress in the halls of Congress, as a temple And I'm telling you, that jumped out at me because that is so true. The pagan Marxist worldview looks as the government and And the Marxist ideology as their faith and practice. The institution of government is their religious institution. And so of course they're going to see the seat of political power as a I don't think she even understands exactly how she's embracing a pagan worldview when she says something like that. But that's what we're up to. up against. And Christians need to figure out strategically how do we let people know that, you know, Congress, as important as it is, not a temple Right? The temple is where God dwells, and we know the New Testament teaching is that God dwells within us, or our bodies are a temple. And collectively, the church represents a new living, breathing temple of God God. That's the temple. So somebody else putting themselves forward as a temple? Antichrist. We had the prayer a week or two ago when they opened the uh Congress. and they were praying to the uh basically to to uh Buddhist and Hindu gods as part of the prayer. And then they ended with a weird amen, a woman thing. And that got all the attention. But the part leading up to that It's even worse. It was a pagan prayer. We have to wake up to this and point it out and Not with wagging an accusational finger like, oh you stupid pagan, you need to understand the truth. Listen, they can't understand the truth without the Holy Spirit They cannot do it. So we can't wag our finger at them expecting them to behave like Christians when we as Christians can't even behave like Christians half the time. So we need to take our brothers and sisters in Christ, particularly those with areas of influence, those in leadership, our pastors, our elders, those who um Different churches have different names for it than the biblical names for it. But whoever's in leadership in your church, they need to be held to account. And if they're saying things that are not true, you need to go to them out of love and say pastor or elder or you know, uh discipleship leader or whatever your title is. Are you sure about what you're saying there? 'Cause I'm just not seeing it and I could be wrong. So I want to kind of do what the Bereans did in Acts chapter seven. And can you show me in scripture? Can you show me in scripture how what you're saying is is true and right? Because I just don't see it that way. And I can show you in scripture why I think otherwise we need to have those conversations. conversations. Can't have those conversations with pagans. They're not good, they don't look at the scripture for the truth. And even if they try to, uh their their spiritual eyes are blinded to it. They need the illumination of the Spirit to be able to to see the truth on the page. So for them you need to have patience and help them to see how what they believe is illogical, uh irrational. Self-defeating, uh self-endangering. And they're like, wow, well that's interesting. I never thought about that way. What like how do you have this sort of uh perspective, this sort of insight? What makes you think these Well, my view is informed by the Bible. I have a Christian biblical worldview because I'm a follower of Christ And so we don't want to confuse the mission of the church with political aims, but God is sovereign even over politics Right, his kingdom is not of this world, but his kingdom rules over this world. And there are different spheres of influence. There's the family, there's the church, there's the government institutions and God rules over all of them and we need to do what we can to help those who are leading families, who are leading churches, who are leading our government to recognize God's authority over the decisions that they're making in their spheres of authority and influence at a lesser level. So I just feel like this is so on point for where we are right now and we're not doing a particularly good job of it. Some of us are doing a better job than others, some of us are doing a pretty bad job of it. Uh some of us Some of us are advocating for truth but not demonstrating a whole lot of love. Some are using some misinterpreted uh definition of what love means to avoid telling the truth. Um you know we're kinda And we gotta stand on the truth. And you know what? I think if we do this, I'll share one that personal insight and then I'm sure hopefully I sparked some thoughts and some comments from people in the room or maybe maybe perhaps in the comment section of the Facebook. If we do this well, we are going to confuse some people. With that, because, and I'm not saying that necessarily Doing it well. I think I'm doing it well sometimes. I'm not saying that I'm consistently doing it well, but I think this might be evidence that I've done it well at least enough that I've gotten an insight. I had somebody that I'm not you know real sure what to think about where they stand on fake questions, um who told me this week that I just don't know where to Peg you. I don't know where you fit. Like most people I talk in for a little while, I know I could I could sketch out where they fit on the political spectrum, on the theological spectrum spectrum, you know, I know who they are. I can put them into this category, that category. I don't know what category within which to put you. And at the same time, not just a few weeks ago, I had somebody who's not a Christian Who accused me of being a far, not just not just a conservative, a far right winger. Like way out there, far out right winger. And then just this week I had somebody else accuse me of being a liberal. How's that possible? They're they're getting confused because I'm not plugged into those sorts of worldly ideology frameworks. I'm advocating for business Biblical truth, which doesn't fit squarely into those categories. So if you're I would just say if if you're finding that people aren't a little bit confused sometimes about where you're coming from, No, maybe that's a signal that you're not pressing into God's word enough. I don't know. Anyway. So now have I sparked any thoughts in the room? Okay, it's coming. You know, sometimes uh you know the truth comes from iron sharpening iron. And Think about that what that means. I mean if the axe is already sharpened as finely as it can be, it needs no more sharpening. But if there are points at which that iron that you know that iron's a little bit A little bit dull, a little bit rusty, it you know, needs a little bit of friction from some other iron. That happens through dialogue, inner intercourse of ideas, and extend Exchange of thoughts and thinking. And you might say something to me to question what I say or what I believe or to advocate what you believe and how you see things that let's even say for the sake of argument that what you're coming at me with is is a little bit off, it's wrong. But there's parts of it that are right, or parts of it that spark something in me. It's like, you know what, I can't accept what you're saying, but that part of it actually was a helpful thought starter And I'm sharper now because of that. And vice versa. I might say some things that you think, well that's wrong, but it's get you thinking. And then we can exchange ideas and we can be iron sharpening iron as we proceed The truth, and as Christians, we have the truth. Right? There's a depository of truth given to the church. Well, that's why shutting down the exchange of ideas is so dangerous, which is what's happening It's happening in a very specific, tangible way with big tech companies uh shutting down accounts and deplant de platforming But it's also happening in more um social, indirect kind of ways where people cancel other people. I had a couple of people that I've known for years that Um I put a post I'm not even using Facebook that much, but I was in DC on Wednesday and I needed to use the Facebook Live feature because nobody else had a live feature. So I was a on Facebook and uh and then as a capper on the video, the live videos I post from DC, I just I added a couple of paragraphs about you know what happened during the day on My thoughts were and to my way of thinking there wasn't anything that would cause offense to anyone. But somehow, some way I guess it did, because two people that I've known for a long time, unfriends me on Facebook. Now they obviously disagree with me in my perspective. But I can't know for sure exactly what it is, and they might have a fair point at some level in whatever it was that bugged them But how am I gonna learn from that if they won't I mean they know me. They could call me up. They have my phone number. Say, what was that thing? You s like why did you do that? Like what are you talking about? I didn't do that. So That does spark one thought with me. I I had a conversation with somebody on social media and we went there was a little bit of back and forth about the truth of an issue. And um so then it got to the point where I said, okay. I just I'm paraphrasing, but what I basically said was Enough of this. I have some information I'd like to share with you. Will you allow me to share it with you? Would do you want to try to even understand where I'm coming from. And after that the conversation shut down. And so in this area of truth this area of truth, um sometimes the issue is it it isn't that the truth is not available to be shared. The issue is the person personn doesn't want to hear it. And they're they're not they they don't care. Uh for for whatever reason. It it they could be just in love with their own opinion. You know, they they uh but they don't want to hear anything else except what and and and and and the point that I made I kind of had another conversation with a person on this particular thread who was supportive of what I was saying. And I was saying to that individual, you know, um They just think we're stupid. And uh you know, they've made their mind up about we're you know, about uh about our conservative position. They think we're stupid, they think we're ignorant, and um they just want to get on social media and they just want to be heard. That's that's the It that that the end goal is they they want to be heard. They don't they don't want to understand. They just want to be heard. Yeah. I think actually that's a very good point. point and although there was this there's this push with big tech to shut down social platforms, I'm like, you know what? That might be a blessing in disguise. Because There really is no social dynamic. There is no room for discussion. There's just people vomiting their stuff. And if you don't agree with it They either unfriend you or scream at you and if he comes or troll you or whatever. So I'm actually don't have a problem with it. I think that it's actually a blessing. That God's using it to help us actually come together face to face or phone to phone because I'm telling you social media is destroying it can't destroy But you know what I mean. It is attacking those of us who truly have faith in Christ. And it's causing us to divide against one another instead of come to that common ground and have the face to face, it's and and I think it's just it's now being it's a device of the enemy. Twice. I've had this conversation with a Christian. Right. Well the person that you were saying. Well I'm sorry. I I think it's fine. Um but I I think that's I've I've noticed this myself, um, because I used to be on Facebook all the time all the time. But now I've caught myself I'm not on it as much because all I see is people like fickering back and forth over little things. And I'm like, can't you just have the just a decent conversation, respect this person's opinion, you respect theirs. Um but I've noticed lately like everybody's like, oh I'm gonna unfriend you because it's just and I feel that social media is starting to not be what it was meant for. It's not social. Exactly. It's just for people to, as I call them, keep board boyers to sit there and yeah and it's the term but like you know because they can't talk to someone face to face so they just have to sit there and spew stuff. out on instead of and especially ones who can't back up what they're saying. Don't get me wrong, I lower president, but his Twitter is Stop talking. True, yes. But it just it's it's I feel like Social media has gone downhill for what it was meant to be. Because there's a spirit of there's a spirit of offense, I think, that is real strong on on the nation. And then I think there's a haughty spir spirit where people just you know um exactly and and and um I'm gonna sit here and and and and I'm gonna preach to you, you know, and I'm gonna do this and I'm not gonna I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna broadcast I'm always always gonna be in broadcast mode and never receive you know I'm just gonna And if and if you have something you come back with me with a point and you want to come I I don't care what what you have to say. It's interesting for that combination of having a heart spirit and then not having the ability to to to always see the offense is really quite the combination. Because if you think about it, if you're choosing to view something and looking to be offended, that goes along with having a haughty spirit because you think that only what you think is right. And so that is where it's really kind of awful in our nation right now. No matter what you say, people are looking and watching and waiting to catch you for that Such a moment so that they can choose to be offended instead of choose to give you the benefit of the doubt. And it's unbelievable. It's it's just madness There are a few things that I want to jump in on before I lose the thoughts. So one, in fairness to the social media industry, uh all the things we're saying about social media could be said about any and all industries. For example, a gun would be is a wonderful tool for going and and and getting food for the family, for defending yourself against against uh you know illegal attacks on you and your your well being and yet that same gun can be used to you know uh inappropriately illegally sinfully kill someone Having people that go to medic medical school to learn all the inner workings of how the body works to save lives and to to do amazing things can then use all that same training to abort an unborn child and kill them in their mother's womb. Um someone can can be well studied and and and read a lot and hone the their intellect and their communication skills so that they can stand up in front of a group of people and share with them truth in persuasive ways. Or they could share with them lies in persuasive ways. So all of those good things that they get distorted and perverted and put to bad use because We live in a broken world because of sin, talked about in Genesis chapter three, um and then all the other sin examples throughout the rest of Scripture. So I you know we don't want to be uh exclusively saying that social media is bad and putting everybody into their silos, um you know, if Facebook and Twitter, for example, and Instagram and others can't But all of those people that have been kicked off are gonna want to find other places to go and they're gonna go to platforms that are more friendly to their point of view. And then they're gonna and and the liberals maybe will join there, but why would they if they've got all their accounts over here and we run the risk of having an echo chamber over on the other side, and that's not going to be helpful. So we want to figure out ways to have some dialogue uh with people for sure. And to to Dina's point, we want to be generous listeners And generous readers. Want to give people the benefit of doubt to try to hear okay, what are they really meaning to say? That's one of the big problems with the president's tweets is everybody who hates him is gonna cast everything he says in the worst possible. possible life. But if you gave it more generously and say, you know what, that was rather in artful how he communicated that, but I think what he might be trying to say is this. And if that's true, that's actually not a bad thing. In fact I could almost see how that's a good thing But that's not kind of how we interact. And we do this on social media too. Let's keep in mind, everybody brings to a situation their own experiences. And those experiences have continued Condition them to view things from a particular point of view. Now, that doesn't make that person's point of view right and true. It just makes it their perspective. Their perception. They say perception is reality. No. Perception is perceived to be the reality for the person, but we have to be knowledgeable about ourselves enough to know that we have these preconceived notions, we have presuppositions, you know, recognize our own biases and try to bake those into the cake a little bit. Account for them. It's like I know that I tend to look at things this way, so let me try to account for that so that I can try as best as I can to be even-handed and fair and generous as I hear what the other person has to say. We have to try really hard to do that. There's a big thing, you know, Angela talked about everybody wants to be heard. Why do they want to be heard? Because they've got this unique voice and they've got their truth that's true to them for Now, what's true for them today might be completely different tomorrow because there's no foundation upon those no firm foundation upon which to stand. But in that moment they've got their truth that's unique to their perspective And you need to hear it because it's true. From their standpoint, that's true. They know it's true. Well that's called in in academic circles, that's called standpoint epistemology Epistemology. And looking at things from a standpoint epistemology perspective is a road to heresy. You don't have the truth. Your particularly unique view on things doesn't give you all the truth. Only God knows all the truth. And so we've got to get in the habit of going to primary sources. And the primary source for truth is God and His Word And I agree with that and at the same time detect something more sinister going on with a lot of this feedback on social media. And the sinister thing that I detect is that people aren't coming only with their life experience. They're coming programmed. With with a with an agenda. With a particular viewpoint. They it they've been pro they've been propagandized And so I mean and the propaganda, it comes uh a huge part of it comes from the media. But uh another part of it comes from the college campuses, which have just been become um institutions of propaganda. You don't get an education anymore, you get indoctrinated at those places. So I would suspect probably even particularly if they come from a college because they come from an educational institution orientation, they they're coming to you I've had people be so smug with me. You know, and uh it it it i I I I could just sense the smugness, I can just feel it coming through the the through the electron Electrons they were talking down to me. They didn't come to have a dialogue at all. They just came to tell me what a what a moron I was. And while trying you ever read a book and why don't you you know and it that kind of thing and and so they s you know when when when they come at you like that it's very difficult to have a dialogue because they actually don't want to have the dialogue. They just want to beat you down with what they think is true. Well it's interesting, you know, that they would accuse you of not trying to read a book because or haven't I don't have have a write book because that's one of the things I would say is we should read more, and I'm sure Angela reads plenty, but we should read more. But here's the thing. And we should take in information more. We should try to be informed of what's going on on. We have to keep in mind though what passes for common knowledge is not necessarily truthful and and honest to goodness God ordains knowledge, right? A lot of what passes For common knowledge is of absolute complete fabrication. And so that's why we have to get back to these primary sources. So if you're gonna read a book, it's just for entertainment, it's a story or something. Be sensitive to the worldview. Nobody writes a book without a worldview. They're trying to advance a particular worldview. That's why they wrote the book. Nobody makes a movie without advancing a worldview. a movie make a movie. They're making a movie because they've got a particular perspective and worldview that they want to put out there and get people to buy into at some level. So be a sensitive that but if you're reading to actually learn something to really dig in. You want to read books that, let's say it's a Christian book, you want a book like that has lots of scripture references that supports what it is they're trying to tell you. Like, you can read an entire chapter. Well, that was a pretty interesting idea, but does God's word really say that? They've never cited one scripture passage the whole time. I can't check where they're getting that from And then don't just take their word for, oh, they cited Isaiah chapter 43, so it must be true. I mean you might be mature. and walk uh in your walk and you've been in church for a long time and see you you know the the passage well enough that you have yep he's right or she's right whoever wrote that. But if you're not sure that they're right, you're gonna assume they're right. But I'm gonna check. Get your Bible, open up Isaiah forty-three, and see and read the surrounding uh context and see if they didn't take it out of context. That happens a lot. not a Christian book, look for books that have a big bibliography and lots of footnotes with citations of where they got their information. We have gotten ourselves in a situation in our culture right now and and both sides and there's more than two sides uh all sides all sides of the political uh arguments going on right now are guilty of this at some level Some way more than others. If somebody says to you, somebody even that you would be prone to want to believe and trust, says, I have as good authority that. Or there are reports that. Or I've heard it from. Or so-and-so is saying. Or indications are. Or they say, whoever they is. I hear that all the time. But what they're saying is, who's they? You I want names, I want locations, I want if it has to do with numbers, I want I wanna see the data. If it's a quote from somebody, I want to know a source so I can go see that quote for myself. I want to see videos and uh a and I want to see it from multiple angles if possible so that I can see that it's not all a bunch of deepfakes. We've got to get down into the nitty-gritty now because we're being lied to by so So many people all the time. So go to our primary sources and you're right, they don't want to necessarily. As soon as you ask them to get into the primary sources, which is kind of the point you were making a few minutes ago It shuts down. It shuts And at that point that's when you know, I don't put myself in those situations because that's just not my cup of tea, but when that situation happens, I think there's wisdom in walking away. Because we aren't to cast our pearl before slice. We aren't to you know, I mean it's just it's it it's just wasting everybody's time Yeah, I forget who gets credit for this, but it's uh it it's talked about in evangelism circles and they say if you're out there trying to share the gospel and talk about Jesus and all that sort of stuff and they're getting you a lot of pushback and you know a lot You've heard them all. If you've been out there sharing the gospel, you've heard all the different variety of of pushback uh things. And if you're and you're struggling, you're not getting anywhere. At some point you might or Or maybe maybe not even someone, maybe somewhere earlier so you don't waste a lot of time. You say, Look, if I could provide evidence and show you from scripture and from all that we know about you know God and his word and stuff if I could demonstrate to you that it's not crazy to believe that Jesus Christ really lived, died, and rose again and ascended back to heaven. If I could demonstrate to you that that's not crazy, would you at least be willing to hear it out and accept that that's a possible possible theory upon which to base one's life. And they're like, no. That's exactly what I ran into. You'll never persuade me that you're not crazy. And that's okay. Then you walk away. Exactly. And that's and I I ended the conversation then because I said, enough of this. Yeah. I have some information to share with you Will you look at it? Will you at least look at it? Crickets, nothing. You know, just and I thought, okay. There you go. You're just here to talk. And that yeah. Actually the beauty of Christianity is God never forces his way on you. Ever. Unlike all the other religions which is anything else but Christianity where you are forced to, or in some cases, killed. That's never the case with Jesus. He lets you walk away sad. Just like he did the rich man. He lets you walk away sad. And sometimes you have to actually extricate yourself from that situation. situation with these people. Sure. Because they'll they'll start trolling you. And then you have to, you know, you just have to shut it down with them literally because their point is to win the argument and they don't care care about the truth. So the the attitude that the per the attitude is sending the haughty spirit that you were talking about earlier. Yeah. Yeah, and it's not about winning an argument. You know? Um and so that you know then Christian circles we sometimes uh fall prey to this, it's not about winning converts either Right. That's not our role, it's not our job. God converts. God convicts the heart. God gives someone, takes away their stone heart, and gives them a heart of flesh and imprints the the his truth on that heart and then dwells inside and God does that work. We don't convert anybody. So we're trying to win an argument so that if we win the if only we could win the argument then they'd be converted It doesn't work that way. We want to be able to give an answer and a response to somebody who asks why we have the hope that lies within us. We want to be able to defend the faith in that way. But not but we're trying to defend the faith. We're not trying to be offensively pushing the faith, trying to defend the faith, articulate the faith, share the faith, announce uh the the truth that they're in peril. They need to repent because the kingdom of God is at hand. So we need to announce Announce that truth, but then God's gonna move on them. We can't do it. And then if and when God moves on them, then we are called to disciple them So we're not called to convert, but we are called to disciple. To train up. To train them up. So let's keep all those sorts of and let's try to learn from we're really getting a crash course in in things with all the political divide and all that sort of stuff. Let's learn from it and say, wow, uh this is giving me some insight into how psychology works. individual psychology and how you know social interactions work and sociological function you know uh functionality in within society all I'm really using a lot of big words but we're beginning to understand how the world works. How do we apply that to the advantage of the church. So I think that it can be beneficial if you can just show someone, if they'll give you the patience, be patient with you, and you'll say, look, would you watch Would you watch these videos? Would you look at this data? Would you actually read the speech? Would you you know would you actually pay attention to the context surrounding that moment or that thing that was said or whatever? Would you do that for me? And that's how people become to be wow, okay, I'm still not a hundred percent I agree, but I can see why you think that and I'm not gonna totally discount you as a friend or whatever. We can do that with the scriptures too. But we've got to know our scriptures well enough. So we've got to be in the word reading it and meditating upon it. it and praying over it and through it and and attending church regularly and that sort of thing. So um and speaking of that point, I mentioned this just about every week. If you are within driving distance of where we are and you don't have a church, contact me. This could become your church. There's no problem with that. We You got plenty of room. Okay? And if you don't want to come here, that's fine. Find a different church. But make sure it's a Bible-believing church and go and get involved and attend regularly. And um if you can't attend regularly because your church isn't meeting, um at this stage of the game, if we have a church that's not meeting, Uh have a heart-to-heart conversation with the leadership of your church, with your pastor, and if they can't persuade you that they've got rock solid biblical reasons. Making that decision, you might have a real problem with your church and you might need to be thinking about finding a new church. At this stage of the game, many months ago, maybe not, but at this stage of the game I can't I can't think of a good excuse anymore. So anyway. Any other thoughts before we wrap this up? Alright. Would you like to close us a prayer? Sure. Lord, thank you for this time together. We ask that you would be glorified through everything that has happened. We ask that you would give us the presence of your Holy Spirit, not only the presence, but that she would fill us with your Holy Spirit, that we would know when to walk away and to press in, that you would give us that discernment. We ask for wisdom and how to navigate in such a strange world that we're living in. We know that your gospel will prevail. We thank you for that. We ask that you protect your bride and that you would allow us to come together even more regularly, that you would get all the glory. Jesus' name. Amen. So next week we're going to finish, uh this was kind of a two-part message, so we're going to finish our thoughts on 2 John, the first of the eleven verses. So until next week, thanks for listening and God bless. Watching, I guess, too. God bless.