And we are rolling. Hello, Facebook. And if you're watching this later, hello YouTube. And thank you for joining us. I just mentioned YouTube. If you haven't visited before, we have a YouTube channel. Set up for the household of faith in Christ where we archive and store all of these messages so they're easy to find. If you've missed a message, you can go back and find it. That could become particularly helpful when we're working working our way through a series. We did a series on 1st John. And so all of those messages are there. And if um if you and you can consider what we're doing now kind of an extension of that because we're working our way through second John, and then we're going to do third John. So we're doing all the epistles of John in sequence. And so if you want to kind of catch up on all of those, you're certainly welcome to do that by going to our YouTube channel. If you'd like to participate The discussion we're going to be having as a group here in about a half hour or so that's based upon the things that we taught in the sermon. Uh you can certainly contribute your thoughts and we'll try to interact with those through the comments section. So you can add a comment and we can try to bring that up and talk about and share your comment with what we're doing here today. So uh that's uh all I have for now. We're gonna start here in a moment with uh Angela opening us in prayer Later on ask Dina if she would close us in prayer and uh and Landon's gonna read uh 2 John for us, actually the first 11 verses of 2 John. 2 John and I would invite you to grab your Bibles and get them ready because it would be the sermon is on 2 John. So you're going to want to be able to interact, uh read along with Landon and then interact uh mentally with uh the the the subject matter of the sermon. So uh Angela, if you would open us a prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we your children come together grateful that we have the freedom and the privilege to proclaim the name of Jesus Christ and to proclaim the word. And this is not ceremony for us, Father. We come here in worship. We come here with gratitude. We come here with to you, still having peace that surpasses all comprehension. Because we we know that you are on the throne and you are still in charge. And it is by your grace that we are able to come and worship you. We thank you for that. We are grateful We ask for your Holy Spirit's presence to be in everything that is done this evening. We give this as a sacrifice to you, Lord Jesus. To your glory. Be glorified in the message this evening. We ask that you bring who needs to see this message, who needs to hear this message, bring them to this meeting. whether now or later. And whoever needs to stay away, Lord, just keep them away from it. But let your will be done. And in gratitude, Father, we thank you. Once again and ask that you bless this time together in the precious name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. All right, so Bibles open if you have 'em. Uh second John verses one through eleven. The elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I love in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth. Because Of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever. Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Father's Son. I rejoice greatly to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as we were commanded by the Father. And now I ask you, dear Dear Lady, not as though I were writing you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning, that we love one another. And this is love. We walk according to the commandments. This is the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it. Have gone out into the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is this deceiver and antichrist Christ. Every one who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching. Of Christ does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone if anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching Do not deceive him into your house or give him any greeting. For whoever greets him and takes part in his wicked works The very word of God, inspired, inerrant, infallible, a perfect rule and guide for faith and life, those who have ears to hear, let the meet So we are picking up where we left off last week. We covered the first six verses that Landon read last week. week and we're going to cover 7 through 11 this week. This is a message, this two-part message titled Truthers, Lovers and Liars. And so we talked last week at the beginning about truth and what is that? Is there such a thing as truth? The struggle that people have with identifying and and defining what is truth? We talked about love and some of the cute and quaint things that are used to talk about love, but they're not rooted in what the scriptural understanding of love is all about. We talked about our need to be able to handle the truth and some of those feeling We can't handle the truth. We can't handle the reality of things, or sometimes we just can't grapple with the truth and understand it. And that is not true for Christ's church. Christ's church can and does handle the truth Sometimes not as well as you might like, but we are called to handle it. We talked also last week about the authorship of this letter and the original audience and uh the historical setting, uh the dating, those sorts of things. Uh we didn't spend a lot of time on that, but we did touch on those things. If you're interested in those sorts of things, you'll have to watch last week's video. And we uh we started to talk a little bit about the the the nature of falsehood and and as part of the the you know the truthers, lovers and liars. We're going to spend most of our time today talking about that. Now, one of the things that is true, as we're talking about the truth and love, is blending these two things together. That we have a this this obligation, this command on our lives that we are to live out the truth and we're to do so in love. And when we do this, we live the the truth in love and the love in truth and we are walking down the path But we don't do this perfectly. We don't perfectly hang on We sometimes fall prey to uh believing in lies or even speaking and uttering our own lies lives. We don't do this well, but we're called to continually get better and better at it. It's called progressive sanctification in the church. This progression, this this constant moving forward and getting better at being what a Christian is supposed to be to be, being more more disciplined, more rooted in in holiness and obedience and and and grounded in God's Word. But we don't do this perfectly, which is why we We need Jesus who did and does do this perfectly. He lived a human life on this planet perfectly. Perfect obedience. Obedient all the way to the cross where he died a horrible death. Death. And then demonstrated that everything he had taught, everything that he said to be true about himself, was in fact true about himself when he had his victory over death through his resurrection and ascension back up. In heaven, where he now rules in power and authority over his kingdom because he is risen. This is true But there are liars who deny it as truth. Liars who deny the good news. These liars are distributors of fake news, not good news. Do you think that fake news is something new Invented just within the last handful of years? Hardly. Remember that Ecclesiastes, chapter 1, verse 9, it tells us that there is nothing. New under the sun. Fake news has been around since the serpent interacted with Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. When Eve falsely reported that they weren't even allowed to touch the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And the serpent falsely reported that you will not surely die if you eat of the forbidden fruit. And Adam, he contributed these false narratives by standing idly by saying nothing to come contradict the lies when he knew them to be false. And then he added even more injury. To insult by blaming God, wagging an accusational finger at God, and his lie was, it's your fault, God, it's this woman you gave me. That's why this happened Liars. All of them. Liars. So liars have they they've been around forever and they just They deceive by neglecting the truth. They deceive by spreading falsehoods. This has been part of human history since the beginning of human history, since the very first man and woman walked the earth And so therefore it has been a problem for Christ's church, for plaguing the church, since the very first generation when followers of the way began to call themselves Christians. Now why can I say with such confidence all the things that I've just said? Because the Apostle John says this So let's look at 2 John. Let's turn to 2 John verse 7. I say this because many deceivers who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh have gone out into the world. Any such person is the deceiver and the antichrist. There are liars in John's time. There are liars in ours. Can you recognize them? These liars, these deceivers, these supposed leaders of Christ's church? Who deny Christ, who is the very cornerstone and capstone of the church? These liars, they they exist. They're out there. Or better put, or sadly put, they're in here. They appear to be within Christ's church. Thus misleading so many. They say that Jesus came only in spirit, not in flesh to be movement these days too, right? Spirituality. It's all about spirituality. Well John he writes about this and he's talking about a spiritual movement of His era, which taught that tangible, physical things were dirty. And so God, he couldn't possibly have anything to do with that. He couldn't have possibly come in the flesh. And to soil himself in this way, that would be unbecoming for God. So he must, therefore, he must have remained solely in the spiritual realm. Because the spiritual is good. And God is good. This totally misses the point that God created the material universe And he said that it was good. And after he added Adam and Eve to his creation He said that the creation was very good. Now, sin has introduced brokenness into the world. humankind fell into immorality and has brought with it sorrow and uh and sickness and death and lots of bad stuff so there is there is definitely something bad about the condition of the world right now That is true. We're not denying that. And so therefore there is something rather astounding about the Almighty and all-knowing and holy, holy, holy God. condescending to become a man. I mean that's that's astounding. But he is God. He can do what he wants. And he tells us that what he wanted to do was to love us so much. That he did, in fact, send his son to live as Jesus of Nazareth on earth, so that he could pay the penalty. For his people's sin to restore us to being set apart image bearers. As we were created to be. If God did not do this, then Jesus Is not the Savior. Lord, maybe, depending on how to look at that. Savior? Impossible. So by extension of what these false teachers teach, these deceivers, by extension of what they teach, they're saying that Jesus is not the Savior. These false teachers are Antichrist. That's what John calls them. Anti-Christ. Anti. Opposed to. Working against, not in alignment with, an enemy of. Christ. And John tells us to watch out, be on guard Examine verses 8 through 11. Watch out. And do not lose what we have worked for, but that you may be rewarded fully. Anyone who runs ahead and does not continue. in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever continues in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not take them into your house or welcome them. Anyone who welcomes them shares in their wicked work. Boy, I don't know. I mean this almost sounds serious, right? John is earnestly beseeching his readers. And that includes you and me. earnestly beseeching us to be on the lookout for wolves in sheep's clothing. Because these wolves, they undermine local churches. They don't continue in the teaching of Christ, so they don't have God. And if we follow after them, this is evidence that we don't have God. God either. But if we do have God, then we continue in the true teaching And though. And therefore we have evidence that we have God with us. As Lord and Savior. As Father. Father and son, as the standard giver and the standard bearer. Now John says in verse ten and eleven If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not take them into your house or welcome them. Anyone who welcomes them, share There isn't a wicked work. What's he mean here? Well he can't mean that we should should avoid all contact with all uh all liars or we could not go and make disciples. Right? We could not share the good news with people who are lost in their sins or lost In their lies. But he is talking about those who are claiming to be one of us. Even those who are positioned as Leaders among us, especially those. And if we think of house as God's church. And I find it helpful to think of house as the house of God in this context, household of faith in Christ. that we should not welcome these false teachers into our local churches. And this brings us back to an earlier question. How are these false teachers to be recognized? How do we know when we see them, when we hear them? Well, they deny that Jesus is Lord and Savior. For one, they do this in a variety of ways. These are, as we've already touched upon today, they deny who Jesus really is. And they put forward this false idea of who Jesus is. They deny that Jesus came in the flesh to accomplish his earthly mission. Now they might do this denying in a way that doesn't hit you square upside the head. The neck effect the end result of what they're saying is to do exactly that, is to deny who Jesus is and what it is he came to do. I mean how many quote-unquote Christian leaders have you heard say that Jesus is your example for a better life. Period full stop. How many have you heard say that Jesus, he He's like a genie who's been set free from his bottle, and so he's obligated to grant you your wishes. If only you have enough faith. How many of you heard say that Jesus, he's a means to social justice in our world today Well, Jesus is an example to us. So he's more than our example. He's our representative. He's our high priest. He's our king. And Jesus, he does move mountains in response to the prayers of his people. But this is when those prayers seek His will and not our wishes. And Jesus is all about justice, equity. Before the law. But you have to remember that his kingdom is not of this world. And he tells us that we're to call others into this kingdom, his kingdom. And not to merely work to renovate the kingdoms of this world with a primary focus on politics and a lesser focus. On God. Now, what about those leaders in the church who deny the judgment of God? Jesus stands for righteousness and obedience. To say that he acquiesces to unrighteousness and that he looks the other way. When it comes to obedience, doesn't look upon that. To say something like that is to say that Jesus is someone other than who he is This is to deny Christ, to deny what he did by coming in the flesh What about church leaders who accept or perhaps even promote the idea that That the Father and the Son, they're one and the same. There's no Trinity. There are some that say that Satan and Christ are brothers There are some that will say, well, Jesus is Savior in a kind of sort of way, depending on how you look at it, but he's not really the creator, and therefore he's not really Lord. I mean some of these things I'm talking about here are big and obvious lies to to some of us. But many of these lies are they're s They're sneaky, they're they're subtle. So they can fool some people sometimes. They can fool many people. I was flipping through the religious channels on my television uh one day and on one of the channels there was uh there was a preacher who was promising blessing things to you, if only you would send in your love gift. To support Israel, of course. On another channel, there was a rather flamboyant man who he was shaving another man's head. As some sort of bizarre, strange performance art that kind of left the impression that, well, Jesus, he must be some kind of entertainer. And at the exact same time I met a third channel. At the exact same time, there were people who were laughing uncontrollably while the Pastor was crying uncontrollably. He literally said that he was without control of his faculties. He had lost all self-control. From them we see a Jesus who manipulates emotions and creates disorder among his people. If we look at these examples, most of us, I think, we stand aghast. How could anyone be fooled by these men and women? But then we sit in pews or the increasingly popular theater style seats, or in today's moment in time sitting before a glowing screen, and we uncritically listen to sermons that never mention Jesus Or if they do, they position him as, I don't know, the means to accomplishing the uh the 12 steps to your best life now. Never mentioning the necessity of the cross. It's necessary because of our sin. Never mentioning that he is our friend and our king. Never helping us to be reminded of just how beautiful is the thing that He has done for us. How beautiful is his creation! How beautiful is the hard love that he has for us. A hard love that invites us to share in his creation. As we share in his kingdom advancement Instead, they tell us what we want to hear or what they think we want to hear. The time of 2 Timothy 4, verse 3 is here. The time when people will not put up with sound doctrine, instead to suit their own desires, they gather around them a great number of teachers to say what their itching ears want to hear. Tickle our ears. Tickle, tickle, tickle. Just like what Fleetwood Mac say Decades ago. Tell me lies, tell me sweet little lies. Tell me lies, tell me lies Tell me lies. Oh no, no, you can't disguise. You can't disguise, no, you can't disguise. Tell me lies, tell me sweet Sweet little eyes. So horribly sad and discouraging Is that these practitioners of telling lies, they do not even try to disguise their lies many times But we uncritically listen to them anyway. Do not Embrace these lying teachers. And for the love of God And I mean literally, for the love of God and for the truth of God, keep these liars from leading our church. Or you will share in their guilt I might have accidentally painted a picture by being so dramatic of a universal church that is in shambles. And that's not true. The true church, the true church, is guarding against falling into shambles. The true church is trusting in God's word, reading it and studying it, meditating upon it, teaching it, learning it, and therefore knowing. That Christ is the perfect truth and the perfect love. Indeed, Antichrist Attacks the church in spiritual battle. But always remember Christ's church cannot ultimately fail. This is a promise and a guarantee Truth and love trounces liars. For sure and for certain Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you are the embodiment of truth. And you have seen fit to reveal your truth to us in your word. And you have equipped us by your Holy Spirit to rest. Recognize the truth and to separate it from the lies. We ask that you would forgive your people for so easily being Led astray. Help us, Lord, to recommit to studying your word, to communing With you, to trusting in Christ, to leaning upon the strength provided to us by the Paraclete, the Comforter, your Holy Spirit. We ask that you would help us to not only recognize those liars who are leading your flock astray, but to have the courage and the tenacity to root them out So that the true church would represent a true beacon of the only true hope that any of us can have. And that is the blood shed on the cross by our Lord, Savior, and King Jesus Christ. It's in his precious name that we pray. Pray. Amen. So where are we out of time? I think we're pretty good. Got some time for discussion. Did that prompt any initial reactions? Nope. Not really. Okay, well I have written a kind of a synopsis, a very short, brief little synopsis that ties together The messages from last week and this week. So to remind us of what we talked about last week, how it connects with this week and stuff, and maybe this will spark some conversation among us here in the room, and then perhaps also online. Christ's church, Christ's church is under attack, spiritually attacked, with questions Questions. What is truth? What is love? What is the church and what is it to do? In a world filled with fake news, can anyone believe anything? anymore. Can even God be trusted? There are those who challenge the faith of Christ's followers by essentially asking, did God really say This is a state of affairs in the 21st century. However, it's nothing new. This was a state of affairs in the first century too. The Apostle John wrote a letter to us way back then. Okay, John might have had a different group of believers specifically in mind when he penned what we now Now call 2 John, but it is clear to contemporary readers that God had us in mind when this letter was written, about 1952 years ago. Christ's church is home to the truth and to love. This is because it is home to Christ, who is Himself truth and love. It is no wonder then that Antichrist works to undermine Christ's church with lies and division brought into the church's midst by deceivers and False teachers. The people of God must beware and remember what Jesus teaches his followers. This is what we're talking about here as we look at 2 John verse Verses 1 through 11. Spoiler alert, believers must be diligently on guard, but Antichrist loses because Christ wins. Anyway, I don't know if that's helpful in sparking any fodder for discussion. Well, I think the trickiest thing Right now is that the momentum is behind the false teachers. And that's probably always the case. Um, but because we way the culture is they're popular and so they're they have willing followers. And how many people go to church? And just go to church passively as opposed to actively. And so for them they're not even seeing it as a problem. You know, it's I it's not like they're gonna stand up there and say, I'm the Antichrist and what I'm preaching is an you know is is Antichrist So and they and they're not in the word and they're not g especially now gathering with other believers. Yeah, I think it could be helpful helpful for us to understand And you know uh c uh our place in human history, our time and how it compares. Because you know, we have a tendency, it's just human nature to think that you know our life is the most important life, our moment in time If things are bad, they've never been this bad before. The tendency to you know hyperpersonalize and make you know, make more important the the contemporary moment. But if we look at history, there have been cycles of of of this is well there are always lies attacking the church that has never stopped. But But there does seem to be times like when when Dina mentioned where there's a momentum that seems to be winning the day. And but this isn't a new phenomenon. As we said, you know, in the message, Ecclesiastes There's nothing new under the sun. So previously, um, go back in the um, was it the third and fourth century, the fourth and fifth century, uh getting my dates a little bit muddled in my head right now, but when all the the really famous church councils were going on. This is when the some of the doctrines of the church were actually pen was put to paper to clarify. The church had always had always believed certain things to be true until they were getting attacked by liars. And so I'll give who are defenders of the truth that we need to get together and articulate specifically what we believe and why, and then we've got these standards that we can point to and say no no no this is orthodox belief and anything else is other so there were people that were attacking you know Jesus wasn't really divine and they had to clarify no He is. Or um Jesus didn't really die, you had to clarify that. Or the the Trinitarian nature of the Godhead, you know, that was denied. And then another big cycle when the when the church had lost its way and there was a battle, kind of a an ascendancy of those who were truth defenders uh in the um I guess the fifteenth and sixteenth century, uh the the uh decades leading up to the Reformation and then the Reformation In the decades following it, there was a battle being waged for truth against the lies, and that was a very difficult, challenging time for the church. So I would say that um 400 years-ish after Christ, 1500 years-ish after Christ, really significant, difficult times that are akin to where we are now. And this isn't new for us even now. The church has been Under attack from what and I don't mean this politically, I mean theologically, from the theological left, the the the liberal uh the the the liberal theology that's been infecting and attacked. hacking the church for a hundred and fifty years now. So really the the twentieth and now the twenty first century there's been this huge battleground where the church is in Is in a war for the truth. It was in a war for the truth 1500 years ago, and of course the truth won out And it was in a battle for the truth 500 years ago, and the truth won out. And the truth will win out yet again. But we are, so when we feel like this is the worst ever, not necessarily, but when we feel like, man. It feels like this is about as bad as it's ever been. That's probably true. You know, there's some ebb and flow. There's a cyclical nature to history, a cyclical nature to to to uh how things unfold for the church. And so I don't want us to magnify our moment in history. At the same time, I don't want us to diminish our moment in history. That's why I'm so passionate. This is one of those moments. This is one of those moments. And when these moments face Christ's church, a lot of really good men and women, uh they they go down in history remembered as martyrs a lot of times. times. You know? Um it takes uh takes an awful lot to stand up. And And uh for the truth, when everybody around you is perpetrating lies and um Do we have that kind of courage? If you're truly part of the church you do. Even if you don't have it, the Holy Spirit will give it to you when you need it. But right now there are so many people that are passing themselves There are so many people that are perceived to be leaders of the church, and I'm not even sure they're members of the church. Now, in fairness, there are some that I'm very suspicious of what what they're doing lately that I mean God knows their heart and knows the the the situation for their their uh their salvation. So I'm kinda hoping they're just a little bit confused, a little wobbly, a little bit offline A little bit, you know, off of center, the plumb line has been jostled, and then they're going to swing back and they're going to realize the error of their ways. A good example of that in in our present context would be churches who closed. It's my opinion that no church should have ever stopped meeting. I don't think there's a biblical argument to be made for that. Obviously people can disagree. I would argue they're wrong. The disagreement is it's to my way of thinking, the disagreement is not with me, the disagreement is with Scripture But even if you want to say, okay, you know what, early on, maybe wisdom and better judgment said we should pause meeting for a very short amount of time Okay, I'm willing to grant that and say it's possible that I'm wrong enough that pausing for a short period of time was okay and appropriate. But now we're coming up on what is it, ten months? I think. So might that be it'll be forty five weeks. Well didn't this start? Forty five yeah. Okay. There are churches that are still not meeting Why on earth are you not still at this point? Do you ever plan to meet again? And who gets to make that Who has the ecclesiastical, the ruling authority for your congregation? God in his word and the ordained leaders of that particular congregation or some secular pagan out there who's going to tell you what you can and can't do. At some point the rubber's got to meet the road. And so that's an example now where people have been wobbly and so people early on who might have paused meeting for a week or two or even a month or two and then they realize, whoa, we can't do this forever. John MacArthur's a good example in California. John MacArthur, his church stopped meeting for I don't know, was it like six weeks, eight weeks? weeks later, I don't know if you know. It was a while. Yeah, it was a couple months I think. And then he realized, you know what? We can't keep doing this. We're gonna start meeting again. And they have and they've had great attendance. and there hasn't been any horrible illness or anything on them and uh and they've they've gotten badgered and beaten up, they've gotten bad press and they've been attacked by the governing authorities, but they're like we have a higher governing authority. They've been attacked by the church. They've been attacked by others. The the the institutional church, the the visible church. Right, because uh we haven't talked about that much in the context of household and faith in Christ, but uh I'm an adherent to the idea of there's the church that we see, the visible church, visible to human eyes. And the church that God sees, the true church. Now, there are some people that are part of the true church, they're also part of the visible church. Most of them would be part of the visible church. There's some people part of the the true church that you might not even identify as being part of the visible church. You know, they're not yet connected with a church yet or you don't interact with them. So it's not like the true church is a subset necessarily of a visible church. There's a significant overlap. But there is a very large percentage of people Sadly in my opinion, that are in the visible church that are not part of the true church. I don't know what those percentages are. They don't even know it. Yeah, they don't even know. People are so they're self-delusion. How could they know it? The word convicts. Right? It convicts onto repentance or convicts onto obedience. But the word convicts, and if they're not hearing the word proclaimed they're never being convicted. So they feel like, oh I'm fine. And sadly, some of them, you're not fine Hear me. I'm not saying this as a as a negative negative judgment against you. I'm I'm I'm making a positive judgment of what is real and true. If you are not recognizing the truth of your sin and the necessity of you trusting in Jesus Christ and his sacrifice, you are in peril. And you can know that you're actually following the truth. You're walking in the way, that you have eternal life. You can know this because you demonstrate love. And what does love mean? We talked about this a couple weeks ago. Do you remember the definition of love? The scriptural definition of love It's obedience to God's commands. That's love. Because God is love, and so if you obey his commands, you're being loving. What does God command? There are certain things God prescribes for his people, and if you're not doing those things, why not? And maybe you don't know any better because your leadership isn't telling you the truth. Being a follower of Christ, it's not a rose garden. That old song from the 1970s, that old country song, God never promised you a rose garden. Lynn Anderson, I think, sang that song. I've mentioned it a number of times. I don't know if I've mentioned it in the household of faith context. The Apostle Peter, in his epistles, he talks about the suffering that Christ's people have. It is a suffering that is promised and guaranteed to you And you are to recognize it and understand and appreciate it, it's is a blessing. It's it's It's counterintuitive, but it's a privilege. And how is it a privilege? It's a privilege because our whole aim is to know Christ. And the more we know him, the more we can follow after his example and be more Christ-like and be the image bearers we were made to be, as I referenced in today's. sermon. Well, one of the ways you can know someone is you can enter into their world. So if somebody is rejoicing you You enter into their joy and you share it with them. And in the sharing you know them better. And it's the same when someone is suffering. You enter into their suffering and you know them better. So it's a privilege to enter Enter into Christ's suffering. And if you don't feel that I've been a Christian for 75 years and I don't feel like I've suffered a day in my life, you're probably not walking the walk. way that that looks like is not doesn't necessarily have to be that peril strikes you. It means that you you you have God's heart. So when you hear of suffering in other places, you pang the way God does with like with the human trafficking. If you are not grieved at your core or abortion or those any of those things, that's suffering too, to to bear that and to bear that burden and to be so grieved over that, that's a type of suffering that is godly, that is sharing in God's heart. that is acknowledging the wrong, the awfulness of that, and to grieve that and to cry out in prayer against that, that's a heavy burden to bear at times. There have been times, and I know Angela shares this as well, where I've been woken from my sleep to pray Because there's such an awfulness, such the angst that I have for that injustice, for that that uh that that evil And that's God's heart. That had nothing to do with me. That's God's heart. That's suffering at some level, 'cause then I feel cruddy that whole day at work. 'Cause I've been I was m I I had a bad At night, so to speak. So that's also part of it. And I think people don't necessarily see that as as a type of suffering Yeah. Um it made me as you were c commenting made me think of the be of the Beatitudes and Christ is saying who's blessed and and um Who's blessed sometimes is a little counterintuitive in these beatitudes, you know? Um blessed are the foreign spirit. Blessed are those who mourn. Right You know um why are we blessed when we mourn is because we agree with God at the e uh we agree with God that there's evil out there and there's injustice and we're mourning. Yeah. Absolutely. And and but then he goes um and then he goes to say goes on as a the flip side of that to say, woe to those who are getting fooled out because they're getting their or be Being I um forgive me, I'm I'm paraphrasing. Wo woe to those who are happy now because they're receiving their joy in full. Right, right, right, right. um when you're happy in the midst of all the tremendous um um evil it means you must be kind of dead to it and and sensitive to it and you know, or you agree with it. Um and um if you're in that state, w what are you doing to combat it you know nothing. Um so um you're kinda in league with those, you know, whether it's passively uh or aggressively But you're kind of in league with those people who are doing that kind of stuff. And guess what? God says, I'm gonna judge it. You know? And you're gonna get swept up in that. So, um he has the the suffering I think that maybe people immediately go to to the to the super examples like people being you know martyred in a in a right seeing with my lions. I mean that's kind of suffering, but I think most of it yeah, you're exactly right. Most of it is you just simply you have the same heart of God does on things and what's and and you mourn uh when he's mourning. Mm-hmm. You know, and um it's it's it's it's painful, but at the same time I think you see it as a blessing because you're like, oh okay, I I lost some sleep praying, but you know, I believe my prayers have made a difference. I believe my prayers deliver somebody I believe my prayers help to advance God's kingdom here on earth. You know, and so th there there is a a a a comfort in it, but definitely, yeah Um the suffering, if you don't enter into Christ's suffering, you do need to like Paul said, you need to check and see if you're still in the faith. Right. Um because I mean Troy's absolutely correct. It's a problem. It's a guarantee if you believe in the Lord that you gotta suffer. Too much distraction. Yeah, one of the things that I think is important or an important point for us to to add in this context. Before I add it, was there anything you were Wanted to jump in and say because I've kind of dominated and Dina found her path into discussion and Angela did, but I'm kind of just listening to it. For the most part, people are not going to come up to you and say, oh, you're a Christian. I'm going to persecute you therefore. It's it's it's not Not because you call yourself a Christian that you're gonna necessarily you're most often gonna find yourself being persecuted, because lots of people call themselves Christians and they don't do anything different than the world and so they don't put themselves in a position to be persecuted. But what you're going to find if you're a Christian who's actually walking the path of righteousness, that you are following the way of Christ, then they're going to not accuse you of being a Christian. They're going to accuse you of being a bigot, of being stupid, of being narrow-minded, of being intolerant, of being judging. They're they're going to hateful. They're going to accuse you of all these things. If you take a stand for whatever is right and true according to God's standards, they are going to accuse you of all of the things that go with being a Christian. They're not so you won't find yourself being persecuted because you're a Christian You're going to find yourself being persecuted for some other reason, but the real thing is there you actually are a brother and sister in Christ, and that's what the root of the persecution is. is all about. So well last thing is we can clean up our mess here and uh wrap up our our time together. Let's think about where our true hope lies, where the emphasis of our thinking is. I've been thinking about this, you know of late, there's been a lot of talk, and rightfully so, right? A lot of people who are mourning, to use the the the the the attitude that that Angelo brought up, you know people are mourning People are sad, discouraged over the amount of division that they see within America. You know, the citizen citizenry is very divided right now. More so than at any point that I can recall in my lifetime, and possibly more so than any time since the mid-1800s. I don't I don't know. And so certainly we should be concerned about that. And people are talking about all the deception and they're concerned and there's a lot of constant Over the deception and the media is lying to us and the ones are so truth tellers. You know, we can't we can't trust. We can't even trust Fox News, the conservatives say. Like who can we trust? And so all the all the deception people People are bemoaning that and rightfully so. And then of course for a long time people have been complaining about our government and the horrible leadership that we have in our government. I mean we have a vacuum of leadership leadership. They're self-interested, they're conniving, they're doing backroom deals and stuff. And so absolutely we should be concerned about that. And of course with the newer movement that most of us just kind of came to began to came to grip come to grips with this past year This social justice wokeism kind of a thing, um where if you're of European descent and therefore you have less melanin than others and particularly if you're older and a male, you are guilty. You are guilty and there's no redemption from that. You just are. You are a racist, quote unquote Period. And there's nothing you can do about it. There's no rescue from your racistness. And we should push back and be upset about the whole cultural Stuff that's going on. But I listed all those things provide examples of if our focus is there, do we have even more concern on those same issues For the bride of Christ. Do you find yourself having more sorrow and sadness when there's division among the citizenry than there is among the membership of Christ's church? Do you find yourself spending more time in prayer about the lies that are being told by the media and the horrible leadership that we have in our government? And even if it's positioned in a positive, that we're praying for our government leaders, which we should do or commanded to. Are we praying for our church leadership with as much, I would say, more earnestness? Are we concerned about the deception that's being passed off as truth by the pastors and teachers and And Sunday school leaders and that sort of stuff and these these electronic ministries. Do we have more concern for that and what it's doing to the church than than it's doing to our culture and our society? in our country? And are we concerned about the social justice movement because you know it sounds mean and and wrong and Uh but we're what we're not even more concerned about how that's affecting the proclamation of the gospel inside the church? Because if we start teaching That in the church, that's completely contrary to the gospel. It says that Christ took upon him all sins. So even if it's true that somebody who's older and white of European descent Even if that's true, that that makes them uh ethnocentric and hateful towards people who are different from them, even if Christ bears the burden of death sin at the cross, too. So why would we want anybody preaching a message that says White people are guilty. It's all there is to it. And you gotta go forgive. Uh you gotta go ask for forgiveness from everybody. And they can forgive you, but you're not really off the hook because you can't escape it. That's what the whole woke movement is about. So are we more concerned about the cultural impact of the woke movement, or are we more concerned about the church impact of the woke movement? I just think it might talk to us about where our heart really is. If we're praying more and concerned more and talking more and spending our time more on things that have to do with the government and the media and the cultural movements and what's happening in Hollywood and all that sort of stuff and not focusing even more time and energy and care towards Christ's bride, our priorities are misplaced. It doesn't mean we don't care about the other things. What I'm saying is those go on a lower shelf, and the concerns of Christ and his bride go on an upper shelf. And I'm not sure that that's mostly what I'm saying. I see. And to be honest, I can I'm convicting myself as well as I say these things. There are too many moments when I get wrapped up in the happenings of the world and my concerns are tied up in the things of the world. And we need to be concerned about the things of the church, because the church is salt and light in the world. If the church is doing what's right and true, then the world benefits from that. And if we're so busy worrying about the world, we're neglecting the church, there's a reason why they tell you when you're on a plane, the masts fall from the sky, to put the mast on your own face first before you worry about taking care of your kids. If the church isn't taken care of first, it's of no use to the world. So I'm not saying the world doesn't need that gas mask too. But we're not going to be in a position to give it the gas mask that it needs if we haven't taken care of being guardians of the truth in the church. So, a lot of people watching online, if you feel like you're in a church where your pastor's lost his way, his way. Have a conversation with him. Share your concerns. Hear him out. Maybe you're wrong in your concerns. Maybe he will show you how no no no. What are you talking about? And you'll be persuaded. And he'll be in and he'll be proven righteous. But if he's not, you know, there's church discipline avenues and different church government issues you can deal with there. And I would encourage you to uh to not stand idly by because i'm telling you if it didn't hit you between the eyes when i read it and then when i drove it home in the the sermon, if you don't do anything about these false teachers in your church, it's not only them that stands guilty before God. If you don't do anything about it, you're guilty too. So in love, I share that truth with you. We've got to do better. And we will do better because Christ's church wins. Anyway, I guess we'll close with a word of prayer. Sure. Heavenly Father, thank you so much that you win, you won your victory. Victorious, that your church will always prevail. It's a promise, and we thank you for that. That it's not up to us, but in the same breath, it is up to us. the sense to repent and to hold one another accountable in the body of Christ. I pray that you would strengthen your body, that you would pour out the Holy Spirit Spirit to encourage us, to strengthen us, that we would have the boldness to confront the lies, the to do this unabashedly but also with love. We know that this power comes from you. And it's in this power that we pray. Lord Jesus in his name amen. Amen. Next week we're gonna look at the tail end of 2 Johns. So we're going to continue our series through the Epistles of John next week for those who uh paid attention and uh uh stayed with us all this time. Appreciate it. Thank you. And I see uh hallelujah, somebody says, or hallelujah right back at you. God bless.