In a stocky curvy world, he sometimes wished there was something he could know for sure. We change the answer to our minds, they race, we search for someone we can depend on, we wonder if anyone is listening. We forget things that we once thought we had learned And even those who were once lost and are now found, we still recognize that we have moments where we're disoriented, we're unsure of just exactly where we are. Exactly who we are and whose we are. In times like these we too often see satisfaction and assurance in things and situations that disappoint and confuse us If only I get the right job, then I don't know. If only uh I find the right spouse, then I don't know. If only I studied harder, then I'll know. If only I was drawing to find myself, then I'll know. Well, if only I had more money, had more time, have more patience, have more luck, have more sense, have more stuff, have more space, then I would know. If only then I know. I know Rosenforskin. The Christian life sure would be easier, wouldn't it, if somebody would just tell us what we need to know You know, maybe they do write it down somewhere for us. Maybe refer back to it from time to time. And remind ourselves. You know, maybe they could even uh write it down as sort of a love letter even that'd be great, wouldn't it? Like that. A love letter telling us what we really need to know to read Really experience living. That's what we want. Perhaps. It's what we need for sure. And in God's perfect providence, He has given us just this through the pen of the apostle children. John. Tonight we are coming together as God's people to sing together, pray, and confess, and rejoice, and learn and proclaim As God's people, through a sermon that examines 1 John chapter 5, verses 13 through 21, and the portion of John's letter of love to his brothers and sisters in Christ, and I am so excited to bring God God's work to you again this week, and I thank you for the opportunity of being invited here to share it with you again here at Fairview Chapel. For those who don't know, my name is Froyd I'm the pastor of Council of Faith in Christ, Denise Frederick, and I'm also the host of the Frederick Faith Debate program. It's been airing for 17 years on 9. 30 a. m. WFMD, Sunday, March. Morning nine o'clock. So most of you I've seen before, perhaps all of you have seen before, most of these faces look pretty darn familiar. And uh my my mostly know my wife Dina, she's uh involved in a family celebration this weekend, so she couldn't be And so because she's not here, uh we're not gonna have Dina doing sort of special music what she's done for us now of times in the past, so it kind of decided to do you guys remember the good old fashioned hymn saying? You know, people kind of shout out a hymn number or an end title where they like So we're not gonna do a ton of singing today, but the song will be saying we let the Holy Spirit lead us. So if you've got a particular song on your heart, so it's in the hymnal The one of the few evils? Uh the evil I don't know where we were supposed to be true to the staff, but I still need to know every song in there. No s nothing we're going to sleep. But uh so is there something anybody steal the lead for us all to uh sing together What? Because you live in the U. Oh, I think it's one sixty nine. I've been playing these for a little while. And she was right. Those who were uh able, if you stand and uh as we sing together or praise and worship to God, we wish that we're gonnagether as a corporate body here. We might be listening. I believe we won't go. We are in the way. Oh maybe the same thing. I can praise more we are to be all bearing. I don't know we all did not be alone. And then one delivery. I'll go in the world. I want my gun. Because we all And by this word your shall be not in the world. Sometimes we're so focused on the melody making sure we sing on P and all that we don't really internalize the words. And uh said, oh doesn't it? God sent his son. They called him Jesus. He came to love, heal, and forgive. He lived in God to buy my pardon. Empty grave is there true. My state here lives. So we've got some uh Church business to take care of. Who's taking care of that? Thank you very much for coming by the way Next week we're having our beloved Teresa here, which is uh do Susan Wesley, Susan Wesley? Well Tariqa won't be able to Tariqa won't be here. Susanna Wesley will be here. Yeah, I'm really sorry to miss it. It's gonna be really cool to know. That's pretty much all we've got for you. Okay. Well then, um we're gonna do here is we're gonna blend some things because I want to give us as as much time to have um uh as much time as your patience will allow for us guys in group prayer at the end of what we're doing and so um I'm kinda going oddball uh uh worship orders here today a little bit to consolidate and blend some things together. So what we're gonna do is we're we're gonna take up the offerings and support the ministry here at Verduk Chapel. So it's responsible for it for gathering that. While the offering is being gathered up, I'm going to actually pray over the offering, pray for those who are offering it, pray for what's happening tonight and all of that, and then we'll get into the And so don't be you can whoever you can walk around on praying and think God will stand. Yes, thank you for reminding me. And in the prayer we're gonna all again for those who are able to stand on the city of Doc College. John, can you back like that? Father, we thank you for the presence of your Holy Spirit. For you through your spirit eliminating our minds, softening our hearts, bringing us receptively receiving your truth flying into our lives. Help us, Lord, to worship you rightly. We have to bless this act of Worship that's happening right now is people give their kind and offerings for the ministry here at Verview Chapel. This is an act of worship and we know that's your blessing. now five three ten and one place about tests you say. So we we wait for it back with test and We ask your blessing on the word to be preached, that it would be faithful and true to your word, that you would be magnified We would come to know who Jesus is more clearly, and that we would know who we are in Christ if we indeed are Christians. And it's anyone here this evening who does not yet have a saving relationship that they can acknowledge having Jesus Christ with praying. We tricked their hearts that tonight would be a very special Nice indeed. We thank you so much for all that you've done for us. We thank you for your patience with us as we work to overcome those Thank you for your person. Praise God from all the things alone. Greatness here before. Sometimes you just know You know? You have a certainty in your gut. But more than this, you have experience. You've been shown some things. You've learned some things. And there are facts. And they back up what you believe. There's a cold, hard truth. And you grasp it. You have every reason to know. And so you know. You just no, you really do, no. And if you don't Well you should. You can. Or in the words of the Apostle John, you may. You may know that you have This is a major theme in one of John's New Testament letters, the book of the Bible we refer to As 1 John. And he wants you to know that you may know that you have eternal life. of Jesus Christ. And you may know this because having Christ's follower, you do have to have light. It's true. And so you may know this. Yes, sir. John is so insistent on making this point that he uses the word no nearly four dozen times in verse 9. This is one of the shorter books in the Bible. It contains just one hundred and five verses in all This means that on across John uses the word no approximately every two verses. That's a lot annoying. And this pattern is even more prominent in today's passage that we're going to be looking at more specifically, 1 John chapter 5, verses 13 through 21, which you're invited to grab and open up. We're going to read together here. If you're not familiar, most of you probably are, but some of you can use this another Gospel of John's. This was 1 John, so it's later in the Bible, 12nd, 3rd John. If you're looking for the last one chapter of 1 John. And as you read this, you're going to notice the word no talking up over and over again. That many times. in these final nine verses of his letter. Here's what God's Word says to us. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God. So that you may know that you have eternal life. This is the confidence we have in approaching God, that if we act anything according to His will He hears us. And if we know that he hears us whatever we ask, we know that we have what we ask of him. If you see any brother or sister commit a sin that does not lead you to death, you should pray. And God will give you life. I refer to those whose sin does not lead to death. There is a sin that leads to death. I'm not saying that you should worry about that. All wrongdoing is sin. And there's sin that does not leave. Because anyone born of God does not continue to sin. The one who is born of God keeps the safe, and the evil one cannot harm them We know that we are children of God and the whole world is under the control of the evil one. We know also that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding understanding, so that we may know him who is true. And we are in him who is true by being in his Son, Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life. Dear children, keep yourselves This is the inspired and therefore inerrant and infallible Word of God, which is a perfect rule and guide for faith in life practice. So you know how many times I preach here at Beverly Chapel So eleven and coming today, even though even does it. Oh, three are thank you. And counting today eight of these twelve sermons have drawn the gospel message from the first epistle of the book of John. It's two-thirds of the messages that I've done here. And as I reviewed all the sermons that I have shared with you over the years, it was interesting for me to see That I have covered with the people here at Perview Chapel all of 1 John except for the ending. We haven't yet made fun until today. 1 John chapter 5, verses 3 thirteen through twenty-one. So you probably can imagine. I'm very excited to finally finish my series on your sky. Accounting today has taken eleven years. That their first sermon was back in 2010. But we've finally gotten there. Anyway, as I reviewed my notes for those first seven sermons, and as I reread 1 John for like 17th time. I found my mind wandering deep into my past. And it wasn't because I was losing focus. It was actually because I was gaining a clarity in focus. So let me tell you what it was, where my mind was running off to, and I'm going to tell you why. It went there. It was approximately a little over 30 years ago that I met my wife, Tina, and I proposed to her about two years after that And we work in the radio business and so forth, I propose to arrive on the air. And I recorded it so I was able to transcribe it and preserve it, and I'm going to share with you what I So here's what I said. A friend of mine in Illinois getting married in time for lines. He caught a few of his friends off guard in the announcement. He told me that one of his friends asked him how he knew that the woman he had just gotten engaged to was a woman that he was meant to spend the rest of his life with. He said, he used to ask that same question. How will I know when I found the right one, the one that's perfect for me? And he was told by someone else, those So when his friend asked him that question, he answered, I just know it. In fact, of course, he wasn't very satisfied with the answer. You wanted to know, what do you mean I wanted to know? How will I know? When will I know? What are the signs and symptoms? The Gods. There are signs and symptoms and signals. But there are so many, and they're so strong, that they're almost beyond, they actually are beyond the ability of the human mind to fully comprehend, at least on the plane that being used to human This kind of thing that goes to the farthest reaches of our ability to comprehend. We have such a fragile grasp on Such a newness of feeling that we can't adequately describe or explain to someone else what the whole thing is all about. And thus we get the answer. Well, I used to know. I found that special someone. She's the most beautiful person I've ever known. The most beautiful person I could possibly know. She is absolutely gorgeous, but the depth of her beauty gives me inside. Her love, caring, kindness, and simple goodness are so genuine and so deep that at first you can't believe she's real. comparing it to others quickly fall flat because there's no other person alive about heart by tricks. Generous thoughts permeate your entire She doesn't want to just wish others well. She sacrifices a part of herself to make those wishes come true. She's Special. She makes me feel special. I love everything I've got. And just when I think I couldn't possibly love her more, I do. I find more love Deeper love than before. She's the one I'll spend the rest of my life in loving, and with her continue to find new levels of life. I've tried here to adequately explain my feelings and the word, but no matter what words I find, they just don't do her or my feelings justice. Let me say again that I know she's the one because I just know. I wish I could scream from all the rooftops in the whole world how wonderful life is for me now. But no building is tall enough and my place wouldn't carry far enough. But working in radio how this works. It allows me to effectively shout all of the rooftops at the same time. And it allows me for all of the world as my witness to declare my And to ask her, Dina Piero Casolino, to spend the rest of her And my side. As my wife. And to allow me to stand at her side forever as her husband. Um sorry try to do this one. You can make me the happy man. In the world except in the screen. And she didn't say I know. First she sort of laughed kind of giddily and she expressed some surprise at me having kind of ambush her arrive on the air But then she said yes, and then she quickly added that she felt the need verse to go throw up. I take that as a good sign. Anyway, why did I share that proposal with you? Because I recall that feeling of knowing. And I recall using the word know almost as much as John does. in his letter to us. And the knowing is somewhat similar. Knowing that we are loved, knowing that there's so many sacrifices For us, who is caring, kind, good. And it's hard to always find the right words to express. How this makes one feel, how this changes for the better, how it impacts the world around us. So as you can tell from the proposal to Dinah, my wife, she presents me with a picture of Christ. And oh how I hope more times than not that I do the same. for her. And if you're married, I hope your spouse does this for you, or I hope that they once did this for you, if they've since passed on. If you're unmarried or you know somebody who's unmarried looking to get married, well you need to make sure they understand that what they're looking for is someone who they can grow with As the two challenge and support one another to increasingly represent Christ to one another and to the watching world So with this as our backdrop, let's dive into the text. First John chapter five, thirteen through fifteen. So the first three verses of our passage they say I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. This is the confidence we have in approaching God. That if we ask anything according to you, His will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us, whatever we ask, we know that we have what we ask of him. Verse thirteen is the thesis statement for the entire letter. John tells us, I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that You may know that you have eternal life. This is why he has written what he has written. He wants you to know, believers, that you don't believe in name. You have eternal life. You are loved. As true believers, you don't merely acknowledge that Jesus existed, or simply give a sense of the idea that Jesus is the Christ You believe in the name, it says, in the name of the Son of God There is power in the name, authority in the name, the authority of the Son of God, the Son of God. This is the one in whom you believe and trust and follow and depend for God has brought you to this place so that you may now Know that you have eternal life. This is the gift of our covenant-making God with His covenant people. This is not merely some lovey-dummy soft and squishy personalized experience with God. I mean yes, he does love you specifically. But as a particular member of his corporate people, his Israel, his church, his bride. Interestingly, like Dina was in his mind. And with me and Dina, there's kind of more of a one-on-one thing going on there, but For Christ, his bride is the elect, the entire group that comprises his covenant people. And this is actually why the pronouns in verses 13 through 15, they are corporate pronouns. And it's a little difficult to see the English translation because of the way our language works compared to But when you see the word you in your English Bible here, these particular verses, what's really being said in the original Greek, not yellow high-looting on you, but the original Greek saying y'all. Y'all. Yeah. And verses uh eighteen through the end we're gonna see that everything is plural once again. We're gonna see the word we popped up recurrently along with uh us. Words like that, other words. So what does this mean for you? Well it means that as a Christian, you are part of this group. This is a group that God has promised to be with forever. And this can be us confidence. In verses 14 and 15, we see that we can actually approach God. We can approach Him. Do we appreciate this enough? He is a jealous God Who justly maintains his holiness, he righteously guards his honor No first is sounding a bit heretical. Let's imagine God for a moment. Guarding his honor, guarding his holiness. Let's imagine him. Again, I don't like him Let's imagine as a guard dog. Let's imagine as a uh great big off the wild ladder. Sharp teeth, powerful punches and uh vice break for John, but penetration went into the eyes. Are you imagining this imposing unpredictable dart dog? picture in your mind right now. Okay, well now. Maybe approaching. Go ahead and reach out your hand. Well, right out. Come on, even more than the growl and the snarl and the the bark and the thangs. What do you mean for? I mean, sure the rock water, I guess you could rip off your arm, but who's got another one? Right? You really need both legs? Need all of your skin? Really need all those pints of blood kept safely inside your body? Now you're not afraid of rock ladder, because not everybody's afraid of rock. Imagine something that does scare the behibis out of you. And then I think you'll get the point. It is appropriate For us to remember, God's not safe, but he is good to those who are his. Eric for the C. S. Lewis. He is good to those who are his. And so his church can't approach him. Without fear. And when we do, we can know that He hears us. And He grants us what we ask as His church And he keeps us safe because his church is made up of his children. And he gives understanding revealed in Christ to those who are themselves in Christ. So what is this that we in the church have no one out to understand? Well, if the church has to raise him according to his will, But God hears us. Simple enough, but what is his will? His will is that his church go and make disciplines. That his church goes forth and be fruitful and multiply. That we yield to his word, that we love one another, that we love even our enemies. That we announce the kingdom of heaven This is God's will. So when we evangelize and the chosen of God to respond to the call of God on their life, we can know that God hears us. The church has been given the keys to the kingdom after all, which we know from the book of Matthew, chapter 16, verse 19. And this applies in an important way to our individual prayer lives too. Verses 16 and 17. They're not addressing the corporate church generally as were those other verses that point out. But these verses, we're talking about you and I as a church, particularly. Not plural, but singular in these verses. As a reminder, if you see any brother or sister commit a sin that does not lead to death, you should pray and God will give the life. I refer to those whose sin does not lead to death. There is the sin that leads to death, but I'm not saying just pray about that. All wrong knew is sin, and there is a sin that's not leading to that. Okay, so let's slow down here. This is one of those passages that can tend to be photo lay by the reader. What is John meaning to say in this section? We pray for those who don't need it, but don't pray for those who do need it. This can't be what he means, but this is how some actually puzzle over John's statement. Now, the first half of verse 16 seems to say, pray for the fellow Christians who sin in a not very serious manner. So life is their offensive that it doesn't even lead to death. And the last data seems to say that if anyone is in danger of death, yeah, don't worry about that. Is this what John means? It can't be. And the happy news is that this is not what John means. He's not talking here about specific types of categories of sin at all. It's just like murder, that's a really bad sin, and gossiping that's a relatively high sort of That's not what he's talking about here. And we know this for sure based upon the context of the rest of this letter. And also the context of our entire biblical canon. Which tells us the wages of sin is death. And all believers, they understand this. The Apostle Paul states it flatly in Romans chapter 6, verse 23, where he's just hitting death. So there's no acceptable level of sin that does not yield death as its result. Wages are what is Pay. Deaths are things we pay. The wages of sin, death. Sin brings a debt, and it must be paid for. Sin always results In death. So is there a typo in our Bibles? Some sort of a trans Description error? Did John make a mistake? Well we can rest assured there is no mistake here John knew, and in part because of him, we know the death for sin has been made. It has been taken full by Jesus Christ for those who follow him. This in fact is the good news. So while sin does result in death, when Jesus absorbs the penalty for his people, then sin does not result In death. God the Father's people, trusting that God's Son has rescued them from the path of death. are now led down the path that gives life. Led down this path by God's Holy Spirit. And through faith. And when the church And thus, when the church prays, we should pray that God's people be reminded of this truth. As for the sin that leads to death that we do not need to pray about Well first let me say that it might be kind of important to notice that God's word here is not commanding us never to pray in those situations. This isn't a man like we see. What we read here is permission to focus on prayers that will bring God's chosen people into reconciliation with their creators. Rather than focusing on those who might stubbornly remain unrepentant, refusing to allow Jesus to pay their debt This is the sin that leads to that. Because the nature of that sin is to reject the life preserver. Yes. Right? Clinging themselves to idols of their own making. We can pray for those people, but John is telling us that he's not arguing that particular point right now in this letter. Instead of arguing for Christ's followers to maintain confidence that they really have What they think they have, what God has told them that they have in Christ Remember the thesis statement, verse 13. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. He wants you believers to know. We forget. And so he reminds us to remember and he calls us to pray for those who comprise Christ's church. They call back to the truth when they slip up. When we sin and speak life. And something for someone other than God Himself. So allow me to remind you one more time Brothers and sisters, we know him who is true. We know him who is true. And this gives us confidence at least it should We can have confidence in him far beyond the confidence we can have in anyone else. As we already talked about when praying, God hears his church. He hears us. Compare this to my situation at home. You know how many times Eno has said to me, You don't listen to me. You don't listen to me. Hi, Listen, it's just sometimes I don't hear her, yeah? And she used to drop these uh these huge, painfully obvious So what she would want me to buy for her as a birthday gift or a Christmas present or something like that. I say I'll do it every single time to get her what she would ask me for. No, it's uh hard to hear when I'm not listening. God's not like that. I like that. Here's what God is like. You ever see that movie courageous came out, I don't know what, five, ten years ago now? Kendrick Brothers film? Well, the opening thing of courageous. I don't think you're gonna have to scene to understand the opening scene, so I'll walk you through it. Um there's appearance in the opening scene of pumping gas. And he gets distracted for a moment. While he's distracted, a thief jumps in to the front seat of this guy's truck and he begins to drive away. And so the daddy rolls down to the truck as fast as he can. He just barely catches onto it, hanging on the side, hanging on for dear leg that the driver was feeding Swerving the truck around trying to shake the guy loose. That's not working. She reaches through the robbers and smash the guy in the face multiple times. The guy will not let go. And then finally the trauma comes to a striking halt when it runs into a tree, and thankfully the lives are lost, but it is a crazy Scene. It is a crazy scene of crazy love. The thought that he was willing to risk everything. Why? Because his baby child was in the back seat. Because of his love. This is the kind of heavenly father we have. He holds his people in his protection. He saves his people, spiritually, ultimately, physically too. And he does this as statement. So God hears us. He holds us And he humbles us. It is humbling to truly know who God is. Like Saul, who later came to be known as Paul, is on the Damascus Road in Acts chapter 9, and when he comes to know Christ, understand that he is true. He is the truth. Paul's old. Drops to the ground, calls Jesus Lord. I remember years ago, I was just getting started in the radio business. And I had an opportunity to visit the studios of WLUP in Chicago, the Loop. It is a legendary station in the business. historic and the production facilities there were dazzling. I was memorized. And I felt kind of unworthy. As I stood inside this great heritage radio station, which had produced some of the most compelling and innovative programming of this generation He was humble being in the station. How much more so being in In Christ. Those of us in Christ, what do we know? What does God reveal to us? Well, let's look. 1 John 5, verses 18-12. We know that anyone born of God does not continue to sin. The one who is born of God keeps them safe And the evil one cannot harm them. We know that we are children of God, that the whole world is under the control of the evil one. We know also that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding, so that we may know him who is true. We are anything of this truth. By being in his Son, Jesus Christ, He is the true God and eternal life. This is what we know, for sure. Yes, the world is a rock in place sometimes because it's under the influence of the evil one. And we know that sometimes we give in to the temptations of our flesh and are still broken, not fully sanctified with human nature, and so we sadly And all too frequently we'll sin. But we know, as those rescued by Christ, that we do not continue in sin. We don't continue. That was the main theme in a previous message I shared here probably five years ago. We don't continue because that's a faith We are his children. To his children, he has given understanding. And so the evil one can do us no ultimate harm. We are protected. By being in the body of Christ. The church, that is what's called the body of Christ Christ, the bride of Christ. Christ is the true eternal God, giving us true eternal life. Real life. Christian life is real life. Accept no substitute. Jesus Christ, the Son of God Most High, He is the way. The truth and the life. In and through him we know the way. We know the truth. We know the life. We know our Creator is the real God. Jesus Christ is the true God Have eternal life. Except no substitute. As John writes in the final sentence of the letter, dear children, keep yourself smiles. Accept those substances. And know that you who believe in the name of the Son of God You may know that you have eternal life. Amen. Amen. I'm gonna close us in prayer, but you're actually gonna join me as we close in prayer. So you might remember in this sort of a setting when there's not like hundreds of people in this you know uh uh enough people to do this style of prayer, I like to do it. I call it uh a popcorn prayer when people pop in with their prayers in sequence. So if this is a new concept view or maybe reminded, I'm going to open us uh with a short prayer and then I'm going to pause and then whoever feels left to pray aloud, pray aloud, and then in turn, anybody else who feels left, just pray aloud, pray aloud. If you're not comfortable or able to pray loud or whatever and you want to praise happy that's fine, but just know that you give me the prayers of others that are loud is real blessing. identifying to others from here. So I'm encouraging you, there's no pressure done some patient will. And after a period of time has passed, then I'll close us the prayer and we will uh we'll see another handle if you're choosing. So let's go before the five third prayer. Heavenly Father, you are an amazing God We can only begin to try to fathom the depth of your majesty. We thank you that you Has seen it fit and right to reveal yourself to us in a way that we can comprehend. You've done this for your creation. You've done this in a specific way, in your special revelation, in your written word, provides. We thank you for your stewardship and care of this written word. Generation, we still have files today that we can trust as for authoritative work and that we can press it into study and understand and then apply. To our lives as we look to be witnesses to a lost world and to be encouragers to our fellow brothers and sisters to be reminded that we have True love. But we can know this, have every reason to know this. You have made this sure for us. Sometimes we doubt. And we get a little wildly have a bit of a lack of assurance, a lack of trust, perhaps, in your continued protection provision we ask that you would forgive us. Moments of the flat faithfulness. But we praise you and thank you that you sustain us and carry us through. We thank you for this gathering here today. I ask you lesson on each and every individual who is here participating in this hour of worship, particularized worship as your bride. And Lord now here encourages having just heard that when your church prays and hear us. And so Lord, we boldly and confidently come before your Without fear. These praise you in your love. Lord, thank you for hearing the praise you. Father, we thank you and praise you for your word. Not only that, but for people who can speak it Thank you. We praise you for the ability to be here together and worship as a family of the God. Christ in person and uh in a world that is just dominated by virtuality right now, and you know We praise you for the amazing weather and the light experiences and stories of everybody here who led them to this place at this time They could share their life and their experiences to help us grow and probably you would help us to learn how to When we turn away from you, when we have idols, when we don't follow the way of Jesus in our daily life, and not only that we don't follow the We just we don't strive enough to be more fanatical about being like Jesus that that you will help us turn back to you. We ask you for help with that And even the smallest decisions that we make each and every day. And God, we yield to you right now just to hear what you have to say to us about gaining wisdom. And experience in life so that we can do those things better each and every day. In Jesus' name. Thank you. Lord, I was so blessed to sing the healthy lives because that second verse, how sweet to hold a newborn baby and know that I just give thanks for the birth of baby Ivy Caroline and for the little baby And my own family and Lord just I'm so grateful and just give you all the praise, my Lord Thank you, Lord Jesus, for the past through with us in the memory of going through I'm just not ready to go. And is there much more I want to do for you, Lord? I want to lose my friend with you. So continue my life as you say. I Thursday I had a mini stroke and it was not that I Experienced before and asked for her for that. And that I can continue on this road of righteousness that spreading his truth and it's great commission. I just thank you still here. Jesus. Lord, look at the people that are usually here but can't be here for whatever reason. Listen to Joe and Sonia and Debbie and Mark. At least I'm scared to I know there are people that I'm not thinking about who are not going to know that they were low whether they're here or not. And I'm afraid that they can join us as soon as they can. Thank you, Jesus. That be with God too. Jesus' name. Thank you, Lord. So did freeze. Thank you, Lord. I guess so. Well I I know many who are suffering from COVID right now and just put them to use Carla. Yes, for somebody who's straight up. Please be with them. Sonda, we additionally asked if he would give us an attitude of humility that we would maintain A posture of forgiveness towards those who hurt us in the culture. But uh he's not shy about slings and arrows and sharp bars and backing off with words that they given us a trust in their shaping responsibilities or obligations the way that they should, the way we might expect. We can oftentimes harbor seed every resentment. We pray that you would help us to exceed our path clear to forgiving them as you forgive us. Not to surrender to certain wisdom in the process, but to not harbor Peter and Moscow anymore. Lord, we ask that you would Strengthen your church, they will become more beautiful, more becoming to you at least asking day and will be brave and strong Fearless of our needs. Do we trust your provision, your protection? Do we trust That you will give us the words we need when in difficult situations and when looking to advance the cause of the kingdom. Now we pray with you. And since your kingdom is already here, Jesus our Lord said, Repent for the kingdom of God is at hand. And so we as your people Busy about the work. That's your blessing. Everyone is return home or is it traveling shoot here voluntarily? And to bring everyone back and even more safely next week. And that we will live Christy's own God-honoring submissive life to your spirit from the day It's Christ and pray. Alright, so who's got a hymn that wants us to stay? Number two. Number two. That's very well. No feel so. And in my own life, you're God to be able to make I went to the world and for a long and in the Prending my goal morning. I mean, I know how to be honest, I still When Christ shall come, we shall be shall have you all. When I happen to go there with a role and I don't even know how to have a break, but how much three? Everyone can read standing for the benediction if you like. Um this is a passage I've used in the past as a call to worship. I've chosen as a benediction because I would like for us to be reminded that all of life is worship. So when you leave these doors, you're just entering So consider this a call to you as you enter the mission field that surrounds us. This is from verse 1 Chronicles chapter 16, I'm reading verses 8 through 13. Give thanks to the Lord, call on his name, make known among the nations what he has done. Sing to him, sing praise to him, tell of all his wonderful acts. Glory in his holy name. Let the hearts of those who seek the Lord be the Lord and His strength. See his face always. Remember the wonders he has done, his miracles, and the judgments he pronounced. O descendant of Israel, the servants, O sons of Jacob, his chosen ones. And verse fourteen, He is the Lord our God. Exit here is evening, go in peace. I mean end of the first I believe was also Thank you all so much. I appreciate that. Thank you so much. Now we know. Number of 12 times.