Alright, well thanks for your patience. So let me start by starting setting the stage for you this evening. Christ's Church, in case you haven't noticed, is under attack. Uh spirituality uh is uh the the in vogue these days. We are spiritually attacked Interestingly, with questions that we are too often ill-equipped to answer, and we should be better equipped, like, what is truth? What is love? What is the church? What is it to do in a world that's filled with fake news? Can anyone believe anything anymore? Can even God be trusted? These are what those who challenge the faith like to ask Christ's followers. They're essentially asking us, did God really say? This is the state of affairs in the 21st century. However, it is nothing new. It was the state of affairs in the first century, too. The Apostle John wrote a letter to us way back then. In fairness, I guess he didn't exactly have us in mind. He had a different group of believers in mind, specifically when he penned what we now call 2nd John But it's clear to even contemporary readers that God had us in mind when this letter was written about 1950 years ago or so. Christ's church is home to the truth and to love, and this is because it is home to Christ. And Christ is Himself, truth. And love. It's no wonder then that the Antichrist works to undermine Christ's church with lies and division that are brought into the church. Into our midst by deceivers and false teachers. People of God must beware, we must remember What Jesus teaches his followers. And this is what we're talking about this evening here. We're going to be looking at 2 John. We're going to cover almost the entire letter. So if you want to bookmark your Bibles for later so you can follow along, I'd encourage you to do that. We'll be looking at 2 John verses 1 through 11. And a spoiler alert and I steal my own thunder on the sermon. Believers, we must diligently be on guard, but Antichrist losers. Mm-hmm. Because Christ wins. So if everyone is uh comfortable doing so, let's stand and sing our first hymn, which is four sixty-seven. Uh true-hearted, whole-hearted. Those who are able to stand, if you would, I guess. If you can't stand, totally understandable. There you are, people can read the money, And we're all through all the way. We're all here. If I bring them all from middle and Under the Lord Light the Brand, Everyone would remain standing for a moment while I read from God's Word. This is Leviticus chapter 19, verses 11 through the first half of verse 19. Do not steal, do not lie, do not deceive one another, do not swear falsely by my name, and so profane the name of your God, I am the Lord. Do not defraud or rob your neighbor. Do not hold back the wages of a hired worker overnight. Do not curse the deaf or put a stumbling block in front of the blind. But fear your God, I am the Lord. Do not pervert justice, do not show partiality to the poor or favoritism to the great, but judge your neighbor fairly. Do not go about spreading slander among your people. Do not do anything that endangers your neighbor's life I am the Lord. Do not hate a fellow Israelite in your heart. Rebuke your neighbor frankly, so you will not share in their guilt. Do not seek revenge or bear a grudge against anyone among your people, but love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. Keep my decrees. This is the inspired and errant infallible word of God, and as such, it is a fully sufficient rule and guide for faith and life practice, those with an ear-to-hear. Left them here. Everyone may be seated. And I forgot to ask at the beginning who was going to hand over the announcements, but typically there's some announcements to share, so who's got that duty this week? My pleasure. We're gonna have this switch around Jane's light and we'll be the fellow All right, short and sweet. I wish I could tell you the sermon will be the same. Sweet perhaps. I don't know how short it'll be. So I know that there's usually a couple of people that are responsible for taking up a collection to help to support the uh the ministry here at Fairview Chapel. So whoever has those responsibilities if you'd like to get prepared to do that What we're going to do, if if you've been here on Sunday evenings when I've been here before, we often have something going on during the collections, and we're going to be doing that this time, but not anything we've done before when I've been here While we're taking up the collection, I want us to spend time meditating on God's blessings in our life. That gives us the ability to give back to him a small portion of what he gives to us. us. He is a good, good God, and we spend too little time in contemplation and prayer meditation really focusing on bringing him glory. So while the collection is taken up. If we could have take some time to do that. Once the collection is done, after a period of time for meditation is over, the uh the uh offering will be brought forward and we will sing the doxology uh together and pray over the offering at that point So whoever's got those duties. I think if if you don't mind, I think just uh some silent meditation would be my preference for for now. It won't be too awkward, I hope. Everyone who is able, if you wouldn't mind standing as we sing the doxology as the offerings are brought forward, is there a hymn number that goes with this? You guys just all know it by heart by this point. Praise him all preachers, praise him all God Grace God is done for me. Father in heaven, you are such a wondrous God that our words fail us. But we ask that you would accept not only our words but this offering as well. our meager means that are just a small fraction of the glorious wondrous bounty that you have given to us. We ask that you would help those that are responsible for stewarding these funds to do so with wisdom and discernment. put to good use for the advance of your kingdom causes and that um those who have given here and that those who have given in spirit and in prayer and meditating as well upon your provision in our lives uh would experience the blessings of that, the uh the reminder of the eternal blessings that await. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. I think we should maybe sing a song. How about hymn number one ninety-six? Trust and obey. Well, that's a fan. When we all know the Lord, in the mind of the word, for we can all our way, while we We apply up to when all you will come and no day, come no day, for no one. My girl can wise, not in those guys, one is all many well. But we there, not the reason, but the wind of Christian. Why we never can do that in life that beautiful. And the joy is those for trust and no way. Trust and no way. For there's no other way to be happy and demonstrated, or you shall make the We will say that we see for this I will do And since we will never fear only trust and no ways, trust and no race for no one. Other way to be happy and Jesus on the draws and overway. Everyone may be seated. So This won't be a surprise to those of you who've had me here before, have seen me here before. We're going to have our time of prayer as a corporate group And with a group this size, I like to have everybody who's comfortable praying aloud participate. So we do what's called a popcorn style prayer. So I'm going to need somebody maybe to volunteer to open us in prayer, and then I will close. And in between that, everyone who's comfortable praying aloud is invited and encouraged to do so. If you've never prayed aloud before, you know, maybe today is a good time to do that for the first time and stretch your wings out a little bit and see if you can fly. And if you're just not there for whatever reason, uh you can certainly lift your prayers and petitions silently and be in agreement with those prayers that you uttered. So is there somebody that would like to open us? I mean let's pray. Father God, we come into your house to praise and adore you Your word says to not have any anxiety but to come to you with um thanksgiving and supplication and Lord We just we do that right now. We come to you with thanksgiving and praise. And we are just so privileged to come into this house of worship. So Lord, tonight I carry it with me the sadness of hearing that two young people passed away and uh they were different families, different places that you know them more and you know these families so I ask for your comfort and your ease to surround you that's in a status room. Dear God, I I thank you for my uh wonderful And uh thank thank you for keeping Chelsea safe during the delivery and recovery. She's experiencing some postpartum depression now, so please help her to get through that and feel us the joy of her child. Jesus, I just thank you for my friend George Ford that just asked you to help her read Connect with me so we can continue speaking about you or she said she may have an opportunity in our heart to open it up to you. Lord, there is so much sorrow in the world, even our small Jesus says, don't let us take our eyes off of you. You will bring us through this no matter what it is And I just continue to list up various things that that all of us have that uh that lead you that lead you directly right in the Netherlands And I just thank you because I know you hear it and I know you will do what you think of. Thank you. She just I just want to ask that you continue to let Ella feel your presence and let her family feel your presence as she's continuing cancer treatment. And that we feel And Lord, I want to thank you for family and for being reunioned and enjoying that our I just want to thank you for this beautiful day that we have. It was so nice to be able to turn the air conditioner off and look at it. And I also lift up those sort of boss law ones when we have fans of people who we have managed. And I just asked you to watch Or I just able to come and especially not me, Lord Jesus, be with him. You're a peace or the fact that he's working. And where his body down the Lord Jesus and some days seem to be, you know they call them in all the time, so Lord Jesus I mean this is this church and just with the spirit more than kill your spirit all over again. Bring that storage on the early struggling for this actually I think that's the eighth of a salvation. We had to go see Lord then as your presence with praise and thanksgiving for it. The honor of glory goes right from yours. Oh, come before your son's Thanksgiving season, Lord. So I pray this evening if you get the family to talk about Just give them peace. Give them rest. Father, just give them comfort. Uh after healing. We should get the healing for our group for no call to them by the word to restore them and the faith. We give you praise. Thank you, Dad. your family which um might have take care of the new lesson take care of friends and all of them if you only need so much help from me I'll tell you this time she's oh when you're very poor someone But if I'm present or I think it's a right decision she didn't say Father, you are a wondrous God. With mercies for your people that are beyond measure, we praise you. Not just for what you do, but for who you are. We come humbly before you knowing that based on our own records, our own standing before you, you would have no right to expect you would hear our petitions, nor even accept our praise. We don't come standing on our own record, Lord. We come standing on the record of Jesus Christ, your son. And our words are adequate to express our boundless joy and the reality of that truth. Lord, we would ask your forgiveness for not being stalwart enough, often enough. In defending your truth, in demonstrating your love, and in walking the walk that Christians are called to walk We live in a community, in a nation, in a world that is broken and lost, looking for the truth, and we have that truth. We ask that your Holy Spirit would embolden your people to share that truth. Truth. We have a mission field all around us in what people are beginning to term a post-Christian culture. Lord, we ask your blessing upon your people. We are in a time when we need to feel an extra sense of fortification from you and your spirit. Put ourselves and our faith out there more so than we ever have before. We thank you for the opportunity this gives us to refine our beliefs. To lean upon each other as iron-sharpening iron. And to deepen the level of our trust, and therefore the level of hope and joy that we have in the promises to come. All these things we lift up to you, thanking you for hearing them, because you promised to hear the prayers and praises of your people when they are lifted up in accordance with your will. And we stand upon that promise in Christ's name. Amen. All right. I've asked Bo, or should I say Mr. Bo. to uh to read for us the passage we'll be focusing on in the sermon. So uh if you've got your Bibles it'll be a good time to open them up. 2nd John. So not to be confused with 1st or 3rd John or the Gospel of John, but 2nd John. Uh and we're gonna read almost the whole thing. It's only thirteen verses, the whole thing, and we're gonna read the first eleven verses. The elder, to the lady, chosen by God unto her children, whom I love and the truth. And not I only, but also all who know the truth. Because of the truth which lives in us and will be with us forever. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Father's Son, will be with us in truth. and love. It's given me great joy to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as the Father commanded us. And now, dear lady, I am not writing you as you command, but one we have had from the beginning. I ask that we love one another, and this as well, that we walk in obedience to his commands. As you have heard from the beginning, his commands is that you walk in love. I say this because many deceivers who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ has come into flesh. have gone out into the world. And he said first into the deceiver and the Antichrist, watch out that you do not lose what we have have worked for. So that you may be rewarded fully. Anyone who runs ahead and does not continue in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever continues in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not hear this teaching, do not take them into your house or welcome them. Anyone who welcomes them shares in their wicked work Thank you for the reading of God's Word. Once again I want to remind you, God's Word, it is inspired of God, and therefore does not fail, it is infallible, is without error Something we can fully trust to help us in our walk with the Lord is fully sufficient to guide us through life, guide us into true faith. And so those who have an ear to hear, let them hear. What is truth? This famous question is Tributed to Pontius Pilate in the Gospel of John in chapter 18, verse 38, and it still rings out in our culture today. An entire worldview has gained momentum in recent decades, which carries the label of postmodernism. In simple terms, it's the philosophy that holds that there is no truth, or at least there's no way for anyone to really know the truth. Everything is relative. You have your truth, I have my truth, if any of us can even truly hang on to our own truth You wrestle with questions like this? Or do you know some people that do? Yes. What is love? There are thousands of answers which have been postulated by the Love Is comic strip over recent decades. It's been around since the 1960s, this comic strip has. Ridgeley is pen by Grove Castle and it continues even now after her death under the pen name of Kim Castley And the comic strip continues, one might suppose, because, well, I think it turns out that the quest for understanding love, it means a little bit more than love is being able to say you're sorry Love is what gives you a smile from ear to ear. Love is turning his head. Love is going into meltdown when he kisses you. Well, do you wrestle with comprehending love? You know any people who do? What is falsehood? In an age that's seemingly intent on denying the very existence of truth, intent on redefining everything as being a mere social construct. including things like sexuality and ethnicity, which goes under the common label of race, biological sex, which has come to be known as gender Can anything even be called false anymore? And if so, can any of these false ideas be of any real importance? I mean, can false understandings cause problems Can false teachers be dangerous? Wrestle with questions such as these? Know anybody who might? Wherever you personally wrestle with questions about truth, love, and falsehoods, we have evidence that The Bride of Christ has faced these questions since the initial days of Christ's church. Part of this evidence is found in a letter that was written by the Apostle John. Most people believe it was written somewhere around A. D. 90. It's a book of the Bible we now call the Second Epistle of John, or sometimes Second John, or even to John for short. We've already read it together just what five minutes ago The whole book of the Bible here is only 13 verses long. We read eleven of those verses. In 1992, a very well-regarded movie came out. Most of you here are old enough to maybe remember when it came out. It's called A Few Good Men. is, believe it or not, celebrating its 30th anniversary next year. And Colonel Nathan Jessup Played by Jack Nicholson in the movie, he famously yells out, You can't handle the truth. One of the most iconic scenes in film history, really. He had been relentlessly pressed for the truth while he was sitting in a courtroom, and he was resistant to telling the truth. Now he knew the truth, but it was a difficult truth. It was a truth that in his mind others were not prepared to receive. They would never understand or they would misunderstand. And so Colonel Joseph he kept the truth to himself until that climactic moment when he blows his top. You can't handle the truth Can you handle the truth? If you are a Christ follower, you have no choice You must handle the truth. You have been called to be a caretaker and a and a defender and a pronouncer of the truth. So let's take a peek back here. First three verses of John's letter for a moment here is going to help to set the scene for why it is that I just said what it is that I just said. Second John 1 through 3, it says, the elder to the lady chosen by God and to her children whom I love in the truth. And not I only, but also all who know the truth, because of the truth which lives in us and will be with us forever. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father's Son will be with us in truth. and love. This letter is written by the elder, and it's widely accepted in the church that this elder is John, the apostle. Who would have been one of the disciples who was with Jesus during his three-year earthly ministry. And we can't really prove it, to be honest with you, but there's no real good reason to debate that point, certainly not right now in this context. We're moving forward with the assumption that the church has gotten it right all these years and that the Apostle John wrote this. And he's writing to a group of people who they believe in the mercy and the grace of Jesus Christ They believe in him as Savior and Lord, in large part probably because of John's teaching and perhaps some of his other writings. And he refers to this group as to say the lady chosen by God and her children. Now it's possible he's writing to just one particular lady And her particular family. But I believe, from the context is clear here, John, he is writing to a congregation of believers that's maybe not that much different than this congregation that's gathered here today. And given that Christians trust that the Bible is the Word of God. It's written and preserved for His people. Well then no matter who it is that John might have had in mind in that moment when he penned the letter, this book of the Bible it is for us today. Therefore, all Christian readers of 2 John should recognize that they are loved in truth. Loved by God for sure, and also by John, and also by all who know the truth. That's what it says. Which means that we're loved by other believers. As believers, we are part of the all who know the truth. Well, why can't I say that with such certainty that the believers are those who are all who know the truth? Well, because John wrote it. Why does John write it? Well, because he goes on to explain. In verse 2, he tells us the truth. It lives in us. It will be with us forever. Those of us confessing Christ, seeking to honor Christ with our lives, we have grace and mercy from God. Which brings peace with God. It's a peace that abides with us in truth and love. So if you're prone to think, well, I can't handle the truth, think again. If you count yourself a Christian. If you're a follower of the way, as a Christian, you are already handling the truth. How well? Well, that might just be another question. And actually, this is one of the key questions we can draw from John's letter to us. Notice what he says in verses 4 through 6. This has given me great joy to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as the Father commanded us. And now, dear lady, I am not writing you a new command, but one we have had from the beginning. I ask that we love one another. And this is love. That we walk in obedience to his commands. As you have heard from the beginning, his command is that you walk in love. Some of the believers are walking in truth. Some Some are doing as the Father commanded. Some are walking as they should. Now in verse 1, Johnny states that Christians, the lady, the church, It's been chosen. We are God's chosen children. God has chosen us, chosen to live among us, to live within us. To implant his truth, the truth, with his people. And so here's a big part of the truth that we need to remember. The church has chosen That's truth. We, these chosen ones, we are God's children. That's truth. It's part of God's family, his children. We are called to love the rest of his family. That's truth. The chosen ones are to love the other chosen ones. This is the Christian walk. This is walking in the truth. This walk of love in the truth, well, it is the walk of life. As Tiger Strait sang to us way back in the 1980s, if you remember that pop song, a very big hit, The Walk of Life. One of the lines in that song is, after all the violence and double talk. There's a song in all the troubles and the strife. And that song is named Jesus. Because of Jesus, Christian, brothers and sisters, you do the walk. You do the walk of life Are you? Are you doing the walk of life? I mean, are you doing as you've been called to do? Are you walking in truth? Walking in loving service to other Christians. Are we doing that? We need to understand the church, it knows the truth. The truth, it lives in the church. It is with the church, and the true church walks in the truth. In love. Those with the truth, they love those in the church, and those in the church, they love those in the truth. And this love, it's commanded The very nature of this love is that it is obedient to Christ's commands. That's what John tells us here. It's rooted in the truth. And not one of us is obedient as we should be, right? You have to ad acknowledge and admit that. None of us is perfect. Although we do aspire to do better, we do aspire to live increasingly obedient lives, to be perfect as Jesus is perfect. That is our aim and our goal and our purpose. We call this process of doing better sanctification. Now, we're not rescued from the condemnation that's due to us for our sin by becoming increasingly sanctified. We can never become sanctified enough. To earn righteous standing before God. And this is why we need Jesus. He's the perfect one, the perfectly obedient one. He lovingly gives his obedient record To his chosen ones. An obedient record that includes a sinless human life and a brutal, unfair death on a cross. And victory over death through his resurrection from the grave and ascension to heaven in power and authority. He has been raised. This is the truth. Now there are liars who deny this truth. Liars who deny the good news. These liars are distributors of what shall we call it? Fake news. Not good news. You think fake news is something that's just been, I don't know, invented within the last handful of years? You think it's something new? Hardly. Remember Ecclesiastes chapter 1 verse 9. What we learned there instructs us that there is nothing new under the sun. Fake news, it's been around since the serpent interacted with Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, when Eve falsely reported that they weren't even allowed to touch the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Right. Fake news. The serpent falsely reported that you will not surely die from eating the fruit of his tree And Adam, he contributed to these false narratives when he stood idly by, said nothing to contradict the lies, even when he knew them to be false. So liars who deceive by neglecting the truth or by spreading falsehoods themselves, they have been a part of history since the very first man and woman walked the earth. And therefore, it shouldn't be a surprise to us that this problem has been plaguing the church since the very first generation that followers of the way began calling themselves Christians. And why can I say that with so much assurance? Well, because John says this. Let's turn to 2 John verse 7. I say this because many deceivers who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh have gone out into the world. Any such person is the deceiver and the antichrist. There are liars in John's time, and there are liars in our time. Can you recognize them? These liars, these deceivers. And they're supposed to be leaders in Christ's church. They deny Christ. The very cornerstone and capstone of the church. They exist. They're out there. Or perhaps better put, too often, they're in here. Attempting to uh be within Christ's church with us and misleading so many They say that Jesus came only in spirit, not flesh. It's a big part of the spirituality movement we have in our culture today. You know, John writes about this. He says that there was a spiritual movement in his era. And the movement in his area taught that the tangible physical things of the material universe, that these things were dirty. And so God, I mean, he couldn't possibly come in the flesh, because I mean, to soil himself in this way would be unbecoming for God. He must therefore have remained solely in the spiritual realm. Because the spiritual, that's good. And God is good This totally misses the point that God created the material universe and he said it was good. And then after he added Adam and Eve to his creation, he said that it was very good. Now sin has introduced brokenness into the world, that's for sure. Humankind fell into immorality, and that brings with it sorrow and uh sickness and death, and so there is There is something bad about the condition of the world right now, and there is something that's admittedly astounding when we think about it. We pause long enough to think about it. It's astounding that the Almighty and all-knowing and holy, holy Holy God condescended to become a man. But he is God. He can do what he wants. And he tells us that what he wanted to do was to love us so much that he did, in fact, send his son to live as Jesus of Nazareth on earth. And he did so so that he could pay the penalty for his people's sin to restore us to being his set-apart image-bearers. That's what we were created to be. Now, if God did not do this, well then Jesus is not the Savior. Lord Oh, maybe. Savior? Impossible. So by extension of what these People teach these deceivers who say that Jesus what they're saying is that he is not the Savior. These false teachers, they are Antichrist. So John calls him anti Christ. Anti Opposed to, working against, not in alignment with, an enemy of Christ. And John tells us: watch out, be on guard. Examine verses 8 through 11 here. Watch out that you do not lose what we have worked for, but that you may be rewarded fully. Anyone who runs ahead and does not continue in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever continues in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching Do not take them into your house or welcome them. Anyone who welcomes them shares in their wicked work. Boy, I don't know. I mean, that almost sounds serious, doesn't it? John is earnestly beseeching his readers. And that includes you and me to be on the lookout for wolves in sheep's clothing. Because these wolves undermine local churches They don't continue in the teaching of Christ. And so they don't have God. And if we follow after them, well, this is evidence that we don't really have God either. But if we do have God, well then we continue in the true teaching And therefore we have evidence that we have God with us as Lord and Savior, as Father and Son, as the standard giver and the standard bearer. Johnny said there in verse uh ten and eleven, if anyone comes to you Does not bring this teaching. Do not take them into your house or welcome them. Anyone who welcomes them shares in their wicked work. What's he mean here? Well I can't avoid all liars because well then we couldn't go and make disciples and share the good news with people who are lost in their sins, lost in their lies. But he is talking about those who claim to already be one of us. even those who are positioned as leaders among us. Especially those, in fact, is who he has in mind here. And if we think of house as God's church, and I do think it's helpful here to think of house as the house of God in this context, then we should not welcome these false teachers into our local churches. You need to root them out, actually. Now this brings us back to an earlier question. How are these false teachers to be recognized? Well, they deny Jesus as Lord and Savior for one. We've already touched upon today that they deny who Jesus really is, they deny that he came in the flesh. They do this sometimes in very subtle ways. They say he didn't really come in the flesh to accomplish his earthly mission. You know how many Christian leaders Have you heard teach that Jesus is your example for a better life? But Jesus is like a genie who's set free from his bottle and he's obligated to grant you your wishes if only you have enough faith. That Jesus is a means to social justice in our world today Well, Jesus is an example to us. But he is so much more than merely our example. He's our representative. And Jesus He does move mountains in response to the prayers of His people. He truly does, when those prayers seek His will, not our wishes. And Jesus, he's all about justice, equity before the law, but his is a kingdom not of this world. And he calls us To call others into this kingdom, his kingdom, not to merely renovate the kingdoms of this world. That ends up having that primary focus on politics rather than on God What about the leaders in the church who deny the judgment of God? Jesus stands for righteousness and obedience. To say that he acquiesces to unrighteousness, that he looks the other way when it comes to disobedience, well that's to say that Jesus is someone other than who he is. Well, by definition, that is to deny Christ. To deny what he did by coming in the flesh. And what about the church leaders who accept or even promote the idea that the Father and the Son, they are one and the same? There's no Trinity. Some they say that Satan and Christ are brothers. Some they, well, Jesus is Savior, but he's not really creator. Therefore, he's not really Lord. Some of these are big, obvious lies to some of us, but many of the lies are sneaky. They're subtle to many people. I was flipping through the religious channels on TV one day Now one of the channels there was a preacher who was promising blessings to you, if only you send a love gift in support of Israel. And at that exact same moment on another channel that I flipped there was a rather flamboyant man who was, for some reason I still don't understand, shaving the head of another man Some sort of strange performance art, I guess. I left the impression that Jesus, well, he must be some sort of an entertainer And yet on the very next channel, at this exact same moment, on the third channel, there were people who were laughing uncontrollably. While the so-called pastor was crying uncontrollably. The pastor saying himself that literally, he claimed that he was without control of his faculties, denying that the fruit of the Spirit includes self-control. I mean from that group of people we see a Jesus who manipulates emotions and creates disorder among his people. And we look at these examples, most of us, we stand aghast. How could anyone be fooled by these men and women? And we find ourselves sitting in pews or the increasingly popular theater style seats, and we uncritically listen to sermons that never mention Jesus. Or if they do, they position him as a means to accomplishing the 12 steps to your best life now. Never mentioning the necessity of the cross because of our sin. Never mentioning that he is our friend and our king. Never helping us be reminded just how beautiful is the thing that He has done for us. How beautiful is his creation, how beautiful is the Hard love that He has for us. A hard love that invites us to share in His suffering. And of course in his kingdom advancement, praise God. Yeah, these false teachers, they tell us what we want to hear. They couldn't get away with it if we didn't want to hear it. You know, I think we have to admit that the time of 2 Timothy chapter 4 verse 3, that time is here. Right? The time of God's word says when people will not put up with sound doctrine Instead, to suit their own desires, they gather around them a great number of teachers to say what their itching ears want to hear. Tickle our ears. Tickle 'em, tickle, tickle, tickle. Just like that old Fleetwood Mac song from decades ago. Might remember it, Tell Me Lies, Tell Me Sweet Little Lies. Tell me lies, tell me, tell me lies. Oh no, no, you can't disguise. You can't disguise, no, you can't disguise. Tell me lies. Tell me sweet little lies. What's so horribly sad and discouraging is these practitioners of telling the lies They don't even try to disguise their lies many times. But we listen to them anyway. Do not embrace these lying teachers. And for the love of God, and I mean literally for the love of God. And for the truth of God. Keep these liars from leading our church. Or you share in their guilt That's what we read tonight. That's what it says. I wonder if I might have accidentally painted a picture of a universal church that's in a shambles. And if so, just take a moment and explain it. That's not true. The true church, the true church, it is garning against falling into shambles. The true church, it is trusting God's word, and it is reading it and studying it and meditating upon it and teaching it and learning it and therefore knowing That Christ is the perfect truth and the perfect love. An Antichrist attacks the church. It's a spiritual battle But always remember Christ's church cannot ultimately fail. It won't happen because it can't happen. This is a promise and a guarantee. Truth and love, it trounces liars. For sure and for certain. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you have blessed us with the opportunity to hear your word read and proclaimed. We thank you preserved it for us all these years and provided to us in a format and a language we can understand and allowed us to live in a place on this planet where we can do so freely. We ask you to help us to internalize these truths, to process these words in a way that are of utmost meaning in our lives. And that we would be emboldened to be ambassadors for your truth, and that we would do this, knowing that in the truth lies the love. The truth and love are not at odds with another. But the telling the truth is an expression of love. And if we seek to express love to those around us, We need to share with them the truth. Lord, we pray that you would give us ready opportunity to do so. And that we would have motivated to be seeking opportunities beyond those that are clearly obvious to us. That we would be more consistently on mission. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Well, if everyone wouldn't mind standing up one more time, we're going to sing hymn number 278 together. His eye is on the sparrow. Why should I be still? Why should the service come? Why should my heart be lonely? I love I see the year to my portion I want in front of me I am the world and I know you want to be honest. I think big God I think big God is not I'm not sure what I mean. You are nobody always I think because I'm happy. Because I'm crazy by the union. Whenever I can Whenever I felt in place to be. When openly prize Rolls of the Great Lives. I was terrible, and no we'd be right. I think we got unfortunately brought unfree. Normally I would ask you to remain standing for the benediction. I'm doing the benediction a little bit differently than I normally would, so you can sit down because the benediction is going to take two or three minutes And the reason I'm doing this, benediction means a good word from God, right? It's a good word for you. And so I feel like the message from 2 John is a good word to us And there can be a bit of a negative flavor with all the warnings about the troubles out there. But I want to drive home the goodness of the word, but providing you will a reminder of some of the touchstones and the outline of the message that we just uh heard and shared together. Basically it broke out into three parts. You've got the truth, you've got love, and you've got liars And other the heading of truth we've we've got to understand that one of the things that is true is that the church is chosen. Well that's good news And these chosen ones are God's children. Well, there's a good word from the Lord. And these chosen ones, they are to love the other chosen ones. We should be happy to do so The church, it knows the truth. That's a good word. And it lives in the church the truth does. That's a good word. And it's with the church. And the church it walks in the truth. The true church does. That's a good word. And love those who have the truth. Well, they they love those in the church in the church. They love the others who have the truth. Unless we forget this love is commanded, but it's a good command. And the nature of this love is obedient to Christ's commands, because it's rooted in the truth. And those liars, well we must admit that these deceivers, they exist, and they deny Christ And they say that maybe Jesus came only in the spirit and not in the flesh, or that Jesus in some other way is not the Savior. And these false teachers, they are anti-Christ, so we need to watch out, we need to be on guard. There are wolves in sheep's clothing that are undermining local churches So we need to not embrace these lying teachers, we need to keep them from leading our church, or we will share in their guilt. But let me end on this additional good word from God Christ is the perfect truth. He is the perfect love. Antichrist attacks the church. It's a spiritual battle. But always remember, Christ's church cannot ultimately fail. Truth and love trounces liars. That is a good word from the Lord. So if we would all stand for the singing of the Alleluia. What a beautiful sound. I'm sure the Lord is pleased. Thank you for inviting me back and welcoming into your midst once more. As you depart, depart in peace, understanding fully, right, that you are entering a mission field all around you. So enter that mission field in peace. God bless. The problem is a little more.