Alright, I think we're all over and we will see. And I think we're rolling. It says live, so I assume we're there. Welcome Facebook. And if you're watching later, welcome YouTube. The Household of Faith in Christ. Uh if he's not a Bible, might want to grab it. We're gonna be looking at 2 John, one of the Epistles of John, so it's going to be towards the back of your New Testament. We've continued our series on the Epistles of John. We've covered We started 2 John, and uh after this week and next we'll be done with 2 John, we're moving on to 3 John. Um In case you're wondering, a little housekeeping, the last time we got together like this was a couple of weeks back. What three weeks ago now, right? One, two. Yeah, three weeks ago. So two weeks ago we had a problem with Facebook Live not working and uh we didn't know what was going on so we ended up not doing this with you. We ended up doing uh an hour and a half long communion service, kind of a special sort of uh of uh household of faith in Christ meeting uh here And then last week we um weren't sure Facebook Log would be working or not. It turns out it it would have worked, but I didn't know that at the time, so the plan We decided just to do a fellowship uh meal uh here at our house with with those that gather uh here in our home. And again I I send the invitation if you're within driving distance of uh Frederick and you want to be a part of this, mention something in the comment section or private message me on Messenger and uh we can uh talk through that. and let you know what we're all about and see if it's something you'd like to come and be a part of at some point. And if you're a part of a house church yourself, if you lead a house church, I would invite you please contact me. I would like to To explore ways that we could uh do some things in partnership with one another. So um and if you're not in leadership, but you belong to a house church, maybe you could mention this to the person that helps to lead your house church. That would be maybe beneficial to all of us. Anything else I'm forgetting to mention? All right. Well then I guess we'll open with prayer, then I'll have the message, and then we'll have a discussion. Only way really for you to join the discussion is to add comments and thoughts and reactions in the comments section of this video. If you do so, we will do our darnest to to incorporate those into our discussion time. at the conclusion of the sermon. Anyway, thanks for joining us uh this evening. God bless. So Angela, if you would uh open us in prayer. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for another opportunity to come together. In the name of your Son Jesus to proclaim truth. We pray, Father, that your Holy Spirit would be in the midst of this teaching, that He would guide the conversation, Lord, and that you would by him you would draw people to this teaching who would benefit from it, who would be encouraged who would be corrected by it, who would be built up by it. And we thank you for this opportunity to serve you. It is our privilege and pleasure. May we do so in strength and power Of the name of your son, Jesus Christ. Amen. Thank you. Amen. Thank you. Actually, let me go get over here. In our makeshift pulpit. So an old man turned 98 and he won the lottery and he died the next day Isn't it ironic, don't you think? It's like rain on your wedding day. Like a free ride when you've already paid. It's the good advice that you just didn't take. Who or thought? Get figures. Well, life has a funny way of sneaking up on you. You think everything's okay, everything's going right? Traffic jam when you're already late? And no smoking sign on your cigarette break. It's like 10,000 spoons. And all you need is a knife. Just meeting the man of your dreams. And then Meeting his beautiful wife. And isn't it ironic? Don't you think? A little too ironic Yeah, I really do think. Alanis Morissette, without realizing it, saying song that blasted from many radios about twenty-five years ago. And that song really captures a huge Theme in today's sermon. For the uninitiated, the opening remarks I had were direct quotes from Adelonis Morissette's song. Ironic. Now last time I preached, a couple weeks ago now, we talked about the second epistle of John. We covered almost the entire letter. We uh We read the first 11 verses. Now this week we are going to read the entire letter. All the way through. Won't take long because it's the book of the Bible. the fewest number of verses. 13. So if you would, grab your Bibles, open them up to 2 John. Again towards the latter part of your New Testament. It's right after 1 John or right before 3 John, if that helps. And we're going to begin with verse 1. And I'm reading from the NIV. The elder. To the lady chosen by God, and to her children whom I love in the truth. And not only I, but But also all who know the truth. Because of the truth which lives in us and will be with us forever. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father, Son. Be with us and in uh in truth and in love. It's given me great joy to find something And now, dear lady, I am not writing a new command, but one we have had from the beginning. I ask that we love one another. And this is love, that we walk in obedience to his commands. As you have heard from the beginning. His command is that you walk in love. I say this because many deceivers who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ. Christ as coming in the flesh, have gone out into the world. Any such person is the deceiver and the Antichrist Watch out that you do not lose what we have worked for, but that you may be rewarded fully. Anyone who runs ahead And does not continue in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever continues in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If any Anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not take them into your house or welcome them. Anyone who welcomes them shares in their wicked work I have much to write to you, but I do not want to use paper and ink. Instead, I hope to visit you And talk with you, face to face, so that our joy may be complete. The children of your sister, who is chosen by God, send them Greetings. This is the inerrant, infallible, inspired word of God, and therefore a perfect rule and guide for faith and life practice, those of years to ear. Let them hear. Let us pray. Father, we come before this examination of your word with many things in our life that would tend to distract us. Concern for the world at large, concerns in our personal lives, concerns in our careers, our financial situations, our relationships. We ask that you would help us to hold these distractions at bay while we focus on learning from you what your word would teach us. And help us Help us to be guided by your spirit to know how to apply what we learn into those areas of discern so that they are not means and a need for distraction any longer, but that we may have our total rest and confidence presented to you before the foot of the cross, trusting that you have chosen us to be your people. And that you love us, you indwell us with your spirit, and you have chosen to see us as justified in your eyes. Because of the finished work of your Son, Jesus Christ. It's in his precious name that we pray. Amen. Now today we are most interested in the final two verses of 2 John, since we covered the first eleven verses the last couple of times. were together gathered like this. Now these these final two verses, they scream community to us. Authentic community, tactile, physical presence with each other. Face to face. Complete joy. Living as family, as as the family of God Greeting one another with love, walking in the truth of who we are in Christ, community, balancing and blending, truth and love. These are the primary concerns for the Apostle John. And we can tell, these are his primary concerns by Apostle just how frequently he uses the words truth and love in this letter. Now here's a Bible study tip for you as you're reading any passages scripture you might want to kind of look for, pay attention for repeated words and phrases. It's an often important point that's being made through the repetition. Keep in mind, there was no internet 2,000 years ago. There wasn't even a printing press. And so efficiency when writing was rather important. Now maybe not as critical as when you're sending out a tweets and you got to worry about condensing not just your words, but even your characters to fit them all within that tweet that you want to send out. But it's a similar concept. You want to say things in as few words as possible and still get your message across. Now ancient writers they had a somewhat similar concern that you might have when you're on On social media. So John, he wouldn't say the same thing over and over unless it really mattered that he said things over and over. What is John especially concerned to tell us? What's the theme of utmost importance to him in this letter that he's written to God's people? Truth And love. We know this because in a letter, as I mentioned, with just 13 verses John uses the word truth five times. And he uses the word love five times. And then he contrasts these, truth and love. He contrasts these with liars and those who seek to steal our joy. Robbing us of love by robbing us of truth. These are the themes that bring us up to the final two verses of this letter. And I hope it made better sense of the final two verses. We're going to review a few things from our last couple of times together to again help to reset the context. This book of the Bible is a letter. Its author is the elder. Now, whoever, whomever is, misses Elder, he is well known to the original readers, and his thor his authority is not in dispute I mean imagine you send someone some mail, a letter, and you sign it elder. Or perhaps a better example for many of us. You simply sign it honey. Now think of the person who received this mail from you. They pop open, they slice open that envelope, and they start reading the letter. What sort of relationship must you have with the reader if you find it honey? Would you send that letter, sign that way, if you thought even for a second, gee, uh, will they know who Honey is Well, might they have another honey? If there was any chance of this, at all, you'd sign your letter differently, right? So the writer here of this epistle in our Bible knows that his readers know him. They know him. Well, really well. It's a deep, abiding kind of knowing, a trusted, loving kind of knowing, a respected, valued kind of knowing He can call himself the elder and be confident they'll know who he is. Now we, from our perspective, we don't have this exact same advantage. We weren't walking the planet almost 2,000 years ago. But the church tradition holds That this elder is the Apostle John. And personally, I think that's exactly who this is. John, a man determined to maintain the truth of the gospel Jesus really existed. Jesus really lived, died, rose again. Jesus really embodies truth and love and life. Jesus really is God. This is what the church believes. It's what the church knows. And John consistently, in all five of his New Testament writings that are that are attributed to him. In all five, John is careful to remind us of what we already know. He's careful to help us not forget. We must not forget that we, as followers of Christ, are God's children. We are to live our lives In this truth. We are to walk out this truth in love. We are to live in love. As a family, in community. We must recognize this grace, mercy, and peace that comes from God. From God the Father and from God the Son, because of God the Holy Spirit who lives in us and is with us forever, we must remember, we must Lest we forget and become like the lost or wandering after lost hope Lest we forget and are unable to guide other misguided beggars to where the food is Lest we forget and end up living lives like Those lived by the characters of the Broadway musical rant Not too many years ago, the 20th anniversary edition of Rent brought its tour through our area, and friends of ours they had a couple of extra tickets, and they invited Dina and me to go and see the show with them and they wouldn't let us pay them for the tickets, wouldn't even let us pay for parking. It was totally their treat seeing rent. And what a treat it was. Fascinating. The story provides a perfect foil for the telling of the gospel. Now, I suppose this is probably the result of a happy accident. I doubt that the writer of the play imagined that one day a preacher would see this play for the first time time and then would turn it into a sermon illustration. But maybe I'm wrong because after all, there are self-conscious religious references throughout the story. The setting of rent begins in New York City at Christmas time And after spending most of his time during the holidays, the musical skips quickly through a calendar year before it comes full circle and wraps up at Christmas time. This can't be a complete accident, can it? There is a pardon me There is a Christ message in this play, Rent. Or, to put a finer point on it, there is an anti-Christ message In this play. And as a result, we get our foil for the telling of the gospel. In 2 John We are warned. We are put on guard against the deceivers who deny Christ. These liars are a foil. For the truth in John's letter. If we aren't careful defenders of the truth, if we fail fail to be where if we buy the lie, well, what do we get? We get the world in rent. Now I'm no theater critic And honestly, I knew absolutely nothing about rent before going to see it for this one time. So it's possible that I'm missing a few nuanced things. However, here's what I saw. As I sat In a $100 seat about halfway up the rose. The primary character in Rent is a struggling artist, a documentary filmmaker. And he is seeking to find his identity in his career. If only he can tell someone's story with celluloid, then life will have meaning. Another main character in Rent is a struggling artist of a different He's a singer-songwriter. He's yearning to write just one blast glorious song. And then he'll fulfill his identity. And he could then die a happy man. Another major character finds escape in erotic dance and in drugs. Heavy duty drugs. She's an addict. I suppose this is her identity She'd gladly trade it for a relationship if she could find love. Just find love. Honest. love from someone who will help her to be the best version of herself. And her lifeline meaning. Now one of these faulty relationships in which she places her identity is with the singer-songwriter that I mentioned. And another such relationship for her is with a former boyfriend who seeks escape through his newfound wealth. His new identity is as a rich guy, but it's not all that he imagined it would be, and so he once again he wants the drug addict to be his girlfriend. But she rejects him over and over again. And another character in Rand looks to control his life and the lives of others by peddling drugs. And the hero of the story seeks his identity in a gender that he was not born possessing. And his lover seeks identity in same-sex relations and and seeks meaning and purpose in life through philosophy. And in another character, lashes out against convention with bisexuality and wild performance art. Her identity is sadly wrapped up in conforming to non-conformity. Then you throw in a lesbian lawyer and uh themes of homelessness and suicide and a money-grubbing minister and some police brutality for good measure and what you have is one very complicated plot Seriously. Complicated. At intermission, people could be overheard asking one another, asking total strangers if they knew what the heck was going on I get values for that as one of them. What's going on? You've seen this before? What's the deal? So many characters, so many subflies. So much subtext and interwoven themes, so much irony that was nearly lost on those of us in attendance. Because we couldn't keep track. Well, there's some irony for you right there. Rent tries to say so much that for many people who are in a And end up saying nothing at all. Now, before I risk doing that myself and saying too much, we're We're gonna begin to uh ramp down and pause here and set ourselves up for next week. Now, if you've been paying attention to these videos recurringly that we do on Facebook and YouTube and You might have noticed as we've worked through our series of first John and now second John that there's an awful lot of two-part messages that make up the series. This is part one of a two-part series. message and next week will be part two. Well why is that? So I figure I'll explain really quick. I'm repurposing some material that I've had opportunity to use in the past and I've got opportunity to preach at a number of churches and leadership in a number of churches uh where the expectation was that the sermon would run forty five to sixty minutes. And so So I'd fill the pulpit and I was expected to preach forty five to sixty minutes. But what we're doing here is we're trying to, in the space of an hour, have a message and then a half hour ish or so for discussion. So I can't do a sp 16 minutes. And that's an issue, we have no time for discussion. So we're kind of I'm repurposing and breaking up in a way that makes sense material I've used before and sharing them with you into pieces. So this is the first half of that. But I do want to share a few things before I completely wrap up the message time for tonight. About a month ago or so, I think I mentioned that here at the Household of Faith in Christ, before you join us via the internet, uh and then after we're done on the internet, you know, we sing we do some fellowship and we uh sing praise and worship songs and we communion and things like that. And you know, you might want to add some uh appropriate songs and sing before our time together on Facebook or afterward, maybe sing some songs throughout the coming week. Up to next Saturday evening's broadcast on Facebook. So here are some songs that lend themselves very well to the theme of this week and next week's that you might want to check out. Uh Johnny Diaz or Diaz is how you say his name, do you know? Diaz. Johnny Diaz. Love Like You Loved. We saw Johnny in concert a few years ago ago. He actually did a very nice job. Jeremy Camp, who had the a movie that came out about him last year, around this time I think. He's got a good song that fits this theme, Christ in me Michael W. Smith, one of the more successful contemporary Christian singers and songwriters of the last 30 years, stepped by Steps forever we will sing. Um Casting Crowns, uh big favorite of a lot of people. Uh Love You with the Truth. One of my all-time favorites, the newsboys, they have a song called The Letter that fits this theme that we're covering. And a band that many might not have heard of called Out of the Gray. They have a song that fits this theme nicely. It's called Grace, Mercy and peace. Now I ran through those really quickly, but we have the benefit of this being on the internet and it'll be stored there. So later on if you want to check these out later, you can grab the video fast forward about halfway through Again into the video to find this portion, and you can jot down the names of the songs and listen to them if you like. Now, the last time I had a chance to share a version of this message in a sanctuary setting actually, uh was asked to write a blurb, a little teaser to promote what the sermon was going to be about on Sunday for the church's newsletter. So I'm going to share with you what wrote there to help to put a bow tie on all of this for tonight. 525,600 minutes. 525 Twenty-five thousand moments so dear. Five hundred twenty-five thousand six hundred minutes. How do you measure? Measure a year. In daylights, in sunsets, in Midnights in cups of coffee, in inches, in miles, in laughter, in strife, in 525,600 minutes. How How do you measure a year in the life? How about love? How about love? How about love Measure in love. Isn't it interesting how a stage play, a musical, can so accurately capture much that is true about Life in the world, as the lyrics to seasons of love tell us, there is both laughter and strife. And our lives can pass us by quickly with meaninglessness. If we're not careful. But Rent blends these helpful insights with a troubling outlook on the human condition. For example, these words from the song No Day But Today. The heart may freeze or it can burn. Pain will ease if I can learn there is no future. There is no past. There's only us. There's only this. No other road. No other way. No day but today. There's only yes, only tonight We must let go to know it is right. No other course, no other way. I trust My soul. My only hope is just to be. There's only now. There's only here. No other path. No other way. No day But today. Well, believe it or not, these songs provide the perfect teaser for For the sermon. And we're recapping in the sermon what was talked about the last time we covered the first eleven verses of 2 John, and we're Embracing the the wonderful theme of community in fellowship that is found in 2 John twelve and thirteen. It is a special time that we spend together. So look forward to it. Now enough me quoting lyrics from a Broadway musical. Let me uh quote a song from God's Holy Scripture. 133, and this will be the end of the sermon time. How good and pleasant it is when God's people live together in unity. It is like precious oil poured on the head, running down on the beard, running down on Aaron's beard, down on the collar of his robe. It is as if the dew of Hermon, we're falling on Mount Zion. For there the Lord bestows his blessing, even life forevermore. Father, you are an amazing God. Allowing us to live within your amazing creation. And having provided us a way to everlasting life Through your amazing grace. We thank you for the truth of your word, and we thank you for equipping us by your spirit to recognize Opportunities to see the gospel even in the things of this world. A world that we are called to be in, but not of. Help us to wisely navigate the distinction between those two things. We ask your blessing upon our time. Of discussion and that we would truly relish in this opportunity that we have to be community, to demonstrate community To live within your community, established by your Son Jesus Christ. As I Always it's in his name that we pray. Amen. Yeah. All right. Any reactions on Facebook? We'll start there. Alright, any reactions in the room? I mean, I think the idea of community is important, especially in today's mess, for lack of a better word. so that we know the truth, that we can be settled by the truth, and that we can have peace and rest in the truth. Because that's not at all with what's going on because Christianity is not popular right now at all. So we are definitely not of the world world, we're barely able to be in the world as believers. Certainly not the way it was even as little as a couple of years back. where it was not shameful to be a follower of Christ. Now it's, you know, bigotry and all these awful things that they would label people who follow Christ as. So it's important that we do have communion, that we do have fellowship, that we do have each other to be reminded of truth. Yeah, it's one of the concerns that we've talked about a few times here in our setting, you know, with with the churches not opening up and the impact of the life. lockdowns and you know John says it right here in verse twelve you know he he could write more he could do things from a social distance And send them a longer letter, but he says, instead, I hope to visit you and talk with you face to face. And why does he want to meet with them face to face so that their joy Maybe complete. There's there's something that's missing and incomplete when we're not in fellowship together. Uh participating in the community doesn't and established for us and you know neglecting the habit of meeting together. There's a there's a s there's a serious loss. You know, there's a spiritual consequence to that, there's an emotional consequence to that, a relational consequence to that, a an ability to discern consequences. point because if you're not iron sharpening iron and you're not encouraging one another and counseling one another and being examples to one another in close proximity to one another then everything it's you know The whole water level drops and so all the boats think a little bit. You know, it's important for us to come together, the water level comes up, and all the things that are good about being in the body of Christ are able to express in ways that they can't do so well. It's not like if you're merely watching us on Facebook or on YouTube later, there's some hopefully some blessing in what we do here to you, but it's not the same. I mean that's why historically up until you know the past calendar year, uh it's ironic that you know rent is always about following life in a calendar year and we're just a couple of weeks away from a calendar year of everybody being living in a lockdown scenario. We've had our own kind of rent year long experience. It's it up until this past year, it there's there's been this yearning for us to get together. It's why we gather together. as families on you know Thanksgiving or Resurrection Sunday or Christmas Day. It's it's why people will fly great distances and deal with all the hassles and challenges and expenses of traveling cross country, sometimes in the climate snow, to be close to people they love about, that they care that they love and care about and want to be in community with. Um There's a reason, good reason. It's not just habit. It's not just convention. There's this yearning for us to have that, for us to have squashed that. past year uh it's had devastating of effect um and john gets that you know he wants to be with them face Face to face so that their joy may be complete. That's pretty cool. And I gotta say, the thing that struck me about rent is that it actually gets that right. The whole message, intended message of rent is this idea of community and being there for one another. That's the intended message. The playwright gets that part right. The problem is all of the relationships are based upon a foundation of lies, and they can never actually have the truth. True authentic relationship that they're desiring, and so because they're seeking their identity in faux relationship, not true relationship. And um I wanna think how I want to connect with what you said when you were talking about you know Christianity and it's not uh not well liked or well received in today's world and and that's true uh for true authentic biblical Christianity um in a more acute way that we can feel because the world seems like it's throwing more darts and daggers at the truth these days. But it's been true for a long time because so many this has been a concern of mine that goes back years It's why we're now doing a house church and not doing a more traditional American model of church because so many traditional American model churches they're like the World of rent. They're chasing after community, but it's not built on a foundation of the biblical truth. It's not built on a foundation of Christ. It's not built on the gospel. And so it's hard to distinguish what passes for the American church in many cases. It's hard to distinguish those gatherings when they get together from the local rotary club or uh you know BNI group. or uh the Elks Lodge, you know, any sort of a civic organization. It's just, you know, it's sometimes nicknamed, you know, Sunday morning gatherings for worship services. Where no worship actually takes place, no fellowship is actually really happening at a foundational level. I just call them Sunday morning social clubs. And so Even in that context, Christianity, you know, walking in the way, walking in the truth of Christ, it wasn't appreciated and liked even then And I was wondering if the church even really knew what it was to be the church. And then 2020 happened, and I think my fears were confirmed that, yeah. In most cases, most professing Christians, and even a very large percentage of leaders in in Christian settings, have demonstrated they don't really know what it means to be the body of Christ. It's uh it's been tough. So we've started this week and we're gonna finish next week isn't meant to be some broad brush stroke assault on rent. It's an illustration of what's wrong with the world And when we allow that rent mentality to seep into the church, then the church has become Not merely yeah, we're in the world and of the world at the same time. That's not what we're called uh to be. So and Anyway, it took me a little while to kind of gather my thoughts as I was uh advamping there, so I was a little more long-winded than I would have liked. Um What do you think, young man? I think you won't be very in about twenty minutes both. Yeah. Okay. Oh no. Yeah, we'll get them in about twenty minutes, okay, but we were fortunate. Yeah. No, we'll get you batteries in 20 minutes. Clark that's our clock? Yeah, yeah. You're not watching Wheel of Fortune we'll get you batteries in twenty minutes. Okay. Okay. It's very um I would say sad. Uh the way we we uh the we as in the world uh view the Christian church um as sort of of a bad thing. Almost a taboo thing in today's culture. And a um A very dull s how do we how do you put it? There's almost a double standard uh with love. The world has one idea of love, and the Bible has has a has another. And the two are similar, but very different. Um and I I think it it's sad that we've we've taken what's clear clear here and twisted to how we want it when it says loader your neighbor it means oh you know if my neighbor's a man I can love you know my neighbor. Um and uh just the modern idea of of this. And yeah. Yeah, there's a similar I and I'm not sure if this is what you mean, but how I'm taking it. What you mean about the similarities is that John actually says in this letter he defines love for us, right? And love is to obey God's commands. That is love. If you want to love someone, obey God's commands. And in obeying God's commands, you will be demonstrating love. Love to God, love to others, love to self, because that's where blessings for all of creation are found. is in obedience to God. And what's similar with the world's way is they also want uh and advocate for being obedient to God. God, however, they make themselves God. And so that's where it's similar. They're both uh both viewpoints are resting their their argument on doing what God wants, but the Christian biblical view is resting it on who the true God is and what he wants, as opposed to a false idea. idolatrous God, we make ourselves God and what we want. And when we do it the way we want, even if we're then trying to grapple with scripture, which is I think we're going where we twist the words, um if we're We're trying to figure out what it is the true God wants. We wrestled with His word. We were just talking about this actually earlier today. We're trying to figure out what is God saying? What does he mean? What is the meaning of His word here? What is the context? You know, what is what is actually the truth of his word? And then we need to apply that in our lives, and that's love. But those who think of themselves as God, they bring their own ideas and superimpose them into the text. So the first thing I just described, the technical word for that is exegesis, where you ex, exit, take out. You're taking out of the text what it's really teaching. And you have Ice of Jesus, which is reading into the text. And if you feel like you're God, and people might not say it in those terms, but But their actions demonstrate that that's the way they're living their lives. They are their own God. And they're gonna, therefore, I'm Lord over the words on the page, and I can make them mean what I want I have the authority to do so because I'm God. And so that's where there's so many similarities, and yet they end up in completely different places. Because the uh the idea of who God is, the truth of who God is, is completely misplaced. Well yeah well yeah because well you know they're at odds with one another. Well what's in the Ten Commandments? The very first command of the true God is you will have no other gods before me. And what's in Interesting is all of the billions of false gods walking this planet have the same first commandment. There will be no other god before me. It's so it it's very similar to the ex It's a it's an absolute swap counterfeit. That's the battle we're in, and that's why we can't compromise with it. They're completely other. Like you they they're both making ex the ex one of the accusations against Christianity is that you know they they don't like the exclusive claims. There's only one way. And who's to say there's just one God? Who's to say that that's the truth? And they don't like the exclusive nature of it. And yet they're making exclusive claims for themselves. They get to decide what's true and right. And they might claim that, well, I'm not going to say that for you. I'm only saying it for me. But saying that they're acting as God as though they have the right to make that sort of a distinction. They're making some sort of unilateral, universal truth claim. What's true for you is true for you, what's true for me is true for me, and that's just the way it is. Well who says? You say? Well, who died may you die? And so that's that's really at its nuts and bolts the challenge That the Christian faith faces. And, you know, God will not be mocked. And the counterfeit gods feel the same way. They don't want to be mocked. And they feel like Those who are advocating for the true God, the Creator God, Yahweh, that's sinning against them. Yeah, we're mocking and sinning against them. Yeah. Uh to your point about Christians not being very much alike or um I mean it there's always more than than one reason for usually almost always more than one reason for things. Um and I I just want to acknowledge that but I I want to speak at a high at a what ten thousand foot Middle on that point and say that um in a way not be popular not being light for the true believer is a blessing. It is a blessing because it's actually a way to discern what is the truth. Um because uh uh I mean you know there there's there's there's one true God many false gods um one truth many counterfeits truths and uh the many counterf the the the counterfeit gods you know the counter the the spirits of of you know that that are masquerading as counterfeit gods no matter matter what God, what iteration of counterfeit God you're talking about, they do have one thing in common. They hate the truth Yeah, true. And they hate the people of the true God. Right. So they actually kind of affirm us by hating us because they all have that in common against us. Because when you know I mean when you notice the attack on religious freedom, it really is pointed at Christianity. Square Christianity. Not really the other beliefs at all. So they kind of affirm us in that way. You know, it's just negative affirmation. Right. And um um i i if if if people understand that dynamic, it will help them uh you know wade through all the all the all the fog and and and and get to the get to the truth. The other thing is um You know, Jesus said, um, if it it i i if they would if they love me then they would they would love you. So and and he and he would and you know the Bible says um You know, uh they they they you know they they hated they hated the true prophets. You know, they hated the true so by and and why when I say they they they I'm not talking about people. I'm not talking about Christians who act like jerks. Right. That's that's you know, I'm I'm I'm excluding people who are who are bad examples Mm-hmm. Uh and they have witnesses for Christ. I'm not talking about those folks which um other Christians don't even like, but I'm talking about, you know, just the the the people who are really walking with the Lord and in authenticity. By them disliking us. It kind of affirms us. You know, because when when um When when you when a person's walking in error, a person who's walking in truth annoys them. You know, it can it convicts them, it annoys them. them um because you know it it it they they they can see the contrast and so I um Because there's this this natural human tendency to want to be liked, um, you know, uh just about every human being can kinda I think slip into to um well you know they they don't they don't like us and you know that's not pleasant but you know Jesus wouldn't like either so if we're gonna be like him, we just won't be we just won't be liked by people who are in full-on rebellion against the truth. That won't have we will be an annoyance to them. Now they will heard people People get you know, when once they come to faith they say, you know, the Christians used to just annoy me so much. You know, they say that, you know. And then when they stop being rebels, you know um then, you know they're in the family and and and that that animosity goes away. So I just kind of think that um having to put up with that this is it just kind of comes with a territory. I think what was what's interesting to me, or act not even interesting, but a little bit troubling to me. Is those who I thought were part of the faith are antagonistic towards believers. And it's like, okay, so are you just going through something trying to discern or were you never really among us? And and and that's actually a blessing too because um that's really what I'm seeing. I mean it's it's not it's it's not pleasant when you you when you encounter it, but it is a blessing because um uh we need to know who's with who's you know Christ wants to know who was really with him. I mean he already Always did, but you know, um we we need to know who's really in the family. Right, absolutely. Absolutely. And and apart from I mean you know i it it's trying as the whole you know manufacture manufacture in terms of no I'm not gonna get in that but it's it i i it it's trying as the times are um the blessings that are coming out of it is that truth is being exposed in all kinds of ways. degrees and all kinds of ways. And I believe the Lord really is purging his church. Oh my gosh. Through this. You know. Oh my gosh. And it's the only way we can speak speaking to the community How can we come together and ever be a true community? When you don't know who's when when when there's impossible when there's terrorism on the weak. You know, the weak cannot thrive. Right. It chokes it. And so those people need to need to be exposed and they need to make a a choice and if they and if they choose to not, you know, come into the family then they do need to go. Um but I so I I am I am cognizant of the challenges but I also do my best to try to also remain cognizant of the blessings of this current trying of current trying times, you know. Because uh you know there there there is a there is a blessing that's coming out of them. Right. I think we're gonna I think the church is going to emerge strong and better because of it. You know, more the the churches, you know, all the all the all the impostors will be pretty much purged away And then Christ will have, you know, a more mature church. He'll have a he'll have a healthier church in America. Um the church in America was very anemic for a while. pretty in native for a really long time. I think we're coming out of that, you know. We're emerging stronger and and um more w we will we will be more exceptive I think and being witnesses for the Lord and in and you know and advancing his kingdom work. So I we we will be more of a community. So and maybe for the first time, you know, we'll we'll we'll get to experience what a real community is No. Certainly for a first time in a long time. That's for sure. Yeah, yeah. I think the temptation, um you know, um maybe we'll kind of wrap it up here in a second. I think the temptation that we have you know we chase after the the faux community you know that Sunday morning morning social club because we we we we trick ourselves and think we want what the world has. We want some very what the world has. Yeah. It looks pretty. It looks nice. And the you know the comments you had about, you know, um you know Not fitting in, not being liked, you know, being hated by the world, you know, the world's not loving us. They didn't love Jesus the way, but they love us. And and we want to be loved. We want to have that relationship. relationship and so we're willing to settle for the worldly version of that as opposed to the gospel version of that and you wouldn't know that this because of the way we do things uh here with our video set up. But if we're in a traditional church setting and you were handed a bulletin uh at the sermon where it says sermon Your bulletin it would have a title, and the title for this sermon is Rent or the Option to Own. And maybe that's too clever a title to really capture What was meant by that title? I mean, obviously, rent's a playoff of the Broadway musical rent, but what the Broadway Musical Rent represents is this sense of communication. But it's not a sense of community that you can ever really own. You're renting the relationship because it's it's by its very nature it's Temporary. It can't be sustained because it's built on a foundation of untruths and and uh and lies and brokenness. It just can't sustain. And so you can enter into a relationship it can feel really homey and warm and cozy and good for a while because you're taking up space there. You're renting the worldly view over relationship. And the Christian choice is do we want to enter into that and rent, or do we want to take the option to own? And you can own a true, everlasting relationship with Christ and with the body of Christ that goes on long after, you know, our I don't know, fifty, seventy, a hundred years on this earth, you know, uh, end. And so that's you own it forever. Amen. So even if the deserved those are oh I'm totally happy and why would you wanna, you know, judge somebody too. You you use the uh I can love my neighbor and you had kind of a coi Way of playing that out. Those neighbors love each other. Why would you want to judge their love? They're happy. Even if that's true, they're only going to be happy. For what? 20 years, 40 years, 60 years? And then they're not gonna be happy for countless years. So would we rather them wrestle with that and say, wow, how happy am I really compared to the true happiness that I can actually own not just now, but forever. So it's a false trade. We get tricked into thinking if maybe it's a fair trade or then it's even a better trade. And it's it's a lie, which is what John is warning us against over and over again. He warns us against the lie, against the teachings of the anti-C Christ and the world these systems are antichrist. So anyway, again, I don't know if it's I never took the time to explain that title before, so this is the first so but that's what rent or the option to own as a title is meant to convey. Why would you merely rent for I don't know a couple of score four years when you could own until you just can't count anymore. Like there aren't numbers big enough to count how long. So Um unless there's any fat final closing thoughts, we can wrap this up. Maybe you want to close us and first. Lori, thank you so much that you give us the ability to own. Thank you. for exposing the lies of renting a relationship as opposed to owning the relationship. I ask that you continually weed out those in your church the that are just owning or just renting so that they can either have that option to dive in to ask you into their heart so that they can own or that they might just fall away and just that we would know that we would be able to have true fill of with the remnant with your body. We thank you for preserving us. We thank you for calling us. We thank you for seeing to completion that you already started. May you be glorified in the process, the good, the bad, and the ugly. For you reign forevermore. And thank you that we get to join you. in that through the sacrifice and the blood of Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Final little word. In case we run into a problem in the future with Facebook Live not working when we try to go live on Saturdays at 6 o'clock, we do have an emergency emergency backup plan in place now so in the future if that happens what we're going to do is do what we do at six o'clock, record it, and as soon as the recording's over Uh try to get it loaded onto YouTube as fast as possible and then load the YouTube video as a post onto Facebook. I'm hoping that that could be accomplished as quickly as maybe having it up by 7. 30 I would put a notice on Facebook saying, hey, technical difficulties, look for our video, you know, in an hour and a half kind of thing. So if you wanted to still catch us on Saturday night, if there are ever technical difficulties, we wouldn't be live at that point. But you could still uh watch on Saturday nights hopefully like I said at seven thirty. But I'm not anticipating those problems, you know, God forbid, but see w we didn't have a backup plan in the past, didn't think about that scenario. Shame on me, but we have a backup plan So anyway, we'll finish up uh John's second epistle of next week till then. God bless