Yeah, I think we're off. Yep. Hello Facebook and later on YouTube. Our environment might look a little different than you're used to. We are not at our regular place of meeting. We're at our daughter and son-in-law's House, so we're absent Landon and Angelo, but we have Danny and Andrew with us. We're going to be wrapping up our look at 2 John, not to be confused with the 2nd chapter of the Gospel of John. We're looking for 2 John. So one of the really short uh books of the Bible, the shortest number of verses of any book in the Bible, which is 13. So you're going to be going deep into your New Testament and very close to the back. It's it's It's not too far away from Revelation, which is the last book of the Bible. So if you're in Revelation, go forward a few pages and you're probably going to find 2 John. So anyway, we're going to be uh talking at that, talking about that, and then we'll be reading through it here in a moment as well. And you are encouraged as always to join the conversation via Facebook by chiming in on the comment section underneath and we will look for those comments and uh try to address them as best as we can uh after the uh message during our discussion time. So um Andrew is going to open us in prayer and then we're gonna uh read the passage. Dear Lord, thank you that we could all be here uh together today to worship you and fellowship together. Uh please bless this time and make it glorify into your name. Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Alright, so if you have your Bibles, 2 John, we're gonna read all through all, it's short enough, we're gonna read all 13 uh verses um from the chapter. You're gonna handle that, right? Yes. Okay. The elder. To the lady chosen by God and to her children whom I love in the truth, and I, and not only I, but also all who know the truth, because of the truth which was in us and will be with us forever. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Father's Son, who will be with us in truth and love. It has given me great joy to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as the Father commanded us. And now, dear lady, I am not writing you a new command, but one we have had from the beginning. I ask that we love one another, and this is love, that we walk in obedience to his command As you have heard from the beginning, his command is that you walk in love. I say this because many deceivers who do not acknowledge Jesus Jesus Christ, are coming in the flesh, have gone out into the world, and any such person is the deceiver and the Antichrist. Watch out that you do not lose what we have worked for, but that you may be rewarded fully. Anyone who runs ahead and does not continue in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever continues in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not take them into your house or welcome them. Anyone who welcomes them shares in their wicked work. I have much to write to you, but I do not want to use paper and ink. Instead, I hope to visit you and talk with you face to face so that our joy may be complete. The children of your sister, who is chosen by God, send their grief. Thank you. That is the very word of God inspired, infallible, inerrant, a perfect rule and guide for life and faith. Those who have ears to hear, let them hear. So we're gonna come over here now, our stand in pulpit. And I think you can see me on the screen. Do you see me over there? I do. Okay So last week we did our third message in our series on 2 John, and we are doing our fourth message, which is really the second half of a message with Started last week. We opened last week talking about notes of irony. I even quoted extensively from Alanis Morissette last week. And The irony is that so many of us are searching for true meaning, true relationship, true community, true understanding of our identity. And we feel like we're getting so close, sometimes we even feel like you've got it, but it's it's a fraud, it's a fake at every turn. And so we're grasping after vapors when there is true authentic community available to us through Jesus Christ. And that's kind of the the theme that's going on here. So we we struck this note of of irony last week, spent a lot of time walking through the the the characters and the theme Because it provides a perfect foil, kind of a relief, a backdrop for the sharing of the gospel, because in the musical rent, if you've seen it Whether you've seen it or not, uh it is basically an anti-gospel message. It's a perfect foil for the telling of the gospel Now I want to uh review a little bit of what we talked about last week because not everybody who was uh uh who's with us this week was with us last week and I'm gonna be touching on some of these things because important to knit it all together. So there are there's a lot that goes on in Rent. Have you guys seen Rent by the way? It's a very complicated kind of story with all sorts of characters. The main primary character in Rent Is a documentary filmmaker and he seeks to find his identity in his career. And there's another primary character with these struggling artists who's looking to find his identity and writing the perfect Song. And there's somebody who's let me find their identity in drugs or in relationships or being promiscuous or in gender identity, or in sexual identity, or in their wealth, or other philosophy, things like that. They're grasping after all of these things And uh and yet there's lots of brokenness and darkness in the story. They're pursuing good things, but there's brokenness and lostness, there's homelessness There's suicide, there's AIDS, you know, death from AIDS. It's it there's a money grudging minister in the story, there's police brutality, there's a lot of darkness as there's he seeking to find relevance and meaning in their life and they're looking in all the wrong places. Well anyway it's so complicated. There's so many stories. I'm just brushing over the surface of it. I mean I could spend three hours expounding everything that's going on. There is so much subtext and so many characters, so many subplots, uh so many interwoven themes that you get lost in it. And there's so much irony, I think, that the play is trying to portray itself actually. And that's kind of ironic, that it's so confusing that most of the people who are watching don't even know what's going on, so the irony is lost on them That's ironic. And during intermission, I remember standing up and talking to total strangers saying, You know what's going on? And there's file, but you can tell me what's going on. And together we kind of figured it out, but it wasn't easy But in spite of how difficult it was and how much irony I might have missed, I gotta say I did pick up at least some instructive points of irony In the story presented in Rant. Now I wonder though if there are the points of irony that the playwright might have intended. I'm not sure about that. For example There are protests in the story in this Broadway musical Rent. Protests against perceived injustice, right? The injustice. the the the failure of a right application of law and order. And this protest, these protests against perceived injustice result in riots. Which of course has no regard for law and order. So there's irony there. One of the secondary characters in the story in Rant is an anarchist, like a defund the police kind of person And this anarchist gets mugged and is in desperate need of help from the police that they don't want to have in existence. There's I mentioned AIDS. Well there's a recurring meeting of people, a group of people that come together, a support group. If people are dying from HIV infection, they are dying And their support group is called life support. So many notes of irony. The stars of rent, they live in a dilapidated, broken down rent Ramshackle fallen down, cold, ice-cold building, the electricity is turned off. I mean it's horrible. It's an apartment that no one would desire to call home. Nobody would want to live in And yet, ironically, they have to break in in order to live in this dilapidated, unlivable, abandoned building. Now why would they have to break into such a building? Well, because ironically it's padlocked by the owner who's trying to keep them out of it. Why do we want to keep them out of the building? He wants to protect the building from them As if they're going to do damage to this horrible building, which he intends to demolish anyway. Now, again, I'm just kind of skirting over the issue, but already there's so much, and I'm telling you How could there be that much? Certainly you're gonna run out of ironic stories. I'm not gonna tell you all of them, but if you think there's no more to be said, I'm telling you there's so much more on this ironic railway. The iron the irony trainer just keeps on moving in increasingly sad ways through this Broadway musical rent. And it illustrates that where life takes us, and we allow our lives to jump off the tracks that carries the truth train. So On the positive side, the characters in Rent, they do pursue relationship. They seek relationship and they do seek Externally anyway, it appears that they have captured community. They have community in a sense And this is good. But again, ironically, there are relationships at this community with no commitment. No no commitment at all. The songwriting the songwriter I mentioned and he's got a girlfriend who's a a dancer and they're lovers in rent and so you think oh they've got community They break out. Some of the uh characters, they leave New York City. The primary setting for the play in in rent is in New York City. That's the home base. This is where everyone in the show lives, and everyone they care about, supposedly care about, is where they live. And yet, so many of these characters leave New York City and the people they care about behind and head to Santa Fe. So people who have lost their way are looking for Santa Fe. And there's irony there too. I don't know if we have any bilingual people involved in this gathering, but Santa Fe means holy faith. It's ironic, they're looking for holy faith, but not really. So they're growing weary. They're growing weary of chasing their dreams and so they change their dreams or they just abandon their dreams altogether. They're growing weary of seeking after true love. And so the characters of rent they they get caught up in various sexual liaisons, you know, sexual relationships, on again, on again. Off again kind of relationships, again, no commitment. Adultery is a significant minor theme in the story of rent. It's not just the story of rent. We all know that this is true even in the Realized, right? Not just fictionalized in the theater, but in real life outside of the theater. And what I saw in Rent, I've seen that real life. You have two, I'm sure. We all know people like the one guy in rent who actually has a career path. There's one character in the whole play who actually has a career path And he quits his job. Many of us know people like that fictional filmmaker, right? Numerous times throughout the musical, the characters' parents, they leave these plaintiff voicemails for their adult children, but they go unheeded and the calls are unreturned, and this is like uproariously funny it it brings laughter from the audience. Well we all know families like this fictional fodder for laughs from the audience or growth families who don't communicate with each other, refuse to return phone calls to one another. Poverty is strangely celebrated in rent. And yet, ironically, they need cash, and so their need for cash is met by stealing from ATM machines. And we all know people like this too, right? Many of us know individuals who So their their poverty, their lack of having any sort of resources is a badge of honor. It's a virtue signal. I'm not materialistic. And yet these very same people so often will take from those who have more out of selfishness. So what we see in rent, we see in real life. And if you ever see rent, you will note that at the end they sing exuberantly toward the end. Exuberantly that there's no day but today. No day but today And yet everyone in the play is haunted by questions of eternity. If you have seen red, then you'll likely remember that one character in the show has a near-death experience. And he has sees the you know the white light and has an angelic vision of uh of a friend who had died earlier in the story. And this this this dead friend becomes And has this after-death visitation. He's, by the way, the cross-dressed hero of the story. And his name, ironically, is Angel. So again, it's only in theory, theory only, that there is no day but today. There is a day beyond today. There is a forever beyond today. Reds cannot escape the yearning for happily ever after. None of us can escape the yearning. happily ever after, the eternal glory that we are created to enjoy. But there is a happily ever after that can be found in Christ. There is no happily ever after without Christ And this is why God has given us a silver warning in 2 John. So that's a rather lengthy introduction. Let's dive into the text. So if you have your Bible. Grab and open to 2 John. We're not going to read the whole thing through. We're basically going to be focusing on the last two verses today, but I want to have the setup, the ramp that leads into those. So we're going to pick up a verse seven. So second John verse seven through eleven. I say this because many deceivers who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh have gone out into the world. Any such person is the deceiver and the Antichrist. Watch out that you do not lose what we have worked for, but that you may be rewarded fully. Anyone who runs ahead does not continue in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever continues in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not take them into your house or welcome them. Anyone who welcomes them shares in their wicked work. I want you to hear me on this If you are God's elect, then you cannot lose your salvation. Now some Some will argue otherwise, I get it. This is actually a subject of debate among some Christian groups. I'm persuaded firmly from Scripture that saints True saints persevere to the end. And true believers in and true followers of Jesus Christ. Our saints. The saints persevere to the end. However, there are rewards for us saints. And it seems that some of this reward can be lost. We just read so in verse 8. Now Now, I'm not so sure that these lost rewards are all heavenly in nature. I think some of the rewards are in the here and now. When we allow the snakes into our midst, this is what John is telling. These teachers of an anti-gospel, a non-gospel, these snakes into our midst. It disrupts our community of faith. We have a strong, healthy community of faith that has been won for us by Jesus Christ and gifted to us by Jesus Christ. It is a reward to us. In union with Christ and by extension, in union with one another by Christ's Spirit, we experience great rewards, and this community of faith is one of them This authentic rooted in truth, rooted in love, relationship of brothers and sisters in Christ, this is what we're after. And I would argue it's one of the rewards. That John is after here in this letter. Based on what he's already written, what we've already read, now look at verse 12 of the letter. I have much to write to you, but I do not want to use paper in any Instead, I hope to visit you and talk with you face to face so that our joy may be complete. You're writing letters, that's nice. Yeah, I wish we still did this more than we do. Paper and ink rather than keyboards and touch screens. Definitely better But even paper and ink are a poor substitute for face-to-face connection. John Wants us to have this joy that is complete. Not just John. God wants this for us. And he's shown us the way. It is the way of truth and life. It is the way, the truth, and the life. As recorded for us in John's Gospel, chapter 14, verse 6. And it's achieved by obedience. Perfect obedience. Perfect love. Well, our obedience isn't perfect. Our love isn't perfect. We certainly falls short of perfection. But Christ's does not fall short of perfection. Christ's obedience, Christ's love is perfect. And so we rest upon what he has done and what he is doing. And as a result of what he has done and he is doing, we have a universal church that is filled with Christian brethren, sister churches filled with God's children all around the world, others also chosen by God. And with them we have grace, mercy, and peace. We have it with our fellow believers because of our fellowship in Christ. Through Jesus we have grace, mercy, and peace with God And so we also have it with one another, all the other saints. As it says in the final verse of the Today's passage, verse 13. The children of your sister, your sister, another church, another group, another household of faith in Christ, if you will. The children of your sister, those members of that church, was chosen by God. They're also chosen by God. They send their greetings. They acknowledge the fellowship, the relationship, the community we have. And they send their greetings along. This communing fellowship, it is the reality It stands in answer to the failed fable of rent. I spent a significant time I know last week and again this week talking about the Broadway musical Rent. But I did it because in rent we see the world. The world that does not Not have Christ, lost and confused, alone and sick, desperate and deceived, and And when we're not careful, when we're not careful to remember God's word, we end up the same way that those characters do in the musical We end up wrapped up in our career like the filmmaker or wrapped up in bold new experiences like the lesbian lawyer We end up raging against the system like those rioters that I mentioned. We end up raging against former loved ones, like the boyfriend and girlfriend that broke up over and over again. We end up ignoring our family members like those renters who didn't return the phone calls of their loved ones. Ignore the consequences of our choices like those who ignore the reasons that did ill in rent. And of wishing for fame, like the songwriter. Wishing for escape like the philosopher. We end up angry at religion. Wealth. Societal norms. Angry at it all, like so many of the supporting characters in rent. And if we're not careful, we end up angry at God. Just like the writer of Rent seems to have possibly been. Brent, through the performance of his actors, calls us to community And as I mentioned, this is good. But in rent, it is a community without a foundation. Everyone in this community is mostly aimless and ill, not understanding reality. not understanding love, not understanding the reality of death. They're chasing happiness. And missing joy. They're yearning for identity. and afraid to discover who they truly are. You know, rent actually has kind of a happy ending in its own work sort of way. But I gotta tell you, I left the theater after seeing the show. I was imagining the ongoing lives of these pretend people The characters I saw play out life, this imaginary life on stage. If there were to be another actor performed. If if rent didn't end there, there was one more act to the play. You just know that that act would be filled. with more disappointment, more dis depression and disillusionment, more death. You just know it would. Because intoxication and infection and infatuation still infest. their circumstances. As an audience, we are made to push these thoughts from our mind, put them way out there, at least for a few minutes of singing and smiling and bowing during standing ovations But you know, if the actors who played these fake lives, if the actors are anything like the characters they portray, well then once that curtain dropped They could pretend no longer. Just as with the stage play, God through the pen of the Apostle John. He has called us a community, like Rent does. Except the church community has a foundation. Jesus Christ brings purpose and life. He is love and he has conquered death and so we rest in his joy that is made complete. By fellowship. A group of believers who know who we are. We know who we are. Saints, who are we? We are co-heirs with Jesus Christ, with no fear of what awaits. Because we know that when our curtain comes down, we go to join our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, our loving Lord forever. And you know, speaking of curtains, there's another curtain that is described in the Bible as the temple curtain. You get by to enter into the Holy of Holies, to be in the presence of God. There's this curtain, this veil that provides a separation from true community, true fellowship, true relationship with God. And this curtain was torn in two Torn into, no longer a barrier, when Jesus Christ died on the cross. But that work of Christ finished, we now Now eagerly await the full restoration of everything to be complete as his second coming. But let's not just wait till his second coming. We can ensure the rewards of it. Even now. But at that second coming, what a musical will break out then. Put musicals like red to shame But again, let's begin to enjoy it with one another, even now. And before I wrap up the message with a word of prayer, because the disjointed nature of the Doing the two messages last week and this week. I just want to tie together a couple of things really quick, take like 60 seconds, probably. Some key takeaways. Second John, we see it throughout from the opening and ending, and even in in in the middle parts of it, but particularly the last two verses, it's screams at us community. Screaming to us community. Not just any community, community that is rooted in truth and love. Primary themes for John's letter repeats truth and love over and over and over again. In a verse in a Chapter of the book of the Bible has 13 verses. He uses the word truth five times, the word love five times. So that repetition tells us that it's not just any old community, but it's a true community, a loving community. It's kind of community that where Christians have grace and mercy and peace that comes from God the Father through God the Son because of God the Holy Spirit who lives with us in community forever And there are heavenly rewards that await Christians. But there is reward even now, and one of those rewards is the community. He has given us to walk in that we too often take for granted. Our obedience and love do fall short. It's one of the reasons we take the community for granted. So we rest on what Jesus has done and is doing because it is God who calls his people to live in community. That is built upon a foundation of Christ. And it is He who brings purpose and life. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your plan from before the foundation of the earth. A plan for your people that you call to yourself. The plan that you set in motion when you spoke the very first word that sprang this creation into existence. And you knew that our obedience and love would not be perfect, that we would fail. And so you provided for us a Savior, Jesus Christ. Through your own providence, through your own goodwill, you chose us to belong to you. Be co-heirs with Christ. We thank you. that we can share in such a fellowship. Help us, Lord, to be more diligent in defending that community that we have. To not be quick to toss it aside and to neglect to gather together as so many do. They ask your forgiveness on us, Lord. Help us to be a more faithful bride. We ask also, Lord, that you would bless the conversation that's about to follow That the truth of your word, who you are, will be expounded even further. That the questions, important questions that people might have would be answered sufficiently, led by your Holy Spirit. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So I don't know what time it is. Okay. We're in good shape. We have time for a discussion. If we have any of your phone this evening coming in? No, I just think it's really hard to have obviously fellows. fellowship right now when we're not allowed to have fellowship right now. So but the good thing for those who are who are the true church then when we are allowed to have fellowship, it'll be all that more sweet. And those who are part of the true church are having fellowship where you know, we do it in ways that are way more intimate. But you you know, you are still getting together with your brother and sister in Christ, but maybe it's two people as opposed to, you know, twenty or whatever. But it's all the more sweeter when um when you're actually allowed to do it. I think. I like the rebellion. Do you like the rebellion? Well I think I think they backing up what you said though, um it does give us an appreciation for the the human contact and the the face-to-face communication um with with with all the challenges facing it right now What do you mean by allowed by let the government lock that stuff? Right. Yeah. channel before it in the context of the household of faith in Christ. And so, you know, I don't want to feel like you know banging the same drum over and over again, but I want to make, you know, this point, I guess clear in the context of that. And the government is putting restrictions in place. But I can't emphasize strongly enough. From a godly biblical Christian worldview point of view, the government has no say over those sorts of things. They're outside their lane. The leadership of the church is left to the leaders of the church, the ordained elders of the church are the ones that make those calls. The ecclesiology, the ecclesiastical structure, the the the leadership, who makes the decisions for how the church runs. That's up to the church leaders, not up to the civic leaders The church leaders don't declare war on other countries. The church leaders don't impose taxes. The church leaders don't do those things because that's outside of their lane. The church leaders are to respect the lanes the government is in. The government is to respect the lane and the lanes that the church leaders are responsible for. For. So there are churches that are meeting, in spite of the government saying they're not allowed. Good for them. Because those are bogus restrictions. The government has no right to make. So the church is well within its right, I would argue that they're being obedient to God when they ignore such orders because those are ungodly orders. Now if a church decides of their own accord not to meet for whatever reasons, for example, there's been times when I've been in leadership and there was a huge snowstorm, you know, two feet of snow gets dropped. but it's all icy and you're like, you know what? There's no way anybody's gonna make it, and we don't want people killing themselves trying to get there. We're gonna not meet for a week. Clear all the snow and we'll get together next week. It's not gonna be the end of the world to have some prudence and some wisdom them to skip a week, that's fine. But there are some churches now that are going on having skipped a year because the government told them. And now I think maybe part of what you're saying though is having the freedom and not to worry about the pressure, not just the government pressure, but the societal pressure. There's such a social pressure, so many shamers out there You know, the church comes together together and the world labs a finger at them and says, How dare you, you're such a hater. And again, there's the note of irony. Because the Christians are gathering for true, authentic, loving, godly, Christ-centered, faithful community. Authentic community, real community. Where real love can be expressed and nurtured and and grown and even implanted in some ways can be s uh acted out, served out. The world is lagging a finger. They don't even know what that is. That's the point that we were talking about with rent. So you had a bunch of renters Wagging at their finger at those who own. I mentioned last week the title of this sermon is rent or the option to own. So we got a bunch of renters out there that are renting relationship, renting It's not eternal. It's not forever. It's not it's temporary. Sometimes it's not even for a day. In hookup culture, hey, let's get into a relationship and I'll, you know, I'll I'll we'll never have learned your name and we'll never see each other again in six hours They're renting relationships. But with Christ, we're offered true, authentic community relationships. that we own forever. It cannot be taken away. Christ says that I do not lose one that the Father has given me. So you those of us who own community, own relationship, own love, have people who don't even know what it is and are merely renting it, wagging their finger at us, and we listen to them. We need to have patience with them and take the time to explain to them that we have no fear of this virus or we have no fear of gathering together. Or even if we do have fear, we have the courage to push through that fear anyway because God calls us to gather together in community. So it is hard, and there are so many restrictions And there's relationship and community that outside of gathering together for worship, you know, uh every in our case Saturday night or in other churches contact Sunday mornings typically. There's more. It's like I remember times when we were involved with different churches and people would say, hey, want to go see a movie or go see a movie on Friday night. Well now it's so much harder to go see a movie. for a long time the ears were closed or there's all these restrictions and social distance anti-social distancing requirements as I call them uh that makes it not really feel like community. You know you're not able to revel in being with each each other when you're not actually allowed to be with each other. You have to hide your face behind a cloth and you have to stay a certain distance away. There's so much with um communication with face covering and with not being able to Anyway, I just you can't read a person's body language if you can't see so much is lost by not being able to see half your face. More than half your face really. I mean if some people wear them and they're like tucked underneath their glasses for crying out loud. Um and I get that 'cause you don't want your glasses to fog up. So that I understand that from a practical standpoint, but so much is lost. It's it's uh it's sad actually that uh we're settling for that. A lot of people are settling. It's hard to know how to approach somebody and what sort of word that would be helpful in their day when you can't read their face. You know? It sometimes the eyes will tell, but not always. Sometimes you kinda need to see the whole face to get a sense. Are they having a down day? Are they sad? They need an occur. urgent word. Are they happy and you have a chance to enter into the happiness with them and say, wow, you're really up deep. What what's going on? Tell me about it. I want to I want you to share your success with me. You know, those are just a couple of examples. If they're Or if you know if they're depressed, it's hard to see the depression. You know, people feel isolated and um and invisible. That's kind of part of what's going on in in red. They feel invisible, they feel untethered. to anything and they're they're just grasping at anything. And what ends up happening is they grasp at what grasp that and hang on to whatever makes them feel happy and good in a particular moment. Well they settle for a substitute, which is kind of what's going on now, even. Um, you know, we're settling for the notion of oh we're safer if we wear the face coverings. No No, not really. You could still get you by car. You could still I mean, you know, there's so many other things that could get ya, so to speak. Um and you know the other the whole you know virtual world of oh we'll do zoom worship and zoom bible studies and yeah I'm part of a zoom bible study and I'm grateful for my friend who does that But we were when she and I were able to get together face to face, oh the glory. What a difference. What a blessing. So yeah, I could see her face on the Zoom call, but you can't can't have the same impact on a person's life and receive the the same in the same way. You can't give and receive the same way via virtually as you can in person. And so that again is a substitute. They're renting the ability to communicate as opposed to owning that. And like Andrew said, what a comparison we will have when things quote unquote go back if they ever do it. Aunt Harry said, Mom says she doesn't feel a connection with people with a mask in a store. She used to smile and say hi to certain people, but now she doesn't because you can't read how the person is. Yeah, very true. Yeah, and that's just one aspect. I mean we talk about different ways that people you know feel loved and affirmed and you know one of them is words of affirmation. So you can do words of affirmation over a Zoom call. Right. Phone call or what we're doing here. Right. But some people, you know, for them it's physical touch. They need a break. They need a hug. They want to be greeted with a holy kiss Yeah, they want a fist bump. They want a, hey Butch, Junior, how's it going there? Big guy? They You know what I mean? They they they let that means something that makes them feel connected and important. Like, oh here comes that guy who punched me in the shoulder. And and that's so people that thrive in that environment that they don't matter, I guess. I mean it's it's it's horrible. Were there any other comments or that was the one we didn't shine in? Okay. Yeah. And I don't want to make this all about like the mask and make it hyper contemporary. To our moment in time, but again, I can't help but draw the connection. In rent, people are looking for some sort of fulfilling relationship and so they engage in Behavior that they think is going to make them happy, but it's dangerous, and so they contract a deadly disease, or they get into a serial on-again, off-again relationship that leaves them emotionally dead. devastated because the boyfriend and girlfriend are disloyal to one another or um you know they think it's gonna be fulfilling they're gonna find your identity in a particular gender gender uh uh labeling or sexual orientation labeling and it comes to find out that ultimately that's not true so Not only do they fail to achieve joy, but they ultimately end up after the short high of the happiness, they end up in a far worse worst place and a dangerous place, a place where they're sick and dying and lost and alone and not sure of who they are, where they belong, and what is the meaning of life, and where am I going to be when I die and those kinds of questions than they is angst that they have. The masks are the same thing. People put them on feeling, oh, I'm gonna be safer now Again, I want to make it put the masks, but the research is pretty clear now. It's just not true. In fact, there's a lot of things that are negatives with the mask. You know that the the The number of people that are suffering from styes in their eye has uh gone up significantly this year because all the garbage that we're breathing out used to be breathed out and now it's being forced up. into our eyes from the mask and people are getting infections in their eyes. That that's not a better thing. Being isolated, lonely, feeling depressed And and uh and trapped, feeling like you're enslaved by these new forms of bondage that are face coverings. Suicide rates are way up. Uh emotional outbursts are way up. Abuse is up, spousal abuse is up, uh overall violence uh is up. Um It's a function of the mask. And then the other thing too, we're talking about getting back to the theme of the message. We should look at other people as Broken, but image bearers of God. We're broken image bearers, but we're image bearers of God. And there's something special and unique and wonderful about that person. We should seek to serve them. That's what loving them is. We're obedient to God. John says in 2nd John, right? This is love, to be obedient to his commands. His command is that we serve and love other people, we serve other people. And so uh we can't do that as well in in an environment where we're afraid of everybody. We're training up a whole young generation of people. I can't imagine what we're doing psychologically and emotionally to really young people, you know, any really young, like you know, three, four, five, six-year-olds. And they're being trained up and raised up in an environment where they're not taught to look at other people and say, Oh, there's a there's a nice relative of ours or there's a friend the mailman or there's the policeman who's gonna protect you. Instead they're they're trained up to look at people as dangerous bags of germs. Well I don't want to spend time with dangerous bags of germs. And I don't want to do anything loving towards a dangerous bag of germs. I want to squash a dangerous bag of germs. I want to get rid of the dangerous So we're instilling people with this attitude that's anything but good for our culture, our society. It's uh the fact that we're still talking about this, it's been like almost a year. is forty eight weeks. Unreal. Same thing I should start. It's unreal that it's been forty eight weeks. Carrie says. Mom asked someone from church if she could hug them and they were so offended normally this person would always hug. Oh that's crazy Wow. So sad. And I'm not saying that everybody should run around hugging. I mean ev even before the whole mass mandate thing, there's somebody I'm thinking of right now that we go to church with who was not comfortable with the whole hugging physical touch thing, whatever. I don't know if they're a germaphobe or it was uncomfortable for them emotionally. I don't really know. That's fine. But there are some people that they need that. They thrive on that. They crave it and they're being denied that. That's that's what I was talking about. Yeah, it's hard to have a a relationship with people right now. You know? You say the wrong thing, they're gonna be offended and then you're gonna lose a friendship maybe or speaking of which, by the way, for what it's worth, you know, on Facebook Uh this time last year I probably had I don't know seven hundred and eighty or so Facebook friends. And since this time last year I think I've lost I've had like forty or so people that have unfriended maybe. because of my view on the mask and about church lockdowns and other related issues and things like that. And yet, having had like forty people unfriend me, like I said I had about seven hundred and eighty I think I now have about I don't know eight hundred and twenty. So I lost forty, but apparently I gained back eighty, so I have more than I started with. And on top of that, before they shut it down, I was connected With uh over 1200 people on Parlor, and I've got about 150 or so uh friends or connections, or whatever they call it, on MiWee. And so if you're willing to just take a stand for the truth, And seek to develop a relationship with anyone and everyone who's willing to respond in like manner, you can actually grow your social network. You can interact with more people And um if you're afraid to say anything because you might offend somebody, that's fine, you've got to have wisdom. But I will tell you this, there is some benefit on occasion to saying something that might risk offending let's say I would say something that would offend Danny. And so I'm like, I want to say it might offend Danny, but boy, I know that it's going to really can to the heart with Andrew. And he's and he needs to know that there's somebody out there who believes like he does. who trusts in his vision of the world. And so I'm going to affirm Andrew and say, you know what? I'm with you, buddy. And she's like, what do you mean you're with him? But it's part of the mental calculus and emotional calculus you have to make. And so sometimes you put yourself out I know I tell you there's the this time last year is when I started to sound the alarm about what was coming down the road with the uh coronavirus And people thought I was nuts. And that's when I started to lose friends on Facebook. And I felt like a lone voice in the wilderness I was like the only person at my workplace, I was the only person in my immediate social sphere, the only person on Facebook that I was noticing that was saying the things that I was saying, the sounding the alarm the way that I was founding it and I felt so alone. I was like, is there anybody out there who agrees with me? About six, eight weeks later, a whole bunch of other people started to either come around to thinking the way I was thinking or they had been saying it like I had from the beginning, I just wasn't noticing, or they got to the point where they decided to join the conversation and put it out there and say, yeah, here's what's crazy about what the governor's doing. Here's what's crazy about what the supposed experts are saying and here's the facts saying. And I gotta tell you it was sad to me I felt so socially isolated, like, am I insane? How could I be the only person in the whole world who sees things insane? this way and that other people be, in my opinion, brave enough to join the chorus that I had started to sing was hugely important. and uh and and uh and motivating and encouragement to me. So again, pick your spots. You don't want to be uh unnecessarily offending people, but you don't want to be a wallflower on these sorts of of things either. We need to advocate for the truth and uh it helps support those who are also advocating for the truth. What kind of Okay. All right. Any other thoughts that I've triggered? Uh just going off that I think that um kind of you know just reiterating what you mentioned that So sometimes having the courage to speak out on those things can can spread the courage. And someone who kind of like you mentioned with the Danny and I example So um you know it might speak to me and and give me the courage to then speak out um and kind of spread it. So um so it is important to to be courageous. And and on on occasion decalculated risk. Yeah. Anything else from you? Any good? All right. Anything else from you? All right. Well, we don't need to force a conversation, so uh we're pretty close to seven o'clock, which is when you typically like to do uh wrap it up. We're going to be back next week here at uh on Facebook at six o'clock. I think we'll be in a regular setting next weekend, right? I think that's the plan anyway. Regardless, we're going to try to be here. This was an experiment. Hopefully it went reasonably well for you guys watching. We do now house these videos on YouTube. We have a YouTube channel. So if you go to YouTube and you search for the household of faith in Christ. You can find all our videos there. And for what it's worth, if you uh like or share the video that helps the algorithm and more people People might see it. And the other thing is if you hit the notifications bell, every time we post a new video, you'll get a notification that a new video is there. And so you can be sure not to miss one. So if you want to go to YouTube and do those things You're encouraged to do so. I guess that's it. If you would close us in prayer, we'll wrap it up. Well, we thank you so much for this time together. We look forward to being able to truly have fellowship without any sort of repercussions or negativities from anyone. We thank you that we do have the opportunity to do so that you say yes. And so we ask for the courage to walk in your way and to have wisdom on how to do that so that it's not offensive to the world. world but we know that you didn't you you came to um to actually to root out those who are evildoers and those who are you know, falsely speaking things. So we ask that she would bless the continued our week coming up and that she would lead us not into temptation. Jesus' name. Amen. Next week the plan is to move on to third John as we continue our series on the Epistles of John. So covered first and second, as that leaves third And there is not a fourth John, so after 3rd John we're going to move on to something else. I think we're going to be at that point probably in the uh in the Resurrection Sunday part of the uh church calendar, so we'll probably do some messages specific to that. And then uh after that we're gonna move into our in-depth look uh walking through uh the book of Revelation. That was a request, so we're honoring that request. We're gonna spend I would guess 30 or so, maybe more than 30 weeks of examining the book of Revelation. So that ought to be fun. Anyway, till next week. God bless. Thanks for watching.