Hello, Facebook, and if you're watching this later, YouTube, thank you for joining us here for our gathering of the Household of Faith in Christ. Before we get into our time of preaching the word and discussing uh what what the word had to say to us tonight. I wanted to share some things that have to do with social media. Never thought to do this before, but we are on YouTube now we have a YouTube channel. called the Household of Faith in Christ. That's the name of the channel. Very original and clever of me. Anyway, when I looked at the time we had 48 YouTube videos, we might have a 40 4 I think we might have a 48th now, but when I looked at 47 YouTube videos and we had exactly 1,000 views of our videos, we have way more views than that on the Facebook videos, because again, most people are watching watching this live on Facebook or through the Facebook page. Only some are then going to watch it on YouTube. We probably have um you know maybe ten times or more views on Facebook and on YouTube. The YouTube channel itself is a thousand views. But we have nine subscribers, 67 likes likes and five shares. I mentioned That if if you're interested in following along and you're interested in other people um seeing and hearing what it is that we do here, if you subscribe, if you like, if you share a video, it helps the algorithm. And so more people would then see it show up in their YouTube feeds. And if you subscribe, hit the notifications bell, then every time a new video gets posted, you'll get an alert That tells you that one is there for you. For what it's worth, about three out of four people that watch the video are watching on a mobile device, which was surprising to me actually. And uh About 25% or so are watching on a desktop, and there's a handful of like three percent that are watching either on a tablet or on a TV screen, believe it or not. Um and I was curious, so I looked this up. Could you get That's what the most popular video is on our channel, most of you, most Yeah, probably the ghost one. Actually did well. That one did well too. It's like how Five five or six for sure. No? Uh probably the lockdown one on the um on the No, those those all did well. There's a c there was a cluster of like ten of our forty-seven videos outperformed the others by a pretty good stretch. Those are all kind of within those ten. The most popular is the one that has Tyler's testimony talking about how Jesus is Lord Savior King today and the miraculous healing story. I'm not sure what to make of this, but our second most popular video was a test video that I put up when I wasn't sure when our backup plan was going to be when Facebook Live wasn't working. So I did a test video, posted it to the House of the Faith's uh YouTube channel. It was the hour long uh show Frederick's Forum It's a political show. And that is the second. So thank goodness the Tyler testimony of Jesus as Lord Senior King today is most popular. But right after that was secular political concern So I'm not sure what to make of that. But anyway, uh if you're watching us on Facebook and or YouTube, uh we appreciate it and uh thank you. So we're gonna have our our message here in a moment. I'm gonna ask uh Angela if She would open us with a word of prayer and then we'll start the sermon. Our Father. Father and our God. Father, we invite the presence of the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of truth, to be with us. Father, we invite His presence so that The Lord Jesus Christ will be glorified in what is thought and what is said. We just want to honor Him. We just want to honor the gospel of Christ. be a a voice box for the way, the truth, and the life. We pray, Lord, that um that Jesus honored during this time together. That truth is shared, Lord, both spiritual and on a practical level, Lord. And that people by hearing the truth will be set free. from something Lord that um that has confused them and has uh kept them enslaved in some way. So Father we thank you for the privilege of proclaiming the gospel, be honored and glorified in it, and bless many, many souls through it and because of it. We pray in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Well, my beloved friends whom I love in the truth, good evening once again. Let me ask you, what is the shortest book of the Bible? Obadiah, that'd be a good guess. That's the shortest book of the Old Testament. John, that'd be another good guess. If you're counting verses, then 2 John is the shortest book with just 13 verses. However, 2 John has 245 words And 3 John has 219 words, 26 fewer words. And I'm counting the Greek words here, by the way, not the number of words that show up in our Various English translations. So if our dearly departed Alex Trebac had once said to you, I am the shortest book found in the Bible, then you should have said third, what is third John? Why if you're playing Jeopardy It's kind of the informal question. What is 3 John? This evening we're going to take a look at the first 12 of 3 John's verses, the first 185 words, as it turns out. We'll cover the final thirty-four words beginning in a couple of weeks. So let's read those first twelve verses together. And When you get there, in your Bible, maybe it takes up two or three pages. You got one of those fancy commentary Bibles. They have a lot of notes at the bottom and the margins that sort of thing, but the original letter would have fit very nicely and easily on a single page of papyrus. So let's see what that single page As to say. The elder, to my dear friend Gaius, whom I love in the truth, dear friend, I pray that you may enjoy good health And that all may go well with you, even as your soul is getting along well. It gave me great joy when some believers came and testified about your faithfulness to the truth. Telling them how you continue to walk in it. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. Dear friend, you are a you are faithful to what you are doing for the brother Brothers and sisters, even though they are strangers to you. They have told the church about your love. You will do well to send them on their way in a manner that honors God. It was for the sake of the name that they went out, receiving no help from the pagans. We ought therefore to show hospitality to such people so that we may work together for the truth. I wrote to the church, but Diatrophes, who loves to be first, will not welcome us. So when I come I will call attention to what he is doing. Doing, spreading malicious nonsense about us. Not satisfied with that, he even refuses to welcome other believers. He also stops those who want to do so and puts them out of the church. Your friend, do not imitate what is evil, but what is good. Anyone who does what is good is from God. Anyone who does what is evil has not seen God. Demetrius is well spoken of by everyone, and even by the truth itself. We also speak well of him, and you know that our testimony is true. This is the very word of God inspired and therefore infallible, inerrant, a perfect rule and guide for faith and life practice. Those who have Ears to hear, let them hear. Pause for a word of prayer. Father, we thank you for your revelation, the revelation of yourself. And your will for our lives. We ask that you would help us to stay focused on what it is you are saying to us here in this letter written by John so many years ago ago but still applicable to our lives even now. Clear for our mind distractions. Help us stay focused on the the beauty of who you are and the word You revealed to us. That was a really drill down in our hearts and minds to properly understand your truth. The apostle Only by the illumination of your Holy Spirit, which is given to us because of the blood shed by Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. So what I just read with the NIV and it's a good question because we're going to be talking about that this evening. So may I ask you another question. Started with a question with the shortest book in the Bible. Let me ask you another question. Have you ever wished that you could be a fly on a wall somewhere? Or maybe did you ever wish that you could travel through time so that you could uh you could experience what things were really like in a particular I'm tempted to say, of course, I think all of us at some point or another wish that we could have been somewhere or have some inside track on on information somewhere more than one more than we have. I think this is one of the reasons why all the espionage stories that you know are reported on in the news, they capture so much attention. Like a number of years ago, what did Hillary Emails really say? Or can you be fair on the other side of the political aisle? What did Donald's people really say to those Russians? captured the imagination of people. Our curiosity about such things, it's even why, you know, forget the politics of it. Remember that O. J. Simpson uh docudrama series on FX Network called American Crime Story was really popular. It had monster ratings for a small cable channel a few years ago. I think we're interested in knowing what was really going on, having the insight Scoop on stuff, it's part of why our culture is so wrapped up in conspiracy theories, you know, like the JFK assassination or or those who even who question the moon landing. And it's why many of us enjoy reality writing. As far as I know, I have made up that term. Reality writing. It's what we had before the advent of reality television. Reality writing would include the Anne Frank diagram. Which was discovered shortly after World War II. It would include the the correspondence between John Adams and Thomas Jefferson that span half a century. It would include the love letters that are now preserved in a presidential library that Ronald Reagan wrote to his beloved Nancy. And it would include another letter of love, another Love letter now preserved in our New Testament that John penned to his beloved Gaius Anne Frank's words, they provide a glimpse into what life was like as a Jew living in Nazi Germany in the 20th century. 20th century. John's words provide us a glimpse of what life was like as a Christian. Living in Asia Minor in the first century. The letters of Adams and Jefferson, they provide insight into their minds so that we can better understand what these men believed This letter of John provides insight into his mind and what is most important about what he believed. Ronnie's letters to Nancy. While it was governor and then president, they reveal the loving heart of this leader. And John's letter, while he was the elder in Christ's church, revealed the loving heart of this leader What a treasure we have in 3 John. It's really a shame, but it's one of the most neglected books. of the Bible. In it we read a testimony of joy in the truth. We read a testimony of contrast between love of truth and love of self. We read a testimony of that we'd like to be true of us. It is written from the beloved to the beloved. It addresses truth in love. It celebrates the good, exposes the bad, and accentuates the beautiful Indeed, what a treasure we have in third John. So let's take a look At the beginning of the letter, verse 1, the elder, to my dear friend Gaius, whom I love in the truth. Just as with Second John, the writer opens with the simple statement of his identity, the elder. He doesn't say John, but I believe. It's more than safe to assume that this author is the Apostle John. The one whom Jesus tells look after his mother. while Christ is hanging on the cross. The disciple whom Jesus loved, the beloved disciple This beloved disciple was writing to one of his beloved disciples, Gaius. To my beloved Gaius, he writes. Now I know what I read says to my dear friend Gaius at the NIV, but other English translations. translations, they they're a bit better here in my opinion. They don't say to my dear friend. Now the Greek it allows for either. So I don't want to come down too hard on the NIV, but beloved it seems so much stronger for reasons that I think will become apparent as we proceed tonight. Now John he uses the word beloved when addressing Gaius, the beloved, whom he says, I love in the truth. Now note that John doesn't say, I love you truly, I do, I love you. Yes, this is true. Now he does have a true love for Gaius, as we can know from his use of the word beloved, at the very start of the sentence. But here what he writes is that he loves Gaius, what's he say? In the truth. Who is the truth? Jesus is quoted in John chapter 14, verse 6, as saying, I am the way and the truth and the life. Christ is the truth. John loves Gaius in the truth John loves Gaius in Christ. Now I have spent more than a few moments here drawing attention to this because right here we can see the theme for the entire letter. This is a love letter in truth, of truth, in defense of walking in truth, contrasted with the ways of error that failed To walk in the truth and result in an environment of hatred, testimony of hatred. John puts a spotlight on two testimonies. A testimony of love in truth, a testimony of hatred in error. And he points us to an example that invites us. It's us to ask which testimony is mine. Is my testimony the testimony Of love and truth? Or is it the one of hatred and error? We begin with the Testimony of love in truth. So let's read verses 2, 3, and 4. And again, before we do, let me say one more time that some of our Bibles aren't as helpful as they might be. in this situation? Because again, John opens the body of the letter with the word beloved. And again, the NIV, which is what I read earlier, it says dear friend. And that's a follow-up translation so it's not wrong. I mean Gaius is a dear friend. So it's got that going for it. And Greek words they have a range of what are called English glosses. A range of translational options from which translators can choose and that are perfectly acceptable. And so, dear friend, it is acceptable. It's an acceptable translation. But man how I wish the NIV translators had opted for beloved, as many of our other English translations do, because it helped us to see the love theme all that much more clearly. So for the rest of this sermon, both this week and next, I am going to substitute The word beloved for the Greek word that the NIV chose to translate as dear friend. So, verses 2 through 4. John writes, Beloved, I pray that you may enjoy good health and that all may go well with you, even as your soul. was getting along well. It gave me great joy when some believers came and testified about your faithfulness to the truth, telling me how you continue to walk in it. I have no greater joy than to hear that my My children are walking in the truth. Now notice in verse 2 that John prays for Gaius to have both spiritual and physical happiness. I pray that you may enjoy good health and that it all may go well with you even as your soul is getting along well. Now it's true that this is light Some sort of a standard greeting that would have been familiar to letter readers in first century Roman Empire times. But letter writers need not be Slaves to convention. For example, when writing a letter, you might sign off with sincerely or cordially or much love? You ever run through those options? Options like that? I'm closing out a letter or signing some sort of a greeting card Are sincerely. That seems kind of average. Cordially, well that's quite a bit more unique, but it sounds kind of formal. Much love. I better be careful which letters and cards I sign off that way for. You know, sometimes personally I'll sign off God bless or in Christ or only by the blood of Christ or sometimes just merely thanks. You know, thanks, comma Troy. But I'll give a moment of thought to this most of the time Do you? Don't get me wrong, I don't agonize over it. I think about it, I think about what I'm writing. And sometimes you know press for time. I don't I can't make a really quick, easy decision, so I'll simply sign my name. No sincerely, no cordially, no God bless. Know anything, just draw it. So even if it is a letter writing convention, we have choices to make within those conventions. And here in 3 John He chooses to express concern for the spiritual and the physical well-being of his beloved Gaius. Now some will even speculate that this might mean the gay if he had some sort of a malady, or perhaps he was a man of a weak constitution, or perhaps he was Recovering from some significant illness. And I mean that's speculation, hard for us to say. But regardless, from this we can learn that it is okay. even commendable to pray for spiritual and physical strength for your friends. Does that get caught up the false dichotomy there where you hyperemphasize the spiritual at the expense of the physical. Or do the reverse and all all of your effort and energy and prayer time Is dedicated to being hands and feet to serve the physical at the expense of the spiritual. It's both and. And now, in the latter, comes a testimony of love and truth that I mentioned earlier. Verses 3 and 4 gave me great joy when some believers came and testified about your faithfulness to the truth, telling or testifying. How you continue to walk in it, have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. I love this. The elder is a proud papa in these verses. Gaius has brought great joy to John And interestingly, the name Gaius can mean rejoicing. Isn't that great? A man named rejoicing is bringing much rejoicing to John. How? What has Gaius done for John? I mean nothing specifically for John. John has great joy because of the testimony of others about the beloved Faithfulness. Faithfulness to what? To the truth. Gaius is faithful to the truth. Faithful to Christ, who is the truth. How does John know? Because others testify. about Gaius, that he is walking in the truth. He continues to walk in it. This sort of of faithfulness is so very exciting to John. It brings him great joy. There is no greater joy for John than a report like this. Now I am really emphasizing this because the text emphasizes this. I mean it pops up at you in the Greek, I'll be honest. But even in the English translations, we can pretty much see it, particularly if we know to look for it. Basically, John writes here in these verses, Gaus I really I really have a huge amount of joy in my heart over you because of what everyone is telling me about you. Can you relate? I think I can relate. When my daughter was in school and she got good grades, that felt good to me as her father. I was happy for her, I was proud of her. But I'm telling you, when I was told at the parent-teacher conference that you know your daughter Danny, she is an absolute treat to have have in class. She is well-mannered, high-spirited. She is a leader among her peers. Oh that gave me great joy. She's also an athlete in school, so when she helped her team to win points at a track meet, or when she was named to the County All-Star team for basketball. You know, that that felt good to me as her father. I was happy for her and I was I was proud of her. But when her coach Come came to find me, pull me aside and say, you know, I let you know something about your daughter, Danny. She is a competitor. She helps set the tone for the entire team during practice. I mean she is a team cat. Captain in part because she outworks everyone. That sort of report brings great joy because it's a sort of report that is the testimony of character. It's in moments like that that she's most Christli She wrestles with sin. Of course she does. We all wrestle with sin. That's why we need Jesus Christ. Right? That's why He paid the price on the cross, shed His blood, the penalty. due to us for our sin. We're not perfect. We're not going to be in glorification until the second coming. So don't misunderstand me. I'm not making an idol of my daughter. But hearing a testimony like this about her, it tells me that She's on that path of truth. She's walking in it. And I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking. In the truth or walking in Christ. And believe it or not, this is how your pastor feels about you. If he have a good pastor, a true pastor, one who recognizes his responsibility as an under-shepherd to the true shepherd, Jesus Christ. Christ. And it's how God feels about his children. And it's how John feels about Gaius Now, verses 2 through 4 tell us that testimonies of walking in the truth bring joy. I wonder what verses 5 through 10 tell us. We'll find out the answer to that cliffhanging question next week. Before I wrap up with a closing prayer. here in a moment. I want to read something that I wrote as kind of a midweek teaser for this message today. This weekend we read a letter together It is a letter of competing testimonies. It is a letter of challenge, but mostly of encouragement. It is a letter in which the author does not use his name, nor even the name of Christ, and yet it is a letter in which names play a central role, especially as they relate to the name The sermon focusing on 3 John verses 1 through 12 is titled The Good, the Bad, and the Beautiful Truth. It is a personal sermon exploration of truth and love and the beautiful gospel of Jesus Christ. Father, we praise you and thank you for your beautiful gospel. We thank you for your plan from all eternity. A plan that includes us. A plan that allows us to us to know who you are, know your character through your revealed word. We thank you for blessing us with the opportunity to study it. And to now just We ask that you're we would sense the activity and presence of your spirit among us as we have our discussion during the remaining time we have here this evening. We pray that we would be like Gaius. We would bring rejoicing to those who care about us. about us, that we would bring rejoicing to the angels in heaven, and that you, Lord, would rejoice in us as we read Rejoice in you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. It over here. Any initial thoughts? But just FYI, the NASB users beloved. Sorry, the king giant king giant. Yeah, real quickly, because I that can sometimes throw people, particularly if you talk to somebody who's not a Christian and uh uh I've heard this in my interactions with some some Muslims and they have the wrong idea about how the translations work. So they talk about how our Bible keeps changing, it's then corrupted. And you know, they uh the it's been the the accuracy of the Bible has been watered down over the years because they keep translating or retranslating this like you know, the King James got retranslated. Translated as the as the NASB that got retranslated to the NIV, which got for and that's not how translations work. The translators are going back to the original source, but we don't have The original parchments, those don't exist. But they're going back as far in time and looking at all the available ancient manuscripts that we have and comparing all of that and making decisions of What's the best way to translate this word or this verse or this passage? And they're wrestling over that, looking at the original Hebrew, the original Greek, or in some cases the original Aramaic as parts of the Bible or Aramaic. And they're all doing that independent of one another. So the King James did it, you know, during the King James time and the ESVA the ESB people did it, you know, twenty years ago. and the uh NIV people did it, you know, a number of decades ago. They're all doing independent of one another, but they have different approaches. So some they they they try to do as best as they can a word-to-word equivalency And you and in case you're wondering, why don't they just always do word-for-word equivalency? Because the languages are too different. If you were to take the Hebrew and translate it literally word by word into English, you wouldn't really understand what it's trying to say. The the the sentence structure is different, the the dynamics of the language are different. And so they do the best they can to be word for word, but they have to rearrange some things and move them around so the syntax fits English because the syntax for Hebrew is different. But anyway, those word for word uh attempts would be to King James, the NASV, the uh the ESV which I mentioned, uh uh translations like that. And then you have the dynamic equivalency translators that They're not trying to capture the word for word. They're looking at entire sentences or phrases and arguments and saying, okay, based on all do we know what the author's trying to say here, what's the best way to say that? And that's The NIV is an example of that kind of dynamic equivalency. The dynamic equivalency translations tend to be easier to read to our contemporary minds. Uh they kind of flow a little bit easy. Sometimes you might run to a passage in your King James or in your NASB that feels a little wooden, a little stilted, like I have an awkward sentence structure. like that it doesn't flow the way you would think it might. Like an editor might have re awkward construction. Yeah, they would have circled it in red or something. But the NASV or the King James, they're trying to say uh True to that, the NIV is like let's not make it that hard on people, let's make it a little simpler without losing anything. And so they try to make it more the vernacular, more common language, uh, and so you end up with dear friend. Because that's fair. I could say, oh, my beloved Angela, or is it my dear friend Angela? They're both true, but they have a different weight. And that's why I wish that the NIV Um use beloved there. Then there's the the paraphrase ones like the the the living bible for example where they're uh Uh those are fine for easy greasy reading. You should not use a a paraphrase Bible as a study Bible. There's way too many things get lost. They're fine for general stories and the general flow of scripture and like I said for kind of just breezing through a read but do not use those for study purposes. You'll you'll you'll miss too many things. And then you've got like the hyper version of that, like the message Bible, that is like paraphrase on steroids. Like it's almost unrecognizable as scripture in my opinion, but uh it has Some good things about it maybe as a s as a occasional supplement, but do not make that your steady diet because you're not really hearing I don't think it's able to I don't think you're able to really So anyway, so that's why there's some differences. Doesn't mean NIV is wrong necessarily. I d I feel like some are better than others. And it's the same thing. There's times when I'll read the NASB and I'm like, oh I think the NAV got this one better. So it goes both ways. And some people, in case you're wondering, you're watching this and you're one of those King James only kind of people, I'm not King James only James only. Uh but I'm not never King James either. Or some people like that that want to just kick the King James to the curb. Um there have been so many more archaeological finds. I mean the King James Version is hundreds of years old now. And the number of archaeological finds that have been discovered since then that we have that many more ancient manuscripts, as Den Sea Scrolls from the 1940s, for example, that help us have a better understanding of what the original text really was. The King James translators didn't have some of those same tools available. So there's a few verses in the King James Version. Off the top of my head I couldn't tell you what they are, but I could research it for you if you're interested. There's a couple of verses the King James just had it wrong. Like the word is wrong. Like that's not what God's word is. They got that one wrong, but to the best of their knowledge at the time, they may made their best guess to fill in a gap, but we don't have to fill in the gap now. There is no gap. We found more manuscripts that help us know what that word is. So for you if you're a King James only person, that's fine, but just know that you're resting on on uh on academic insights and the discovery of manuscripts. That is hundreds of years old, and you are robbing yourself of an opportunity to see material that is based on stuff that is more current than that. So, anyway, long excursion. Okay. Were there any other comments on there? No. Okay. So anyway, the idea about uh The the the thrust of the message, being beloved, um giving a testimony that others are gonna brag on you about. Well I think well the one thing that struck me is like when I'm together with Angela and we're having a moment where there's this strong fellowship and either she's like, Oh, there's this truth that was just popped out at me. I wanted to sh share it with you or vice versa or I'll do that with my friend Connie. And there's this communion and fellowship with the Holy Spirit that is such an amazing Amazing joy where you know, we're almost like cheering each other on in the Lord, like, oh yeah, like and that's when you go, Yeah you go Lord, like there's this and that's where I I would say like, yeah, Angela, yes, that's it. Yes, sister, yes, you know, and so we're just and I think that's almost the spirit of this letter. If I were writing a letter if I was if Angela and I were corresponding via letter as opposed to person to person, face to face, I would write her and say, Oh man, my beloved Angela that was Spot on. I am s I am so excited. I'm so I can't tell you how excited I am that you had the opportunity to share that before however many people You know, there's that that um truth detector that goes off where you're like rejoicing because you share the same spirit. You have the Holy Spirit and And that's what I think is going on here. Because you know the truth. As believers, we know the truth. And when we hear another brother or sister in Christ Standing in truth and speaking truth, you can't help but be like, yeah, yeah, you go. Like it's it's there's an exciting fellowship there. Anyway. I think it's good to follow so John is commending Gaius for his example. And I think we do well to to recognize the example of John Because you see somebody or hear about somebody that's doing something that is very Christ honoring, God exalting, kingdom advancing, and you and your spirit are excited or you might talk about it to somebody else. John encourages Gaius. He didn't he he lives around or near a church where there's leadership there that is uh antichrist in their attitudes and behaviors. We're gonna get more into that in next week's message, but we read the passage today. You can see that people who are trying to live Christ-like lives are put out of the church. And part of me sometimes wonders, is that the situation gay has faced? Like is John writing Gaius because Gaius is then put out of the church? Now that's total speculation, but why is he not addressing his letter to the church? He's he's sending it to Gaius who's not and he said and I'm gonna come to talk to church too. So part of me wonders, did Gaius need that kind of affirmation? Like, don't worry, you're doing the right thing. Was he his mentor? So maybe it was like a mentor mentee relationship. You know, you want to be like hey, you know, it's kinda like the acknowledgement of I trained you up and you've heated that and now applied it. Yay, good for you. So there could be an element of that Yeah, it it it we don't again, we don't really know for sure, but that's uh it can be fun to speculate uh particularly outside of the sermon, it can be fun to speculate these kind of ideas and see and you know, later on there's there's three names that are mentioned. specifically in this letter and a third of those names kind of seems like it comes out of nowhere. I don't feel it where'd that name come from. And I feel like that's probably the messenger of the letter. And so John is commending the messenger of the letter to Gaius and saying, hey, this is a good guy. He's got your back. You can trust him. kind of uh a thing. And so was he a uh is it a mentor-mentee relationship or is it merely somebody that John has legitimately doesn't know that well it has heard all these wonderful things. He's like, there's a problem in that church, and I'm gonna have to go deal with it. But in the meantime, I'm gonna encourage one of those good soldiers standing on the wall, and I'm gonna send this other good soldier to be my message bearer to him. Um so that maybe part of what's so like we don't really know for sure the nature of the relationship. We have to guess a little bit. Because we don't have we technically technically have to guess at the author. He doesn't say who he is per se. But when read in concert and you read the gospel and you read first, second, third John, you read the book of Revelation, there's a reason why the church tradition holds that the Apostle John wrote those. And it's not the purpose of a sermon, it's not really the purpose of these discussions even. to go through all the background material of why the overwhelming majority of theologians and and church leaders throughout history have landed there. But there are people over the last fifteen hundred years, the higher critics of uh of of the Bible will try to cast doubt on who really wrote the But I'm pretty persuaded that all five of the books in the New Testament that we think were written by John were actually written by John. Anyway. You're being kind of quiet tonight. Can we give you a uh a word of encouragement? Um you might know well I'll give you a I was joking, but I'll give you a w what you might note if you watch these regularly that we tend to open almost every time with with Angela opening us in prayer. And to be honest, that's kind of my nod to her as a sister in Christ, knowing what a prayer warrior that she is. She's involved in I don't know, is it like twice a day prayer calls or something that you're doing? Oh there's two different prayer groups. Right. There's there's one oh yeah, yeah, there's On some days it's twice a day, but not even like four minutes. You know, they're like hour long kind of prayer calls and it's every day and Um and sometimes she's leading the call, sometimes she's just participating in the call, but she is faithful and she is, you know, very active and praying in our lives and specifically praying for Tyler. And uh she is just you know what we like to call a prayer warrior. And it's sad that we have a designation like that. Shouldn't we all be prayer warriors? But there are some people that just seem to be more drawn to that, motivated to that, have trained themselves up in that, uh are in a season of life where that's more obvious for them. I'm not sure what it there are certain people. You probably know them yourself where but if I need somebody to pray, I didn't know I'm gonna call I'm calling that person because I know they pray. Um and Angela's And so it's kind of a nod to her that hey, I recognize that you are you are somebody who prays, and so we're gonna open our our gatherings more times and not with you opening us some prayer. We have want to tell a story uh one of our friends, a daughter, talked about you in your prayer. Want me to tell it? I don't know what you're talking about, so yeah you have to tell it. No, go ahead. We have uh we have uh a pastor and pastor's wife friend who uh you know we we we s we s we still friendly with them, we don't see them as much as we once did, but we were a little more regular in the lives, they were more regular in our lives, and you know we we got to know each other a little bit and uh they had a at the time a young daughter, I forget how old she was, like eight probably maybe. And she's older now. Uh it's frightening to think how old she actually is now, but um and they had an issue that that they were consider as a as a family or as a church they were wrestling through and so they were having a family devotion time and they said now we we we want to make sure that we pray about this and The daughter said, ooh, we should go get Miss Dina to pray because we know God hears her prayers. I don't remember that. Yeah, remember that? Uh-uh. Because she knew the story about the the faithful, long-lasting devotion to prayer that resulted in Tyler being able to eat solid food and feed himself and his his heart being healed and she knew those stories. Well I'm going I'm going to Tina, Miss Dina, because I know that Miss Dina, not only does she pray, she can use these words for the attitude of She has effective prayers. Like God looks here. God hears her prayers. But if you spend a lot of time before God in prayer, He hears your prayer. Even if you don't spend a lot of time, he hears your prayers, but you start Well you're more sensitive to His answering the prayers when you're seeking Him in prayer. You're you know He illuminates our eyes today that for encouragement, you know, and his glory. Yeah, for a number of years we've uh done variations of it, but on New Year's Eve and to New Year's Day you know, Dina and I will spend time um in worship and in prayer and and um I think it was the second year that we did it we realized the importance of writing the Down. Because you put all these you you part of the prayer is praising and thanking God for what came in the year before, and then uh seeking his blessing for things to come ahead in the coming. year, right? And asking for him to move maybe in certain ways that be his will. And and then the next year you want to thank him for what he did. We realize we're not very well equipped to thank Thank him for answering the prayers that we had last year because he couldn't remember them all. So instead of actually writing them all down after our prayer time was over, we'd write down what we pray. We try to remember everything we prayed about, we write it all down and we would revisit. And so the first time we did that, was it like half? Yeah, it was a lot. It was like half of the things we We prayed for God answered, and probably less than half of those we would have remembered that they were prayer requests. And we're talking in some cases very specific prayer requests and shame on us twelve months later we forgot we prayed it and God answered it. He doesn't need us, it's clear. So right? I mean uh one thing about it. Be faithful even when we're not. Alright. Well we can wrap this up in a minute, but is there anything else that you feel like go We should talk about a couple of years. I'm still waiting. It takes a while for us to then we we're something will happen and we'll go. Hey, then we'll just answer prayer 'cause And sometimes it's a long time. Like Mrs. H. With you. Oh yeah. She prayed for me when I was a little girl to um receive Jesus and because I was uh mother's helper for her for her son. And it wasn't until I was an adult. Like decades later and she was so excited when you told her that Well because and it was so weird because when I gave my life to Christ Jesus saved me, I got this impression thought in my head that said call Mrs. H. And I was like, Okay. So I called her and shared it and that's when she said, Oh my God I've been praying for you since you were a little girl. And she was so, so very excited because she was able to see the fruit of that prayer. And God made sure she saw it 'cause he told me to call her. Like I hadn't talked to her in a long time. You know, she had Christmas cards, so that was about it. And she's a great encourager. She's been encouraging to uh us and to me specifically. Ministry. She's uh yeah, you know again. She bought me my first Bible. Yeah, it's it's really horrible that we have categories and l labels like this but you know I was gonna say she's a real deal Christian. You know? All Christians should be real deal. And so I do want to take I I we're gonna kind of wrap up our discussion about the sermon the message and stuff, but I did want to take a few minutes to talk about things that are rather high profile in the world of American Christianity. Just a quick take 'cause we have had some commentary. social commentary, political commentary, uh you know enemies inside the church commentary over the past year of us doing these videos. And so sometimes I think people are excited. us to respond a little bit to some of the stuff. So two things that have been pretty big stories the past couple of weeks. One has to do with Robbie Zacharias. Uh Robbie Zacharias is a very uh high was, he's he died last year, is a very high profile, uh very talented And yet now we have reason to wonder was he even really part of the body of Christ? And God knows the answer to that, and so my commentary is isn't here to talk about Ravi specifically or to speculate about the condition of his salvation or any of that sort of stuff because the man is now dead uh and so he's not Not allowed to defend himself or offer any sort of perspective on what's being said about him. I will say this, what's being said about him seems to be very well vetted, very well investigated. Very uh sadly and likely true c uh horrible uh sexual offenses, long sexual offenses. It's it's horrible. It's miserable. The point I want to bring up here, first of all, I don't have a dog in this flight. I know who Robbie is. I I thought I had an appreciation for what his RZIM, probably Zachariah's uh International Ministries organization was doing. Uh but I was never a fan per se. I wasn't I wasn't not a fan And he just never did it for me. I never quite got his style. I never understood. I would watch some of his lectures and things and and people seem to appreciate him. A lot of people sang his praises. Personally, I just never got it. I'm missing something with Robbie. in providing oversight and accountability and support for Ravi, how they appear to have handled or not handled things when he was alive, and how they're handling things now. There were rumors about these sorts of things about Robbie that go back years. Nothing was done about it. No investigation, no oversight, no attempt at true accountability. When he was alive, they did nothing. Shame on them. Because if they did the investigation and he could have been proven to be righteous and all these things are not true, which again I don't think that's the case, but let's just say he's robbed and he and his family are And his ministry are completely robbed up opportunities. Shame on them. And now to sick the dogs on a dead man and to go public with everything you're finding out makes me very concerned about the motivations. They're trying to save the skin of their ministry and protect their jobs. That's and I hope I'm wrong about their motivation, but boy, they're handling this so poorly. They didn't handle it well when he was alive, and now they're not handling it well And so there's a lesson in that. Provide the accountability to people when they're alive. If somebody is alive and they're sinning or you think they're sinning Invest in their lives then and call them to repentance. What's the point of digging up the sins of a dead man? He's dead. Unless the reason you're doing it the Point the finger at yourself and say, you know what? We allowed this to go on. We shouldn't have. Shame on us. Apox on our house. And everything we're talking about isn't about Robbie Zacharias at all. It's about us. And maybe they need to resign over it or shut down the ministry or I don't know, but I'm so disappointed in how they've chosen to handle this. I It's it's flatter gassing to me. And then the other thing that's been big this week, Max Lacato, very highly prominent, well-known pastor in San Antonio, Texas Texas, he's written a number of best selling books. He might be one of the best selling uh Christian authors. Uh great storyteller. Oh fantastically gifted storyteller, one of the most the best selling authors in in uh American Christianity the last what thirty years. I mean he sold millions and millions and millions of books Now my criticism of Max has always been he's a little bit thin and he's kind of uh a mile wide and an inch deep, so you don't do a book study or read Max Locato stuff to get a deep understanding of God's truth, but for the most part he was solid. He never said anything that was anti-Bible. He just didn't go deeper. That was my read. I haven't read a lot of Max's stuff. I tend to read stuff that's a little harder to read. That's not necessarily a brag or a good thing. I'm just saying that tends to be what my interests are. But um he apologized this he was invited to speak somewhere and there was pushback to his invitation to speak because of a sermon he preached years ago where he spoke negatively about homosexuality. And this week Max Licato publicly apologized. And he was sorry for having hurt the LGBT uh Q community and uh he felt really badly about that because these unsaved Unrepentant LGBTQ plus people are, according to Max Lacato, also children of God. Holy cow. Again, this isn't meant as a Disparagement uh against those who are unbelievers, it's meant to be an accurate depiction of what the Bible teaches. The only people who are children of God according to scripture are those who are in Christ. If you are a true True follower of Christ. You're walking in the way. You're living in the truth. Like Gaius. You are a child of God. If you're not like Gaius, Then the Bible says you are a child of the devil. Max Micado should know this. I would suggest Max Micado Lakato does know this. So why would he say something different other than to win some sort of applause or favor from other lost pagan world around him like it so disappointing how they are loved by God. They're and they're made in God's image. They're made in God's image and they're valued worthy of being saved. Absolutely Absolutely. But they're not in that, you know, sin state, any of us, whether it be lying or whatever, if we have not received Christ. into our hearts, we can't be children of God. It's it's a Holy Spirit thing, really. It's the Holy Spirit within us that makes us a child of God. And I appreciate you jumping in because you want to make sure that people are hearing my heart. But here's the point. Here is a point, I don't know, B point or A major point of why this is an important distinction. If you tell those who are on the highway to hell that they're children of God and everything's fine They're gonna stay on that highway to hell. Yeah, and then it's on you. That is not the loving thing to do. You need to warn them and use the word Use the words of Jesus. Repent for the kingdom of God is at hand. If you're just finding you're a child of God no matter, you why repent? But if they don't repent, they're consigned to an eternity in hell. And D and I were just talking about that earlier today. We don't appreciate just how dramatic that is. And therefore we don't appreciate what a gift we have in Christ. I mean we think we're depressed now because of the isolation and the shutdown. You n I mean, we have no idea. It's not only isolation and shutdown, it's the unfavorable judging side of God ever before us. We're living with the anger of God. Not living. We're in the presence of the anger of God. Some people say, oh, there's just no God In hell. It's just the absence of God. No, it's not. That would be easier. It is the anger and the judgment of God that is ever for those in hell. That's that's woo. And so be careful about the the language that you use. So that idea that everybody's a child of God, it gets to the idea of the brotherhood and sister Of man. Right? But that's not what the Bible teaches. We all have common lineage, right? So I'm a firm believer that there was an original Adam and Eve, and we all spring from their loins, right? So we're all biologically connected. But in biblical terms, those who aren't uh brothers and sisters in Christ are not brothers and sisters. And so we're not brothers and sisters with the children of the devil, right? We have a different father. Your father's the devil and uh if your father's the devil and my father is the creator, we have different fathers. We're not we're not siblings. So this idea oh the brotherhood of man That's not a biblical idea. The biblical idea is the neighborhood of man. We're all neighbors. And what does God tell us? So this isn't this isn't a wagging accusation of hate. Right, what are we to do? Love our neighbors. And how do you love your neighbors? Well one way you love them is when they're in peril, they're at risk of spending each other eternity in hell, but the loving thing to do is to warn them, even if it means they won't like you. But you don't have to like me. I'm gonna love you anyway. How many times do we have to deal with that with our you know their kids, give you over to your kids. You love them so you do things that they're not happy about. How many times have you had your you know your uh preteen or teenage child or they stomp their feet they I hate you Okay, fine, hate me. Someday you'll come around, you'll realize I'm doing this because I love you. And then they do. Right? We're beginning to feel some of that now. Our daughter's an adult and and and some of those things she's beginning to appreciate I think, you know, where we were coming from ten, fifteen years ago that she couldn't quite grapple with. So we're not saying that, oh, you're not my brother because I hate you or you're not a child of God because I hate you I'm saying those things because if you're not a Christian, then those things are true and because I love you, you need to know that's true. And for Matt's Locato to swing a myth on that is so disappointed. point it's extremely dangerous eas even for him because if if if one person if even one person is misled because of what he's saying then he's got the answer, yeah, to God for that. And a thought that I've been s I've been dealing with lately, I haven't really been struggling with it, but it's been on my heart lately is um how can How can how can God, how can we stand before God and say, um, Lord, I want to be with you, I want to be in the heaven. But when he looks behind us, there are all these people who are condemned to hell because of what we said, because of what we taught. Very, very dangerous he what he has Yeah. Leading a person astray and again actually to add to add again to the bit more to this idea that this is not a message shared from hatred. We you know, nobody loves loves people more than God Himself loves people. And When you think about the cross, you you know, you have to try to be mindful of why he went to such an extreme for people to be saved. Why would he do that? I mean we we can't even begin to imagine what a degradation it was to Christ to die that way. What a degre w listen, if if he if they had lethal injections back then, it would have been a degradation for him to die even that way because for for God to you know I I I do mean God, I don't mean no He wasn't God, but for God to die period was a degradation. Definitely. You know, and of course we all know it was a His body that died. Right. But still, for God. Um, his his his soul and his spirit were spotted But he took sin on his body. So that body had to die. For him to die from anything was an extreme degradation to him But he did it to pay for the sin of all humankind. And because that was the only way. It wasn't the only way because Jesus even at one time was so horrified by it he for a moment he was like father is there a different way can you know how to paraphrase it. Yeah yeah take the Can can can can it can there be a different way to do this? But he you know, he he was he was struggling so terribly that I mean huh when's the last time anybody's I've never sweat draw some blood now When's the last time anybody built under that kind of pressure? Um but um to to cheapen that by saying everybody Right, right. I mean look at it from that angle because it's so easy I think that when we have these kinds of discussions for people to you know, to get into the oh you're just being uh hate Christian. Oh, God is love. Where is it? Where do you have grace? God has grace. Why don't you have grace? Follow her. Don't be so judgmental. And you know, people want to get into all that. And like no that is not the that's to to get into that is to really miss the point. The point is God became a man, which in in and of itself was a kind of degradation because he was God. He became a man, um, and he died a ho not just a death, but a horrible and a very shameful death. You know, Jesus was nearly naked on the cross. Okay. So he suffered shame and he was beaten at me, he was beat and people were insulting him and he was and it took him a long time, took him like six hours to die, and they were mocking him. He just suffered with every kind of degradation and and and spiritual and physical pain they were they were attempting him. They kept You know, go ahead, go ahead and come off the cross. There were moms. He was beaten half to death before he got off the cross. I mean he thought he went through all of that and then there are people called themselves Christians to say, you know, um you can kind of live any kind of life you want to because you know we're all children of God. I mean, think about how insulting that is how blasphemous that is to what Christ you know to to the memory what he did to save and what he went through to save us. He went through all of that not because he's a masochist and enjoy pain and humiliation, but because it was the only way to pay for everything that we've done done so that we can be set free for what from what we've done. That's the gospel that's what makes it good news that we can be set free because of what he's done. And so um what's what's hateful, what's really hateful if you think about it is people who diminish that and them in any way and cheapen it by saying it doesn't matter how how you live, because no matter what you do, God is a he's he fully ex he fully accepts you. I mean the the nicest thing you can say about that is that you know, Jesus was, you know, not too smart to go through all of that pain and humiliation if it just doesn't matter how we live anyway. It was just a total it it was it was just foolish, you know. And God can't be foolish because even that's a sin. So I mean it's just look at it from that angle because that's the proper angle to look at this at this kind of a discussion from. This is not hate speech. It's not hating people who um you know who are gay. It is nothing along those lines It is appreciating what God did to save us and looking at this major leader and watching him cheapen that and not only put his put however many people he's influencing, putting their souls in peril, put his own soul in peril. And blaspheming God in the process. That's how we need to look at that. Yeah. I mean w the the issue specifically about the uh the the homosexuality question. Tyler, we're not gonna do that right now, but in a few minutes pumpkin we will, I'm sorry. Oh so the um uh the apology that Massapo made was to that particular group but it's true for any and all of us we all have you know a sinful human nature and it's I I want to read this because I then we'll close and you can close up in prayer. But we were just uh talking about this earlier today. It's funny how like all the same kind of So I just it show shows you how the Holy Spirit can can move in concert in our lives, I guess. These are words from our He scroll, by the way. By nature, our attitude toward God is not one of mere indifference. It is a posture of malice. We oppose his government and refuse his rule over us. Our natural hearts are devoid of affection for him. They are cold, frozen to his holiness. By nature, the love of God is not in us. It is not enough to say that the natural human mind views God as an enemy. We must be more precise. God is our moral enemy He represents the highest possible threat to our sinful desires. His repugnance to us is absolute, knowing no lesser degrees, no amount of persuasion from philosophy Philosophers or theologians can induce us to love God. We despise His very existence and would do anything in our power to rid the universe of His holy presence. If God were to expose his life to our hands, he would not be safe for a second. We would not ignore him, we would destroy him. This charge may seem extravagant And irresponsible until we examine once more the record of what happened when God did appear in Christ. Christ. Christ was not simply killed. He was murdered by malicious people. The crowds howled for his blood. It was not enough merely to do away with him But it had to be done with the accompaniment of scorn and humiliation. We know that his divine nature did not perish on the cross. It was his humanity that was put to death. Had God exposed the divine nature to execution? Had he made his divine essence vulnerable to the executioners of the Nails, then Christ would still be dead, and God would be absent from heaven. Had the sword pierced the soul of God, the ultimate revolution would have been successful. And mankind would now be king. But we protest, we are Christians. We are lovers of God. We have Experience reconciliation. We have been born of the Spirit and have had and have the love of God shed abroad in our hearts. We are no longer enemies but friends. All these things are true for the Christian. But we must be careful, remembering that with our conversion, our natural human natures We're not annihilated. There remains a vestige of our fallen nature with which we must struggle every day. There still resides a corner of the soul It takes no delight in God. We see it in we see its ragged edge at our continued sin. And we can observe it in our lethargic worship. And it manifests itself even in our theology. So that's powerful. If you don't understand the power of that, then you haven't really fully come to grasp it. Or the magnitude of your sin. Right, which yeah. Which demonstrates the power of the gospel. Exactly. Alright, so you want to go to the closing word of Heavenly Father, may we see the magnitude of our sins so that we can see the power of your gospel, that we might repent and turn to you through the power of your grace or the power of your Holy Spirit and truly be saved and truly become children of God. We can only do that. through the power of your Holy Spirit. So we ask that you or Spirit would fall fresh upon us, filling us to overflowing, that we might never Ever denied your name. Father, forgive us for the times that we do. They are all too often. We ask for mercy. We ask for grace. We ask for forgiveness. We pray that you would strengthen us and make us steadfast in these last days. That when we stand before you, we will hear the words well done good and faithful servant servant. And as Angela said, when we look behind us, we see no one standing there that is perishing. But those who are there rejoicing with us because we have been true and faithful because you are faithful even when we are not. May you be glorified magnify it through the rest of this week. Father, lead us not into temptation and deliver us from all evil. It's in your high name, Lord Jesus, for you are the high priest. In your name we pray. Amen. Well thank you for joining us. The passage I read, by the way, was from R. C. Sprole, The Holiness of God. I don't know if that's going to show up or not, but uh anyway, look at this might be backwards on the screen. Excellent book. I recommend it. So till next week, uh six o'clock on Saturday. God bless. Definitely exactly.