Welcome Facebook and if you're watching this later, welcome YouTube to our weekly gathering of the Household of Faith in Christ. We're going to have a discussion following the sermon on the themes within the uh the message of the sermon following, so about a half hour from now. You're welcome to participate via the comment section here on Facebook. And if you're watching this later on YouTube, you can comment on there as well. We won't be able to interact with that live, but we'll interact with those comments. Later on, so I'd encourage you to check out our YouTube channel and uh you know like and share videos and subscribe to the YouTube channel and that sort of thing. Um we're not likely to be on Facebook forever, but for now Facebook Facebook Live is uh kind of the market cornered on doing this sort of thing. So until there's a suitable replacement, you're gonna find us here. It looks like that'll be for at least a little while Um we're going to be looking at Third John. Uh the first eighty percent or so of third John. We began looking at it last week and we're gonna continue uh looking at it again this week. So in a moment, the verses 1 through 12 of the third general will be read. So if you want to grab your Bibles and get ready for that. If this is your first time joining us, you haven't been spending time in the epistles of John. When I say third John, I'm not talking about the third chapter of the Gospel of John. I'm talking about the third letter of John, the third epistle of John. D And it's basically right there. There's Jude, which is a very short book of the Bible, and then right before that is Third John. But before we get into any of that, I'm going to have Angela open us in prayer and then we'll read God's word. Gracious Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, for bringing us together once again. Father, in worship of you through your son Jesus Christ. And Father, we know that because we are gathered together here in the name of Jesus. Jesus, Father, that your spirit is amongst us. And so we just yield to your spirit, Father, and that He would guide all the conversations. conversation here, Lord, that He would help release, Lord, what needs to be released and set a guard over our mouths for what need not be released And just as you brought us here, Lord, we ask that you bring everyone here, everyone to this broadcast, or whether live or later on, uh bring them to this uh meeting that whom you want to speak to and um have them be ministered to by your Holy Spirit. Um we thank you for it, Father. It's all in glory and honor of your son Jesus Christ. May you have your way in us in his name this evening. Amen and amen in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, now if we together we'll read God's word while we'll be listening as Landon reads God's word for us. The elder to the beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth, beloved, I pray that all may go well with you, and that you may be in good health, as it goes well with your soul. For I rejoice greatly when the brothers came and testified to your truth, as indeed you are walking in the truth. I have no greater joy than to hear that my Children are walking in truth. Loved, it is a faithful thing you do in all your efforts for these brothers, strangers as they are, who testify to your Your love before the church, you will do well to send them on their journey in a manner worthy of God, for they have gone out for the sake of the name, accepting nothing From the Gentiles. Therefore, we ought to support people like these, that we may be fellow workers for the truth. I have written something to the church, but Diatrefis, who likes to put himself first, does not acknowledge our authority. So if I come, I will bring up what he is doing, talking Wicked nonsense against us. And not content with that, he refuses to welcome the brothers and also stops those who want to, and puts them out of the church. Beloved, do not imitate evil, but imitate good. Whoever does good is from God. Whoever does evil has not seen God. Demetrius has received a good testimony. From everyone and from the truth itself. We also add our testimony, and you know that our testimony is true. The Word of God, inspired, therefore infallible, inerrant, perfect rule and guide for faith and life practice, those have ears to hear. left him here. And I apologize for getting up and walking out of the room while God's word was being read, but I forgot my water and I was feeling my throat I knew I was gonna need a ship, so So last week we opened our look at the third epistle of John. And if you were paying close attention and you're familiar with the themes already coming into it, it might have been a little bit too cute for most people to pick up, but I opened last week by saying, my beloved friends whom I love in the truth, picking up on what John is talking about. in the major theme of the letter and he opens it in most of our our uh our uh more literal translations open the body of the letter with beloved mentions last week how the NIV opens with dear friends. I was playing off of both of those, beloved and friends and uh loving in the truth, which is what this letter is all about. This is a love letter from a beloved disciple to one of his beloved disciples. Christ loves his church and those of us bound together in the body of Christ we are to love one another and we should have expressions of love towards one another Normally you think about a love letter, you think in terms of a romantic letter. This isn't a romantic letter, but it's still a love letter. And In love, John is advocating as he always consistently does in all of the writings attributed to him in the New Testament. For the truth. He's not just about love, he's about the truth. He's about love in the truth. He's about the truth in love. And those things are intertwined. Now last week we talked about uh one of the uh sad realities, in my opinion, is that This is one of the most neglected books of the Bible, it seems to me. I don't know how many times you've heard a sermon preached on Third John, how many times you've heard something reference Third John. You know anybody who says, you know, my favorite verse is in Third John You just don't hear that. And it's really too too bad because we have a gem here. One of the things I like about this book of the Bible is it gives us an insight into what life was like almost 2,000 years ago So living in the Roman Empire, living as a Christian early on, and seeing getting kind of a slice of life and seeing how that compares to our life. Uh I I think that's uh a a real benefit for us, to transport ourselves in time and even to pull them forward into our time and and see how we're all connected, not just in the here and now. The body of believers are connected now, those who are alive on the planet today, but we're connected throughout history. The the body is all includes all of those saints who came before us and will remind them. And we began to look at the testimony of Gaius. John is talking to his beloved Gaius and saying that I love you because you stand in the truth, you stand in Christ, you defend what Christ stood for. You're doing good things. And I pointed out how Gaius' name can mean rejoicing. And John talks about how, Gaius, you're bringing me great rejoicing. And I think it's not An accident. There's a bit of a play on words perhaps there that a man named rejoicing is bringing great rejoicing to others in the church. Uh we talked about how we're uh we're gonna get a uh a competing testimony coming up here in a second. We're gonna talk more about that today because last week all we covered were the first four verses. Took us a half hour to cover four verses. We'll do better this week. We're going to cover verses five through twelve today. So we're going to give about eight verses. guess in today. But Gaius is lauded by John for being faithful, faithful to Christ, faithful in the truth, faithful to to serving others and we know that this is is true because of the testimony that comes from others and I ended last week with kind of a cliffhanger. I said, you know, if the first four verses of this letter letter. Testimony uh give us um evidence that testimonies of walking in the truth bring joy. I wonder what the following verses will tell us. Then I told you invited you to come back to the same bat channel at the same bat time and we would we would cover that this week and so here we are. So I'm gonna read again even though we just read the whole thing to to frame the the the context of what I'm about to be preaching, I'm going to read verses five through ten here in just a second. But before I do that, let me have a quick word of prayer. Father, we thank you for preserving your word for us all these many years. For inspiring John to write it. We ask for um uh insight, uh keen awareness of of what it means for us in our lives today, that us understanding and applying this Truth through our lives made possible by the illumination of your Holy Spirit. We thank you for your presence here with us here immediately in this room and anyone who is joining us via the Internet broadcast. We ask you to clear our mind of cluttering distractions and that our hearts would be receptive to to receiving your truth, that we would be convicted unto obedience if we are currently counted among your blessed sheep, among your beloved, and that we would be convicted unto repentance where we have sin And a need for acknowledgement of our dependence on our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And it's his name that we pray. Amen. So 3 John, verse 5 Beloved, you are faithful in what you are doing for the brothers and sisters, even though they are strangers to you. They have told or have testified. to the church about your love. You will do well to send them on their way in a manner that honors God. It was for the sake of the name that they went out. receiving no help from the pagans. We ought therefore to show hospitality to such people so that we may work together for the truth. I wrote to the church, but Diotrophes, who loves to be first, will not welcome us. So when I come, I will call attention to what he is doing, spreading malicious nonsense. about us. Not satisfied with that, he even refuses to welcome other believers. He also stops those who want to do so and puts them out of the church. Now these six verses, they offer us a compare and contrast with what we covered last week. We have good versus bad. We have truth versus error. We have love versus hatred. We have gaus versus diastrophes. I told you last week and reminded you this week that gaius means rejoicing, and he lives up to his name. Diatrophies means God nurtured. With a name like that, we should expect more. Of diatrophies. Someone who was then nurtured by God shouldn't have his testimony. But his testimony It's not good. He fails to live up to his name. Now let's look again at Gaius, because last week was a long time ago. Gaius is good to other believers. even to those whom he does not know well. He loves them, showing these strangers hospitality And John in verse six says, You will do well to send them on their way in a manner that honors God. Now, this is John's way, it's really the ancient way of saying, please send them on a way in a manner that honors God. And John makes this request knowing full well that Gaius will send him on a way in a manner that honors God. He simply encouraging Gaius to continue in his walk of faith as he has been. So now let's look at the atrophies. He is not good to other believers. He ignores John the Elder, except to badmouth him. He doesn't welcome other believers in hospitality. He gossips about them, kicks them out the door. In other words, his testimony is of a man who spreads false testimony. About others, and who hinders the testimony of the gospel You know, for I don't know more than 30 years, Tom Baudette's keeping the light on for people at Motel 6. Remember those commercials? Tom Baudet, we're keeping the light on for you Ever since uh 1986 is when that campaign kicked off. Is that right? Mm-hmm. He turned 66? He did. Happy birthday, Tom. Now 1986 and Tom being around for 66 years, that's a mighty long time. Right? It's a long time But even as long as it is, there was no Motel 6 1900 years earlier. Now there were some small inns In some of the bigger towns. But accommodations, they were pretty tough to come by on a long journey back then. in the first century, and itinerant preachers of the gospel, fellow travelers on our path of truth. They wouldn't always have money bulging out of their pockets to pay for any sort of hotels or inns that they might have happened upon on the long dusty roads that they were traveling. And so hospitality hugely important I mean hospitality is important even today, but even more true in that context back then. And it's in this sort of context Context, with this being the environment. Diotrephies, he not only won't take in fellow Christians himself He won't let anyone else do so either It's as if he's saying, you know, hey, you take in some traveling missionaries, that's fine. You can just get your butt right on out of here. Because we'll have none of that when I'm in charge. That's what theotrophy is saying. That sounds pretty bad. Well, it's even worse than it sounds Look again verses 7 and 8. It was for the sake of the name that they went out, receiving no help from the pagans. We ought therefore to show hospitality to such people so that we may work together for the truth. These traveling gospel workers were out there traveling in order to glorify Christ for the sake of the name. They were in need of hospitality from Christian brothers and sisters, fellow saints in the faith, in order to avoid becoming unnecessary stumbling blocks to the unbelievers, perhaps getting the impression falsely that they were money-grubbing false prophets to the pagans. So they ought to have been helped because all believers in Christ are fellow workers or co-laborers for the kingdom working together for the truth for Christ who is himself The truth. By demonstrating love. By loving other believers, we participate in the work that they're doing For the sake of the name. Now the testimony about Gaius is that he Getsu Right. He is welcoming, filled with loving kindness, and is supportive of other Christian workers. And the testimony about diotrophes is that he gets it wrong. He is rejecting. He's full of jealousy and maliciously tears down Christian workers. One has a testimony of hospitality and love for others. One has a testimony of being in Inhospitable and having love only for himself. Which one are you That's pretty much the question I take from verses eleven and twelve. Beloved, do not imitate what is evil, but what is good. Anyone who does what is good is from God. Anyone who does what is evil has not seen God. Demetrius is well spoken of by he gets a testimony good testimony from everyone. And even by the truth itself. We also speak, we also testify well of him And you know that our testimony is true. Don't imitate what is evil. Don't imitate theotrophies. He speaks evil words. He is inhospitable. He hinders others who are wishing to be hospitable. He expels from his congregation his adversaries, and those who are walking in the truth, sadly, are his adversaries. Diostrophes fails to live up to his name. The one who is supposedly God-nurtured. Gaius does live up to his name. Are you living up to your name? Remember always, all that you do is for the sake of the name. The name, the name of Christ The name that you now bear as a co-heir. If you say that you are a Christian, Then you say that you bear the name of Christ What is the testimony of others regarding what you are doing for the sake of The name. Well, which one is Demetrius? And this name that kind of pops up almost out of nowhere in verse Verse 12. Is he imitating evil? Like Diostrophes? Or is he imitating good? Like Gaius. If he's doing evil, well then Demetrius has not seen God. That's what John tells us here And you know, it's fair to assume that maybe there was a time when Demetrius had not seen God. His name, Demetrius, it means means belonging to Demeter. Now Demeter was a Greek goddess, the Greek goddess of fruits and crops. And so Demetrius that's that's a mighty fine good pagan name. Perhaps indicating that Demetrius grew up in a pagan home. But good for Demetrius, by the time this letter was written, he had seen God. And John provides a testimony of three witnesses to make the point. And we know of the importance of three witnesses in Scripture, right? For example, in the Old Testament, Deuteronomy chapter 19, verse 15. and in the New Testament, a passage we covered actually not too many weeks ago here at the Household of Faith in Christ, 1 John chapter 5, verse 8. Verse 8. Three witnesses that John gives, they are all the people who know Demetrius. They say that he is a good ambassador for Christ The facts themselves say this too, and John Personally vouches for him as a representative of the leadership of Christ's church. That's pretty good. Quite the trifecta. Well, believe it or not, we can identify with Demetrius. I know he's a member of the early church nineteen hundred years ago, more than that. And yet he's in the existence Exactly, exactly the same place as you and me. He stands there as an example next to two examples Is he walking in the truth by Gaius? Or is he rejecting the truth, even fighting against the truth, like Deutrophes Well, we stand next to these same two examples. And for Demetrius The testimony is good. There is a good report from three witnesses. So let me ask, what is the testimony of those three witnesses? About you. Remember who those three witnesses are? Let's walk through them and apply them to ourselves. The people who know you, all of the people who know you as you live out your daily life. They say what about you? The facts themselves. The cold, hard, brute facts Facts of your life. They say what about you The leaders of your church, who should know your life rather intimately if you'll let them, they say what about you. I mentioned last week that I titled this message, this two-part message, last week and this week, The Good, the Bad, and the Beautiful Truth. And I named it that because this passage of scripture shines a spotlight on the good. It shines a spotlight on the bad. And it shines a spotlight on the beautiful tree. But I almost and by the way, well I don't So let me just say, I almost titled this message, Beloved, Testify the Truth, because that's what I sincerely want you to take with you. as you exit our time here today. I want us to understand the truth and testify to it And here it is. Let me put it to you plainly. Beloved. Testify the truth. The truth. Testify beloved. I call you beloved Because that's who you are in Christ. It's the truth Jesus Christ surrendered his glory in heaven for time and his life on a cross? Because he loves you. You are beloved. Now the life of Gaius stood in testimony to this truth. Does your life stand in similar testimony? Might be thinking perhaps not. Be encouraged. Gaius wasn't beloved because of his testimony. Deus had his testimony because he was beloved. And he walked in it. Are you trusting in the blood of Christ? Are you trusting in Jesus for your salvation? And you are beloved. Fuck in it Now, are you concerned your testimony is more like that of Diotrophies? It's not too late to repent. Jesus paid the penalty that is due. For your sin. Did this because he loves you You are beloved. Now go and sin no more. Begin to have a new testimony if you need one. Starting right now. Don't forget for the true Christian, as one who is beloved of God. This is your testimony. I'm going to tell you what your testimony is. Are you not sure what your testimony is If someone walks up to you and says, You're a Christian, wow, tell me your testimony. This is your answer. Imagine these words coming from your mouth. Believer. I was a sinner. I still struggle against sin. There are times when the testimony of my life it brings great rejoicing to others. And there are times when I must admit, this is not so. But God calls Me, his beloved. He looks at me and he sees the life of Jesus Because Christ is standing before the Father giving testimony about me. Like John gives about Demetrius in verse 12 of his third letter. And this is what Jesus says about me. Is chosen in love, child. Jesus says to the Father, Father, I I speak well of him. I speak well of her And Father, you know my testimony is true Hello, brothers and sisters, saints in Christ. That Let's pray. Father, we can be humbled beyond measure When truly grappling with the import and reality of our salvation in Christ How could it be so that you would love us so much to save us as undeserving sinners, sacrificing even your own son Who willingly gave his life in exchange for ours? And you have given us the gift of your will. words so that we might know you better and end up knowing even ourselves better and our neighbor better and the world better so we can navigate it better Better with wisdom. Forgive us God for two Often too consistently taking for granted this immense gift of immeasurable value that you have given us Help us to, those who truly are yours, to rest Recognize the truth that we are beloved by you, that you see us as valuable, with dignity, and you should Share with us your honor. And armed with those truths in our mind and in our heart, help us then to navigate this broad Broken and fallen world in a way that brings high esteem to your kingdom. Help us advance your purposes so that your will would be done on earth as it is in heaven. Help us, Lord, to recognize the truth And to walk in it. As we follow after our Savior and King Our ambassador before your throne. The Christ Jesus. In his name we pray Amen. Alright. We'll see how you guys are tonight. Usually you need a little kickstart to get the conversation going. Any initial thoughts before I try to ask I mean the one thing that struck me was Romans four sixteen or Roman Hebrews four sixteen where we can approach the throne of grace confidently we can approach the throne of God confidently knowing that his grace is sufficient because of the fact that Jesus gives testimony that we have righteousness, his righteousness. But if only when we've pled guilty through the power of the Holy Spirit that is our counselor and says, Don't don't go into the courtroom of God and be like, Well God, just just plead guilty. To get it over with, plead guilty. And then you can have the testimony of Jesus before the Father to say, yep, hear her prayer, hear, you know I'm I'm here to say, yep, this this one's good. You know, so we have that we have that direct access only through the shed blood of Christ. Could you imagine approaching God on our own? Oh please. There's not enough mercy in the world. Right? There is not enough mercy in the world. It can only come through Christ. It's common in our culture for people to talk about well I'm gonna go to heaven. because I'm not as bad as that guy. Right. Yeah. I'm better than that guy. I'm you know I'm better than average. Right. I'm at least fifty one percent good, forty nine percent bad, so I'm gonna get in that kind of mentality. And the only right answer, you know Well uh imagine that totally heretical, non-biblical idea of going to heaven you meet, you know, St. Peter at Pearly Gates and he says, So why should I let you in? You know, and the only right answer is uh I'm with him. It's the only right answer. You know, there's no oh I've tried to live a good life, I did my best, you know, that none of that is gonna cut it. Uh recently heard uh a sermon we're still talked about the idea of will call. You know, you go to a concert and a friend of yours says, Hey I I had some tickets I can't use. You want to go to the show tonight at 8? I'll I'll leave the tickets For you at Will Call. You're like, oh yeah, great, and you show up. And you're expecting those tickets to be at Will Call because your friend told you they're gonna be there. But have you ever redeemed tickets at Will Call? You've ever had that experience I had that experience, and as sure as you are they're going to be there, there's that little bit of something in the back of your mind, like, what if they're not there? What if there was a misunderstanding? What if my friend forgot to make the phone call? What if they misfiled? or you know some bizarre see you don't really feel comfortable until the tickets in your hand. And I think us Christians can feel that way too because Jesus says, look, I left your name but we'll call. Just tell them that I'm with Jesus, I've left your tickets. But we're called, John in his letter, he's calling us to walk in it Mm-hmm. And so the way you can know and have more assurance and more certainty is that you you're you are progressing in your sanctification and you are demonstrating increased fruit of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit in your life and and you have the testimony of everyone who knows you. I don't think anybody passes that test. Uh and the brute facts, nobody passes that test, and is the church leadership Well, most people don't even know their church leadership these days, so you know I don't know if we're passing that test either. But um you can have assurance uh if those things are there, the uh the fruit and the testimony of others and stuff, so you can have more confidence that yeah, that what's left that we'll call for you is really there. That's not to say that it's not it can be taken Once Jesus puts your name in will call it there. But the point is to walk in it. And so there's an obedience factor in in the letter for sure. I mean it's a big deal between the the the example of good and the example of bad. One is obedient. The other one's identifying diatropes is identifying as a Christian, but he wasn't exemplifying the life of a Christian even a little bit. Just like today. Yeah. Exactly how it is to nothing. Yeah. You two are being quiet. And it's Anything for you guys? No? Okay, good. Can you understand about how you mean it's so exactly like today? It's it's very common to go to school or you know, anywhere else and have someone say, Oh yeah, I'm a Christian and then you know And get to know them more and you know, you're not a you're not a Christian. And you know, they just do things that are ungodly and You clearly have no remorse it it's uh yeah, it's it's horrible. I've seen a lot of it. Like there's no struggle against the sin. Mm-hmm. It's just like oh Let's give a party and drink and have fun. Yeah. I think that um if you took our lives as like a a like a movie reel and you edited out, you know, all the bad moments and showed that as the movie representing your life, all of us would be horrified. at the movie that would be shown, right? I mean that'd be NC17 for sure, I'm sure. I mean it'd be horrible. Um If we have a brother or sister or or someone who's claiming to be a brother or sister in Christ, they put themselves out there as a Christian and they're having those bad moments. Maybe they're having a cycle of those bad moments backed on top of one another. It could be that they just haven't been very well discipled and they don't know. You know, what a commentary that is on the church if that's the case. But So they're on the right track. There's some improvement Some sanctification going on there. Or it might be that they do know and they in that moment have backslid, they you know give into the temptations of the flesh uh and the pressures of the world and they need to be held to account and so in those cases I think you know iron sharpens iron and we should go to them in Love as siblings in Christ, right? And say, hey, I know that you're a Christian. You say you go to church and stuff, and you know, please take this the right way, but we just can't be doing What you just did. You know, and you owe that person an apology, or you need to go before the Lord and ask for forgiveness. Or um we tend to be better at that with non-Christians. Oddly, as a body, right? The body of believers, we're really good at wagging their finger at non-believers and telling them how ungodly they are Okay, it's true, they are. But what they need to hear is that there is uh a God who has every right to be angry with you, but he is a God of mercy and grace. as well and I would encourage you to throw yourself at the foot of the cross and and beg his forgiveness and not amplify all the bad things in their life. And yet the Christians need to be held accountable because we already know about the grace of mercy. Now we need to walk in it and walk in obedience. And we're so busy wagging our finger at non-believers that we don't want to come. front believers. It's it's a weird we got inside out. It's really weird. of quote unquote believers that aren't really believers. And so to your point, it's important that you hold them to account count because then maybe for the first time they'll throw themselves at the foot of the cross and be like, Oh, wow. Okay, you mean you're not gonna Let me get away with that just because I showed it to church today? I don't know if I articulate very well, but that is my point. Those who are merely professing to be Christian but aren't asking actually f followers of the way, uh, if they're called out, they might be self deluded. A lot of people, oh yeah, I'm a Christian. Well what does that mean? Well you know, I go to church on uh on uh Christmas and Easter you know and I tried to be a good person and yeah I read the Bible or parts of it once and I went to uh Christian camp when I was in high school and some Christian. They don't know. And so they need to be held to account so they can realize wow, wait a minute, I've I've been deceived into thinking that I have an identity that I don't and we're not helping them by saying, oh well they're just uh they need they need to be held to account. And we need to be careful how we do that. If It's the kind of thing that can judiciously be handled one-on-one in a relatively private manner. I think that should be our default. I think the exception is if it It's a uh if it's some sort of a high profile sin, a very public sin uh by a believer that has affected a wide group of people That white group of people need to know that, hey, that's not what Christ is about. You know, if it's about if it's about defending the integrity of the name, and the name is then thrown aside in a public way then the name maybe needs to be defended in a in a public way. But that shouldn't be our first instinct. The first thing should be okay, can I handle this privately? And if yeah no this needs to be handled publicly because of the public nature of what happened, then we should we should publicly proclaim what the truth is. But how often do we violate that? And we're so quick to jump and and publicly And I mentioned that because uh in a social media world there are a lot of high profile professing Christians who do things that are wrong or say things that are wrong that are not good representative representations of the of Of what the Bible teaches. And then people will point out that high-profile person in social media and say, this high-profile person said that. That's not what the Bible teaches. And They get blamed for, oh, who are you to judge? And should you go to that person privately? Well, I have no access to going to that person privately. And plus the nature of their the notoriety of what they said, the public nature of it, it's kind of of like Paul with Peter, when Peter sinned in a public way, Paul called him out publicly. So he had access to a Yeah and he c yeah and he could have gone to pull the side hey. But he wanted to make it clear in a moment that hey no that's not what first that's not what true father of Christ are all about. And I'm gonna call you on it, Peter. And Peter, I'm sure it took it probably for half a second took it hard, I would imagine, just you know human nature make it hard. But according to the text, he's like he handled it well. No. So well and that's how you know I think 'cause that's not the only way, but that's one of the signs or one of the testimonies of someone who is a true believer is they welcome the rebuke, let it be like oil on my head, one of the psalm says. You know, because that way It's like, oh wow, there's evidence that the Holy Spirit is at work in your life, and then that's a good witness to the body. real deal Christian. Who you know he got called out or she got called out and they repented. They are now changing their ways. Wow, that's admirable. And I think it actually encourages the body to do it too. It was Meaning, you know, the rest of the the body to be open to the rebuke, to be like, Wow, ooh, I had a blind spot, thank you. How many times have we been with someone Who's a fellow brother or sister in Christ, and they say something, you're like, man, well that flapped me upside the head. Great. Yeah, I think the nature of the public thing Something to put a kind of finer nuance on this. If the person who has committed the wrong is in a position where they have uh for lack of a better word, like leadership. They have strong influence that would lead a large group of people and and others astray. You know, then that because of their leadership position, they need to be held to account. And that's part of what's going on with Paul and Peter. Peter is a is a leader and he's he's not doing what he's supposed to. And so one of the others, Christians, who happens also to be elite of all calls into account. So it I don't know if it is I haven't thought this all the way through, so this is kind of me just damping, but I I don't know if it's necessarily the elite limited to, I don't think, I don't think my my default on this anyway is I don't think it's merely ordained leaders. Somebody is put forward as a leader for the church. So it could be uh very popular Actor uh let's say Kirk Cameron does or says something that is horrifying in it in in uh in its lack of fidelity to the scriptures. Given his notoriety and his cultural leadership, and a lot of people pay attention, he'll he'll do a Facebook Live and he'll get like thirty thousand people watch it. You know, he's you know he's got a following and if so if Kirk were to do something bad, I think it'd be appropriate to jump on social media for his And say, hey, Kirk is saying this and doing that. That is not what the Bible teaches, just FYI. But now if Angela were to do the exact same thing, I would need to go on social Angela got this solely wrong because Angela doesn't do a Facebook live and get 30,000 people to watch it. I can go to Angela one-on-one. I think there's a you know there's a wisdom path there that can be walked. There's a question or there's a comment um from family members saying I don't think it's fair for humans to determine who are real deal Christians though Well that's a comp there's a complex uh complex set of factors there. So Um I can't know another person's heart. Sometimes I can't even know my own heart truly. God knows my heart better than I know my own heart. that set a dynamic that is real. Although through the aid of the Holy Spirit I can come to know my own heart. It teaches in Romans The verse is escaping me. Chapter 4? Hey. Do you know? Where it talks about the Holy Spirit works in concert with my mind to inform And boy, it's in Romans somewhere I forget the the the pat the the chapter. But anyway, so we can come to know our own salvation heart as God knows our heart because he shows it to us through his Holy Spirit. And so until you become a a a follower of Christ, you don't even know your own heart well enough. That's one of the challenges. People have hard But then it also talks about how you will know a believer by their works. And uh if they stay faithful, And if they don't st stay faithful and they walk away from the faithful, then that gives us a clear indication because John tells us in first John chapter two, that's evidence that they were never among us in the first place. And say that person was not a real deal Christian, they left the faith. Or people that are consistently saying and doing things that are not in accord with God's revealed special revelation, uh that's indication that there's there's some reason to be suspect. Now I don't think we need to walk up to somebody and say, you're not a real Christian. But I do think it's appropriate for us To say, you know, you call yourself a Christian and yet you do this, and God says in His Word, this, this, this, you need to repent. And if that person is actually a Christian, we're like, thank you, brother. Thank you. Thank you, sister, for pointing out the error of my ways. I'm gonna go pray now. So that is a complicated question, uh or a complicated issue. Uh I a as as you were speaking about the the the scripture in Romans, I was thinking about the scripture in First Corinthians, I believe it's chapter five, and uh uh I have a memorized from the New American in the Bible where Paul says, um, you know, uh we can't skepti uh you we're not supposed to I'm I'm paraphrasing here. He's saying, um, you know, the people in the world will they'll act a certain way and that's to be expected. He says, but and the way the NASB renders it, but if any so-called brother is immoral or covetous or he he goes to these lists of things, he says, stay away from that person. So, um uh swindlers, idolaters. Idolat yeah. Don't even eat with the person. Right. If it's a if it's a And and and again NASB s uses the phrase if any so-called brother acts like that. So I I think what the the council Scripture says on this point is there will be evidence of somebody's um um belief. And I know that in in the gospels Christ says you will know them by their fruit. Right. So it it it's 'cause it's very, very easy For us to claim something with our mouths. But the principle of scripture is what we really believe is what we act out. And so when people when their when their actions don't match their words Christ's teaching his direct teaching is believe their actions. So if somebody um Says that they are a Christian and they have there's absolutely no evidence of it in the way that they live. We do have a scriptural base. for saying, you know, you're probably not because there's no fruit of it in your life. Because Christ said we you will know them by the fruits. He didn't say he didn't say we will know people by what they claim to be. He said And we will know them by their fruits. That's in Matthew chapter seven. So it you know, um um and it's out of love that we go to the person, not out of conduct. I think that's the biggest Even them. Even they we're not judging whether or not they're Christian. Exactly. We're pointing out that hey you did that and that's not very Christian like. Right. And the pattern is because fruit takes time to develop. And the natural fruit doesn't um materialize overnight, but over time you will see whether that tree is really an apple tree. oranges and you go, oh okay you're not an apple tree. So you know we if we don't bear the fruits of the spirit at all, if we're bearing thorns and thistles, then the people have a right to question that. And I I think I think what people get confused about is they they think that we're judging under No, I'm not saying you're going to hell. I'm saying you're acting like somebody was going to hell. Right. And and the and the Bible says to stay away from that kind of person. And so we do have we don't have the right to judge unto condemnation, but we do have the right to judge fruit. We are to be fruit inspectors. We're not to be judges. We're not saying, you know, we're not bashing a gavel and saying you're going to hell. We're saying you're not acting like you belong to the Lord. And then then there's a there's a witness of the spirit and we we we s we encounter this all the time when when when we meet someone of like spirit mm-hmm you know we we know okay even with the even if they don't say much okay that's That's a sister, that's a brother in Christ. Absolutely. And you can also meet somebody who's not of that kind of spirit and you just don't feel comfortable around them. You don't feel that kindredness, you know. So we we uh you know we We do we do need to be careful about this, but um just like we cannot um without careful inspection, you know, we we we are not to be judgmental and harsh with people, we also shouldn't go to the other extreme and say, well, you know, we can't ever, we can't ever discern. Yeah, we we we've got to be careful about that because then you open yourself um um to s having to receiving somebody who truly doesn't belong to the Lord and um you know the the the empty So we you know, we do need to be circumspect about that, um and have some balance. Yeah, but um yeah, we shouldn't go to either extreme. Either being judgmental on the one extreme or on the other stream going, oh we can't possibly know, so therefore we, you know, we shouldn't even try to know. No, we can know. And I believe, because I've had the Lord do this with me, over time, God will show you. He will show you just like he showed his disciples He said there's gonna there there there's an imposter amongst us and they were like, Is it me? Is it me? Is it me? Like no it he pointed out Judah. Yeah. You know, God will show you. So we you know y we you gotta wanna know though. But there's wisdom in it I think in knowing because then you will know how to deal with them. Because like you were saying, a person who maybe even themselves doesn't understand what it's like. There could be a a self deception going on, but that person could bring a lot of havoc into your life without you even realizing What what is going on? Why is there so much havoc going on? The person could be a witch. have any discernment, you know, you just open yourself up to now I'm not saying they they can rob you of your salvation if you trust the Lord, but they can just bring a lot of trouble into your life unnecessarily. Absolutely. Um so yeah we Yeah. And I think no, I mean that's a it's a good question, because it's not fair for us as humans to determine whether or not someone's going to heaven or hell. Hundred percent. That's and I'm thankful I don't have that job. But we can't say if you don't receive the Lord, then this is what the Bible says about and that's different from judging them. Absolutely. Let's just tell them what the sentence is. Right, well that's truth and that's actual love. The other thing is, um, you know, there's great rewards and there's different levels of rewards. And so you You know, I I like to get greedy for rewards. I know that sounds not that I want to be like a goody doer, you know, so to speak, but there's the pleasure of the Lord that you feel that's Spurs you on to then do more good. And it's so there's that spirit of then going to a fellow brother or sister in Christ and saying, Wow, there's these great rewards, don't you want to like gather all those up? Don't don't miss and don't miss out on the great rewards that are in for heaven for you. You know? There's that that blessing that you want someone to be on the receiving end of. Now there's a couple of passages that somebody who would uh uh be making the argument that was shared with us on on the Facebook comments, they they might point point to Romans chapter fourteen. You know, this weaker brother and and and it says uh uh specifically, you know, this is Paul writing in Romans Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or why do you despise your brother? For all stand before the judgment seat of God. Each will give an account of himself to God, therefore let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. And so if we don't Pull that f uh if we if we pull that from its context, uh we don't really understand exactly what's being talked about. So this is a context talking about whether you should eat clean or unclean foods and you know some people feel like oh I can't eat food that was offered to an idol because well that would be participating in that that pagan ritual. Somebody says, no, I'm not participating in pagan ritual. It's just food is food and whatever. I don't that's their problem if they try to sacrifice. I'm not and God's word doesn't say thou shalt eat or thou shalt Shall not eat this particular food, and so it becomes a matter of conscience. And we can't know the motivations of another person's heart very well on discernment question. Questions like that. And so I might eat the food uh and you might think, oh, he's eating it because it was sacrificed to idols, he's participating in that. And you're You're making a judgment on my motivation. You can't know that, and so let's not be judging there. However, we are to apply the judgment of God to life situation. And so where God's Word tells us this is sin, this is obedience, and somebody is doing what is sinful or not doing sinful There's an abundance of God's blessing in obedience. And so we are in another passage that we pointed to is judge not lest ye be judged, right, in Matthew. And look, that is not what it's saying. If you read the whole thing all the way through, it's actually teaching us how to go about properly applying judgment. But in the context of Matthew, in chapter 18, it it walks us through what Christian judgment and church context should look like. And the first thing is, oh, Dina's doing something bad. I should go to her and say, Dina, that's that's not what God's word says. You've sinned against me. or you sinned against the whole church or whatever and you need to you need to change. And if she said, let ever get out of my face, you're like, huh, maybe I didn't say that very well. I'm gonna get Angela, Angela, you come help me talk some sense to Gina. I don't understand what's going on with her. Like she's not herself. Like something's wrong. We both and then she can and if she's still not hearing us Okay, maybe we're wrong. I don't think we are, but let's get the church leadership involved and let's talk to the elders and let's have those who really have uh ruling authority on these kinds of things be involved and they're gonna make the determination. And if they're still on repentance, then they excommunicate them. They turn them out of the fellowship of the believers. And this is a key In that scenario, they would not be saying, we as the leaders of this church, we're not saying that Dina is an unbeliever believer. What we're saying is we've got some serious problems with going on here, and so now to call her to obedience, we're going to treat her as though She's an unbeliever. God knows for sure if he's if she's one of his or not. So we're not saying she's not going to be in heaven. What we're saying is based on everything we can see we need to treat her as though she is merely a so-called Christian and when she starts to evidence obedience in her life again then she oh okay she she is a Christian But if she's like, fine, screw y'all, I'm walking away and never coming back. Well then the Apostle John would say, Well she was never one of us to begin with. And so it's it's a fine line and we don't want to be walking around wagging our finger people and accusing accusing them of being unbelievers, God knows for sure. And the actual individual believer, I believe, that the Bible tells us that we can ourselves know for ourselves. We can know for sure we can have a Assurance. It's one of the great devices of the devil to try to rob us of that assurance. The accuser is always telling us, you don't have what you think you have. Do you think you're saved? Did God really say you're saved? Well actually yeah he did. Right? But that's the the you know the devil's always saying, Did God really say? He's always accusing. However, if those who are filled with wisdom for the Holy Spirit say, look, you say you're a believer, but you're not walking in it. We can we can and should hold fellow believers to account on that front. And then I can't, well, I'm a pastor or something. Lambdon can't excommunicate anybody. Someday maybe he will. Maybe he'll be in leadership. He'll be an elder in a in a church someday and he'll have that responsibility among the the concert of the elders that are making the that decision for that particular what's sometimes called a session or the ruling board of elders But we can certainly call out boorish, bad, unchristian like behavior when we see it. And we are to judge behavior. We're not to j yeah. We i i if we don't judge behavior, we can't even judge our own behavior. Exactly. And uh and if you can't even judge your own behavior and And ri recognize that that what you're doing. Anything goes. I mean it's just it it is just it's an anarchist. And if you think like I'm wrong, like you don't like how I've applied Romans chapter 14, let me just make something that Paul says in verse 13, chapter 14, verse 13. Therefore let us not pass judgment on one another any longer. but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. I ask you, anybody who does the opposite of that Is what Paul has written here a judgment against your behavior? Paul is not arguing for never passing any judgment on anything ever. He's making a judgment in making his case. And we are to follow after the example of Paul as he follows after the example of Christ. So we are to make judgments. So let's, you know, we have to make it a good idea. Well he said that he said that to the Pharisees. But I think that He said don't judge by just y external shallow appearances, but with righteous judgment. I mean Christ said that. And to your point, Angela, if there were no judgment You can't judge yourself, which speaks to that one scripture where it says, take the plank out of your own eye. Well how can you possibly know you have a plank in your eye if you haven't judged your own actions? So there's judgment judge and judgment every way, but it's the intent of the judgment, whether it be to damnation or to salvation. Now I will say this, and this might be is there anything more in the comments by the way? This might be a a a good way to kind of land. I don't want you to misunderstand the tone. I mean I'm speaking with some energy and you know uh uh you know Angela's got a warrior spirit and she can speak very directly. And I don't want you to miss I don't want you to misunderstand our heart, uh misunderstand our heart based on potential tone. I don't know if we'll watch this back later and see how we came across. When we go to a brother and sister in Christ because of sin, we shouldn't go there And attack them. No, we can't tomorrow. We should go there with gentleness. So that should be and then if they won't hear us, it's like, okay, I need to bring in some reinforcements because I'm And you're gonna do that out of love and and gentleness. And that even even when it gets to the point where uh a local congregation needs to put someone out of the church, they're not saying, that's it, be away with you. Yeah, no, it's it's a sorrow. You know? There it's like, oh my gosh, our heart is broken And you're turning them over to Satan is the way the scripture puts it. Why? So that maybe they'll run back to the cross. Amen. That's why you're praying and you're hoping for that. We're turning you over to Satan. Like we're We're hoping that that will bring you to your senses. Amen. And so it's never a mean spirited we you know um It's the kindness of the Lord that reads to repentance. That ultimate vengeance for sin, that ultimate And we need to understand that tolerance for bad behavior It's not love. It's not love to the other person and it's not love to yourself ultimately because uh they're gonna drag you down with them into that behavior. And now both of you will be, you know, under the judgment of God. Um but but you're totally right. It's it's it you know some people can be mean some Christians unfortunately can be mean spirited and how they do things and that's that's that's wrong too. Um we we do need to restore in a spirit of gentleness. Mm-hmm. Um it could be a kind of thing where somebody's pushing back saying, you know, it's not right for us to say, well, that person's not a Christian. I think we should be care more careful with our language per se, right? I mean that might be a fair uh rebuke that we need to to hear. Maybe it's more it'd be better if we would alter our language a little bit and say, rather than saying that person's not a Christian, saying that person is not behaving as a Christian. Correct. that would be better because you could defend that from scripture say, oh look at all these lists of behaviors that Christians and that person's not exemplifying that, that might be better and leave it for God. with that. So that might be well then I received a rebuke. So I believe it was my comment. It was your comment? I believe so. Oh you sinner. Wouldn't it be the first time? Sure. Heavenly Father, thank you for reviewing Thank you for calling me to account. Thank you for judging me. I pray that I would do better. I pray that we would do better as the body. Pray that you would call me Cleanse us from our sin. It's appropriate that we're actually taking communion this evening as our house church. Pray that you would call to mind other things that we need to repent from. we can have communion and fellowship with you. We ask that your body would be strengthened through fellowship through one another. through your word, through your spirit. Pray that you fall fresh on us. We pray for revival in your church. We pray that you would be glorified. Thank you for the truth. Thank you that you are the truth. Life in our way. We praise you, Father. We ask that you would continue To train us up. Continue to sanctify us. We know that you will because your word says that you will. For you are faithful even when we are not. So we look forward to you. Forward to meeting together again next week with more testimony about the work that you're doing in our lives and in your church. May you be glorified in Jesus' name Amen. We'll be um beginning um a look at the tail end of third John next week. We're gonna uh have two messages looking at the very tail end of of this and then we'll be done with uh with uh third jour and then we're gonna uh enter a series that's gonna kind of look at the epistles of john in a grand grander scope uh the epistle Before we're completely done with the short letters of John of the New Testament. And I do I haven't said this in a couple weeks. I feel like uh I should say it at least every once in a while. I really do appreciate you joining us. uh on Facebook Live or later on YouTube. I mean seriously in your comments and your interaction and all that sort of stuff is is wonderful. And I said before, if you want to like things and share things and comment on things, that's fantastic. But this is not intended to be a replacement for you belonging to a local congregation where you actually have physical proximity with other fellow believers. So this isn't this is not replacement for that. So if you're not in a church, I encourage you to get in one. And if you're local, like within an hour of Frederick, and you want to maybe be a part of what we're doing, you know, uh private message me on Facebook if you're watching this or add a comment on the YouTube channel and we can connect and we can kind of see I can tell you what we're all about and you can see if maybe if you think it's a good fit. And I'll and I'll put this out here. They're not gathering And so if you're in one of those situations where you believe you belong to a church, uh a local congregation who's not meeting and you don't want to leave that church necessarily. Someday you're hoping they're gonna meet again and then you're gonna join up with them in a month or six or a year and a half or whenever they start meeting again. Um but in the meantime you want to connect with the local body believers and worship together uh and gather together as the people of God in physical proximity, reach out to me there too and we can talk about you know what that night looked like like. I I have a rather loose understanding of what compared to some of what church membership means and we can talk about that too someday maybe if you want. So I'm totally fine with uh but you need to be going to a church. You can supplement with things like the this, and I'm glad that you are with us, but you need to be going to a church. So anyway, I guess that's it for now. Till next week. Thanks so much for watching. And And God bless