Yeah, I think the counter's going. Looks like. Yep. Hello. Facebook. And if you're watching this later on YouTube, hello YouTube. Welcome to our weekly Saturday evening gathering from 6 to 7. Here's the Household of Faith in Christ. We're going to have a discussion on 3 John, the very end of 3 John today. So if you want to grab your Bibles and get ready to read along here. In a moment, I would encourage you to do that. Um you can follow us on Facebook, obviously. Uh we have a YouTube channel. You go to you search for the Household of Faith in Christ on YouTube. You'll find it that way. And I thought we'd have it ready for launch at this point. It's not quite ready, but pretty soon we're going to have a website where we're going to archive all of our messages and have blogs and other sorts of things that hopefully would be edifying to you. So once that's ready, hopefully within the next few weeks, uh at least a beta test version of it be ready to put out there and you can find it. there as well. Anyway, without further ado, I'm going to have Angela open us in prayer and then I'll have a sermon called Shackin Up. And um and we'll have a discussion following that, and you're encouraged to participate in the discussion in the comment section, and we'll incorporate those as best as we can during our time together. Our Father and our God, we thank you, Father, for another week of blessings, blessings of protection and provision, blessings of safety. We thank you for gathering us together this day, Father. We thank you for the privilege of worshiping you, of learning more of you. We thank you for Thank you for the privilege to seek your faith, Heavenly Father, and to be in relationship with you in a deeper and more meaningful way. We just pray, Father, that you would accomplish that through the teaching teaching this evening. Lord, that we would know you better than we knew you before. And we ask that you bring to this teaching, Lord, people who will be touched by it, uh people who who need a touch of you, who need to know you, and keep away, Father, anything that would be harmful, any person that would intend to bring harm, any spirit that would intend to bring damage. We just pray that away. And I just ask this to be a blessed time together for our blessing and to your blessing. Your glory in the matchless name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Thank you. If you're joining us a little bit late and you want to grab your Bible, well the message is gonna uh be referencing 3rd John. So if you want to grab that, open up your Bible there. It's not chapter 3 of the Gospel of John, but the third epistle of John Now, last couple of times that we walked through God's Word together, we were traveling along with the Apostle John as he wrote a letter to Gaius, a disciple of Christ. who is faithful to walking in the truth. This letter that we read is now known as 3rd John or the 3rd Epistle of John or sometimes 3rd epistle John, particularly in Europe, it's often referred that way. It is the shortest of the Bible's sixty-six books, contains just over two hundred words, and six Of these words are the word truth. And another time the word true comes up. John is committed to the truth. And he wants to make sure that all Christ's followers are also committed to the truth. Knowing the truth, believing the truth, proclaiming the truth. Living the truth. Now, who is Gaius? We can't be sure. The name Gaius does appear in the New Testament and the America, the names James, Robert, Michael, very common. But we do know that this particular Gaius, he was beloved by John. We know this because the letter uses the word beloved four times. And these uses of beloved actually shape the letter for us. But anyway, in covering the first twelve verses of the letter, the last couple the weeks, we saw a familiar theme from John. Truth is what's for dinner Truth. The other white meat. What's uh or where is the truth? Remember that? Where's the beef? Where is the truth? Just truth it. You deserve the truth today. Plop, plop, fizz, fizz. Oh, what a relief the truth is. Snap crackle, truth. I welcome mile for the truth. Finger-licking truth. Give me 22 minutes, I'll give you the truth. Traffic and truth together on the eights. This is John's thing. The truth. Have you noticed on social media how Each individual kind of seems to have their go-to thing. You know, one person it's cute and cuddly posts over and over. A different person, it's, you know. political, polarizing political posts over and over. Another person is, you know, cynical and snarky posts over And over. Well, the Apostle John had social media way back when he would have posted about the truth over and over. It is his thing. For example, in 2 John, which we studied just, I don't know, a month or so ago He warns against helping false teachers who are enemies of the truth. And then in this letter, in 3 John, he commends those who help teachers. of the truth. And so now we're going to read the final few verses of 3 John, and then we're going to talk about the truth as it's impacting us right now. And to hear it now in 2022 So hopefully you've already grabbed your Bibles and have 3 John open. So let's look at verses 13 through 15. And if you're confused, let me Say that there are 15 verses in the book. You might be confused if you're reading the NIV or the King James or something like that. Some of our Bibles say that there are 14 verses, some Say that there are 15 verses. But this is merely a numbering question. All the words are the same. There's just a different way of handling the versification. of those really very rare oddities. But it has absolutely no bearing on the content or the meaning of the letter. Okay? So don't don't be led astray here. Keep in mind When John wrote the letter, there were no verse numbers. The verse numbers are not inspired texts. These numbers were added more than a thousand years later to make it easier for us to reference and study the Bible. So even though what I'm going to be reading to you are the words from the NIV, which does not have the number 15, printed on the page, I'm saying that there are 15 verses pretty much only because it's what my Greek text uh shows me and it's what the NA SV and the ESV and a lot of other translations have as well, the English translations. But again, I can't emphasize enough, no worries. The words essentially all the same So beginning with verse 13. I have much to write you, but I do not want to do so with pen and ink. 14. I hope to see you soon And we will talk face to face. 15. Peace to you. The friends here send their greetings. Greet the friends there by name. This is a short passage, but it is still the inspired word of God, breathed out by God. Therefore, in errand, in Infallible, the perfect rule and guide for faith and life practice. Those who have ears to hear, let them hear. And let us pray. Father, we ask your blessing upon this message. We ask that we would share John's concern for the truth, your concern that we be committed to the truth. truth. That we recognize it, that we defend it, that we advocate for it, and we live our lives by it. Help us to more deeply understand and Apply your truth to our life in our situation through what you have preserved for us in your word that we study here and discuss here this evening. We have to be clear from our mind distractions and concerns that we stay focused on you, your word, your truth Help us to feel the presence of your Holy Spirit, Father. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. That profound sense of us having the Holy Spirit among us there for a moment. I'm not sure exactly. what that is. The Holy Spirit's always among us, but I particularly had a profound feeling of it tonight. So praise God. So you mostly like me, right? Some of you would even say that you love me. Some of you. I hope, right? I hope you love me or at least like me because I am going to need your goodwill this evening and in the weeks that will follow. I'm not looking for a fight. I'm not. But I think a fight Has found me. And it has found you too, whether you know it or not. There is a fight in the church going on. And it's not the regular traditional fights, historical fights along typical denouncing This is a civil war kind of a fight. This is evangelical versus evangelical, Baptist versus Baptist, professing conservative Christian versus professing conservative Christian And the stakes are rather high. And I'd like you to think about where you stand. To think about where the Apostle John would stand if he were standing in the spot where I find myself standing here tonight. What am I talking about? Well, over the last year to eighteen months it could be any one of a number of issues, right? Some big splits and divisions in the body of Christ. About how to grapple with certain things. But this fight actually precedes that and actually provides a bit of a foundation for some of the problems that allow these other problems to seep in unchecked so horribly in the last year plus. What am I talking about? I'm talking about the shack. I know it's just the movie before that It was just a book, and before that it was just a collection of imaginative thoughts from the mind of William Paul Young. But the shack has become much more than this. And not because it raked in tens of millions of dollars to the box office and has done well Not because the book was at the top of the bestseller list, selling more than 22 million copies, although that is a lot of The Shack has sold more copies than The Godfather, Jaws, The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. More copies than the Grapes of Wrath, the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, The Old Man in the Sea, The Exorcist Catch 22. The cat and the hat. The joy of sex. To name just a few. Now the shack it has achieved historic success. But not as much success as Who Moved My Cheese, right? Now despite all the commercial success, perhaps you don't know the story. So, in a nutshell, here it is. A little girl is abducted. She's taken to a shack. In the woods and killed. And her father, Mackenzie, or Mac for short, uh, he's Devastated. Can you imagine? Can you imagine something worse than your Innocent child being tortured and murdered There's a certain certain Christ-likeness in that, isn't there? A father sending his innocent child to be tortured and murdered. Well Mac, as you might imagine, he has some uh some questions for God But he doesn't really go to God with these questions because he's always struggled to find a closeness with his heavenly father due to abuse that he suffered as a kid at the hands of his earthly father. And then an invitation arrives in the mail for Mac To meet Papa in the woods at the shack. The place of his deepest hurts and depressing pain. It's a pretty good setup, right? It's emotionally tugging. It is easy to connect with personally. It wrestles with questions we all grapple with at least sometimes What will Matt find? Who will he meet? What will we learn when he goes to see Papa? At the Compelling questions. Through the use of a simple plot with simple characters, the author reveals his answer to really compelling and challenging questions like, why is there evil in the world? Where is God when there's tragedy? What's the meaning and the purpose of life? Are you ready for Mr. Young's answers? Are you sure? Because we're now entering the battlefield of the Civil War. Now let me start with some of the volleys that are allowed by supporters of the book. And if you hated the book, please bear with me because I agree with what these supporters The story of the shack honestly exposes the gaping raw wounds that so many of us have festering behind our facades. Now I haven't had a daughter brutally murdered, praise God. But I have a son who faces significant challenges every day and absent another miracle in his life. He always will And you have your version of this story. Like Mac, I'm the survivor of abuse as a child, and you might might have your version of this story. Like Mac? The person next to you across from you you watching this across the internet with you right now they have struggles during their life to feel closeness with God and you probably had your own version of this story too. This is the brilliance of the shack. Paul Young is telling your story, my story, all of our stories, so we can relate. And we read with interest, open to the possibility of a new emotional connection with God. And this is good. It's really good. The dilapidated building in the shack, the shack itself, is a metaphor for our lives. There's a metaphor in the shack for our hearts that are filled with aching, hurt, and yet filled with so much wondrous beauty, a standing contradiction almost. I mean this is a good Stuff really good. It's very relatable, very real I mean the story itself is imaginative and fantastical, but the emotional chord struck very real. In a way we might say that Paul Jung has met people where they are. This is good. It's something that we all could and should do better than we do. Meet people where they are. It's good stuff. Really good. This is part of what bothers the critics. And it concerns me two There is an old saying when the heart and the head will follow. In the sh Jack, Paul Young wins the heart. He offers salve for bleeding blisters Every turn of the page brings a warm hug to a hurting reader somewhere. The shack of the shoulder to cry on. A bending ear that listens. A quiet friend. Who's there for you? And it has me on high alert. Because I have the Apostle John on the other shoulder. In the other ear. And he's saying to me, as he does at the end of 3 John, peace to you. And it's a peace that comes from true understanding. John teases us sometimes as readers. Doesn't he? Sometimes he'll say that it's it's just so much more than he wants to say and writes, but there isn't time or space. Corey wants to tell us what he has to say in person face to face. So I'm wondering If John, he came here right now, offered us greetings, each of us by name. What would he say? Given that Christians are arguing with Christians, but the this darned book and movie. What would John say about the shack? Given John's always present focus on the truth, I think I know a few things that he would point out to us. To those who tempted to see Say right now, hey, what's the big deal? It's only a book. It's just a movie. John would probably point out that all authors they They have a point of view and even an agenda when they write. And the shack. It's no different. In the acknowledgments in the back of the shack, the author says the book shows the ways in which God works. Elsewhere we read in the back of the book, back pages of the book, that it offers a magnificent glimpse into the nature of God. It offers one of the most poignant views of God and how he relates to humanity. These are theological claims. Paul Young is intending to teach about God Who God is, what God's like, why God does, what God does. It's not just a story not ambivalent it has a purpose if you read it read it seriously If you watch the movie, watch it seriously. If I were to write a book. Make a movie and put it out there and tell you that this is a book, this is a movie about your wife, your husband Your mother, your father, your child, or anyone at all who's important to you, close to you, well, you would read that book seriously, wouldn't you? You watch that movie seriously, right? Make sure they got everything correct. They didn't misrepresent the person that you care so much about, who means so much to you. They didn't lie about them, spread falsehoods about their character, what they're all about, their very nature. You take it seriously, right? Well, this is the case with Jack. Because Jack is not about your spouse. It's about your creator. It's not about your parents. It's about your savior. It's not about your child. It's about your beloved king. So we're examining exactly what Paul Young says about God and seeing how it measures up to what God himself says about himself in Scripture. And there's so much ground to cover, it's going to take more than one week. So we're going to have a discussion this evening. We're going to begin our discussion this evening about it. We're going to have a string of messages actually walking through some of this and have a string of discussions therefore that follows So um before I pause for us to begin our discussion here, let me run this a couple of times. I'm gonna I'm gonna do it now. I I've mentioned this a few times. What you see here on the internet is about an hour of our time together, but we get together before six o'clock and we hang out together after seven o'clock. And you know, we we fellowship with each other, we try to you know figure out how we can pray better for one another on select Sundays we enjoy the Lord's Supper together. And we sing songs, praise and worship songs to our Lord, Savior, and King uh before and after what you see here on Facebook and YouTube. YouTube. If you would like to round out some of what you do on Saturday evening with us and sing some songs of preparation to our time together or afterwards, here's Suggestions read them throughout the week, or just generally alike. These are some good songs. But these songs go along well with the themes of what we're talking about this week and in the handful of weeks to come. In Christ alone, before the throne of God above, O church arise. There is a fountain. Oh God, thou art transcendent. There's five. I'll give you five more. Now I know I'm saying I'm kind of quick, but we are recording this and it'll be available later. So you just got to jump ahead about Half hour-ish, maybe a little bit less than a half hour into the video. Find this part, and you can keep hitting pause and writing down the names of the songs if you want. Oh great God, servants of the gospel, how deep The Father's love for us. I greet thee, who my true Redeemer art. And a personal favorite of mine, behold our God. Anyway, let me uh close with a word of prayer and then we'll start a discussion. Father, we ask that you would forgive your people for being so quick to stray from the truth so weak at recognizing what the truth even is, unfortunately. We thank you that we can count on you to reveal your truth, that you've done so in the person and work of Jesus Christ and in your written word. We ask that you would Bless our time here this evening as we enter now into a time of discussion to see what uh those who purport to put forward biblical teachings help faithful they are to your truth and how uh well equipped we are in recognizing truth and lies. This design would truly be a time of edification and encouragement for your people, those here in this room and those who are joining us remotely. via the internet. We thank you, Lord. We ask that your Spirit would guide us, that you would fill our mouths with wisdom. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. So let me jump over here. Please start by asking at a nine sense. You've read the sh Did you see the movie? No, but I've read the book. Okay. Have you done either? Neither. Are you familiar with it at all? Yeah. Well one of the beauties about how we're going to handle this is you're not going to have to have read the book or seen the movie. It might be helpful if you've seen it or read it recently, but But to be honest, the way I'm going to handle things, you're not going to have to have done that. And to be clear, I'm not one who says, you know, put a hex on the book, never read it Um but I'm also not encouraging you to read it or watch the movie. There's no real need to unless after our discussion you want to read the book or watch the movie um to recognize the yourself some of the things we're going to talk about and and maybe learn how to better understand when somebody is pushing a worldview that may or may not be biblical. But a lot of people, they would say it's a sin even to read the book. I can't find a biblical argument that says that It's a sin to read any particular uh you know, worldview put forward in the pages of a book. Uh but we do need to have discernment and understanding. And sometimes we can't understand what we're up against. We can't understand how to recognize certain errors if we don't ever exposed to them. So anyway. Well, so you've you've read the book, you said. It's been a while since I did read it. Yeah. Well I'm curious, uh I and I'm gonna ask you the well either one of you, this is for both of you, because I I kind of think I know what you're your answer is gonna be, but I don't know what yours is gonna be. Um when you first read it, first impressions. My first impression is that it's entertaining and irreverent. It's bulk. Inter it's both entertaining and it's entertaining as well as irreverent towards God. Fed him many forces on the woods. Mm-hmm. Uh that he went to see by the shack. Is that supposed to be like we'll get into the specifics of who all the different characters are probably next week? We'll die And in the movie for that matter. So he means 7 o'clock. Probably watch it at some point. Yeah, just to get up to see with what the what it's all about. Yeah, we have the book. You can read. I mean it's it's not high literature. Like, you know, it's it's it's it it's It's pretty close to Pop Trife. I mean it's nothing special. But yeah, Pop Trife sells a lot of books apparently. So um I can say it's a simple story. simple plot line, simple characters. I mean it's not, you know, this is not classical literature by any stretch. But uh anybody your f your first impression room? It's been a while. No, my first impression was I don't think the big deal is. I was like, it's yeah, to be honest, it didn't even I think this is God's blessing for me When something is not biblically sound, I don't remember a lot of it. And people were like, Oh, what about this? What about that? And I was like, Really? I don't even remember that I think it's actually a blessing. God's protection on me. 'Cause I'll read scripture and I'll remember stuff and I'll, you know, be able to quote a scripture or whatever and it sings And it just becomes part of me w when it and I really do think it's God's grace on me. I honestly do. I that's the only explanation I can have. Well I've got a few notes of things that I pulled from different parts of the of the storyline in the book and the characters and some of the quotes from the book and stuff that um So and if you've got a copy of the shack and you want to uh check out what I'm saying and and proof text me and see if I'm you know properly quoting and properly representing presenting, I'm going to give you page numbers. So on page 113 of the shack, the light bulb goes off for Mac and he finally understands That quote, everything was about him, about the human race. End quote. Now, previous to his recent fall from favor, Max Locato was sometimes unfairly dismissed as being a not very deep theologian, but even the title of one of Max's books does better than Young does on this point, in my opinion. The book title I'm thinking about from Max Locato is It's Not About Me But what you know why do I say that and what do you guys think? Would you agree? I agree. I think it's it's not about me. Um I think that can can you maybe repeat the quote. Well the quote was Mac realizes the light bulb goes off in his head and he realizes everything was about him, Mac, and about the human race. Everything's about him and the human race. Without context, I would say that that sounds kind of eh. Like I don't I don't know. Like and that's a very good point. I mean, obviously that's just one line and so there is a There's no context, but I I uh that line is representative of of a thread and a theme that runs throughout the pages of the shack. So it was pulled as a representative sample So So is it kind of in a way saying that it it is a theological statement, is it not? Absolutely. Absolutely. Say that um how do I put it? Uh that it's about our personal relationship with 'Cause I mean I would agree with that. But what so what is about him and the Well with the um you know the book title I stole from Max LaCao, you know when Max Max Licader writes a book and says it's not about me. You know, what what is he arguing for? It's not about me, it's about what? It's like a basic Sunday school question, I guess. It's about God. It's about Christ. And that's something that uh the shack swings and misses on repeatedly. Okay. I think I see it. So um there's a hist now in the messages that I'm gonna share in the coming weeks, I'm not gonna spend time on this particular character because you can't cover it all I promise you there's so there are so many examples of heresy and strangeness and cultural appropriation. that's not Christian. There's so many weird things going on in the chat. You can't you could do 52 messages on it, probably. So, but for the purpose of our discussion, there's a uh uh a person uh a representation of wisdom as a person uh who is Hispanic trying to be very T C by the way all the characters are different uh ethnic groups Throughout the shack. And this Hispanic representation of wisdom, she says on page one fifty-five, so many believe that it is love that grows, but it is the not Knowing that grows. And the love simply expands to contain it. Love is just the skin of knowing. It it's been a while since I've read the book, but um just uh um I know that The way the Bible sums up love for God is to obey Him. And so, I mean God doesn't Doesn't even put love for him in terms of emotion. He puts love for him in terms of obedience. So you can't really love him if you don't understand what he requires. So if you understand in truth what he requires and you're obedient to him, then our love for him is growing as we mature in that obedience. But probably what he's saying and that That quote is um you just get a bunch of knowledge and the more knowledge you get, the more loving you are, which is ridiculous. The Bible says says that fear of the Lord is the beginning of new knowledge. New truth. Exactly love is not in that statement anyway. And the Apostle John would have particularly uh had his antenna go up uh quote like this uh because of something that was in the early formative yeah gnosticism the early formative stages of gnosticism this these special insights special knowledge That's what's gonna improve you, that's what's gonna save you. It's um I don't think of a creature that had more knowledge actually than the devil. And um I mean, you know, depending on your view of how old the earth is, uh let me put it this way. Even if you believe that that in in a young earth. That means the devil's been around for a few thousand years. He's got a lot of knowledge and know the word. Way more than any person. And How so how can you say how can you square that quote with with the number one with the number one enemy of God who has more knowledge really than any human being? Right. Yeah, so Gnosticism and the whole idea is a problem it's heretical, as you pointed out, and it totally ignores one of the more, I don't know, profound information Influential, uh, conceptually anyway, verses of the Bible in 1 Corinthians chapter 13, verse 8, which talks about things passing away, including knowledge, will pass away, and what's remaining then is love. But here we have a quote that says love is just the skin of knowing. So if knowledge passes away, does love then pass away too, or is it just some sort of shriveled up skin that's left remaining? Like it it it It makes it seem like love is dependent on knowledge. Which all that stuff didn't even come into my mind. No, I don't I don't I I I'm actually closer closer to you. I I really don't remember a lot of what I was so offended. I think whoever writes that means to uh go back to uh their Bible. I don't know that they ever were in the Bible. Yeah. Yeah yeah absolutely claimed to be but But uh and full disclosure I've actually spoken to him, I had him as a guest on my radio show uh wow and we on the Faith Debate program and we discussed and I challenged him and he didn't in my opinion get very sad satisfactory answers he used a lot of weasel words it seemed to me but but anyway um the shack claims uh that parents Are too broken to love their children well. That's on page 154. Now, what do you think about That's not true at all. I think uh we're able to love regardless of how broken and sinful we are. And I think that uh well the Bible says we're I mean the Bible commands us to love no matter how broken we are, no matter how broken everyone else is. Because we're all broken. And I like how you added, you said how broken and sinful we are, because the sinful part, that sin idea, is something that's absent from the shack. Stays away from that, doesn't want to bring up that three letter word. Yeah people people if he had said people can't love perfectly I'd be o I'd be okay with that. We can't do anything perfectly when we can do a lot of things well. So, I mean a a a parent that um knows the Lord well, follows the love well, can love well. They just can't love perfectly. Yeah, we're able to love well or otherwise at all. We're created as an image and this can be And he has sustained certain aspects of our image bearing through his common grace. Otherwise there'd be utter destruct destruction. We'd have all killed each other by now. There'd be no h there'd be no Right? If God wasn't sustaining us by his common grace so that the kingdom could advance and the truth could be proclaimed, you know, we we would we would have given into our uh sinful instincts so long ago there would be there would be no planet left probably. Now Max says that he feels shame. That's a good thing, right? On page one fifty-eight. His shame is for having been judging. So he's asked, by what criteria do you base your judgments? Okay, that's a good question. Yeah. Right? question. Now despite supposedly being a seminary trained Christian, the character Mac is introduced to us as a believer who is seminary trained. So not your average Rundle Mill Christian, a seminary trained Christian. And he doesn't seem to know the answer. Because the answer, by what criteria do you base your judgment? The Christian answer, of course, is the Bible Yes, by the word of God. That is the answer. You don't have to go to seminary to know the answer to that question. But instead he stammers that he has no answer. He's then told if this is because this is he's told he's that I have an answer to that question. And the reason he doesn't have an answer to that question, he's told is because there is no criteria for judging. Let's see. Here's a quote. Judging requires that you think yourself superior over the one you judge. That's not what that means. What is it saying? That is that just means that you see a path of destruction and then you want to highlight that for the person so they avoid it so that they can repent. It has nothing to do with you. I'm actually wanting you to watch this movie or read this book even less. Yeah, it it it discerns you. I mean if you don't we have our I call it entertaining is because if you don't know the word of God well, it's gonna tickle your flesh like crazy. Right. All the things I pointed out. I mean, you know, the idea of you lose a dear loved one to some some horrific thing that this evil that happened and about how's it gonna resolve? What's gonna happen? You can enter into the pain of the Mac character. Like I can only try to imagine what that would feel like and and so you And so you're traveling along with him on his supposed path toward healing, and you're hoping it's going to resolve well. I just read it as a story. I didn't read it as any sort of study guide. But but I think but people who don't know the the Bible will will read it theologically. Sure. The first question that I would ask the Matt character in response to that ridiculous answer that supposedly probably Jesus gave him in the book um is then how why Why are you judging the person that murdered your daughter? Right. You know, what right do you have to judge that person and be aware of the thing? And that's actually a theme that comes up in the book. You know. And there's problems with how that theme comes up. We'll get into that. I think it might be next week's message I'm going to get in specifically how that's mishandled in the text of the Shrek compared to the text of the scriptures. Always remember that the word of God is infallible. The word of man 100% different story. But this is what I meant when I said the book it it violates so irreverent it has the whole Holy Spirit, give me these kinds of answers, or Jesus. Give me these kinds of answers. Right. And and and I I also ha just have a problem with how they even physically embody the Trinity. That can maybe be for another discussion, but um in addition to how they present They um put they put answers in the mouth of in the mouth of God that it just you just So you know it explores you. Well you're right, in the sense that if you don't know the word of God, you would believe that that's actually what God would say. Yeah. Because it's presented as I I guess because praise God I'm in the Word I was just like it was just a goofy story to me. If that is supposed to be God, the Father. And that's a second commandment violation. So there's another thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, there's and actually that's gonna be some I've got next week's message basically done. So it's it's real it's the the book is riddled with theological Just r I mean just read. If you're one who watched the movie and you read the book and you're like, Oh I know what you're doing. Like I said in my message tonight, like come on, what's the big deal It's just a book, it's just a movie. But there's all this insidious stuff. And what can happen is it can be it can become to through some sort of like an osmosis, can be can begin to condition you. To have just the slightest variation in your biblical understanding of what God teaches, who God is. And so then somebody else in another place will start to stack on that, like a concrete Small little fracture points if we're not sure. The enemy is always looking for and expanding upon. Even if you're, you know, like Dina's like, you know, it didn't really hit me in that way. Well Praise God. But I'm not what really when I talk about the Civil War, I'm not kidding. Why what really drew my attention was a lot of uh supposedly evangelical, traditional, conservative theologically churches were using the shack as a Bible study Yeah, that was the problem. And they weren't doing it like we are where we're trying to be critical thinkers and compare it to scripture. They were, what can we learn about God from the shaft? And that's all it was, and my hair was on fire. And I was mentioning my concerns to other people who I've had great respect for. Up until then. And they thought I was out to lunch. I'm like, oh my gosh. And that's when I realized we've got a problem. And then you can understand we're not basing things in the truth of God's word. All of a sudden intersectionality and critical race theory and cultural Marxism and all of that sort of stuff can infect the church and uh the This was part of this was part of the problem that we now find ourselves in. That's why I'm focusing on it even though the movie was a few years ago and the book came out Ironically, there's a lot of this in the book. God invites man to judge him. That's on page one sixty. Others. So we shouldn't judge others, we shouldn't be judging, but we should judge God They should read the book of Job. Do you have anything you'd like to add to that or is that just uh Yeah, I think that's um wow. I might put you in your place. Yeah, there really is nothing to say there. But there are there are examples like in the book of Exodus, for example, uh the way that most readers would approach It's when the uh the Israelites kind of turn on Moses, is how most of us read it. And they're like saying, Moses, would you bring us down here to die? You know, we need water, we need food, what's the matter with you? We were better off in Egypt. Remember that part of the story? And then they're gonna stone Moses. You remember that? If we properly read that and we understand what's really being said there. They're going after Moses as the mouthpiece and representative of God. They're judging God absolutely. And in doing so they're sinning. So when the Shack says that God invites man to judge him, obviously they haven't read Exodus or a whole bunch of other parts of the Bible. So God invites us to have heart-to-heart with him. God invites us to bear our emotion and our and our everything out be to be wrong. with him but in a reverent, fearful way. Because he already knows what's on our hearts. Now one of your favorite books probably your favorite book. Joe. Well yeah, that and because I love that book so much because there is that realness of it. But when Joe crosses the line line God puts him in his place out of love for him like hey hey hey all right I want you run your mouth but let's put this into perspective. Let me ask you some questions now. And Job's like oh whoa wait a minute I spoke and I shouldn't have. Whoa, who yeah, you're right, who am I? But g excuse me, God does that out of love for us Yeah, God basically says, You're gonna judge me? Alright, I guess you created the universe, right? Right, that's right. So it's not a rich me. Yeah, so who sees it? Who who is a Leviathan? You know, all of that. Mm. So so I guess my point in saying that to what you're saying, yeah, Job is my favorite book because I think that demonstrates how amazing God is how he wants a true authentic relationship with us to the point where he says, Okay, get real with me, but let me give you this example in the book of Job so that We know our proper placing with one another. Let's let's just not forget. Don't get rude. Exactly. Let's not forget who we are, that I am the creator Yeah, I mean the Bible is clear, you know, the the lump of clay is in no position to cast judgment on the hands of the Father. And screaming out at you and was saying, No, you're wrong. How? Well I wrote this. Yeah No. That's interesting, you know. Alright, here's we got time for a couple more probably. Because Shaq says that God would have to be worse than a human parent to say Send anyone to hell. Oh yeah. One of those I think one sixty-two. So well let's see. that um my initial reaction to uh to this book was um it was entertaining and yet irreverent. I thought that it would it would be entertaining yet it was very irreverent. This is another I think point an another example of irreverence because I think when people when people say that um say God won't send people to hell, I I think what they don't understand understand uh is that actually in in in in a in a very real way people send themselves to hell. They may it's a choice that they make, not something that's forced on them by God. But what I'm getting that is I think what people don't understand about the holiness of God is that you know um when if God is more holy than we can really conceptualize. And so for him, and I think I made this point before, for him to um condescend himself to take on a human body, to pay to to allow himself in a human body to be so by sin because that's the only way to pay for our sin. And then for any human being to look at that and say, I don't care I don't care that you did that. I don't you know a and it kind and sort of give God the finger, you know. Okay, so you did that, so what? And and and kinda give them the finger for doing that, say I don't care It is such it it it is I think it's an eternal offense. Really. It it it's it is so over the top blasphemous to do that to a God that is more human than we can really conceptualize. I don't I I well there there's a couple of things. First of all, the the spirit and the soul The the book of Ecclesiastes says whatever God does is forever. So the spirit man in us is is is a forever creation because whatever God does is forever. Um I believe that about the Spirit Man. Anyway, that Spirit Man that sins against God, I don't think you ever get done paying for that. You know, if you Well that is blasting the Holy Spirit. You harden stuff you have soul and blaspheme and and harden your own heart. Oh sorry, sorry. So harden your own heart against truth and offended and blaspheme God that I think what happened is you have to pay for for because hell is justice and heaven is grace. Well you're in you're the people in hell are paying They're paying wages. I mean the if the wages of sin is death, they're being paid what they're what they what they are owed. People in hell are being paid what they are owed. You know, and so Um well they also God isn't forcing them to to do something against their will. They don't want to be with God. Exactly. So that's the other part of it too. They don't they don't want them anywhere. Right. So that's just the one. So God's gonna give them justice, and justice is um you have to pay for what you've done and you have offended me and and disrespected me um in a manner that you can't ever get finished paying for that. You know. And I I I seen it in in in that in that aspect that that aspect of that truth as well. I mean I think they've hardened people, they've hardened their hearts so badly that they can't ever repent. That's one aspect of it. But I think the other aspect of it is, you know, you done you have done such a grave um uh act of blasphemy that you never can ever fully pay for that. You know. So you have to Your punishment has to go on and on and on and on because that's just that for you. And so if you don't understand if you don't now I'm not saying I fully understand God's holiness, but what I am saying saying is I have a I think I have a glimpse of it and and I think that um that that that that's that's part of the reverence that that this person is listening about this book he doesn't underst really understand understand how holy and majestic God is. Otherwise, he wouldn't even let that that that statement in and of itself is very blasphemous. He would not let that come out of Sure. He's just treating him as if he's just a man. Well he's treating him as if he's just, you know, he's just, you know, Bob or somebody. Yeah. He's treating him like a big thing. I mean no, he's he's God, he's majestic, um and and he really doesn't get it. He wouldn't be removing his sandals. He would he right Right. You know, he'd be like, that's just that's just God. Right. Hey God, have a seat and here's a beer, not me. Right. He doesn't get it Yeah, reinforcing this idea that he has against God's judgment is um Max says that he understands the sacrificial love of the Sun, but he says, quote, but God's another story. Okay. Well Oh oh so that's not very um uh biblical at all. That's very that sounds very Mormon to me. Um that they're three beings and one. Contradictory by the way, because if you don't know, essence actually means being. So yeah. Yeah, so this idea, you know, we hear this Fluby dubby, kind and friendly, you know, fuzzy, non-threatening uh uh authority figure or whatever. And then you've got the old angry long bearded, you know, railing against everybody in the Old Testament as a complete misrepresentation of both the Old and New Testament uh characteristics. characterizations of God. So anyway. Well I think maybe we'll uh we'll draw to a close and uh at least here on on one And then we're going to uh continue singing some songs here and we invite you to sing some songs at home. Uh you want to close this? Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time together. Thank you for this discussion. We know that you are the truth, that your word is the truth. We thank you for it. We ask that you would cause us to be steeped in your truth. that you would illuminate the truth when we read your word. We pray that you would section off time in each in our lives so that we might take the time to be in your word and to pray to you and to allow the Holy Spirit to illuminate, to have it truly seep into our being, that it would be the very essence of us, to use Landon's word, that we would become more like Thank you. Thank you for everything that you've done. Thank you for your sacrifice. Thank you for your holiness. We ask that you would Fill us with your truth. You are the way, the truth, and the life. It's in your name, Jesus, that we pray. Amen. Amen. Oh, I didn't even ask. Anybody have any Anything they wanted to share? Okay, good. Well not good, but I mean good that we didn't ignore them if they were there. If you had, I would have engaged you uh you know, typing online or we would have engaged d dealt with it next week. So speaking of next week, we hope to see you um about uh 167 hours from now. Next Saturday, 6 o'clock, we'll be back on Facebook. Till then, God bless.