Looks like we're rolling. So welcome to Facebook. Let me double check. It says live, good. If you're watching this later, welcome YouTube. Encourage you to, if you if you're so led, to find our YouTube channel. It's the Household of Faith in Christ channel You can like the page, you can subscribe to the page, you can sign up for notifications every time I post a new video there. Uh you'll find it. Certainly you can watch this live, you can find it on Facebook, but after a number of days As feeds get longer and longer, it'd be tough to find particular message on a Facebook feed. So if there's something that uh we covered weeks ago that you want to read it and a chance to finish watching or something, the easy And best place to find that would be on YouTube because all the videos are there in one easy to uh locate place. So um if you have your Bibles ready, uh we're gonna be reading a passage Later on from Ezekiel chapter 13. So if you want to find that page and stick a stick a bookmark or a pencil or a thumb in that page or something like that And if you care to follow along, we're going to have some references. We're picking up on what we were talking about last week. We were talking about the book The Shack. And uh I'm gonna be referencing some things in the Shack and I'm gonna actually use page numbers. So if you happen to have read the Shack and you've got a book handy and you want to go up and grab it and see that what I'm referencing is truly in there, I'm telling you it is But if you want to double check my work and make sure that what I'm saying is true, well then you can do that. So um with that said, um anything that we say during this time during the the the time when I'm s talking for about a half hour or during the time later when we're having discussion. If you're prompted to add something, you have a question or a concern or a comment or you think there's something that that I said or that we said that wasn't hey you're right we need some clarification on add it to the comments section and we'll incorporate that into our discussion time. So it's about to follow with approximately a half hour of talk and then about a half hour or so of group discussion. Alright, so without further ado, I'm going to ask Angela if she would formally open us in prayer and then we'll have a message. Gracious Heavenly Father. Thank you for bringing us to another time of worship, another time of fellowship. We thank you, Lord, for the people you are bringing to view this. through Facebook and later on through YouTube. We ask, Lord, that by your Spirit that you would issue to Pastor Troy a word of correction and instruction. and edification to the people. We pray, Lord, that during the conversation that your Spirit would inspire us, Lord, that He would bring out the things that need to be said, Lord, and as well suppress the things that need not be said. Lord, so that your kingdom purpose is advanced. through this time of fellowship together. We thank you and ask these blessings in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So in case you missed last week or you need some refresher last week we pretty much wrapped up our look at third john we picked up with verse thirteen of third join went through the end and then we launched from there and began to look at a book and now a movie called The Shack. We've spent months now examining the letters of John, 1, 2nd, and 3rd John, and Huge themes, central themes, primary importance themes for the Apostle John. Truth and love. Love in truth Truth, truth in love, can't have one without the other. Those who say that uh I'm gonna speak the truth to you in love are being redundant. uh y you can't separate them and yet there are those who try. Right? There's there's so many times we talk about the truth, um, and what we mean by that is a harsh judgmental means spiritedness that becomes an excuse that we use. Well I'm just speaking the truth and we should be against that. And then there's others who on the other side it's all about love and well, you know, they meant well and we have to give you know who's to say who's right and wrong and we we need to be a little wishy-washy on this because we don't want to come across as that hard judgmental harsh truth teller But that's not love either. So the first example isn't love, I mean truth, and the second example isn't love. John taught us what true truth is. is what true love is. And so we have something like the Shack, which has had a huge influence. I I understand the book is more than a decade old now. The movies been out for a number of years, even been on DVD for the last couple of years anyway. And so you might be wondering why are we talking about this at all anymore? There are so many things that are touched on Taught in and undergirding what's going on with the theology of the shack that provided a seedbed for so many things now that have sprung up in the last year. year and a half in a major way, creating a civil war within the church between those who profess to be conservative, Bible-believing, real-deal solid Christians, and others who profess the exact same thing. But they're arguing with one another over what is the truth and what is the loving thing to do. And they can't agree And a lot of the uh fracture points um can be seen in in illustrative ways in what we find in the book. Now if you're not familiar, the Shack is a story of a of a man who's dealing with a crisis in his life. Into a shack in the woods and she is killed. And then Mac is invited to go meet Papa in the woods. It turns out that Papa is a God character. It's meant to be God the Father. character in the story. And peop there are some people who love the shack. There are churches that have embraced the shack. They use it for small They use it in replacement of actual Bible studies because there's so many things to be learned about God in the shack, so they say. And there are others who are aghast. What are you doing? You can't do that. Christians don't believe this stuff. Well, who's right? We began to talk about that in earnest last week. We're continuing this one. We can actually, there's so much fodder for discussion, so many issues at stake, believe it or not, in a simple little book and movie like the shack. There's so much there. It's going to take us a number of weeks actually to kind of work through it all. And part of the reason I'm doing it is to train you up in and myself. for that matter. The trainers all up in how to identify what is true and what's not, what the proper biblical loving response to things is and isn't, and to recognize the truth when we see it and hear it and to recognize what's not the truth when we see it and hear it. And so I kind of played my hand last week, you know where I stand, but um we'll get more into that now so I won't belabor that anymore. So we have the Shack. And the author of the Shack is William Paul Young. Sometimes he just goes by Paul Young. William Paul Young teaches in the Shack That your creator, if you're a believer, your savior, your king, he is a warm God. Warm within the Trinity and warm Towards others. The Shack teaches that God is personal, powerful, knowledgeable, good. This is a God, the God of the Shack, who acknowledges the reality of pain, suffering, grief, evil In response to all this bad stuff, the God of the Shack is gracious and forgiving. This God argues against legalism. Emphasizing grace and mercy and love. And some have said that this book has changed their life for the better By drawing them closer to God. And with all these things I just got done saying, we can see why. There is much truth in the shack. Much truth. And therefore, if the Apostle John, we spent so much time with studying what his letters that he's written to the church all those years ago. If he were here standing in my place right now speaking to you, what he would say about this book and about this movie is read It watch it. Love it. Well, actually, no That's not quite what the Apostle John would say. I don't think so I say this because the Shack raises some very serious red flags. The Shack puts words in God's mouth This is a dangerous thing. The shack ignores the holiness and the otherness of God. This is more than a dangerous thing. The shack takes pot shots at church leaders and pastors and seminaries, and this too can be. A dangerous thing. Readers of the Shack could become confused about goddess worship and the what's called the divine feminine. Readers of the Shack might think that God is so tolerant that there's no need for the cross. The readers of the Shack, they might see Mr. Young's amusing and manageable and non-threatening God and fail to understand God's majesty and awesome greatness as he reveals himself throughout the pages of Scripture, including places like Isaiah chapter 6 and Ezekiel chapter 1 and Exodus chapter 3 and Exodus chapter 33 and so forth. In the shack there's no need for guilt Or judgment or wrath. There is no need for the order that is brought about by hierarchy, even within In the Trinity. The Shack does have three persons in a Trinity, and the Shack says that these three persons mutually submit to one another. It's an interesting idea, but if this is so, we do not know it from the Bible. Where the Bible never has the Father submitting to the Son or the Holy Spirit And the shack has a God who even submits himself to humankind. Have you read the Bible? God never submits himself to his creation. The creature submits to God, as we know from Hebrews chapter 13. In the Shack, the book teaches that the Father was crucified with the Son. The movie teaches that the Holy Spirit was also crucified with the Son This ignores that the Father and the Holy Spirit are never, not one time, represented in human form in the Bible. Not once. Their spirit. And it ignores the heart-wrenching truth that the Father turns away from the Son. When Jesus Jesus is hanging on the cross, bearing our sin The Shak ends up teaching that love limits justice rather than seeing them as two sides of the same coin The Shack uses scripture out of context, with the result being universal salvation. The Shack says that Jesus is, quote, the best way, not the only way, to a right relationship with God. Ignoring what the Apostle John wrote in his gospel, chapter 14, verse 6. The Shack promotes a sort of postmodern New Age Universalism. God's immanence overwhelms his transcendence. In other words, his familiarity overwhelms his otherness. And a condemning attitude toward the church, or any organized institution for that matter, promotes individualism throughout the Shack. despite what we know from Hebrews chapters 10 and 13. And this is exceedingly ironic. As the Shak seeks to bring a connected relationship with God, it does so by promoting a disconnected relationship between believers. I just unloaded a lot of stuff, didn't I? And no matter which side of the fight you want to take up, it's very possible, perhaps probable, I guess I've already offended you. If you are one who loves the shack, well then you are not liking at all all the shack bashing that I should It's not like one of those narrow-minded fundamentalist bigots to me. And if you love the shack, or rather if you hate the shack, if you hate the shack, then you don't like all those kind, loving things I shared about the shack. There's nothing good to be said about that book of the devil. You saying nice things about it just shows that you're part of the problem Now I've turned these two competing sides into cartoon characters in a sense for effect. I mean the characterizations, they they They the they're gross exaggerations, I get it. But I want to respond. I I still want to explain myself So first briefly, why I said all those good things about the shack that I said Primarily of three reasons. First, I was taught a number of years ago by a very wise pastor the importance of being a generous reader, a generous listener. I'm not as good at this as I should be But I'm much better at it than I used to be. And I'm getting better at it as time goes on. And I would encourage you to walk that same path And being generous in this regard, it means giving the reader, the writer, the benefit of the doubt if something could be taken one of two ways. Then take it in the more positive way. If it's possible that the author meant something different than the first seems, well then allow for that different, alternate meaning. If the writer or the speaker is possibly intending to bring no offense, then don't take offense. Seek to fully comprehend the other person's point of view and try to know it so well you could explain it back to that person, maybe even better than they could explain it To you themselves. And the second reason for my kind words about the shack, there is no denying its popularity over these past 15 or so years And why would this be if there wasn't something attractive about it? And it's helpful to examine And to explain the dynamic that's at play. What is the reality of this popularity? And how we better understand why this is the case. If we can explain all of this, well then if we have concerns, deep concerns even, we can better explain why we believe it's so dangerous. My third reason, there is a good amount of good truth in the Sheikh. And so those good things I said about it, they are deserved. Why then? They say all of those bad things about it. Well, at the end of the day, this is my My view as I see it, the shock is dangerous. It is one of the most dangerous books on the market today. It's a hard position to take. Especially after I just got done telling you how I such a generous reader. But being generous, it does not mean ignoring the obvious. It doesn't mean being naive, not at all. It means being fair and careful and slow to draw conclusions But conclusions must be drawn. Remember, this author, William Paul Young, he has stated that his book makes theological claims. The Shack intends to teach you about God. Is what it teaches accurate and biblical? This is the question. We all have a bias. What is the bias? Of William Paul Young. My bias is that the word of God is true. And everything gets viewed through that grid. My bias is that the reformers got things mostly right 500 years ago My bias is that oftentimes the most dangerous lie is the one that looks in awe Awful lot like the truth. These are my biases. Where are Mr. Young's Let's take a peek and let's see if we can't see if he shows his hand. On the very first page of the track, we find these Rigorous rules, externally religious, overly strict. Are these hints at an antinomian An anti-law bias, anti-against gnomian, the root, the Latin for law, anti-law, antinomian. I mean, it's hinted at that those who who seek obedience are seeking to appease a quote brooding, distant, and aloof God. Find that on Page 10 of the shack. Just a few pages in, we read that Matt, the main character, has hated war with a passion, it says. Hmm. Does that belie a bias in favor of pacifism? What's the nature of God? Is it nature itself? The Shack talks about the God of winter on page 14 and nature with a capital N on page 15. And the universe is personified on page 30. Is there possibly a pagan bias in the shack? Is there a self-loathing bias against men? Page 22, the main character, he accuses himself of, quote, a manly dumb thing. Are men dumb? The main character's cat is named Judas. Is that supposed to mean something? Why not Thomas? Doubting Thomas seems like that would have been a better choice for the theme of this book, rather than the disciple who betrayed Jesus. So is there a hint in that this name. And what about the terrain that the characters travel throughout the story? Places like Hell's Canyon The Snake River. Seven Devils Lookout. The town of Lost Inn. And I'm not going to attempt to draw very many conclusions from all these sorts of things, but I will tell you that these sorts of things did get my attention. Made me sit up in my seat a little bit straighter as I was reading. Actually made me get up out of my seat to go grab my pencil so I could write some notes in the margins of the book as I read. And I don't typically do that when reading a novel But the shock was beginning to seem like something a little atypical. So I really took notice. when seeing that a couple of real life celebrities are mentioned in this work of fiction. Why? What sorts of people are these? Well, one of these real-life celebrities is Bill Moyers, who is famous for, among other things. Being the host of PBS's program called Faith and Reason. Now, Moyers, he was once an ordained Baptist minister. Don't know if you knew that. But he has since described himself as, quote, neither wholly a believer nor wholly a skeptic, end quote. Now that's that's an interesting real-life person to include in the shack, particularly since Bill Moyers is described as, quote, a favorite A quote brilliant man who expresses truth with unusual clarity. So wow! A partial skepticism. is the one holding the truth. And the other real-life celebrity is mentioned in the shack is Bruce Colburn. Bruce is a singer-songwriter and he shows up either by name or by song on at least four pages of the shack that I noticed Pages 39, 118, 134, and 144. Now in a book that claims to teach us about the true nature of God, Mr. Coburn has a prominent recurring role to play. This is no act Accident. He is brought up in the book over and over again for a reason. So what does Bruce believe about God Well, Bruce Coburn is a self-described quote seeker. In a 2006 interview, which is the year right before the shout Was published, by the way. Coburn is quoted as saying: I flirted with Buddhism, a sort of moved on into the occult Studied the tarot. And I tried for a minute or two to be a fundamentalist Christian. Since then, I've fallen under the Influence of Sufi writers of Hindu teachings through yoga studies and various other things. And the search continues This is a man held up as a hero in the shack. A man who says, his parents are agnostics. Greek mythology captivated me completely. I like the Kabbalistic view of God. If you think of Jung or Freud, those have a divine aspect or offer a connection to the divine. These are quotes. I don't think I made my point well enough, so here are a few more. I married a Christian. She had abandoned that course after realizing that the people she had been with were very narrow-minded. She's a very psychic person. How about this one? Saint Paul? I don't think that I would have liked him very much Or this one. In a certain way I do think of myself as a Christian, but I've learned so much from so many other sources. And now we're reading this very interesting. Book by a Canadian theologian called The Pagan Christ. Again, this is a hero. Jack. Someone who admits, quote, I don't know the answer, end quote, and advocates for quote the subjective nature Of our relationship with the divine. It's important to remember how subjective it is and not to require other people to approach the divine in the same way. When I found this covert interview, I believe I found Paul Young's spiritual guru. Or, if not his spirit guy, at least his kindred spirit. As in the shack, Covurn espouses that, quote, what impresses God is the raw emotion, the raw feeling. End quote. Coburn lives out the sort of religious life that Paul Young of appears to advocate. I mean he says, I don't go to church, but I pray from time to time. I meditate a little bit from time to time. which I think of as a kind of prayer because it involves opening myself to whatever might come in. Whatever might come in And there's so much more to quote, but I'm just going to give you one more, as Colburn is talking about something that was taught by Jesus. In my father's house there are many mansions. It was suggested to me years and years ago that this was a reference by Jesus To reincarnation. I feel like one lifetime isn't enough, but I kind of assume that we have more than one lifetime. I feel like death is some kind of graduation ceremony and we're on to the next level of education after that, whatever it is. Energy that is in us goes somewhere else. Again, this guy has a fan in William Paul Young, the author. I almost need not say more, but of course I will during the discussion time and in the weeks that follow. wrap up here with a couple of things. First of all, in distinction to all of this stuff, who God is, what our lives are like, will he come back in another Have we already lived previous lives? That sort of thing. Here's the truth of the matter. God is the creator of the universe. And he is your maker. And he has made you in his image. And therefore you have value and purpose and meaning. And so we should treat all of our neighbors as though they have value and purpose and meaning. And we should love them. And we should share them. truth with them. And that truth is that as wonderfully made as we are, we are fallen creatures. We are sinful. Every aspect of who we are, our intellect, our heart, our motivations, our will, our very bodies rebel against us, rebel against us. God. We are sinful through and through. And so we are dependent on a gift from God to rescue us from this condition of being dead in our sin. The gift of faith. Faith, then. God sends his son. The Father sends his son who willingly condescended to become a man himself. to live the life that we're supposed to live. And then having lived the perfect life, demonstrating the Obedience all the way to death on the cross, a death that he should have never had to die. He died in our stead. And we have faith in that And that he rose from the dead. He ascended into heaven where he advocates for us to the Father to this day. Because we're his people, his bride. And now he sends us his spirit to dwell within us, to equip us, to recognize lies when we see them. And to advocate for the truth in a full throated manner That's the truth. Everything we see elsewhere, a TV show, a movie like The Shack, a book like the Shack, a news report, anything that we see needs to be Now I've been talking for a long time and I have quoted almost no scripture, so shame on me. Let me correct that by reading a passage from Ezekiel. I pointed to this at the very beginning of our time together this evening, so hopefully we have that bookmark. Ezekiel chapter 13 is talking here about the false prophets being condemned. Going to read the first nine verses of chapter 13 of Ezekiel. The word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, prophesy against the prophecy. of Israel who are prophesying and say to those who prophesy from their own hearts, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God, woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirits and have seen nothing. Your prophets have been like jackals among ruins, O Israel. You have not gone up into the breaches or built up a wall for the house of Israel that it might stand in the battle in the day of the Lord They have seen false visions and lying divinations. They say, declare the Lord, when the Lord has not sent them. And yet they expect him to fulfill their word. Have you not seen a false vision and uttered a lying divination? Whenever you have said, declare the Lord, although I have not spoken, therefore, thus says the Lord God, because you have uttered full Falsehood and seen lying visions. Therefore, behold, I am against you, declared the Lord God. My hand will be against the prophets who see false visions and who give lying divinations. They shall not be in the council of my people, nor be enrolled in the register of the house of Israel, nor shall they enter the land of Israel. Israel, and you shall know that I am the Lord God. This is the word of God. Breathed out by God. Inspired. inerrant, infallible, the perfect rule and guide for faith and life practice. Those who have ears to hear. What's in here? Most right Father, we thank you that you are a God who is trustworthy and true, and that you love us as your people. You've given us your Holy Spirit. To illuminate your word to our minds and our hearts. We ask that you would help us to be even more diligent in loving the world by sharing the truth And defending your honor and glory, knowing that you share with us what has been won for us by your Son. Such a beautiful thing. Help us to cling to it. To fight for the veracity of it. Keep your church clear of the wolves and sheep's clothing, of lying visions That they claim are a word from you. We ask that you would bless our time together here this evening as we enter into our time of discussion That your wisdom would be prevalent among us. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. All right, so any initial thoughts before we end uh enter into some specific questions I might have for you guys? No? Alright. Anything from Facebook yet? Yeah I wouldn't imagine at that point. Hopefully We were listening and not typing. Um I can find it. We I had some uh questions prepared. We started working through them last week and we'll just pick up where we left off last uh last time. Um and I'm gonna reference things that are said in the shack and we're gonna comment on them based on based on our understanding of what the scripture teaches in comparison, and maybe it'll be favorable, maybe it won't. We'll find out. On page 164 of the Shack It says, He chose the way of the cross where mercy triumphs over justice because of love Let's talk about that idea. My goodness gracious. Justice and mercy met because justice was fulfilled at the cross. But that is way different than what that was just. Yeah. D the cross the cr the the cross was mercy. because it was Jesus paying for our sin but it was just as for the same reasons. Right. It was just as fulfilled. Because the sin had had to be paid for. So it was one and the same in the person of Christ. And um But it's mercy only to those who will receive the sacrifice as a sufficient payment for their sin. uh those people will not have to face God's justice in the form of um his eternal wrath that's stored up for those those who um continue in sin and never repent from it. So it's it's mercy, it's mercy and justice at the same time. It's both And we see this false dichotomy presented to us all the time, right? And oftentimes it's in the caricature almost argument now that you know the the the The mean, uh, wrathful God of justice in the Old Testament and the merciful, loving God of the New Testament, uh completely ignoring that they're one and the same God, and completely ignoring what the texts actually say, because you have an exceedingly patient and merciful God in the Old Testament, along with the the the the wrath and the judgment. And you do have a loving merciful God Worciful God in the New Testament as well because one of the same God, but have you read your New Testament? You know, he there's the same God of judgment and wrath found there too. And they're not in contradiction Distinction. They they they they're one and the same and to make try to make that divide is a huge error that people in general make and that shouldn't be made in the church and yet it is. That's what we're talking about. I like to tell people who who say that the God of the New Testament is different. I like to tell them just just leave the best church chapter of the book of Revelation says the last thing he's doing is judging sin. There's the white throne judgment. I mean he ends and he ends like saying things like and here's the eternal I'm paraphrasing, here's the eternal kingdom and not nothing clean will ever enter into it. Uh outside inside or the redeemed outside are the dogs I think is the phrase that's used you know the the the unclean and everything that loves a lie and that's literally Literally the last book, in the last book, the last chapter of the last book of the Bible, God is pictured judging sin. And receiving the re his mercy and his justice once again are on display in the last book of the Bible. Mercy for those who receive salvation. Uh and nothing but pure justice for those who rejected it. Now there are many points in the shack where basically terms are defined. The characters are talking to one another in the process of their discussion. There's this means that. Here's what this means. Here's what that is. And here's an example of that. And it ties into what we were just talking about. Page 169 of the Shack, it says, judgment is not about destruction, but about setting things right. So what's your reaction to that? Well wait hands up. Yes, uh I mean Okay. Now I don't have to think about it. Okay. So, so the the book says judgment is not about destruction, but about setting things right. Well I think that Judgment um whether we're talking about physical destruction or not. judgment I I think it's fair to say it it it kind of destroys the wrong in a way. It um it rights a wrong, overturns a wrong wrong, overthrows a wrong, and I guess in that sense judgment always is kind of destructive of a wrong. I think it's fair to say. Now whether that destruction is just like in a courtroom setting when somebody wins a lawsuit or whether it's you know literal Whether it's the flood, the worldwide flood, you know, whatever kind of judgment it is, I think it's it's a fair statement to say that A righteous judgment is destructive of a wrong. It sets a wrong right by destroying the wrong in some way. to destroy things, right? And at the end in his final judgment, in the evil is destroyed. It's there's the destruction of evil. So um at best this is a sloppy uh unfortunate definition, but at worst it really can send you off in a thought pattern that judgment is bad and judgment is not bad. Right? We we want justice and we can only arrive at justice through righteous judgment. So that that's a concern there. Bad judgment is bad. Well exactly, absolutely. Yes. Yeah, we want righteous judgments. Uh see on page one hundred sixty-seven, Max sees his deceased daughter. The one who was killed at the beginning of the story in the shot, he sees his deceased daughter on the other side. Alright? And she already has her Resurrected body before the second coming. So, what do we know about the resurrection? We know that um it happens for everyone at the same time. Um And um we know that um before it happens for everyone at the same time You know, we we live as spirits with the Lord in heaven. Um and then we get a literary body body. Um and which which is the body that we will have when living uh on the new earth, the new heaven and the new earth We will have resurrection bodies when we um you know, after God basically uh let's say it's it's second first think first of second Peter that says or the current heavens and earth will pass away with a thunderous crash or something like that. And then there'll be a new heaven and a new earth and and um when when when we and and But when we get to the new heaven and the new earth we will have resurrection bodies. Um this is not really a shack related comment, but it always It's interesting to me that there would need to be a new heaven because the heavens aren't where we are, the centralness of us, you know, and The angels fell from heaven, so they're not up there either. So I'm not like why would there need to be a new heaven? I'll I'll venture a guess. Okay, because Satan goes up there to a You know what? I never even thought of that. Yeah. Right. No, that makes sense. I hadn't even thought about that. You know, um and just start all over again. I still in the sense that heaven is on earth too. So there's it's like I mean we're using human language to try to explain a spiritual thing, but there's a proximity difference, you know, where God, you know, is uh heaven is Yeah. You know, and God is going to dwell immediately with his people, uh, and heaven and earth kind of become one. And so in that sense, I guess you could say there's a new heaven as well. So Well there's there's that. Anyway, sorry. No. That's good. Alright, so uh religion, quote unquote, is bad According to the Shack. Men never do evil so completely and cheerfully as when they do it from a religious conviction. End quote. So would we agree with that? People are never so evil and happily to do evil as when they're motivated by religion. Well I mean what rel I I see I I guess a shame truth in that because um people when people are convinced that they're doing something That it is look at the Pharisees. Right. Um a reason why most of them, I I think most of them could not be reached is because they had they had religion and in their case they even got the religion like from from the one true God. But it they they made it into something else, you know, they they perverted it, but they have this religion. And so when when Jesus came and he tried to explain to them righteousness, They held on to their religion. You know, and they they they rejected the righteousness, you know, he was trying to help them understand the religion that you God was to point you to to God, it was to point you to mercy, it was to point you to justice, it was to point you to truth. It wasn't for you to take it and make it something that served you and glorified you and kind of you know made you somebody to be looked up to and you know you ignore the justice of God, you ignore the mercy and the truth of God. So um I do see some truth in that. I mean that they because they you know they they they just could not be convinced because they were you know, we they could point to the to the to the scriptures that they had And they could say we have this religion and we have these religious traditions and who are you, Jesus, to tell us who are you? You know, so um but I I I I don't No, I I think that what he does there is is you know doesn't explain that dynamic, you know. In in other words, I think he's he's he's uh he he didn't define religion as just simply being a set of rules that are kind of um rigidly and blindly followed in disobedience to righteousness. He did he it it is not explained, that dynamic is not that that nuance or whatever you want to call it is not really clarified. So he's just saying it it comes across like he's saying if you have i any religious um convictions, you know, a and and you know, you just that is leading you astray. I if you believe that and you follow that that's leading you astray and it doesn't matter whether you're following it um the way you're supposed to or or not, it doesn't matter. It just kind of sounds like he's just saying step away from anything any kind of religious um um conviction about anything. Just step away from that. Back off of that. Back away from m morals connected to religion. Back away from Truth connected to religion just back away, just for sale. I don't think I I explained that really well, but that um I think I think he's just trying to it it it it's a it's a subtle way to to just say ignore every religion to intrude to include Christianity just Forget everything you were ever taught and just go a different direction. Yeah, this is uh said differently, but it's very clear popular these days. How many times have you heard people say something like, uh Christianity, it's not about religion, it's about a relationship. Right? It's about my relationship. And so it's not about religion. But we're mixing and matching categories and we're redefining terms. So you've heard about you know so-and-so's uh health fitness freak kind of thing and they get up every morning at five o'clock and go out for a five mile run. You might say about them that they they run every day at five o'clock religiously So it's about it's about our practice. It's about our life practice. It's about whatever we put into work. Uh however we live our lives, that's our religion. So some people part of their religion, if you will, their life practice, their habit is to eat breakfast at seven o'clock, lunch at noon, dinner at six o'clock. That's just that's their habit, that's their that's their religious practice if you that's one way of thinking about what religion is It's about um things that you do on a regular basis that helped define and shape your life. And so um what's new I think this is the point you're getting at, it's it's not about religion itself, it's about the rightness or the wrongness of the religion that's being practiced. So uh Hitler, Paul Pop, Stalin, these kind of people were you know horrible, did horrible things, and it was rooted in an ideology that led them to live out a life practice that we would call their religion. Now you might say, oh I'm an atheist. I have no religion. Well you have a secular humanist religion perhaps or religion that has you at the center of it and you get to determine what's right and wrong for your life And so that's what's determining your religious practices. Some people are contrarians and they want to argue against anything and everything that has a hint of spirituality connected to it. And so they're gonna they're gonna do things that are shocking and different and they're and irreverent and they're gonna try to surprise you like you never know what they're gonna do next. Well their religious practice is to do things That are unexpected. That's their habit. So we all have a religious aspect to our life. The question is, what is the rightness or the wrongness of the religion that we're practicing? And it is a misnomer, it is a false teaching, it is just flat wrong to say that Christianity has no religion aspect to it. There are things that are prescribed for us by God that we are to do. We are to pray. We are to read and study the scriptures. We are to proclaim the gospel. We are to make disciples for the kingdom. We are to do those things. Well, those practices are religion. Of course it's centered on the relationship with Jesus Christ. Which we can only have with him because he first chose to have a relationship with us, but that doesn't deny the fact that there is a religion that's part of it. So if you hear somebody say, Oh Christianity, About religion. It's about a relationship. It's a false dichotomy. It's uh it's about both religion and a relationship. And here's the difference: it's about true religion and true relationship compared to everything else the world has to offer, which is false religion and false or at least inadequate relationship. So let's do one more before we wrap up. Page 172. Mac. Again, Mac is the main character in the story. Mac uh has dreams and uh and has a vivid imagination. He says that his dreams and imagination are more real than God's word in the Bible The illumination of the Holy Spirit and the historical physical universe. His dreams and imagination are more real than these things. So what would you say if Mac were your friend? And he said, you know, I've got these visions, these dreams, I have this active imagination. And you know, to me, those things, they're more real than even the physical universe. They're more real than the illumination belief They're more real than the Word of God. You would say to your friend, what? I would say that's I'm not denying that you had that experience, but what I'm saying is your experience is from the devil, not from God, because it's taking you away from God and away from his truth, not toward it. And that that's the litmus test. Is it pointing you to Jesus or away from Jesus? Jesus. And that's really, I mean that we are to test the spirit, my dear friend Mac. So please, before you go to bed and have another dream. Ask the Lord to protect you and to lead you not into temptation and to deliver you from all evil. I beg of you, dear back. Scripture in the Bible, I wish I could remember where it is, but it says the Lord has put the word above his name. Remember that? Something like that? He has put the He has put the word above his name. It's um It's it's one of those curious scriptures that you go. But after I meditated on it I said, well I I think it's because the word reveals your name. It reveals your name. It reveals who you are. And um that's a pretty strong one It's a little difficult to explain, it's a pretty strong. But then there's this other scripture that says the grass with us, the flower fades, but the word of God stands forever. I would explain to Mac that the word of God is is stand forever, not It it the Bible doesn't say that somebody's experience stands forever or somebody you know's dream stands forever. It says his word stands forever. Psalm 138 verse 2. Probably yes. You have exalted above all else your name and your word. Your name and your word. Okay. And you have magnified your word above all Above your name. Above your name. Yes. Psalm one thirty eight verse two. So if God had magnified his word even above his name Which is fine because his word reveals his name. If he's magnified his word above his own name, his name is who he is His name. Uh God's name is the revelation of who he is. Now this is interesting. I'm not too interrupted. So this verse, so this is the N A S B. I happen to This translation reads, I will bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your loving kindness and your truth, for you have magnificent Magnified your word according to all your name. You have different translations a little bit differently. Right, as opposed to above all your name, it's according to all your name. So I just I thought that was interesting. Right, right. But and and obviously you can translate it both ways because um some translators choose one way and some with the other. But the bottom line is you don't get the idea that there's anything above the word of God. Right. When you read those scriptures, you do not get that idea. Right. That that anybody's experience would be above. Right. Certain certainly no human experience can ever be above the word of God. And I what I would say to Mac is the word of God can can and can and should and form your experience so you should run your experience through the word of God but absolutely it is unacceptable to exhaust your experience above the Word of God because the grass blizzards, the flower fade, but the Word of God stands forever. So that's just that's just how it's that that's That's like a form of idolatry is what he's doing there. You know, idolizing his experience. And then there's another scripture that talks about people being puffed up about visions that they seen. in one of Paul's um epistles he talks about that and he says ignore that you know don't you know stick to the word of God and um because so that that sounds like an example of what of what Matt has experience. He's he's had some spiritual experiences which which is straight from you know straight i i i it's uh an angel masquerading as an angel of light gave it to him and and he's buffed up by it and he, you know, thinks it's above everything to include, you know, the Bible, to include, um, yeah, it's it's Clearly not that's clearly not of not of God. Um so Yeah, there's a couple of things that might be even in pl at play in something like this. I mean uh not to use Some who are watching this and hearing this might uh be into some of the uh the big labels and categories and theological terms and stuff. So there's uh here, I think, at a universal gossip Gnosticism here. And so that's connected to Gnosticism, this idea that special unique knowledge is what gives you insight into the truth and the reality. And so what's more important in that worldview is is uh uh the spiritual is good and the material is is at least sullied if not bad. And so the spiritual dimension is is what it's all about. And this uh this this docetism is is an idea that Jesus actually never had a physical body. He was merely a phantasm, if you will. He had a it was a spiritual apparition. So you're kind of you're making the dreams and the imagination higher than like the physical reality. That's part of it anyway, when he talks about the historical physical universe. isn't as real uh as what he imagines. And so I think there's some of that. There's also it's been very become very in vogue the last year or two from a standpoint epistemology. There's a phrase for you. But epistemology is how you come to know things. What do you know? How do you come to know it? And standpoint, meaning from my perspective, from my point of view, from how I see things, that's my standpoint. And so you come to know things from ha where you see things. And and so that's where you get this idea that, oh, it's true for you, it's true for you, it's true for me, it's true for me. Uh and you can't possibly know my truth because you could never walk a mile in my shoes and there's some level of accuracy in that sort of a thing but it misses the idea that God sees all of us in all of our shoes God is all-knowing, all-seeing. There is no standpoint that is somehow above and beyond what God can see. His word is above all. God is the word, right? So God Himself is the Word, and so the Word knows all. So we go to God's Word in the Bible, and that's where we find the truth. What is the truth? What is the truth The truth is what is real, as God sees what is real. Whatever God sees as real is the truth. And he is the truth. He is the word, he is the truth, he is the life, he is the way. So for Mac or this you know, this friend, we have our friend Mac sitting here. Yeah, Mac, I gotta I I would have to caution you that you're putting yourself above God. God is the truth, God is the real. God reveals what is the real. God has made what is real. The universe is Real. God made it and He tells us that it's real. And He tells us how to live real lives in this real universe. That is real, is not pretend or made up. And we as believers are able to see that more clearly. There's a general revelation the whole world can see. Everybody can see this general revelation. But then there's a special revelation that gives kind of special goggles, if you will, to the believer to see that general revelation. And so we can really see what's real, because God, in a sense, kind of gives us his eyes to begin to give us his eyes to see what is real and true. And we know that by reading his word. So it's all interconnected. And so for Mac to say that That the word and the elimination of the Spirit and the universe that God created are somehow less than, not real, not true in the way that his own imagination is, I think he said idolatry, right? He's made himself an idol. He's made an idol of himself. His own imagination is above God. And that's not phrased that way, but that idea is dominating the culture right now. Think about all the things that you're not going to get into it now, but think about all the things that are populating our news feeds and our newscasts and our conversations with people that like to talk about such things. things, the worldview clash that's going on right now, there's this artificial uh idea that is above the truth. Everything that we know to be true, that's not true. And again, I'm not going to fill them because we'll go off on a tangent here, but think of all these things that we just know come and see Right? General revelation, God's common grace on people, gives us a common sense, and we just know that, no, that's true, and that doesn't make any sense what you're saying. No, no, no, no. What doesn't make sense is the truth. And you need to believe it. And we're like, those like us are like, wait a minute, what? That is a dominant. And here it was in the shack years ago. And again, I think I used this phrase before. It provides a seed bed for all these weeds to pop up. So Anyway, anything we need to respond to on Facebook? No. Alright, well then we'll uh wrap up with a word prayer. You mind doing that? Sure. Thank you, Heavenly Father, for this Time where we can come and learn about you and your truth, the truth, the only truth. May we walk in the truth this week till we gather again next week, glorifying you. Your name. Lead us not to temptation. Lord, deliver us from all evil. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. I'm not entirely sure just yet what we're doing next week as far as the the content that we're gonna do. We got off schedule a few weeks back and uh had things lined up so that the weekend Palm Sunday and the weekend of Resurrection Day. I have a message in mind for those two weekends. Uh but we're a week away. I have to fill a gap. Next week is kind of a gap week. So not 100% sure what next week's going to be, so it'll be a bit of a surprise. Maybe it'll be a potpourri. I'm not sure. But then that'll get us back on cycle, and then we're going to do the messages that have to that uh I have prepared for uh the weekend of Palm Sunday and the weekend of Resurrection Day. And then following that, we've got a few more messages on some of the uh unfortunately heretical teachings that are taught in the shack and we need to be equipped to recognize them and and And uh and uh do battle against them for the truth. So anyway, that's what's on the agenda coming up. Till next week. Thanks for watching and listening and participating. God bless