Welcome Facebook and if you're watching this later, uh YouTube. Uh thank you for joining us here, the Household of Faith in Christ. I encourage you to participate in the comment section below and we will try to uh uh incorporate your thoughts, questions, uh observations uh during our discussion time, which will start Maybe a half hour or so from now. Um I've mentioned it a few times and and I think I might have hinted a month or so ago that it was right around the corner, so I feel like I need to mention again. We've got a website in development, I promise you. My hope was that it would have been done last month. Uh at the outside, I was sure it would be done this month. Now it's looking like it might not be Done until next month. But once it is, uh it'll be household of faith in Christ. com. But in the meantime, you can find stuff on Facebook and Mi We and parlor and places like that. And uh we have a YouTube channel. So if you go to YouTube, uh you can find the Household of Faith in Christ YouTube channel. And if you subscribe and ask for notifications and stuff every time we post something you'll be able to to uh know and and go there. So um in a moment we're gonna be we're doing something a little bit different this week than we've been doing in recent weeks, but we are going to be opening our Bibles. So If you don't have your Bible handy already, I encourage you to go grab it. And if you want to start turning there now, you can and put a thumb or something in 1 Samuel chapter 18. is where we're going to spend our time tonight. So what we're going to do that's a little bit different is we're not going to have a sermon per se. We're going to do more of a devotional and go from the devotional into a discussion. And I'll explain maybe part of what the reason why we're doing something different this week than previous weeks in a moment. But without further ado, I'm going to ask Angela if she would uh open us with a word of prayer to bless this time we're doing together. Together on Facebook. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for giving us another day to come together in the name of Jesus Christ to learn of you to be strengthening you, to be cleansed by your word, to be formed by your word. We invite the presence of the Holy Spirit to move in this discussion, to be released, to release what needs to be released. We ask for the by the spirit you draw people to this This um time of devotion to listen to the word that you want to speak to them or God to um Warm heart into your image to do the work to advance your kingdom. And so, Father, we thank you. Um, we bless this time in the name of Jesus Christ and we dedicate our all to his glory in Jesus' name. Amen. So in a couple of weeks or for the next couple of weeks we're in an important time of the church calendar. We've got Paul Sunday coming up and Resurrection Day coming up after that. And I had everything lined up just so that we originally were going to finish our look at all of the issues that are raised by a a work of fiction like the Shack and what those things are the church has to grapple with. I had it all lined up we'd be done with that, be finishing it up this week. But we got We lost a week here, lost a week there, and before you know it, we're off off schedule. So uh I didn't I have three more messages and discussions revolving around the shaft that we're going to do. Um but I didn't want to start one of them this week and then have two more after because they're all kind of the these next three all tie together. So I needed to bridge the gap this week and I thought what can we do different maybe to help bridge that gap? And at first blush, the passage we're going to be looking at today might not feel Like it's a fit for the contemporary situation, but it is. Because if you pay attention to what's happening in the world right now, uh with all of the different labels that are thrown at it, right? If you heard about cancel culture, uh intersectionality, uh you know, critical theory, critical race theory, black lives matter, standpoint epistemology, all these different kinds of things They're rooted in something, or at least certainly infused throughout in something that is horribly sinful, and it's one of the things that makes it horribly dangerous. And unbiblical in my view. And at its root, or at least again, infused throughout, is the issue of envy. People are envious of Somebody that has more than they do. And so if you have more than I do, then clearly that's a sign that you are oppressing me. And if a certain group of people has more than I do, well they as a group are oppressing the other group that doesn't doesn't have as much. And that sort of envy is driving a lot of what's going on. And we can see envy play out in a very So I'm gonna read it in chunks and uh and offer some comments and observations as we go and then And after a little bit of time we'll have some discussion about it. And if we have some time, maybe as a bonus, we'll throw in some shack questions just for the heck of it. So if you would turn with me to the uh word of of God. 1 Samuel chapter 18, I have to be reading from the NIV tonight. I'm going to read the verse leading right up to 18 to give us just a little bit of context. So verse 58 of chapter 17, Saul asks, Whose son are you, young man? And David said, I am the son of your servant Jesse And after David had finished talking with Saul, Jonathan became one in spirit with David, and he loved him as From that day Saul kept David with him and did not let him return to his father's house, and Jonathan made a covenant with David because he loved him As himself. Jonathan took off the robe he was wearing and gave it to David, along with his tunic, and even his sword, his bow, and his belt. I'm going to pause there. So the context here, the fuller context, the chap right before this is when famously David slays Goliath. So Saul is the king, and Saul and all the rest of the Israelites are quaking their boots, and the giant Goliath is mocking the Israelites, and more importantly, He's mocking God. And David, with the heart of a lion, is like, what's wrong with you people? He's just a shepherd boy. He's really nobody of any consequence. And he becomes this hero by stepping up and doing what Saul as the king should have been doing. So that's the context of what's going on here. And right before all of that, uh Saul is is in sin and Samuel goes and tells him, Look, you're not gonna remain the king, it's gonna be removed from you. Somebody else So this is some of the stuff that's in the background swirling as we head into this part of scripture. And so now we have Jonathan, who is Saul's son He gives his robe and his sword and his other coutrements to David. And this is hugely symbolic. And I wonder if we just slide right past it most of the time. Jonathan is the crown Prince. He is next in line for the throne. He's going to be, in a worldly sense, anyway, the next king. And the signs of his authority, his power, and his station, his position in life is ruffled. And his tunic and his sword, his bow, and his belt speak to his power, his authority. As the future king. And he gives these things to David. That is huge. Jonathan recognizes something about David. Let's continue. Picking up with verse five. Whatever Saul sent him to do, David did it so successfully that Saul gave him a high rank in the army. This pleased all the people People and Saul's officers as well. When the men were returning home after David had killed the Philistine, the woman came out, the women came out from all the towns of Israel to meet King Saul. with singing and dancing, with joyful songs, with tambourines and lutes, and as they danced they sang, Saul has slain his thousands, and David is tens of thousands And Saul was very angry. This refrain galled him. They have credited David with tens of thousands, he thought, but me. with only thousands. What more can he get but the kingdom? And from that time on so So we can see here the people are drawing a comparison, the exploits of David and the exploits of Saul, and this comparison doesn't feel very favorable to the king. And so he's filled with envy. And the anecdote to that envy would be, ironically, for him to acknowledge what Jonathan acknowledged. David is the anointed one by Samuel. If Saul and Saul in his heart knows that this is what's coming. He knows that the kingdom is going to be taken from him. He knows someone else is going to replace him. And he has a thought in his head that it's going to be David, you can tell by the question, what more can he get but the kingdom So he would just acknowledge that David's the anointed one, maybe he could have nipped that envy in the bud. Picking up an Verse 10. The next day an evil spirit from God came forcefully upon Saul, or it could also be an injurious spirit or something like that, uh different ways of translation. He was prophesying in his house while David was playing the harp, as he usually did. Saul had a spear in his hand, and he hurled it, saying to himself, I'll pin David to the wall Wall. But David eluded him twice. Saul was afraid of David because the Lord was with David, but it left Saul, so he sent David away from him And gave him command over a thousand men. And David led the troops in their campaigns. In everything he did, he had great success because the Lord was with him. When Saul said, So we can see here that we've got some of the impact of MV play. itself out. I mean Saul he's unhappy. But when we're envious, like Saul, we're unhappy with what we have. And Saul is the king. And he invites David to come play music for him. Well I can't command somebody to come play music for me. And he's in a pretty good place. And yes He's envious of the one that he's basically hired on to come play music for him. And David is accomplishing great things and is being celebrated for it, and he's being recognized for it. God Obviously blessing him in his life, but Saul's not happy for him and the blessing in David's life because he's envious of David. And so what happens, it ruins the relationship. They could have had a great relationship, but instead Saul tries to kill him twice. And it's no small feat. I mean we're in relatively coarse close quarters, I would imagine. And Saul is a warrior, right? I mean though he didn't act like one with Goliath. He is a warrior, a big guy too, right? He was head and shoulders above everybody else. Big strong guy. He would have been experienced with that spear. And somehow David dodged it twice. Talk about God's hand of protection and blessing. Right? I mean that's almost miraculous. Probably do a sermon just on the meaning of that. And the other thing is if you let your envy run away with you like this, it runs away with you. You lose yourself. You lose your mind. Saul is nuts. He's going insane. This is what envy can do. I'm picking up with verse 17. Saul said to David, here is my older daughter Mereth, I will give her to you in marriage, only serve me bravely and fight the battles of the Lord. For Saul said to himself, I will not raise a hand against him, but the Philistines Do that. But David said to Saul, Who am I, and what is my family or my father's clan in Israel that I should become the king's son in law? So when the time came for Merebsaul's daughter to be given to David, she was given in marriage to Adriel of Mahola instead. Now Saul's daughter Michael was in love with David, and when they told Saul about it, he was pleased. I will give her to him So Saul said to David, Now you have a second opportunity to become my son-in-law. And then Saul ordered his attendants speak to David privately and say, Look, the king is pleased with you and his attendants, they all like you. Now become his son-in-law They repeated these words to David, but David said, Do you think it's a small matter to become the king's son-in-law? I'm only a poor man and little known. When Saul's servants told him Say to David, the king wants no other price for the bride than a hundred Philistine foreskins to take revenge on his enemies. Saul's plan was to have David fall by the hands of the Philistines. And so here, there's so much going on. One, I think we might want to notice there's some similarity uh here with what's going on what what goes on later in the biblical narrative with uh David and Bathsheba. Um you know bath David sees Bathsheba bathing. Uh Bathsheba taking a bath and uh and he's smitten and he wants her for himself. Uh left takes over and he's envious of Uriah the Hittite. He wants what Uriah the Hittite And so he uh sleeps with Bathsheba, she gets pregnant, and he's like, Oh no, they're gonna find out what's happened, and he tries to cover his tracks And so he does something like what Saul tried to do to him. Saul is arranging to have David, quote unquote, murdered, if you will, by the Philistine army. David tries to orchestrate everything so that Uriah would be murdered by the arm the rival armies by putting him in the front line, putting him in the most dangerous spots. So it's interesting there's a a precursor to what's gonna echo later. We also see in here a bit of what's going on with uh with Jacob and Laban and uh Rachel and Leah. You know, Jacob w uh he he wants a a a particular uh daughter, uh he negotiates to get that one daughter, and then there's a second daughter involved, just like there's a second daughter involved in this story. So here we have bit of an echo of what came before. I don't know if we're going to call this generational sin or not, but there's definitely some some commonalities in s in the storylines there. Now, Saul in asking for the bride price, he's not expecting that he would receive the bride price. He's not expecting he'll ever get that payment. He is hoping for the Death of David. But instead, of course, he's surprised. So let's pick up in verse 26. When the attendants told David these things, Kings, he was pleased to become the king's son-in-law. And so before the allotted time elapsed, the patrol time, David and his men went out and killed two hundred Philistines. He brought their four skins and presented the full number to the king so that he might become the king's son-in-law. And then Saul gave him his daughter because in marriage. By the way, you hear me say it, uh Michal. I think that Michal is the closest to approximation to how it would have probably been pronounced in ancient days in the Hebrew. Sometimes you'll hear people pronounce this Michael, sometimes Michelle, sometimes Michael. There's all different ways you might hear And it's not that those are wrong. I mean who knows how she pronounced her name exactly, but based on how the Hebrew language works, it probably is. Michal and is probably an ancient form of the name Michelle is My guess. But anyway, that's why I'm pronouncing it the way I'm pronouncing it in case that's throwing you in in in any way, shape, or form. Verse 28. When Saul realized the Lord was with David and that his daughter Michal loved David, Saul became still more afraid of him, and he remained in enemy the rest of his days. The Philistine commanders continued to go out to battle and as often as they did, David met with more success than the rest of Solomon. Now, you would think that Saul would be happy with all this, happy for all of this. But he's not. It's kind of like it reminds me, I was talking about the echoes and the precursors of other stories in the Bible. We have a bit of an echo or a precursor, I guess a pre-echo, of uh won't be echoed later, with the elder son. the story of the prodigal. You might remember that story in the New Testament where there's a son who uh he asks his father for his inheritance before his father's death. He says He says, Look Dad, I can't wait for you to die. I need my stuff now. So so the um so he he gets his inheritance, his half of the estate early, and he leaves and he s squanders it and then he comes back thinking I'll have to come back to my dad crawling on my hands his knees and much to his surprise his father runs out to meet him and he's so glad that the son has returned and he welcomes his back, thanks that he thanks thanking that he that he's alive, thankful that he's now rejoining the clan, the one who has lost is now returned to the full, is part of the flock, the family again. And so he throws this huge party and the elder son still with envy and is jealous. Why would you do that for him? You never did that for me. Instead of celebrating what was, you know, this wonderful return of Well, David is accomplishing great things for the kingdom, for Saul, for the people of Israel. His daughter apparent according to the text loves David. Now whether David loves her or not, the text doesn't say, but she loves him. And you'd think that he'd be happy that the woman or the man that that uh his daughter loves is having all this success, but instead he's just filled with a rage caused by envy. Um And it's not just that he's having all this victory, you know, that makes uh his wife happy and does well uh makes uh uh makes the people love him. David's victories are Saul's victories. David is fighting for the king. So even for selfish reasons he should be celebrating all of those victories. But because of his envy, he's filled with hatred and can't he he's cutting off his own nose despite his face. Because Of a root of envy. So there's more I could say. I'm going to say a couple things and we'll open it up for some discussion. So a couple of things I want us to look for is but reading a passage like this, the narrative is interesting, the story can be fun, and you could turn this into a movie, right? This would be a great scene in a in a movie to tell. like a romantic element and all that and you've got all these characters. Now the women are characters for sure and the Israelites in general and the Philistines they're characters too, but they're supporting characters for what the story Is really revolving around. The main characters in this narrative would be Saul, Jonathan, and David. So let's examine Saul, Jonathan, and David and see one Can we see ourselves in the story? And if so, how? And more importantly, where do we find Christ in the story? Because remember Jesus says in the New Testament that the Old Testament's about him. So if we can't find Jesus, we haven't properly understood the story. So where is Jesus? Where's the connection to the gospel in a story like Well, let's start with Saul. Who do you think we're gonna say Saul is? Saul is us in our sin. Right, us in our flesh, in our sarks, to use a Greek New Testament word, in our fallen selves, we are sinful, prone to envy prone to hatred, pro prone to irrationality. So in our sin, in our worst moments for sure, but just in is uh and pre s pre salvation kind of defining our existence, we are Saul. Jonathan well Jonathan, by grace, we are Jonathan. By grace, here Jonathan knows, through saving grace, or even through through God's common grace, because nobody well nobody's as bad as they could be Right? So even the worst among us have some grace from God in our lives, and those who are saving grace, it's even more true. So by grace we are Jonathan. He is he is humble He recognizes God's anointed for who he is. And he's he's uh He's our better selves, which is only possible by the power of the Holy Spirit, really. And interestingly, in his humanity, Jonathan is Christ in his humanity. Jesus is his humanity. is pictures pre-pictured in Jonathan. Jonathan is willing to give up his symbols of authority. He's willing to give up his robes. He's willing to to give up His power, just like the Son of God, didn't think that all the things he had in heaven were things to be grasped, as it says in Philippians, that he was willing to condescend to Serve others, to do God's will. And so we have a bit of a picture in Jonathan of ourselves in Christ and of Christ Himself. But But if you're looking for a fuller picture of a type of Christ, that's David. David is the type, and Christ is the anti-type. type, the fulfillment of the type. And so in David we have, think about these commonalities with the Christ to come. David is a strong friend He is a successful warrior and he would become king. So indeed he is a successful warrior king. He is the anointed one of God, and yet he is humble. And uh he finds himself in a situation where those who are in authority want him dead. Uh and uh unrighteously so by the way. And uh in spite of all this he shows love for the enemy. So we have an incredible picture of Christ here in David. So those are my thoughts for the devotional aspect of tonight. We can enter into uh some discussion. I I don't know that I have a question per se to start us off, so Just ask generally speaking, any first impressions on this chapter of the bottom? Well, I think we can see a lot of what's going on in today's culture. in the words of scripture with envy and the ruckus that it's causing. There's nothing new under the sun. I think it's the root of most of it actually. Right. Um because I don't I don't see why we really have any other reason to hate someone who disagrees with us. I mean besides to the frustration of the disagreement. I don't see why we would have any other reason to hate someone. Right. That's either you know has more money than than us has less money than us even or opportunity. Or more opportunity. Right, right. 'Cause r really it really does come down to why else. Yeah, well, it's one of the ten commandments now's on that covet. So there's a reason why that's one of the ten commandments. I always think about the overchatement of this passage where you know he sent out basically, you know, kind of Murder and he's told bring back one hundred foreskins and he brings back two hundred. Mm-hmm. Okay, yeah, that's that's overachievement. Oh interesting. Doubled up, double first trouble. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, and I don't know, I I didn't spend a lot of time on this, but I did have the thought as I was reading through this. I'm always looking for connections with other parts of scripture and that doubling up it So I was seeing a connection with what happened with Jacob and Laban. And you know what happens is he wants Rachel and he agrees to work for seven years, so that would be the bride price, the single price bride price, but then of course Laban plays a trick on him. So he has to pay a double bride price to get the woman he wants because he has to marry Leah first and then Rachel after that. So uh Jacob was forced into a situation where he He had to pay a double bride price. David volunteer voluntarily comes up the double bride price. I don't know if he was anticipating a trick and he wanted to get ahead of it. Maybe he's that clever. But yeah, he's He's uh doing more than expected. Yeah. But I think that what that does is that it it shows how when when God has a a plan for somebody He's got a destiny for someone. You know, in in in in this situation Paul also represents the enemy who's trying to, you know, rob us of our destiny. And so um when the enemy tries to set us up for a fall, but God has a mission for us. Right. What does the Lord do? The Lord causes causes it to backfire in the face of the enemy. I see dynamic happening as well. You saw not only did David did it did David not die in battle the way Saul sended. Um he came back with twice the the the um the requirement and and was put egg all over false face and and and made him a little more afraid. And when you think about it, the hundred It was no fault of a small feat. I mean, in Saul's mind, it's impossible. I'm gonna make sure David doesn't come back alive. I'm gonna make sure he dies in an attempt to fulfill Phil's bride price says there's no way he's gonna come up with a hundred. And he comes back with two hundred. And he doesn't hold back. He presents all two hundred to the king. He could have just said, Hey, here's your hundred. Mm-hmm So yeah, good catch. I actually wanted to think to make a mention of that and I forgot, so appreciate you bringing that up. Um in terms of of of of how of the envy how that kind of plays into today's world. I mean uh um people are coming up with all of these, you know, sophisticated theories. for why um you know they're they're they are where they are, you know. Um Because you know they're oppressed because somebody else is successful. I don't know if if Saul felt oppressed, I mean he was envious, but you know, I mean it kind of that doesn't matter. what specific it was a negative they it it's both it's negative emotions in both scenarios. And um um the people that today that that that feel that they are oppressed because um somebody that's more than them, I you know, I think they're also angry enough to to seriously harm people They're angry enough about, you know, uh and uh That's the rage. Yeah, that's the rage, exactly. Exactly. And I'm wondering, not the reason the rage, I'm wondering if uh a significant portion of those people got Like like in this story, he's not sending the enemy to them to kind of you know deal with them because This story interestingly says this spirit came from God and and and and you know pe because people have such a um kind of a um elementary view of God and his discipline. Uh a lot of people find that what might find that hard to accept, but the thing is God will use whatever turn us over to the devil, right. If we don't stop rebelling like Saul did, he he would not stop rebelling. And so the Lord said, Okay, now it's discipline time and I'm gonna do Let the enemy just you know have it have at you. And maybe some of that is going on today as well. Maybe some people are just being turned over in judgment to the enemy because 'cause they they they're they they they they've been turned over to believe this lie. Sure. You know. And now it's a torment to them. Yeah, absolutely. But they're gonna get dealt with the way Saul was I wish I spoke one year old because you've got some great insights. I just don't know how to understand it. Waiting from our for our daughter. So um in the in today's you know uh political vernacular, the oppressed are oppressor categories. Who's the oppressed and who's the oppressor in the story? Who's the oppressor? Well technically David would be the oppressor because he's done more. Well he's he's yeah, he's overcoming, he's certainly more blessed, but the one in the p in the station of authority, the one who controls the system, if there's any sort of systemic oppression. Saul's the one who can press all that buttons. He he's the one that can send David into harm's way. He has control over what David's doing. David is only in his house Not because he think about it, why is Saul inviting David into his home? Because he likes him so much? No, because he wants to do away with him. Well and yeah he wants to at the very least yeah the worst case he wants to do away with him. He tries to kill him twice. At the very least he wants to keep an eye on him. Right? He wants to uh uh uh you know, the old cliche, you know, keep Keep your enemies closer. Keep your friends close, keep your enemies closer. He wants to keep an eye on David. He's not trusting him. He's got he's the king. He's not the anointed to become the king, but he In this moment in time he is the king. And yet in spite of somebody trying to kill him, putting him in harm's way, giving an unreasonable request, saying, Give me a hundred foreskins, he comes back with two hundred But the un the request was unreasonable on his face. He's in a sense the one being oppressed. And I think there's a message for us who are in Christ. Even if you want to buy into the idea that the world is against you because you know your skin's a certain color or your station of life that you're born into is a certain situation or your your Education is such or your biological sex is such, and so you're put upon. Well that's not going to stop God. So even if you feel like there are those trying to oppress you in Christ. You don't think he can squash and he conquered even death. You don't think he can conquer oppression? And he conquers it all And if we are oppressed for Christ we count that a blessing, right? I mean it's counterintuitive, but that's what scripture tells us. We count it a blessing. So count on it happening. Yeah. I would call Saul more of a persecutor, I guess, than an oppressor, but it's kind of the man. Right, right. Um Any other thoughts on uh for Samuel eighteen? All right. Well we've got a little bit of time and I've got I've got more questions than we're gonna be able to handle in our three shack weeks for our discussion. So I figure we could tackle a few of them tonight so that uh we can keep bridging the gap because we spent two weeks talking about the check. Uh you missed that. I don't know if you watched it online or not. Um part of the reason we're talking about the shack, even though it might feel kind of like old news, in thinking about it, I feel like what the shack represents provided really fertile seedbed for a lot of the garbage that the church has found itself dealing with over the last year or two year period of time. And so we want to come to grips with it. And And because John, we've spent so much time in the Epistles of John, and the huge themes to take away from John's writings in First Second John is the idea of truth in love and Love in truth. So we need to recognize and the love aspect of the shack is what people are drawn to. But we can't sacrifice the truth. And so we have to recognize lies when we sacrifice see them with how to advocate for the truth and how to overcome some of these very attractive lies. So that's worth spending the time. Maybe I should in case you didn't watch the last couple of weeks. I got something that uh I had written as a tease for this when I did a uh Sunday school lesson and some other teachings on the shack. Where the heck is it? Here it is. So this will help set the scene for these questions. There's a theological civil war being waged in the American Church right now. right now and the book, the movie, the shack finds itself in the center of it. We all find ourselves in the center of it, whether we know it or not. So I'm standing in the center of it, standing upon the Word of God in the center of the pro crossfire as I preach on it. And as I and at the time when I wrote this, this is before I prepared the messages that you heard last couple weeks. And as I write this, I don't know exactly what I'll say. Some people are concerned that the universal church has drifted into becoming the universalist Church. The current poster child a few years ago this was true for these concerns is the shack. In response to the people who voice these concerns up Others are saying nonsense. There's a lot of good in the book and movie. Amazingly, there are important things the Apostle John had to say about the shack, even Hundreds of years ago. When I sh share these important things, I definitely cause upset, I'm sure. Well I don't know yet exactly what I'll say. I'm convinced it'll c offend you. If you like the book and movie, or if you dislike the book and movie, either way, I fear I'm going to unnecessarily offend you. Every time in the past that I've written uh a newsletter no I'd already finished the manuscript for the upcoming sermon, knowing what I intended to say, but not this time. This time I merely know that we'll examine the final verses of 3rd John and look at the shack as a case study. Of course, because John's letters consistently emphasize the truth and how this needs to affect the believer's life. We will definitely stress the importance of remaining committed to a truth in love. This is what John teaches us, and this is what the Bride of Christ really, really needs to remain Oh I pray that God brings me the right words and the right tone and the right attitude to share his truth in love. Please pray for me. Pray for Christ's church. Not much has changed really since I wrote those words. So that helps set the contest. We've got maybe fifteen, twenty minutes of tackle a few questions. So now the Shack, uh you missed last week. So two weeks ago you were here and I I did touch upon a lot of the negatives of the Shack, but I also Also had a l a preponderance of good things about the shack. Last week was more lost sighted in the other direction. Still had a few good things they pointed out in the shack, but really emphasized some of the Troubling aspects of the Shack. But for all of its troubles, the Shack does at least hint at repentance. Hints at repentance. And if you want to know what I'm talking about, you have a copy of the track and on page 175. Uses the phrase, quote, what and this is one of the God characters. in the book speaking here. What we desire is for you to return to us, re-dash turn to us. So again, I think it's a hint here at repentance. How would you want to how do you define anybody, I guess I pointed or landed, but how how do you uh go about defining what it means to repent? What does repentance mean? Um, I think it's uh dangerous to uh uh to let us define that and I think we should probably Yeah, well I wasn't I wasn't necessarily looking for a technical definition, although if you want to give me a technical definition. But just in Layman's terms, how should we think about what repentance means? Well if somebody else wants to jump in, I don't even mean to put Layndon on the spot if he's wants to be more exact than what I'm asking for. I would say it's it's uh you know realizing oh that you know God's not okay not okay with that. Um realizing that Yeah, God's wrath is gr greater than any wrath of man saying, Hey, you know what? That's that's bad. I can't I can't I can't do that. Turn away from it. Sure, it's just agreeing with God that that what you've been doing is wrong and and um confessing that it's wrong and and just uh asking for his forgiveness and asking him to help you turn away from um the wrong thing that you've been doing and turn toward God's way of doing things. Yeah. And that's kind of the the vernacular I was hoping we would kind of stumble in The idea of turning away from the sin, the bad. But that's not by itself enough, right? You have to replace it with something. So you're turning away from the sin, and in doing so, you're turning to God and his love. and his will and uh his protection, his provision, everything that is God. And so when the book says what we desire for you is to return to us, that's actually not bad. Right? So that's something, you know, a little uh little bone I'll throw to the fans of the shack. I know last week I probably came across as rather rather Harsh. Um if if and when you find what you're looking for, just jump in, uh Landon. But I'm gonna ask the the next question in the meantime, it's all I'm gonna take the time pressure off of you Um, now many sections of the book the shack uh are anti-church. For example, we see this uh exclusively on page And then on the very next page uh we can see where you know the book takes a shot uh at the church uh for not behaving like the bride of Christ. Jesus says, the Jesus character of the book says, you're only seeing the man-made system. That's not what I came to build. not buildings and programs. It's all about relationships and simply sharing life. Now I would say that if the church is not behaving like the Bride of Christ, well that's a fair uh critique. We should rebuke that and and call that out and uh and and call it out so that we will return and do better. So that's not what I'm getting at with this part, but the point what you're seeing, again, this is supposedly Jesus speaking and talking about the church, okay? So in the context of the the the Bride of Christ The the visible church, you're only seeing the man-made system. That's not what I came to build. Not buildings and programs. It's all about relations relationships and simply sharing life. So what's your response to a statement like that? Well I I it's not about us. It's It's a I I agree that it's not it's not about um and just focusing on programs. Right. I agree with that. It's not about focusing on the program which the church admitted to be about. It it's not about um um um It it it is about relationship, but the relationship is it begins with the relationship. Right And it it's it's Christ it's a Christ in a relationship, it is through relationships that God changes us. Um and He sanctifies us through a relationship with him and we need we we by necessity need to have a relationship with those around us in Christ. So um I don't know if if if that's What even it sounds like that's what they're saying there. Maybe they're actually saying something else, but um I I I agree that that the church has operated to much like a social club um and and not really like the body of Christ. But it's it it's and and and has focused on the social social club of being a church rather than the relationship with with the Lord that we need to have to in order for order for us to change and to be God ages to which he affects the world in a positive way and changes others. Now that was the God character's criticism of the church that he's observing. What if we flip that around? What if the does it change if someone who's not a Christian says those same things? Or does the validity of that criticism Change or the weight of it. I think that we see a lot of people criticize the church, but in a lot of ways it echoes the earliest criticisms of the church from the outside world. You know, they're cannibals because of the Lord's Supper, or they're polytheists because of the Trinity. You know, stuff like that. And we see a lot of So you're saying that that these criticisms are uh they're they're unfair or unfounded kinds of criticisms of L Church. I think there's a lot of criticisms of the church that are valid, but I think a lot of times the church takes unvalid criticisms of the church and tries to resolve those. Yeah. William Paul Young, the author of The Shack, he is so close, so close to something good here. in my opinion, which is what you're getting at. There's something I would agree with and even your point. Like yeah there's still validity but maybe he goes too far. But if he didn't go too far actually part of what he says is Is good because we do well to recognize that Christ's church is not a building. Christ's church is not programmed, and too often we do fall prey to that Because maybe this is your point. Those outside the church think and they want a fancy building to go to and they want programs for their kids to plug into, and that's what they're looking for. They're not looking for the church church they're looking for a social club or a daycare program or somebody to raise their kids for them into faith rather than them take responsibility uh themselves. Now relationships are are huge, but responsibilities come with those relationships. And so for him to say it's all about relationships And simply sharing life. Christ is not the same as being in submission to what God's word and authority says. just sharing life, there's no accountability. There has to be accountability with that sharing. Yeah, what Christ um instituted is it's about so much more than simply sharing light. It is about sharing light. But it's so much more. Why settle for merely sharing light now? It kind of sounds like he is saying I mean it should be a social club because if if you're a social club, you're gonna share life. You're not necessarily going to make an impact for Christ around you If if we take this out of space, it would you could argue and again I don't want to put words in the author of the shack's mouth, but one could argue that the point of view that's being pre I don't know if you read it. You read it. Uh no, I would have thought of Stephen King who mentioned the author. Okay. But um if we take this to its you know, fullest logical conclusion and it's just about relationships and sharing life, well then okay. We don't need any more teaching. We don't need preaching Preachers. We don't need uh the elders, deacons. We don't even need a worship service baptism or supper. You don't even need the Lord. You don't even need God You might as well join the Elf Club. Right? Talk about relationships and that's it. Share and light. Share and light, that's it. Might as well have the you know the uh the divorce club that means you know that's all you need That's all they're doing. They're building a relationship and sharing life, their angst over their recent divorces. That's all you need. And we've got to be careful because the church can help with those sorts of things. But man, that's such a small And yet the critique, um to Ray's point, and and Angela and and Dean, I think you were all kind of making this point at some level, uh the critique is fair But we don't want to buy into what's not true about that critique. Um very next page, 179, the Jesus character. Here's a quote from the Jesus character says An awful lot of what is done in my name has nothing to do with me. And is often, even if unintentional, very contrary to my purposes. So let's talk about that. Well, I think that's true. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's not the Well who should fall off. Uh yeah, just like with scripture, the authorial intent is what matters. What is the authorial intent in what they're trying to say? Are they just arguing a truism, which is a logical fallacy, or is there something behind that? What is the authorial intent? Whoa. Um Yeah, uh I mean people people outside of church particularly going back to They like to blink you know point out you know the Crusades or the the you know the Saint Louis trials or something where supposed Christians produce Or maybe in fact possibly real Christians. We're doing horrible things. We're doing them in the name of Christ. But just because they say they're doing it in the name of Christ doesn't mean that they're actually doing what Christ would have them do. They're they're in sin and they need to repent uh from that sin. One of the things I would say, the author of this book would claim to be a Christian, and maybe he isn't I mean I'll l uh that's between him and God and I don't know if the author well enough to to say for sure on this, but a lot of what he teaches in this book would not be Christian teaching. And therefore, as I wrong He's putting a book out there in the name of Christ to teach us about God and almost everything he's teaching us is wrong. So right? And so y you could say an awful lot of what is done in the shack in Christ's name has nothing to do with Christ. And is even if unintentional very contrary to Christ's purposes. I think it's like an accidental self-critique of his own work. Well he yeah, uh he he's giving what he thinks of the the uh alternate to the error of everyone else. Mm-hmm. Well go ahead, Nana. I think that um maybe when he wrote the book. He wasn't very focused on scripture. He wasn't delving into scripture like he should have been and went Yeah, maybe. And that that could be but I gotta tell you, uh I don't know him personally well, but I have spoken to him personally. Because I do a radio show and I had him as a guest on four shows. So I spent two and a half hours with him on the phone. And he's a smart guy. And he knows his Bible. And when you ask him questions like I'm posing here, he has answers where he tries to bring a scriptural defense But he's misusing so many passages and scriptures and verses out of context. So it's not that he doesn't know his Bible, but I don't know that he really is grappling with understanding And and knowing the truth of the Bible. Right. And with all your acquire wisdom And it was all you're acquiring, get understanding. And I'm not saying I know it all perfect either, right? So if I ever were to teach some of the things the chef teaches, I'm counting on people like you to hold me to account and say, wait a minute, what are you saying? Where does it say on scripture? And I'm going to turn to scripture like he might, and you're going to say, yeah, that's not exactly what that passage means But look at the fuller context and how do you square that with these other passages of the Bible to provide nuance around it? And so much of what like we try So much of what he says is true by itself. But what stands behind that and the thrust of the point he's trying to make is Yeah, that's not true. So it's actually the most dangerous kind of lie, the lie that's so close to the truth. So two questions I come up on. I assume that this author is a layman. But he's uh yeah, he's not pastoring a church, or at least he wasn't when I talked to him. So yeah, in some sense there's less of a degree of accountability. And the sec The second question I have is more about the uh how the book is written. Like, is it written with an unreliable narrator or speaker voice? Like is Is it from an unreliable perspective or is it like from an third person all knowing? It's uh it's uh it's a novel and uh so it's just It's a story it's a story being told. Third person, first. Yeah, yeah. It's a story about Mac. So it's not okay, so it's like Mac is uh He's kind of the conscience of the book, if you will. And so we're supposed to basically be Mac the with Mac in this story. And you y you missed some of what we talked about people watching Facebook might have missed some of this too. Yeah, I'm not holding the the author to hold you this ultimate high standard necessarily, except he claims that the book is gonna teach us about God And so he's putting it out there with that intent. And a number of Christian leaders and even full bodied churches uh have embraced the book and have used it as Bible studies, uncritical. Not using it the way we are, trying to analyze what's good and what's bad and trying to fix with it, but saying, well isn't the shack great, look at how much it teaches us about God. how loving and compassionate and wonderful he is and how the church is all screwed up. And that's all they're doing with it. And that was that's very concerning. So I'm just sounding the alarm that we need to do better at at discerning The issue with the book is that it has it portrays God, I think, in in a way that is irreverent, number one. Number two Two, it has God speaking to teach the truth. It has it the mouth the words are coming directly out of the mouth of the Father of the Son. Son and the Holy Spirit. So if you read the book at face value, then you're saying, okay, this This is God speaking. This is God correcting me. If I just take this book and embrace it, I'm getting correction from God directly. You know, uh even I don't even necessarily need to go to the Bible. Right. You know, I I this book is going to tell me uh in place of right what I need to understand about the the nature of God and about the nature of salvation and so he puts himself and and and let me just I'm just this is my personal personal thing about the whole layman thing. There was a time when there wasn't such a thing as a seminary. You know, people there wasn't a seminary the first church didn't have a seminary. But and and you had these illiterate people, these fishermen and and you know that follows Jesus and they they wrote scripture. Right. Right. So I don't know. I I I well I think that evidence shows that if you have the Holy Spirit and you it is your will to obey God because Jesus even said you will know the teaching whether or not it's true. Um, you know, a i if you want to do the will of God. So I think these fishermen that were the the Lord's first disciples, they wanted to do the will of God. And so they got the truth enough that he used them to write scripture. I I I I think it's it's the heart that we bring to God that, you know, because the the Bible tells us that the Holy Spirit is our teacher. Right. You know So if we bring the right heart to God, I think he can teach anybody to understand his word accurately. But but that's not what I see going on with somebody like William Paul Young. And he's at some level, I think me I don't know if this is what you're getting at, held at a higher account because he's Per se dad. Exactly. Exactly. He is per he is step. He has steps of teachers. Right. And it's one of the offices, one of the five offices, Apostle Prophet, evangelist, pastor, teacher. He steps into the office of teacher. Right. He's not teaching incidental to another gift. He has steps into the office of teacher. to tell us what God is like and to give us theology. And I think he's fully accountable for that. Right. Especially since he has literally taught millions of people human ages that is yeah yeah has he also done like a speaker circuit yeah yeah as far as like a Christian speaker circuit Absolutely. Absolutely. Okay, there's there's some context I don't know. Yeah, there's Bible studies after. I I'm not bringing up we didn't spend the last two weeks and then a little bit of time this week and then the three weeks are gonna spend a couple of weeks on the shack to try to uh you know figure out William Paul heart uh of Paul Young's heart and to castigate him. I'm sounding an alarm for any pastor that might stumble upon what I have to say for what it's worth Pastor the pastor. And for any Christian for that matter, or somebody who's interested in what the Christian church is all about, what the Bible actually teaches, you're not gonna find it in the shack. That's the point. And so many people embraced it. How many people don't even read their Bible anymore? Instead of reading the Bible, they rather read that. They'd rather read Max Placato. They'd ma rather read Sarah Young's devotional. They'd rather read the Shaq. They'd rather watch a Christian Christian movie. They'd rather watch a Christian series about the Bible on on uh A D or wh whatever it was. They'd rather do they'd rather do that than actually read the Bible. And they think that when they read something like the shack that, oh, this is telling me of a God. And I'm telling you. You slip on my foot. It is it is not the truth and you are you are heading down the road this poor young girl just headed down. A road front with danger and pain and suffering. You want to avoid it. Yeah. Because it he's so close to the truth. Yeah, and I said and you said it this week and I said it last week or the week before, you know, so often the the the lies that are the most dangerous are the ones that look an awful lot like the truth. It's um I had a thought, I lost it. I had a very good thought. I was so excited to share it. And I lost it. Oh no. Now we have to wait. Lies that look true as the uh might have been easy. It did for a second. Um the lie that was most likely the truth being most dangerous was what I was talking about. Yes. It was with um With people falling susceptible to the teachings of the jack because they're not grounded in school. Right. That's with almost Anything. And we have people who don't want to think. But act like they think. And in reality these people who act like they think are actually s listening to say a radical democrat and thinking, oh my God Yes, I agree with him without thinking and just saying, oh well he he he sounds legit, so I'm gonna you know I'm gonna be hit. Right They're not. Mm-hmm. And told what to think. That's the other thing. Up there that you know indoctrination encampments that we call public school and and they don't they don't teach us how to they don't they don't train us up They don't teach us how to think, they teach what to think. And be uncritical and accepting. They're the authority, they're gonna give you this truth, and you just need to regurgitate it back to them. That's not you're not learning how to think. You're exercising your brain. There's thinking involved. That's not what I'm talking about. Critically analyzing the world around you and coming to groups with what the truth is based on the evidence and the facts Right. Especially when we have people that we look up to who do think use it As manipulation. I argue about the polypressant argument that the people who are uh crying to be oppressed. They're the oppressors actually. You know, it's it's it's it's they are the oppressors. impression as a bully like to beat us over the head with now it's interesting the people who you know certainly more male focused I guess are audience and a lot of y young men are drawn to people who are doing this critical thinking and doing it out loud. But you know, a lot of the issue is they're not really coming about it from a very biblical worldview you got and I I have no dislike for like Joe Rogan or uh Jordan Peterson or anyone like that, but you know, they're not a Christian they're not Christians. Right. But you know, they could probably articulate a Christian world view at least on an intellectual level better than uh a lot of people in the church. Yeah they're they're thinkers and they and they're willing to hear other people's thoughts and process them and analyze them and Christians by intellectual capabilities, right? It's a changed heart, it's a supernatural work of the Holy Spirit to change somebody and makes them Christian. So the fact that m uh Jordan Peterson and Joe Rogan, you know, might not be Christians, that's not a critique of their intellect Mm-hmm. That's a critique of their heart and we just need to pray that God is gonna replace their heart of stone with a heart of flesh. We could have poopery. Because uh we can get to uh somebody who who does think can be uh so I mean they notice that they can and unfortunately that can lead to um un you know it can lead to I'm looking for a word. Uh you're better than everyone else. That works. Being pompous, arrogance. That was the word I was looking for, but private floor. Being private. And then um that You know, that's when they become you know closed minded instead of open minded. They think they have the answer to everything already, so why keep an open mind? And here's one of the challenges we have when somebody like like Jordan Peterson uh and Joe Rogan. And if you don't know those names, I mean Jordan Peterson has become famous over the last five years or so for really articulately pushing back against um the the the identity politics stuff and the the gender issues and those sorts of things. He's he's faced some quote unquote persecution by the system if he you will, and he's he's risen to the challenge in admirable ways. He's a very thoughtful, uh deep thinking, articulate guy. And then Joe Rogan has, I think, what is the most popular the most listened to podcasts in America. And he he has all sorts of different guests and different worldviews on. He interacts with all of them. And his podcasts are like a couple hours long. He has these really long, meaty conversations conversations with people where he really dives in and so people see guys like that and they're impressed and they're like, Oh, Jordan Peterson Well you maybe you should think what they think sometimes. But that's still not thinking. I think It has more to do with people want to critically think and that's what they're drawn to because of such an absence in the marketplace. Yeah. It's interesting, like my generation grew up watching South Park and then is super easily offended. Yeah, well And because they didn't learn to critically think before they get to college. I think is is how that happened. Well y a and and to your point, education these days It's it is really indoctrination and a worldview that's not friend not Christian friendly and not even American friendly. And uh and they're not allowed uh I mean the the the few instances where say uh a Christian in in those scenarios speaks up they're punished for it. They're punished for pushing back that against the world view the indoctrination and and the edu and and it's and it's it it um it's not you don't you don't have to wait to college for that I mean they're perfectly elementary work is you know so it's uh that's got a lot to do with it uh we've been uh to to say a little more more bluntly, uh America's been dumbed down, you know, through the educational system, through the I'm suspicious on purpose. Oh yeah, thank you. don't want other people to think. There's there's an agenda. There's an agenda behind all of this. There's an agenda because if you can't you talk to somebody thinking and you can't do it. No, I haven't seen it. So I I I haven't seen it. Yeah. If you if you if you control their thinking, then you control them. And so there it's there's there's there's an agenda behind the whole thing. Yeah. Yeah. Psychology. All right. Secular psychology. Yeah, we're a little over an hour, so I think we'll uh we'll put a wrap on this and we'll pick up uh next week. Um so For planning purposes, we're gonna spend the next two weeks in John, Gospel of John, chapter twenty. So if you want to do a little advanced reading, get yourself ready for that, but we're gonna spend some time there in the next couple of weeks. And maybe we'll dabble with some more shaft questions in a couple weeks. And then the three weeks after that, we're going to uh finish our in-depth work at uh The heresies that rear their their head in Shack and learn how to recognize them and what they all mean and how to live our lives accordingly. And then after that, we're going to start with Revelation chapter 1, verse 1, and work our way through the book. It's probably going to take probably the rest of this year to get done with it once we start And uh anticipation. So if you want to start reading Revelation to get ready for that as well, I would encourage you to do so. So uh you want to wrap us up with a word of prayer? Thank you, Father, for this time that Thank you for your word. You are truth, you are love, you are justice, you are everything to us, and we worship you, we thank you, we give you glory because you first loved Us and loved us enough to send your son to redeem us, to save us, so that we would then be reunited with you. Thank you for this time together. We ask that you would lead us not to Tim's That you would deliver us from all evil, Father. We lift up actually my earthly father with his eye problems and we pray for healing. We ask that you would miraculously Heal my father's eyes from the glaucoma, that you would bring the pressure down, that you would restore his eyesight like only you can. We ask you to do this to show show your glory, to show who you are to the doctors, that you are mighty, that what is impossible with man is possible for you. May you be glorified through this act of healing. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you for joining us. Even if you watch this later, not live, if you want to add any comments or thoughts in the comment section, I'll be glad to But interact with it uh with you there. Uh otherwise until next week, God bless