Gotcha. And I think we're on. Well welcome Facebook. And if you're watching this later, you too. Thank you. I'm gonna fix this. Thank you for joining us. joining us on uh at the household of faith in christ if you want to grab your bibles and and uh have them ready and even you know a writing utensil take some notes and that sort of thing you're encouraging And welcome to do so. We're gonna be in the Gospel of John. So those of you who have been with us for a little while, don't be confused. This is not the epistles. This is the Gospel of John, not the epistles of John. So Matthew Mark Luke John so front part of your New Testament, okay? Um we're gonna do uh the first half of a two-part look at chapter 20 uh today and then we're gonna have a discussion uh that'll start you know half hour ish from now and um and we'll have a second half of the message next week and I say this most weeks but I tend to forget every once in a while and I don't want to forget I try to remember to say it at the end and then forget I'm going to say at the beginning. If you are not attending a church and you're merely uh consuming um online content or reading reading spiritual books and even reading the Bible and that sort of thing. Those are all good, but they're not a replacement for gathering together with God's people to sit under the preaching and teaching of God's Word with a gathering of people. So you need to be attending a church. This is not a substitute for that, but I will say you're more than welcome and encouraged to participate in what we're doing. as an add-on to what you're doing in the rest of of your life. And if your church is one that's not meeting at all right now, I would this point strongly encourage you to find one that's gonna meet. If they're not meeting by now, you gotta wonder. So anyway, uh without further ado, I'm gonna ask uh oh and your what your welcome to add comments and questions and thoughts in the comment section and if you do so we'll try to incorporate those into our discussion time after the message. So I ask Angela to open us with a word of prayer and then we'll have God's word preach to us Gracious Heavenly Father, thank you for another opportunity to come together in the name of Jesus Christ to learn of you, to be strengthening you. to be encouraged by your word, to be protected by the guidance that your word gives. And we just ask that by your Holy Spirit that we be taught on the other and by him and not by anything else guide this discussion father bring to this discussion who should see it and keep away who should stay away And we thank you for what will be released today. It's to you the honor and glory of Jesus, and it is in his name that we pray. Amen. Amen. Incidentally, we had spent a couple of uh of Saturdays, going back a couple of Saturdays, looking at some of the heretical views taught in a very popular book in movement We're going to continue our look at that after next week. So if you're interested in following along with what we're having to say about the teachings of the shack Uh we will finish our thoughts on that. In fact we during our discussion time, who knows? We might even have time for a a comment or two on that during discussion time even today. We'll see. So this is not holding up but the usual I want to start today by saying that I have an admission and a confession. Proverbs 19 Verse 22 it says what a man desires is unfailing love. Better to be poor than a liar. That is the NIV translation. of that verse. And my admission is that I have quoted that verse repeatedly during my life. I have oftentimes called it one of my favorite verses. And my confession is, I have ignored this verse so many times. I practically ignore it all. the time. And I didn't realize just how true this was until the day came for me to study John's Gospel, chapter 20, and prepare this message. that you're beginning to hear today. And as I study the 20th chapter of John's Gospel, it was impressed upon me, I have a problem. Lots of problems, actually. Problems of idolatry. Problems I was blind to. Problems I want to warn you of. I want to warn you of idols that are almost certainly in your life. as they are in mine. So if you would now let's please turn to John chapter 20 or look at verses 1 through 9. This is the story of the empty tomb. It's one of the most famous parts of the Bible. And because it is so familiar, we might think that we know pretty much all there is to know about it. Well, if you're like me. mean for a little bit of a surprise. God's word says to us, now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early while it was still Dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know So Peter went out with the other disciple and they were going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together. But the other disciple outran Peter and read He reached the tomb first, and stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came following him and went into the tomb. the tomb. He saw the linen cloths lying there, the face cloth which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded up in a place by itself. And then the other disciple who had reached the tomb first also went in and he saw and believed. For as yet they did not understand the scripture. That he must rise from the dead. This is the word of God, inspired and therefore infallible, inerrant. a perfect rule and guide for life and faith practice. Those have ears to hear, let them hear. So verse 1, it starts now on the first day of the week. Well that's Sunday The day after the Jewish Sabbath, which is the last day of the week. This is the third day after Jesus Christ was put to death on the cross. Now before he was killed, he said that he would give the sign of Jonah. We read about that in Matthew chapters 12 and 16 also in Luke's gospel. Account chapter 11, and Jesus said that he would rebuild the temple in three days. We read about that in Matthew chapter 26, and in Mark chapter 14, and in John. Chapter 2. And by saying these things, Jesus was indicating that he would rise from the dead on day three. This was day three. But Christ's followers had somehow, for the moment, Lost sight of this promise from Jesus. Now, verse 1 continues, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early. Now, Matthew's gospel account. tells us that there were two Marys. And the accounts from Luke and Mark, they tell us that there were two Marys, plus other women even providing names. Well John he doesn't draw attention to these Now that doesn't mean that John didn't know that the other women were there. In verse 2, we read Mary reporting that the body is missing and we don't know where it is. We, as in the other women with her. But John doesn't talk about these other women. Probably doesn't he talk to make his point. And if you're curious, John in his account also doesn't include the earthquake like Matthew does and Luke does. John doesn't tell us there was an angel who took the stone away. John doesn't tell us that there was an us that the Roman guards fell down in shock. He doesn't tell us that Mary and the women were bringing spices. Now Matthew and Luke and Mark, they include the details that make sense for what their writing, and John includes the details that make sense for what he's writing. They each can't write down everything And remember that John tells us himself at the end of his gospel account that if he wrote down everything about Jesus, well then the world itself could not contain the books that would be written. But perhaps you're still bothered by the selective use of detail. There are some who are. So I have a scenario if you're one of those. Scenario for you to consider. You get home from shopping and you say, yes, who was at the store? And you're spouse says I don't know who and you say Julie now does your spouse think that it was only you and Julie at the store? And what there were no employees? No other shoppers? I mean why why wouldn't you have said something like Well, among the 14 employees and the 73 other shoppers who were inside the store, one of them named Sally, by the way, was my good friend named Julie. Well, you don't say that because you want to tell your spouse what's relevant. And what's relevant to John is that Mary Magdalene was there. there. And part of what's relevant about this for us is that this actually increases our confidence that what John has written here is authentic. And true. Because if we think about it, John, in relaying the story the way that he has, has created for himself a Witness problem. The testimony of women was not worth much back then in Jewish culture. Only men were seen as competent to provide witness. Angie needed two of them. Not one woman. men. What is John to do? Alter the fact that women were the first witnesses? This would ignore the example of Jesus who gives great respect to women. And so John doesn't discount the women. Although I have to say, perhaps, to address this female witness problem, John does give emphasis later Later in the passage to the fact that two males raced to the tomb and they witnessed it empty. But again, back to the problem of bringing up Mary. As we were saying, considering the ancient Jewish culture of John's day, women weren't highly regarded. And in this case, we are talking about a woman who had been demon-possessed. Not by one, but by seven demons. That is definitely a social problem for Mary. But Johnny doesn't try to hide from this fact as he relates what happened, because he knows that there is no more male-female status distinction in Christ when it comes to value and importance. And there's no more shame from those demon possessions when redeemed in Christ. Now Jesus, he he had female dis uh female disciples who were following him, and one of them was Mary, and he loved her and the other women in a way that the rest of the Society did not. And so Mary is distraught. The man who had delivered her from seven demons. The man who loved and respected her so much. He died. And now, his body was missing. And she cried, as John tells us ten verses later. But she had an idea in her head of what Jesus would mean for her, and that idea in her head came up empty. Now back to verse 1, which next says, while it was still dark, it's easy to gloss over this line is merely a time marker. John is just telling us what happened, when it happened. And you know there's no trouble with this as far as that goes. But 30 verses later, John writes to us that he is written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. John didn't write a history book. He didn't write a newspaper article. He didn't write a blog titled Fun Facts About Jesus. He wrote a gospel so that we would know that Jesus is the Son of God and if we believe, we have one life in Christ's name. So with this as his purpose, why does John tell us it was Still dark. Well, John regularly draws stark contrasts when he writes. And A common contrast that he uses is that of light versus dark, as in good versus evil, understanding versus Spiritual blindness. For example, in chapter 1, John writes, the life of the was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. In chapter 3, he writes, the light has come into the world and people love the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. In chapter 8, Jesus spoke to them saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness. I will have the light of life. In chapter twelve, Jesus said to them, The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light. Lest the darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe in the light that you may become sons of light. And so you get the idea Well, the very last time that John uses the word dark, it's right here. Chapter twenty verse one and he says it's still dark And for them, from their perspective, it was. Imagine the Jews they have this long rich history going back to Abraham and Moses and David, but then they else had to deal with wars and exile and oppression In the first century, when this story takes place, when this story was written, the Jews were being ruled by the ruthless Roman Empire. They wanted a deliverer. They were promised a deliverer. Deliverer in the Old Testament. And some of these Jews, including Mary and John and Peter, they thought they had found this deliverer in Jesus. And then he's arrested. That's not good. Plus he's mocked, ridiculed? That's not good. And then he's beaten nearly to death, definitely not good. I mean what's going on here? And then He is killed on the cross. And so now Christ's followers, they are depressed. disillusioned, scared, hiding. Everything had unraveled. They don't know what to think. Everything that could go wrong had gone wrong. All their earthly hopes had come up empty. They were in darkness. The passage continues through verse five. Mary saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb, so she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know So Peter went out with the other disciple, and they were going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first and stood Stooping to look in, he saw the linen clothes lying there and he did not go in. So Mary Magdalene, she comes to them frantic. And Peter and John, they run to the tomb and the body is missing. The tomb is empty. And I feel like I can almost hear them in my mind. mind you know wondering how in the world would somebody have stolen the body and can you put yourself in their place for just a moment What are the kinds of things you would have been feeling? What are the sorts of things you might have said? Feel like I might know what I might have said. I think knowing myself the way I do, I think I might have said something like, are you kidding me? Just take me to the asylum, have me committed. I'm like, I can't take it anymore. This is nuts. Everything I trusted in, gone. All my hopes that Jesus would lead a political revolution. Or teach everyone a better way of life, or I don't know, something, anything. It's all gone. All my earthly hopes, all of these. Idols I constructed. Come up empty The disciples were still in spiritual darkness. And so they saw the empty tomb. And they saw nothing. I can empathize You know why? Because sometimes, as in every day, I know there was an empty tomb And what I see too often is nothing. Just an empty tomb. Empty. The disciples were hoping for earthly things, trusting in earthly solutions. Knowing Jesus and still full of angst. I have found myself hoping in earthly things, trusting for earthly solutions, knowing Jesus. And still full of angst. Wasn't too many years ago, I was hoping for earthly things in my employment. Had a pretty good job. Lots of responsibility, lots of community respect, lots of ego ego gratification and I was making lots of money. I mean not Bill Gates and Oprah Winfrey kind of money, but real money. I was keeping up with the Joneses. There are some people in my neck of the woods. I think they would point a finger at me and say, you know what? I think you are the Joneses. And then despite my good performance, I was laid off. The hopes I had placed in my career Came up empty. I've also placed my hopes in the economy Who among us doesn't place our hopes at some level in the economy? Now I worry about it. I still put my hopes in the economy. Even after, I mean I worry about the economy even after living through the stock market crash of 2008. But we all had to deal with in 2020. Back in 2008, that stock market crash cost my father-in-law his entire retirement fund that he had with leave Brothers, because Lehman brothers went bankrupt. His hopes and those investments, they came up empty. And more recently, I found myself And during some recent election cycles, many of my candidates lost. My ballot question issues mostly lost. So my faith in the electorate came up. empty. And this past year my faith in the entire electoral process came up empty. I did it. Some people they place their hopes in candidates that have won. But I'm going to tell you, I've had times when my candidates won in the past too. And my hopes in the government still came up empty. I've been in darkness. Can you relate? I've been in darkness. I'm talking about as recently as this week. Just like John and the other disciples, I too often I'm placing my hope in earthly things. And these earthly things they come up empty like idols always do We're going to pause there in our examination of uh chapter 20 of John's Gospel account and finish up uh this particular message. next week. But before I wrap up, this is a rather significant week on the church calendar. You know, lots of really important stuff ties into this next week. Tomorrow is called Palm Sunday, you know, the triumphal entry celebrated tomorrow. This coming week we have Maundy Thursday, you know, Christ washing the feet of the disciples, the Lord establishing the supper, you know, the communion meal that the saints enjoyed together. You know, we have what we now call Good Friday. when the more most horrific murder in human history took place. We call it good because God used it for good, which of course we celebrate in a big way next weekend with resurrection day. This is a a big week and so some things, some verses for us to kind of set the stage for the week ahead and things for us to meditate upon. ideas for us to to uh grab on to. I'm gonna share some select passages that tie into these themes. Psalm 47 verses five through seven says God has ascended amid shouts of Joy. The Lord amid the sounding of trumpets. Sing praises to God, sing praises. Sing praises to our King, sing praises. For God is the King of all the earth. Sing to Him A psalm of praise. This really captures kind of what tomorrow is supposed to represent, right? The triumphal entry. Hosanna and the highest. But it's not just tomorrow, it's supposed to be every day. That we sing praises. And in a literal sense, we should sing praises, lifting up our voices in a melodic fashion. But all of our life should be singing praises to the Lord. Our prayer life, our study of God's word, our participation in the body of Christ, our daily walk in the world and not of the world. Be singing praise Praise to God. Second Thessalonians chapter 2, verses 16 and 17 says, Now they are Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God our Father who loved us and gave us eternal comfort And good hope through grace comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word. We have a great hope because the th things that are represented by this coming week. And so be prepared always when someone should ask you, what is the reason for the hope that you have then? Be prepared to give them an answer to that question. First Peter chapter 1 verse 3 says, Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. It is great. mercy he has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead So a moment ago when I said be prepared to answer the question, what is the reason for your hope? If you were unsure, like what's the best way to try to answer that? First question Peter chapter 1 verse 3 is a pretty good place to start. We have a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. And finally, from Philemon verse 25, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. And that's a benediction from the Lord, but it's also So it's a truth for God's people. God's Spirit is with you. God's Spirit dwells within you. Christ is tabernacling. with you. He's pitching his tent with you. Every moment. Which is why we should try to sing praises to him with every moment. of our life. Anyway, let me uh close with a word of prayer before we get into our discussion time. Gracious God and Father, we confess that we have longed too much for the comforts of this world. We have too often loved the gifts more than the giver In your mercy, Lord, help us to see that all the things we pine for are shadows, but you are shadows. substance. They are quicksands, but you are a mountain. They are shifting, but you you are our anchor. We plead your forgiveness for shortcomings and idol making in our lives. We repent of these things. And again, we beg your forgiveness on the merits of Jesus Christ, knowing that you accept his worthiness for our unworthiness, his sin. Sinlessness for our transgressions, his fullness for our emptiness, his glory for our shame, his righteousness for our dead works. Is death for our life. We praise you by the power of your Holy Spirit. In the unmatched name of Jesus our Christ. Amen. Let me switch positions. Alright, well I'm tempted to start it off by saying, okay, so what idols do you guys have in your lives? Too many count I know that's a difficult question. It's an unfair question, but actually it occurs to me now in my asking it and acknowledging the awkwardness of trying to answer a question like that, that exposes an idol in our life, right? Our reputation. We don't want to you know, fess up on you know a live stream to the world that I've got idols in my life because what would they think about me? And I'm not saying that to guilt you into that offering. I'm just saying that we we have idols around every corner, every nook and crane of our lives, we were loaded with them. You have a extended family member who uh once mentioned that a different extended family member now passed on many years ago, was told that that particular person was perfect. Never sinned. Now, in one sense, that family member made the other family member an idol, right? Because that doesn't square with scripture. Everybody has sinned. And that other family member who was said to be sinless, I don't think that she thought of herself that way. But if she did, then she had made an idol of herself. So even if so if you're watching right now think, well, I have no idols. I'm not guilty of that at all. I'm pretty much perfect in that regard. Okay, there's at least one idol. You've made yourself An idol. So let me rather than ask you for specific idols, maybe you guys uh have some experience in wrestling through uh beating back the idols, replacing the idols with the one true God. What are some strategies or some experiences or stories or you know the best way you can think to try to answer is that might be helpful to others who are gathered here or those who might be gathered online of what have been good ways to root out idols from your life. Any anybody have any thoughts? Say first to admit that you have them king because you know if you say you don't you're you're lying. Um uh well And I think that's good. And I would say that you know the old cliche about medical practice is you know diagnosis is 80% of the cure. Um but it's not enough to go to the doctor and the doctor say, Yep, you're sick. Right. It's it's so if we have knowledge that we have them, but then I think that be your your point would probably be more be more specific about naming them or identifying them, right? Right. Um yeah, for sure. Uh knowing what the idols are that you have Um I would also say on what you said for uh you know maybe not wanting to share that uh in case you know you people think down on you for it and if if uh if someone thinks down on you for having something that they too have yeah it is I mean are they Are you really the kind of person you care what they you know what they think about you? Or is that you would want to care what they think about you? W I mean b unless it's your boss or you know I just there wouldn't be really a reason to um to worry about it I don't think. Um and if and again if they are somebody that does really care about it, I mean then they're probably not somebody you should be hanging around Um if they can't realize that they themselves are fallen by those same A lot of the times the idols are sneaky enough that they present as good. So from a parent perspective, your children can easily become idols where you're putting so much focus and attention on them That they do take the place of God. So yes, it's important to tend to your children, but not to the point where you're putting so much energy that you're neglecting your spouse, so to speak, or neglecting so it's not necessarily just neglecting the Lord, it's neglecting everything else because so much focus is on that one particular or whatever thing. You know, in the same token, your spouse can then become an idol where you're neglecting other things. So there's a lot lot of things you know people who say oh um you're an overachiever yeah but is that where's the balance then where's the so then that becomes so something that takes the place of so I think that we some I don't want to oversimplify but sometimes we can think oh an idol is a graven image or something And it's it's rather sneakier than that. Rather slithier, slithy slithierer, or whatever that word is. Sl kind of slithers its way into your life And then before you know it, you're like, wow. So I don't know if that's helpful. I'm not always a fan of this word, but I mean used properly, it's a good word, so don't judge me for using it. But there's a level of nuance required in some of this because uh To Dina's point, there are good things. And so like in when I was preaching the message, like we should aspire to do well. in our careers. We should aspire to provide well for our families. Right? We should, you know, we we should aspire to be well thought of by by others in by using cut means. Um the the the the the the the challenge becomes making taking what is good and making it ultimate. Because God is ultimate. And so if you have God in the proper position then having a blessed career is just gravy on top, or having financial security is gravy on top, or having the world think well of you is gravy on top. Well I would argue in today's culture if the world is thinking well of you it might be a cons might be a problem because the world is thinking well of evil these days. That's part of what makes it difficult. This was I think part of what landing was kind of kind of hinting at or at least leading up to if he wasn't trying to get there himself, I'll take us there. It's hard to admit to the world around us that, well, I've got these foibles, these problems, these sins in my life, these idols I've constructed Because when you're around other believers, they understand what forgiveness is and they know what redemption through Christ's blood, and they know what that is, and they know that, yeah, I'm in the same boat. And there's if I've broken one sin, I'm guilty of having broken the whole sin. And to be honest, if you go through the the Ten Commandments and you work your way through those one at a time, the way that Jesus emphasized What those laws really mean in the New Testament, every single person in this room, every single person on this stream, every single person in the world other than Jesus has violated every single one of the Ten Commandments. Every single one. So we are guilty of idols. We're guilty of murder because we have hate in our heart, right? Go right down We're guilty of having broken all of them, which is why we need Jesus. But the world who doesn't understand who Jesus is, what Jesus has done, what he Christ actually taught. They don't have that perspective and so they will use your own confession and turn around as a perpetual accusation against you because we live in an unforgiving culture. Right now it has the clever alliterative moniker can Cancel culture. You know, somebody, you know, when they're 17 years old, 10 years ago, says something, you know a little bit uh immature on their Twitter, uh ten years later they lose their job. Well they were in high school and now they're an adult, but the world is unforgiving. If you ever once sing in any way, shape, or form based on how the world will will characterize sin. Now they don't use the word sin. If you have uh violated the the social standards of the day Yeah, yeah, the social code that we're the mores that we're all supposed to live under now, you're screwed. Well, what makes it difficult for the Christian is if you're gonna live a consistent consistently biblically informed, obedient life to God, you are going to violate those worldly constructed standards because those standards are opposed to God's standards. And so when God says you must do this and the world says well if you do that you're canceled. What are you to do? And that's a tough place for us to be. idolatry can be sneaky. Um I think what happens is you know the the the enemy um creates a um a some kind of hunger in your life for something, you know. And um Presents it as a need. Well that too, where I was going is um it it actually could be something that's a need And it could be something that's inherently good and approved of by God. One area that was difficult for me was in the area of relationships like marriage specifically and so um then what happens is you're going after that thing you know because you know you want it and it's there's nothing wrong with having it but then it becomes like your focus you know um and it's um uh It's a sneaky way for for the enemy to like draw you into idolatry. You know. Um and it can be anything. I mean marriage is one example It could be any meaningful thing. It could be uh a career. It could be but um you know if if if if if you're um you know if you're very hungry for something, you know, even in your natural body, if you're very hungry, you're focused on you're focused on getting food because you're hungry. Well the enemy will do that in in some area of your life and just make you really hungry for that. And then God, you know you don't keep the Lord in his in in in in his rightful place. And the way to the way that the Lord helped me to deal with that was I just simply began, it's not simply I guess, and it was a process, but you know, you get to the place where that thing that you're you're going after for so hard becomes very disappointing and then you turn to the Lord you know it may be even scary and then you turn to the Lord because um you you you're now you're desperate, you know you're desperate for rest, you're desperate for peace, you're desperate. So you turn to him and then when he's all you have, then you realize he's actually on your lead. And then you then that thing that you were, you know, so hungry for now it it begins to fall this rightful place which is behind God. Yeah. You know, and you realize I actually don't have to have that thing. You know, I have to have the Lord. And So yeah, that's that but I I that's one way that the enemy can kind of can draw you into idolatry, even if it it's not, you know, even if it's not a sin that you you are particularly prone to and I think you know there are everybody has done everything all broken all ten commandments I agree but I think that everybody has a sin that they are particularly prone to because of you know the the dynamics of your family yeah and your and that sort of thing so yeah We can there's something instructive in the passage. I kind of alluded at it but didn't drive the point home during the sermon The you know Mary had cons had uh Mary Magdalene had kind of had this idol in her life that was built upon her elevated social status because you know what Christ did for her her changed her status in the society around her and her hopes were in that being sustained and continuing perhaps even growing even more from there. Peter and John, maybe their idols were learning more and being taught more from Jesus, or that he actually would lead to their deliverance from the oppressive Roman Empire governance and those sorts of things. And because they had these idols, because they had these idols, why? Because they had forgotten Jesus Said he would rise on the third day, they had forgotten what Jesus said. They forgot what the Word of God says. So we need to stay rooted firmly in You know, what does God's word tell us? And when we forget what God's word tells us, we are more susceptible, or be we become at that point, really susceptible. susceptible to having idols because we're replacing what God says with what our own hearts and our own imaginations, our own thoughts say. And as good as they might be they're going to be lesser than what God has said. I don't know if you wanted to jump in and say anything. That was pretty interesting. Tying it back to the sermon. because you know they see an empty tomb but it doesn't they don't it doesn't click with them. Why is it empty? They're just looking at an empty tomb. and then they're you know in in the darkness. But they don't see that it's empty because Jesus rose. They they never connect that dot, or at least they don't connect it there. the next person is they go back home. Right. And it's easy for us to have all those those silly s you know not very smart disciples, but we're exactly the same. We do it all the time. Right? They were unsure in that moment. They shouldn't have been, but they were unsure what was going on. We know the end of that story and still we live our lives as though we don't. I mean I think Peter gets such a bad rap because people just want a dog on him. I'm with you on that one. Because you know if you think about Peter. He's the guy that's talked about most. Right He's talking about most. So we get the biggest microscope on him, and he's also kind of viewed as the most important of the twelve. But you know, we kind of give him a bad rap, but you know, he's just like He's still the one that preaches in Acts too. Mm-hmm. He's just like a In fact we may be worse than he is now with the point we are in the world. Now I can't remember who triggered the thought. If it was something that Dina said or something that Angela said, or maybe it was a combination when the two of you spoke back to back, but it it occurred to me It was in the context of things sneak idols kind of sneaking into our lives, us being prone to things, and you know, do we take the good and stuff make them open? That was the kind of the gist of it One of the sneakiest ways that that happens in our world actually does tie back to what we were talking about two weeks ago and three weeks ago when we were looking at some of the heretical views and teachings in the shack. Because what's one of the sneakiest ways that we construct an idol that sounds really spiritual and good We take the one true God as represented in Scripture. And what were we going to say? We twist him and morph him into something else that we need that we like better. That we want to hear, that we want to feel, yeah. Yeah, the idea of creating a parallel religion, which is what the bull cult was in the Old Testament, where they created a golden calf to be God, but they just want they're like, okay, we're gonna keep all the other Ten Commandments and stuff like that, but we're gonna have this Yeah, and a really good example of that, uh I I wasn't gonna try to force it but I have an extra opportunity to bring up. So I'm trying to bridge a little bit of the gap because we talked about the shack for a couple of weeks and then we're really not talking about the shack for like three weeks and then we're going to finish up our look at the shack uh for about three weeks starting in a couple more weeks So I I wanted to bridge the gap a little bit maybe during discussion time if there was an opportunity to do so. And I think we have one. So for example, tying into this, on page 180 of the shack The Jesus character uh is shown to want us, the rest of all of humanity, to see him as a friend. That Jesus is our friend. And that's it. Near friendship. He's the Lord. Right? But that's not what right that he's Lord so we should and Jesus is our friend this it that's that's not untrue let's see uh when I heard just friend My mind instantly went to that clip of R. C. Sproul saying, what is wrong with you people? One of the most famous famous clips of R. C. Sproul ever. Just a friend. I tell you what, if I asked my friend, hey, you know, they're gonna they're gonna, you know, kill me, you know, would could you could you say say that you're me and do that for me maybe I don't think he's gonna agree to that. Yeah or the or the other thing that's very popular uh these days um is the idea that you know uh Christianity or you know it's it's about a relationship but it's not about a religion. You know, I love Jesus, but I hate the institution. You know That kind of an idea. And so tying into that, Jesus, the Jesus character in the shack, says quote, and says on page one seventy nine of the shack I didn't create institutions. Never have, never will. Well that's a lie. Actually. So can you name some institutions that God has put in place? Church. Church? He's instituted some practices, some religious practices, right? Government. Government? Yeah. Marriage. Marriage, yeah. Family for that matter. I kind of frown upon the word religion. the I mean because religion is is something you believe strongly but I I mean i it there's a difference between believing something And knowing something. Yeah, well I I think to put up to put his final point on because yeah, uh we have to define our terms, and so I'm glad that you bring that up. So to put a a kind of a more a a slightly more precise and finer point on what we so religion is it is what you m believe strongly But continuing the the the thought and the definition so strongly that you put into practice things that you do regularly with a devotion to. So that's why somebody who's a physical fitness freak and they say, uh I get up and I hit the road, I go out for a five-mile jog every morning at 6 a. m. religiously. Right? They do something religiously. It has to do with with the practice you believe that could yeah you believe in something so strong that you're committed to actually doing something about it. That is religion. And if Christ didn't come to establish that then you're exactly right We shouldn't do the Lord's Supper. Right. Right? We shouldn't have baptism. We shouldn't gather as a body of believers. We shouldn't have any sort of structures. I think it's it's really important to define terms what you mean when you say um it's it's not about a religion. I mean if if if if what is being communicated in that in that sentence is it's not just about following rules it's about knowing the Lord that you know the rules are supposed to help reveal. It's about establishing a real relationship with like take a marriage in the in the natural natural as as as as as as an example. You're married to your spouse and there are rules that come with that. Like you know, you don't cheat on each other would be a rule. Sure. But um your spouse wants something From you more than just rule following. Your spouse wants intimacy. Your spouse wants a relationship with you. Your spouse wants to connect with you. And it but apart from that, you know, it you just can have one without the other. Yeah, yeah, but people can easily, can easily Well let me let me let me say this a little bit differently. What if um I have a spouse and uh I follow the rules but I ignore my spouse. I follow like the basic rules of a of a a you don't have the relationship. They don't really have a a marriage the way it's it's intended. So if if they mean not or just a religion in that sense. I I can agree with that because God wants a relationship with us. In fact, we're the Christianity is the only religion where God has relationship with you. Everybody else just has religion. They just have rules. They can't relate to their God for whatever reason. You know, they just have rules, you know, and and and they do their best to follow the rules to appease that God or our God wants he he he wants the rules within the context of relating to him. I'm feeling like I'm gonna take a chance here but I'm feeling like Ray might read my mind. So I'm gonna see. Okay. Um if the world takes relationship and religion and juxtaposes them the way that some might try to the way that Angela was pushing back against. Juxtaposing relationship and religion. What might we call that or how might we characterize that? We definitely would call it a false dichotomy. He read my mind! I knew he would. Yeah. Um, I was just gonna say that the things that make Christianity distinct from other worldly religions doesn't make it less of a religion. Mm-hmm. Oh yeah, for sure. Like it's still like yeah, one thing that is unique to Christianity with regards to the whole rules thing is that Christianity isn't seeking the conformity of its members. It actually tea it you know it's taught in a way that it actually cares about whether it's members or practicing members believe in what they're practicing. Whereas you know Islam means submit or submission. So that one's That's really about, you know, are you submitting to the rules? And then a lot of other religions are really just like that. Whereas Christianity, I mean, it can be abused in that way, but it at the same time If you go back to scripture, it's all about whether you actually believe it or not, because you see throughout the Old Testament God uh disdaining certain sacrifices because these people are frauds. Well the one thing that Troy likes to say is there's two religions. Christianity and everything else because Christianity is the true religion and all the false society. Ray, you you you receive that, you fall into line. It doesn't mean that you stop practicing those things, it's just that you know that you're practicing them with the um acknowledgement of there's no penalty for not following them all. It's just out of love. Whereas the other ones you literally have to do them in order to go to paradise or wherever it is that you know so that's the difference everything's been done for you through Jesus whereas everything you do in response is out of gratitude yeah not because you have to earn it right yeah And and and and if it's done out of gratitude, I mean gratitude itself is right. That's a religion I mean that's a relationship thing. Exactly. I'm I'm grateful to this guy. Right. You know, and I I praise him and I worship him because I'm grateful, you know. And I I don't keep the rules perfectly because I can't. Um but But uh I try, you know, and I acknowledge that he has. And I acknowledge that he has, and when I mess up, I I repent and I ask for forgiveness. But it's it, you know, the even in in Christendom There is for some denominations, let's be honest, there's a focus on the rules and not on the God of the of the salvation. Right. makes it um um uh just uh it makes it a religion in a s you know in in in in a way that that you know god doesn't intend for it to be um And I have found that people like that that are very that are actually have gotten pretty good at following the rules can be some of the most acid like believers to deal with, you know, because they don't the relationship has been has been choked choked, you know. And here's a here's kind of a uh an illustration might help, I think. Uh because we have all sorts of different people that watch the stream I think. Uh I I don't know I don't know everybody who watches it because I just watch the YouTube and Facebook view counts And the numbers are way higher than who I know is watching, so I'm not sure who is all taking this in. So if I give you $100, all right Same action. I give you $100. One reason I could give you the $100 is I'm paying an invoice. There's a rule in place that I have to pay my bills. I give you the hundred dollars out of obligation. Okay, that's fine. That's well and good. Well we appreciate having our invoices we've sent down paid or I give you a hundred dollars because I love you and I feel like you could use it you needed to buy something That's been on your heart you can't quite afford, and I know that uh you know this little bit of help is gonna go a long way, and I just want to show you that I appreciate you and give you gonna give you that hundred dollars because I have gratitude for you you being in my life. Same action. I'm giving you $100 in both instances. Which one is more relational? Which one touches the heart? Which one has more meaning behind it? It right, so that maybe is helpful. Uh a couple of things I want to mention that tie into this theme, and then we'll we'll put a tie bow on this. The Shack uh says that marriage is not an institution. What is a relationship? So we're talking about that. But here's the thing. This is an attempt. Whenever somebody says, oh, it's not about an institution, it's about a relationship. This is an attempt. Attempt at redefining terms. And in this specific example, let's say that marriage, oh, well, marriage is not an institution, it's a relationship. I'm going to go to a secular source that all secularists even would probably tend to agree with. with Miriam Webster. Miriam Webster dictionary says it defines institution as quote a significant practice relationship or organization in a society or culture, for example, the institution of marriage. End quote. So if somebody wants to say, well, marriage isn't an institution it's a relationship, that's redefining well-established, long-standing definitions of terms. And that's going on in a A lot of that's very now very much in TV as well. Yeah, it's very thin. Yeah, it's kind of like I don't know if you've ever seen the wire but you know they're selling very bad heroin and their customer base knows that it's bad so they're changing the name of it they're changing the name of very step on product because they can't sell the old name anymore. It's a dead name. Yeah. Or you have businesses that uh they don't pay their bills on time and uh they're horribly in debt and they're being bad to people and that sort of thing. So they declare bankruptcy, shut the doors, wait a few months and reopen under a different a new name, as though it's a whole new entity and they screwed everybody over, but the not everybody knows that the new people are the same as the old people and they get away with it. Right? But God sees everything. You don't get away with it. Alright, one last uh because it's on this theme, so uh also on Page 179 where the Jesus character in the shack says, like I said, I don't create institutions. That's an occupation for those who want to play God. Goodness. Now that's really interesting, right? Because it's the Jesus character saying this. The Jesus character saying, I, Jesus, don't create institutions because if I were to do that I'd be playing God. Yeah. There's some iniquity investing. I mean in in that it's not Marcion. So and it's also right it's it's uh it can't withstand the weight of its own pressure. Because if it's uh how is it playing God? Let's just try to take him just logically. Can it hold up to logical scrutiny? How is it playing God if God doesn't create institutions? Right? If God doesn't create institutions And I go about setting up institutions and I'm playing something else. I'm playing something other than playing God. So it's like a self-defeating statement. I don't place people under arrest. That's things that people pretending to be police officers do. I I feel like um there's a lot of assumptions made in radio that book things that he didn't either didn't double check with scripture or cherry-picked from scripture. Yeah. Anyway. He's created a God of his own imagination. He's put words in his mouth and you know he's just done it in a very entertaining way. And um I made a lot of money off of it. Uh I think we've got it figured out. So that's the truth. And I think we'll pause there. It's just past seven o'clock, so then go and just here over an hour so we'll be done you want to close us prayer heavenly father thank you for this time together thank you for your holy spirit that leads us into truth Thank you that you, Lord Jesus, are the beginning and the end. You are our all. You are the one true God. Thank you for your sacrifice. Thank you for taking upon our sin, upon yourself, that we might be free to love you, to serve you, and to be with you for all eternity. May you be glorified. May you protect us through the week in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Tyler Dean providing some entertainment. So if you've kind of if you've joined us late and you want to catch it later, obviously you can find out on the Facebook. Facebook feed and if you have difficulty finding it on the Facebook feed later and you want to try to catch it uh and find it simply We have a YouTube channel, so you can go to YouTube channel and look for Household of Faith in Christ. We have a Household of Faith in Christ YouTube channel where all of these messages are there. So you can find us there. Till next week. I don't know what, 167 an hour. 167 hours from now. Okay. God bless.