In my opinion, yes. Alright, yep. Looks like we're rolling. Welcome Facebook. Great. And uh if you're watching this later, YouTube, if you're watching this live on Facebook, we're a few minutes later than normal. We got caught up in the spirit, we were singing. We're gonna do some more singing. How do you like that? Anyway, we're gonna be picking up our uh our our look at John chapter twenty today, so if you want to get your Bibles ready for the We're gonna read the uh the first nine verses here in a moment. Can you handle that Bible? Sorry. There you go. Uh so then the Gospel of John chapter twenty, the first nine verses, we're gonna read those in a moment. The message will be picking up where we left off last week and then we're going to have our discussion on that as well. And I guess without further ado, since we're starting late anyway, I'll just have Angela, if she wouldn't mind open opening us uh with a word of prayer and then we'll uh read the passage together. Holy Father in heaven, God we have are assembled together this day, Lord the Lord Jesus, you would have been uh Their body would have been in a tomb the second day, Lord, this day, thousands of years ago. We come together in in celebration, Lord, of that day. Lord, because that death that you suffered and Lord, it means eternal life to all those who believe that that is the payment, Lord God, for the sin. That we have committed. So we come together in celebration, Lord Jesus, for what you did, for the price that you paid for us. And we just pray, Father, Father, that by your spirit, Lord, that you would move in this gathering, Lord God, to to um help Pastor Troy and all the rest of us glorify what Jesus did. Lord. We are trusting in you, not in ourselves, not in our own intellect, not in our own abilities, Lord. We're just giving room for your spirit to move, Lord, to convince people of the truth. of of what will be discussed today. And we thank you, Lord, for the lives that will be changed, for the faith that will be restored, for the faith that will be brought to faith for the first time. We Thank you and bless you for it all. We give you all the praise, honor, and glory. And may you have your will today in this gathering in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Bibles open if you have 'em. Uh or if you're on some sort of fancy electronic device, that's fine too. Uh it's hard to make notes in those fancy electronic ones. Uh anyway, uh Gospel of John Now on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early while it was still dark and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciples. So Peter went out with the other disciple, and they were going to Going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first, and stooping to look in, he saw the linen clock. Lying there, but he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb. He saw the linen clothes gar cloth lying there and the face cloth which had been on Jesus, Jesus' head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded up in a place by Then the other disciple who had reached the tomb first also went in, uh, and he saw and believed, for as yet they did not understand the scripture that he must rise from the dead. Then the disciples went back to their homes. So the word of God, breathed out by God, inspired. Therefore, infallible, inerrant, a perfect rule and guide for faith and life practice, those who have ears to hear, let them hear. So last week we began our look at these verses. And I and uh by the way, I don't think I mentioned this last week, but I've titled this message Filled by Emptiness. And um As we just heard read, and Jesus leading into this moment, he had said on several occasions that uh he was going to be coming back from the dead He'd give the sign of Jonah, he'd rebuild the temple in three days. This was day three after his death, and yet the disciples seem to be very confused. We talked last week about that sort of stuff. We also talked about some of the differences between John's account uh of of this happening in history And and uh how there's some differences in Matthew and Mark and Luke. It's the same story, they're just coming at it from different angles, different perspectives, emphasizing different things. They're in perfect harmony, they're not in disagreement with one another They just, you know, highlight different things. And in this account, we get the importance of the eyewitnesses. Both John and Peter are eyewitnesses. We have two. Male witnesses, that's important. But the first witnesses were the women. The one that John highlights is Mary Magdalene, and that is an important witness to note. And it's important for us as contemporary witnesses. Because John almost going out of his way, he could have chosen to not mention that the women were the first ones, he could have, but he does, which back in that culture was a bit of a problem. And so because of that bit of a problem he could have avoided, but he didn't, he just told what happened, that increases our confidence that what John has written is authentic, it is true. True. Now, I mentioned Mary Magdalene. She had this idea in her head that, you know, because remember, Jesus delivered her from seven demons, and he treated her with unbelievable respect and love Love and dignity in a way that the rest of the surrounding culture really didn't. And so she had this idea of what Jesus would mean to her, obviously it was an idea that was absent the the idea of the resurrection from the dead. Uh and so she didn't have a full biblical scriptural understanding of who Jesus was, so this idea in her head came up empty. And so she was still in a sense in a s in a form of spiritual darkness, which is one of the reasons why John uses the word in verse 1, saying that it was still dark. In a form of spiritual darkness. It's not just Mary Magdalene, it's it's uh John and Peter and the other disciples too. They wanted a deliverer. They expected political deliverance, and what they expected from Jesus Seem to have come to an end when he was arrested and ridiculed and beaten and ultimately killed on the cross. And so they're confused, they're disillusioned, they feel like everything they've been trusting in is gone, it's over. Were they believing in a lie? Were they did they have false hopes? And you know, talk about this last week too. I can emphasize Maybe you can empathize too. We all are prone to trusting in earthly solutions. And those of us who are followers of Christ, we know Jesus. And yet too often we're still full of angst. We focus on these idols of our own construction. We might make an idol of our job or our economic economic welfare or community respect or uh you know our or retirement investments or politics or family or health or whatever we might make uh an idol And those things will at some point let you down. They they they come up empty. I've placed my hope in earthly things. I know you put your hopes in earthly things. And sometimes they come through in the short term, but ultimately they come up empty because idols always do. And that's pretty much encapsulating in a lightning round fashion. Some of the things we talked about last week. So before I press forward with uh these next verses, let me pause for an additional word of prayer here. Father, we thank Thank you for the truth of your word and for uh preserving it for us all these years, that we can trust that it is your word and that we should apply it to our lives. We ask that your holy Spirit would illumine our minds, soften our hearts, and help us to understand how these words written so many years ago are not just a story, but they are A glorious event and a truth that still has application to our lives in unbelievably meaningful ways. Hear your word clearly, and that we would apply it accurately to the situation we find ourselves in. That's your blessing upon this study of your word and the discussion that will follow. It's in Christ's name. Amen. So that little synopsis I gave you, what we covered last week, was mostly the first five verses. So let's pick up where we left off. Passage continues with Verses 6 and 7. Then Simon Peter came following John and went into the tomb. He saw the linen cloths lying there, the face cloth Which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with a linen cloth, but folded up in a place by itself. Now there are three interesting points, at least three interesting Points to note about these two verses. Point number one on our list of interesting points about verses six and seven is that you might have noticed I assumed that the unnamed disciple is John. There's nothing in the text that says that it must be John. And there has been some debate about this throughout the years, but the majority view of evangelical scholarship is that the disciple is John. The 2000 year history of uh year history of the church has pretty consistently maintained that this This disciple is John. The evidence that we have indicates that the early church fathers believed that the disciple was John. And as I read John's Gospel, and I read it in conjunction With the other gospel, I become very settled that this disciple is John. So for all of these reasons, I am very comfortable saying that the unnamed disciple Is John. Now, if you think you disagree, well, let me know. It'd be great to talk about it. Hash it out. It's good to hear each other's thoughts about these sorts of things. It's one of the reasons we have to discuss Discussion time that we do following the sermons each week here at the Household of Faith in Christ. Now, point number two on our list of interesting things to note about verses 6 It has to do with the details provided about the burial clause. Why does our author include this detail? Well one reason, because the burial claws were there. And he reported what he saw. Another reason, in case you might be thinking, the body could have been stolen He should think again. Why would robbers steal the body and leave behind valuable clothes? like this. These were very expensive burial cloths. They could have sold them, they could have saved them, used them for somebody else and spared themselves the great expense of having to purchase them. Incredibly valuable However, even if they wanted to leave the cloths behind It'd be easier said than done. Far easier said than done. Because when the balms and everything were kind of mixed together, they were added to the cloth As part of the preparation and the burial process. And so the cloth has stuck to the body almost as if it were glued to the body. Remember the story of Lazarus when Jesus raised him from the dead. He comes out of his tomb. And Jesus brings him back to life. We read about that in John's Gospel account, chapter 11. Lazarus still has the cloths wrapped around his body when he comes out of that tomb. The people had to help remove them off of his body because they were stuck to him. They didn't simply fall off when he stood up. And note that the head covering in Christ's tomb. It was neatly folded and set aside. What polite robbers these would have been. And there are some commentators that say that back then in ancient culture, if you stayed in an inn or something like that, it was practice to leave a head covering an item of clothes something of yours folded and left behind as an indication that you intended to come back. That's an indication Interesting thought. This is an indication from Jesus, a cultural pointer to the fact that he would return. Point number three on our list of interesting Points about verses six and seven actually connects with the next verse as well. Some have suggested that within a generation of Christ's death there Emerged rival Christian camps with the followers of Peter and the followers of John at odds with one another. Now the Bible doesn't say anything about this. But it's possible. That could be true. I mean we do know from 1 Corinthians that there was a rivalry between the followers of Paul and Apollos, and he And we even see a form of this sort of rivalry in today's contemporary example. The Roman Catholic Church elevates the Apostle Peter above Now, if John intends to address this rivalry, and I can't say for sure that he is, but if he intends to to address this rivalry? He does so brilliantly. Because consider Mary Magdalene, she comes first to Peter, who runs out with John. But then John arrives first at the tomb, having overtaken Peter. But then Peter enters the tomb first as John waited before But then it's John who is first to believe after taking in the scene. And so if any Christian is tempted to make an idol out of their favorite apostle, John cuts them off with a pass. Because they're both first in a sense. And recall from verse 4 of this passage. says that Peter and John, they were running to the tomb together. Now continuing with our passage. John 20 verses 8 and 9, they say, and the other disciple, John, who had reached the tomb first, also went in and saw and believed. For as yet they did not understand the scripture That he, Jesus, must rise from the dead. Then he saw and believed At first, there had been no true belief, as we talked about extensively last week. There was belief in idolatrous earthly things. Mary Magdalene, she believed in Jesus As a great healer in her experience of Jesus, casting out those demons, trusting in that experience. Came up empty. Peter, he had watched the example of Jesus up close, and he was energized by Christ's teaching. He often got very emotional in his devotion to Christ. But just his emotion wasn't enough. It came up empty. And John, he had placed his hope in what he thought he knew regarding what he had seen. His knowledge of what he saw failed him in this moment. It came up empty. Their hopes came up empty because they were trusting in merely earthly things idols, which are empty things. They weren't trusting in heavenly things Jesus rising from the dead. That's a miracle. Miracles are heavenly things. But John, he hadn't placed his hope in heavenly things at first. Peter, he didn't have hope in godly things. In this moment, Mary had been spiritually delivered from seven demons, and still, at least for a short period of time, she did not have hope in spiritual things. Are you like them? They have their minds on things that are on earth, not on things that are above. And this is contrary to what God says in Colossians chapter 3, verse 2, set your mind minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. And the disciples weren't doing this. in this passage. Maybe you're not doing this right now. Well this is They started doing this. And you can start doing this too. The same way that they did. Turning to the scriptures. Again, John chapter 20, verse 9, it says, For as yet they did not understand the scripture. And earlier, in John chapter 5, verses 39 and 40, Jesus tells them You search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life, and it is they that bear witness about me, Jesus says. And yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life Are you refusing to come to him? Are you failing to search the scriptures to find out what they have to say about Jesus? Your knowledge of Christ like John had, it's good. And your emotional connection to the Lord like Peter had. That is good. And your personal experience with Jesus, like Mary Magdalene had. It's good. But hoping merely in that knowledge, that emotion, that experience. That's not good. Learn from the Bible how to understand your emotional experience. Experience and education. That's what the disciples finally began to do. Because that's what Jesus told them to do. You know, when I began last week, you might recall that I opened up with a quote from Proverbs chapter 19, verse 22 to be specific. The way the NIV translates that verse, what a man desires is unfailing love. Better to be poor than a liar. I desire unfailing love. You desire unfailing love. We all desire unfailing love, but we all desire it in the wrong places Might desire it in our paychecks, our reputation, our health, our friends, our families And these are all good things. But they're not God. When we treat these things the way we should treat God, Well, we've set up idols. I'm guilty of this. And the result is I have set myself up to be distressed and in fear, just like the disciples were. Until they understood the scriptures. Are you like this too? Sometimes. The scriptures say that what we want is unfailing love, and this is true, but I have caught myself in a lie. I've too often replaced unfailing love found only in Jesus. I've replaced his unfailing love with the desire for earthly riches. But Proverbs says it's better to be poor than a liar. Can you relate? And when I began the process of preparing this message, we were actually in Advent season, and there were Christmas trees all over the place. And the tree, they gave me a metaphor that I'm gonna share with you now. So consider my idolatrous hopes and dreams They're like a big old tannin ball. And each branch is a different idol. So one branch is my 401k, and another branch is my beautiful daughter and one is my wife, and your idol tree, it might be your grade point average, or your football team, or your house, or what have you. Well instead of getting rid of the idol tree at its root by going straight to Jesus. Instead, I now realize looking back, and I remember last week I mentioned how about 10 years ago was doing a Good job at work, but got laid off anyway. So the idol of my career was exposed for what it is, an empty idol. Well, I realized what was going on there, so when I lost that job I grabbed the axe of my own strength and I started chopping away at that job branch idol And then when the economy tanks, oh, it started chopping away at the retirement fund branch. And then realizing that We as a society are heading down the wrong path. I started hacking away at the faith in the goodness of goodness of man branch. And I have to We had time stealers like television and video games and hobbies. And then I resharpened that axe of my own strength And I attacked every branch I could find, one right after the other. And there goes a branch, and there goes a branch, and there goes a branch, and there's another. And I furiously went after those branches, and I was exhausted. I kept going. Anyway. And you know, the more appreciations I cleared, the more branches I found. And even if even if I could eliminate all of the branches. What then? What would I be left with other than a really hideous looking tree I'd be left with my own exhausting efforts at clearing the idea. Idolatrous branches and my own effort will have become the idol. And as we know Idols come up empty. So we come back to the tomb. The empty tomb. Empty. Is it just another false idol? If we come to the tomb looking for the body of Jesus, so that we might venerate it, so that we might weep over it, so that we might use it to remind us of all the good things that Jesus had taught, if this is all we're looking for in the empty tomb, then it is an idol. If we come to the tomb looking for evidence that something supernatural did not happen If we're looking for an icon or a relic, if we're looking for Christ's example to us, if we're failing to understand what God says about this email Empty tomb in the scriptures, then it is an empty idol. But if we We come to this empty tomb to be reminded that Jesus Christ Christ told us. He would not be there. If we come to this empty tomb believing that Jesus could Conquered death, a death that he died for our sins, so that we can join him in glory. If we come to this empty tomb knowing that that tomb is now empty Is because Jesus is now ruling at the right hand of the Father in heaven, and that his Holy Spirit now resides in the hearts of Christians Then it's no empty idol. In fact, we might say that it's not really empty After all, because the emptiness of the tomb fills the tomb with evidence that God has fulfilled his promise to save us. Us from our sin. And that is the message that we are celebrating this weekend Let's pray. Gracious God, Father, we come to you knowing that our sins are just too heavy to carry, too real to hide, too deep to undo. We ask Lord Lord, that you would forgive what our lips tremble to name, what our hearts can no longer bear, and what has become for us the consuming fire of Judgment. Set us free from past we cannot change. Open to us a future in which we can be changed, and grant us grace to Grow more and more into your likeness and image through Jesus Christ who is the light of the world. And we come before you corporately in this Prayer that involves this confession of sin, knowing that you have given us assurance of your pardon in Christ. As you tell us in your word in the book of Joel, you declare, even now, return to me with all your heart, with fasting and weeping and mourning. Rest Your heart and not your garments, return to the Lord your God. For he is gracious and compassionate, slow to anger, and abounding in love. And he relents from sending calamity. How we praise you for relenting from sending calamity upon each of us that are so deserving of it. Instead, sending that calamity to be visited upon your son at the cross. It's in his name, the name of Jesus Christ, the glorious name of Jesus Christ that we pray. Amen. Let me switch it over here. All right, so before I cross But wouldn't Mark not raise Peter because Mark was a close follower of Peter? And he does the same thing where he kind of doesn't name himself in a passage if he's in the passage. Yeah, I I I think that there's some there's uh some authorial um modesty going on here. Uh he's not trying to write the story in the first person and say I need that sort of a thing. So I think that's part of it. And and there are a lot of people it's all spec uh there's a lot of speculation built into it. I don't think the whole idea that this disciple is John is speculation. But there are is some speculation that's used to support it. Like John is considered to be the youngest of the disciples. And so people will point to the fact that John outran Peter said, well, of course he outran Peter. Peter was older, John was younger, he's probably faster. That's interesting. I don't know if that's entirely true. There are some older people that might be able to outrun some younger people just because you're youngest Maybe you can roll a boat, but I don't know what his landscape is. Yeah. And it doesn't ultimately matter who the unnamed disciple is is, but I'm pretty settled that it is John and and uh this is part of his his own personal witness that what he's testifying to in the gospel account is his own witness Right just seems like a parallel it uh gospel Mark kinda does the same thing. Like make it about him And, you know, it's uh so well since we're talking about this, there's so many times when, you know, John will refer to him uh if if it is John, he's referring to himself as the disciple whom Jesus loved. And it's you know, if you misunderstand where he's coming from there, it's like, oh, he think you're the special one, like he loved you more than the others, and that's not uh Jesus loved all the disciples, and I think that John is kinda counting And so I th again I think it's a authority humility That's at play there. I don't think he's trying to brag that Jesus loves me and he didn't love these other guys. I don't think that's what's going on there. Right. I just think that's pretty Interesting to point out. So I I I'll share with you when I was uh thinking when I was thinking through Different aspects of idolatry uh in my individual life, and I used maybe a half a dozen or so different examples. But that's why the idea of a tree came to my mind because How many branches are there on a big old giant evergreen tree? Like it's you know, it's got it's so many, it's you don't realize how many there are until you're trying to chop them up for firewood or something. You're like, man, there's a lot of branches on here. And that's really what's going on in our lives, I think. We've got so many idols, and so many of them are tucked behind and hidden where you don't see them because of other more obvious idols. And then when you c Clear the big obvious ones, you're like, dang, is there no end to the idols in my life? And the answer is no. There is no end. So that's why we have total dependence upon Christ and his provision. I think what's going on now in our society is that The biggest idolatry is uh knowledge and knowing things and being an expert. You know, everyone's turning to the experts to see The experts will know. The experts will tell me. I don't even have to look for myself because they'll just tell me and and that's what I'll do. And that's dangerous because You've made them an idol. And and it's easy to do because we so easily make idols out of things and we're lazy. You know, we're lazy at at death. That's why, you know, Jesus scripture talks about how he hates you know, look look to the ants. They're constantly working and doing things. He hates the sluggard. You know, and and that is not just a physical thing, that's a mental thing, that's a you know, having that attitude of just letting somebody else do it for you you that's pervasive I think in our society right now. Yeah and I think there's there's uh could even put uh a finer point on that pencil. Um it's an uh unquestioned trust in the in the authority of somebody who has let's just let's take our argument say they have expertise. An unquestioned uh granting of authority to somebody who happens to have an expertise in something. So, you know, and t you you know talking about what's going on in the world today, and I'm not trying to make this purposely political right now and if you know what we do here, I'm not we don't go out of our way to avoid political, but in this case I'm not trying to pick a political fight. But Anthony Fauci is obviously a very well learned and around the world very highly regarded epidemiologist. And so let's just grant the point and say he really is an expert on infectious disease. Let's just say for the sake of argument at the very even if you disagree. For the sake of argument, grant the point. All right, he is an expert there. Does that make him an expert in sociology? An expert in economics, an expert in government policy, an expert in interpersonal dynamics? Does it make him an expert in everything just because he's got this narrow sliver of expertise? And so I'm not anti expert. I mean I think we should aspire to become excellent in our knowledge of things and we should become expert at things. I I'm totally on board with that. But we also also have to recognize that even if I'm expert at something, you gotta be careful and be Bereans and judge everything I say that everybody says but in this case I'm using myself as the example, against the the established word of God, you know, the Bereans, because I'm sinful. I have a whole tree full of idols in my life. And who knows how many of them are at play that would affect how I'm going to relate information to you. And I'm not saying that that Anthony Frauci necessarily has sinful uh uh motivations in advocating for what he's been advocating for the last year plus, but it's at least within the realm of possibility. So why would we unquestionably follow after his expertise even in his area specialty. But certainly why wouldn't he follow after it across the board? But I'm not even sure it's as simple as that. I think it's this lazy acceptance the authority is anybody is talking to us from a glowing screen. And so if the news outlets, you know, if David Muir on ABC said it, it must be true. I mean he's David Muir, he's on ABC. I mean they're expert at news gathering and sharing that information. I'm sure they vetted everything, right? Not necessarily. So we live in a in a very flabby, intellectually flabby environment right now where somebody who seems to have a position of authority and and influence, we just trust them. Picking up your point but going in a slightly different angle. I think another a a a major idol in in in contemporary society is people's idolatry of their own opinion. Yeah. Because um social media uh has all of a sudden given everybody uh a platform. Everybody thinks they have the answer. Everybody wants to tell you, you know, what's true And um a lot of those people they just don't know what they're talking about. You know. They're just And they don't know you personally. And they and Yeah, and but they have a YouTube channel and you know, they have, you know, several thousand views and and um you know all of a sudden they're I mean that I think that's that's a that's a big issue here. There are a lot of people that are being led astray because of that. Everybody suddenly has a platform. The uh the fact of the matter is somebody with the platforms and YouTube channels and stuff, sometimes they do know what they're talking about. So but the the the real question is what is going to be our source for vetting that information to know if they're speaking truth or not, and there's only one established trustworthy time-tested source for that, and that is the revealed word of God. It's been preserved on the pages of our Bible. test everything against that. And I had somebody a number of months ago when I was still interacting on Facebook. Like I'm doing this right now, you're watching us on Facebook. Uh and I post podcasts and videos on Facebook Facebook. That's about all I do. I'm not really interacting on Facebook. But when I still was, we were talking about these sorts of uh things and somebody said, uh, well the Bible you know, doesn't say anything about this. And actually it does. Uh have you read it? So I mean it's not gonna tell uh the Bible doesn't tell us that two plus two equals four. But as a good and necessary consequence actually from what the Bible teaches, two plus two equals four equals But but it's built on logic and there is and uh and logic there are arg I would argue that the Bible affirms logic and so as a good and necessary uh consequence of the Bible's teaching on logic, you can apply that mathematical logic and say that if two at the very least, if two plus two equals four Then 2 plus 3 can't equal 4. At the very least, we have to say that that's unreasonable, illogical, and untrue because it it violates the principles of reason. the Bible supports principles of reason. So everything you can kind of go back. So if somebody were to say, well two plus two uh equals seven, you can say, well, uh based on how the whole mathematics scheme works, that's a completely unacceptable answer and we need to reject things that are that obtuse because the Bible would have us reject things that are obtuse. So we can even apply it to something that's a man made construct I would argue. Yes. Well well that's true. Um we also have to forgot what I was gonna say. Um there's the Augustine notion that all truth is God's truth. And you know, that applies to math. Mathematics and stuff like that, you know. The Bible definitely has mathematics considering you have a book where book of numbers where there's two senses taken. Right, the county people. And then you also have like mandolin genetics. Also thrown in there with uh Joseph or Jacob breeding the sheep. Uh you know, to get speckles or stocks or whatever on them. So So he can keep a sheep lighter in life. Right. Um I remember what I was gonna say. Um we also get caught up in forgetting That while we are bound by those laws and those and and you know, logic and what have you, God is not Yeah, he's outside of that. Now in the gospel narrative in chapter twenty of John, the very next portion it becomes clear uh uh like if you've never if you've never known the story your whole life and you're reading John like a story and you read through John chapter twenty verse nine and you stop He'd be like, okay, so why is it empty? I'm still not sure I understand exactly. Like, where did he where did he go? And so Jesus reveals himself. And so we know for you know we know for a fact in the story itself that Jesus rose from the dead, he reveals himself and but there's a purpose why the the preaching we did paused at verse nine and didn't continue into the Bala verses because it was to emphasize the point and the idea that even as believers we tend to live lives it kind of at least on occasion lives it will hover in that space That space where Jesus has died, but the truth of the resurrection, it's as though it's not known to us. We live our lives. as though we don't know that Jesus actually rose from the dead. We're left we we live our lives with an uncertainty. Even though we know, we live our lives as though we don't know. And so that's why Pause at verse nine is because that's where the disciples at that moment. And it says that you know John saw and he believed. But what exactly did he believe? It's not Now I'm not sure that what is intended there is that gee that John believed that he rose from the dead necessarily because he still can think about what happens in the upper room with it So he's believing that, okay, I believe the body is gone. I believe that. And it doesn't make sense the bible that the body would have been stolen, so I'm not believing that. And he's beginning to piece together, but I don't even think his his belief uh in the exalted resurrected Jesus Christ has full the puzzle pieces have fully come together yet in his mind. He's still in this place where he believes, but it's almost like I believe yet Lord help my unbelief He's kind of there, I think. But then he ends up getting past there, at least at wonderful moments in his life. Now did John Dylan ever have any moments where his assurance was wobbly or his his confidence in in what he knew to be true would waver just a little bit. I mean he's human I I think that's possible based on what he's written that we have preserved for us in the in the New Testament. He has absolute confidence in the moment that he's writing anyway. And I I believe that he lived out his life in a way that had confidence and had enough confidence to be uh consigned to the island of Patmos at one point, uh and pay the pay the pipe For his beliefs. And so we should get there. So our Christian walk shouldn't end at verse 9 And it's interesting if you read the you know the whole gospel of John, like uh Paul's Sunday is in chapter twelve, and we're on chapter twenty, so there's a large emphasis in the Gospel of John on the Holy Week. And you know, this This, you know, I guess verse nine would be like the climax. Like we're nearing the climax of the entire gospel. If you consider it like a s if you read it like a story, it this would be the climax. That's starting right here is when Jesus appears after uh the Timazankee. Yeah, yeah, that final week of Christ's life is really the centerpiece of John's gospel and everything leading up to that final week is almost like preamble to get us there. And I guess that makes sense because you could argue that the entire scriptures up until that moment in history or a preamble to that moment in history. So they're anticipating their king and their king arrives and they celebrate it. But again they had this false idea in their mind of what that king would look like. So they this idolatrous idea of what the king would be, and so those hopes are dashed. Testament that God's people are are gravitating towards God's truth and they're obedient for a time because they're trusting him, but then they start to hope in other things. They expect God to play things out the way that they want So they make their own attitudes and hopes and dreams the idol, not trusting God's plan and provision. That's recurring. So that means thousands of years of history leading up to uh the beginning of the New Testament period. And now in our own lives, thousands of years later, we're still prone to that, which is why but we bang this drum a lot. That's why it's so important that God's people come together and gather because we need to be reminded. We need to encourage one another in the truth. You know, you had a hard week. And so your assurance of salvation is wavering, or your assurance that it's even true is wavering. And you come a bunch of other people who are having a good week, and they can say, Oh, well let me remind you You of what you know. That was a big theme in John's epistles, right? John is writing to us to tell us what we already know, to affirm with us that we can know what we know because we do know So he's not saying, hey, I need you to know this. He goes out of his way and say, You already know this, so let me tell you what you know so you don't forget what you know. We have amnesia a lot. Yeah, we're still for yeah, we forget. And so we need to come together And be reminded that it is actually the truth. A lot of times, um, at least I've seen, you know having in scripture you touched on this where it seems like so long before you hear from God or you know look at uh Abraham and Sarah So they enact what they think God would do. God promised we would have a child. Oh I know. How about if you sleep with my mates or that must be how God's gonna do it. How oftentimes do we do that? Where as coming together with a body of believers, you can be like, hey, so this is what God put on my heart, so I'm thinking and then And we can one another be like, Ah, are you sure you're not getting ahead of God? Or are you sure that's what God said? Are you you know, so that's why it's so important for us to have Corporate worship, corporate you know, all of it is so, so very important because like Landon said, God's not bound by time. So you know it's like And the way the Bible story plays out and different different authors will emphasize different things and so the um even if I Draw a sketch of something and it's not like you're trying to draw a floor plan for a house, let's say, or something like that, or design your out dot uh your outside landscaping. And it's not to scale. You know, so you've got you you've got a oh we're gonna put a tree over here and a tree takes up like a third of a yard. Well that's not true. So it's not to scale. And so I think the timeline inscription can kind of feel the same way. Like Ray touched on this with you know how John tells a story. I mean like half of his book is one week And the other half covers a couple of years, like it or maybe three years. You know, it's it it's it's so it's not it's not written to scale on a in a on a chronological scale So the same thing happens when we we expect God to act. Well what what God intends to do quickly doesn't measure up with what we think of as quickly Look at the you mentioned the Old Testament, the Israelites, that they have this wonderful start to life. They got there in a not so wonderful way, but once they got there, they had this wonderful start in Egypt. And then all of a sudden the Pharaoh forgets who Joseph is, and they go through hundreds of years of slavery. But hundreds of years before that, Abraham had been promised that his descendants Would be in the promised land. And God fulfilled that. But how many years did it take before Abraham's promise was fulfilled with them entering the promised land? And it might feel like, man, it took forever. But If you read s if if you read relatively like if you read the Bible in a year, and you're gonna cover that part of the Bible probably within you know the first few months of of reading the Bible in a year, so what takes you, I don't know six weeks of time to read played out over hundreds and hundreds of years. And so our time gets thrown out. I mean Jesus was gonna return. I mean he left behind that cloth. Maybe that was an indication of his intention to return, and here we are two thousand years later, awaiting his return. How many times do you How many times have people said he's coming back to the Mayan calendar and the this and the that and you're like, okay, but yet his ways are not our ways. And then that becomes that's a I I'm glad you brought that up because I actually had this thought and I totally forgot it. Uh days ago I had this thought, I totally forgot it until just now. Because we start to get a little wobbly on what the Bible's truly teaching us in God's timetable for things, we start to construct these idols of our own. So we start putting our faith in well the Mayan calendar says. Maybe that's Christ will come back. Well what does the Mayan calendar have to do with scripture? So we start putting our hopes and ideas invested in things that aren't scriptural to support scripture maybe, like they'll give us the benefit of the doubt But, or you read the you read a book and then watch the movie, you know, Heaven is for real. We needed a book, which is you know relaying somebody's supposed experience. of entering into heaven, true or not, right? Let's I'm not going to have that argument right now. But let's just let's just say that it's true, okay, but we needed that guy and his story and his book, which was then made into a movie, we needed those things to tell us that heaven is real. The scripture isn't enough. So we make an idol of these extra biblical things instead of trusting in God and His Word. And we're so prone to it, even for good things Heck the Mormons got some impatience. They wrote a Bible there in others have done Actually they didn't write it in his plate dress. Well we use scripture to m to uh fit our agenda instead of scripture changing our agenda, we it's kind of inverted yeah. Mm-hmm. Twist it. To twist it. Which is dangerous. Very dangerous. That's where the body of believers comes in to play and be like, Oh, listen girl, what you're doing is not what the Bible says. You know, you need somebody to come slap you upside the head and that That's I think accountability. Yeah yeah, and that's what's so important, so so very important with fellowship is to have, you know, iron sharpening iron where someone who looks Loves you, who loves God, loves you, says to you out of love, you're sinning right now because you're trying to to fit what you're wanting to happen into what God's saying and that's not what God's saying. You know? I mean I've been guilty of it. And and Part of it is definitely holding somebody accountable and calling out sin for what sin is so that they can be restored to a proper right relationship. And then the other thing too is night not be pointing out a sin particularly, but it uh it might just be reaffirming the truth. Because you mentioned this trust and expertise and making that an idol, a huge idol in our contempt Society and it's infected the church in a gigantic way is a desire to be well liked. And so it's not just that I mean it's horribly sad that it's church leaders and pastors, but it's not just church leaders and pastors. You might be guilty. You watching this or us in this room, we might be guilty of this at times. What we're recognizing and celebrating this week is the fact that we are sinners in desperate need. need of a rescuer. And God sent his son, who willingly took on the mission to lay down his life to pay the penalty for our sin to rescue us. So he goes on a rescue mission to rescue us. And what happened What we celebrate tomorrow morning with the empty tomb is the fact that Christ defeated even death, demonstrating that everything he had said before and the way he lived his life was valid and true, like the The final s the final stamp of if you had any reason to wonder if Jesus actually knew what he was talking about, the empty tomb, bang, exclamation point, big gigantic period at the bottom of that expelled point like bang there it is he really is who he says that he is that's what we celebrate and yet if you call yourself a Christian and you're celebrating these things this weekend how many times when push comes to shove and you're one of those kind of awkward, difficult, you're not sure how to handle it because you want to be liked, you don't want to be offensive, you'll soften and you'll cushion what you say, and someone will say something like, Well, you know, so-and-so, they were you know so-and-so died last week, but they were a good person. I'm sure they're gonna go to heaven Is that how you get to heaven? Yeah. By being a good person? And how often do we agree and say, well yeah, you know, uh you might say nothing or you might say yeah He was a good person. So yeah, so you're probably right, he's in heaven or she's in heaven. You know, somebody who's a devout Jew or devout Muslim or you know devout anything that's not devoutly devoted to Christ as the exalted Lord and Savior. And yeah, I've heard this from people and say, oh, you can't tell me that person, I mean, not only were they a good person, but they were so devout. They went to synagogue every week and they were so generous. Clearly they're going to heaven. And as believers in the Bible, at least professing believers in the Bible, so often We say, yeah, you know, yeah that that that you might be right. There's probably room for that. I mean, God knows. Only God really knows. That's right, God does know, and He's revealed to us what he knows about that in the scripture. We don't have to ask questions about that question anymore. We know there's one way to the Father and that is through Jesus Christ. Christ. Unless Jesus is a liar. But if Jesus is a liar, then how the heck did he conquer death? How did he leave that tomb empty? Amen. So we're so that is a huge uh area of weakness for us. We need to be ambassador. Not that we want to bash people over the head and say, oh no, definitely in hell and he deserves it. We're not here to accuse the lost. We're here to Warn of the lost. We are here to accuse the faithful when they stumble and fall and say, hey, that's a sin. And you know, as a believer in Christ, you need to do better. You can that we should do, and yet that we don't ever do. When's the last time you if you go to church, you watching online, when's the last time The church you go to exercise church discipline, excommunicated someone for an ongoing unrepentant sin? When's the last time? I'd be willing to bet there's nobody watching right now where that's happened. There might be an exception to the rule. I know it does happen. But as a percentage, it does not happen. So we're quick to wag our finger at the loss and condemn them when what we need to do is warned them out of love. We can't hold them to a a godly lawful standard because we can't even live up to that standard ourselves. So we're throwing a yoke around their neck that we can't even bear. So we got it all inside out and upside down. Kind of off on a tangent a little bit there, so I got us off the rails. Well it's a little after seven. Does anybody have any other thoughts they wanted to add before we uh close with a word of prayer? Alright. Well, we're going to close the word of prayer and then do some more singing. So I would encourage you when we're done, do some singing. Yeah, and and let me say that really quick before the prayer. If you live within driving distance uh of of Frederick uh and you're not Going to a church right now, maybe your church isn't meeting, or maybe you've you feel like your church they've lost their way, they're not preaching the gospel, not teaching the Bible, they're not being true to God's truth. Uh reach out to me. And uh love to talk with you about possibly joining up with what with us what we're doing here. Uh the more the merrier. Um feels more worshipy. When there's more people here. I'll pray. Lord, thank you so much for you are truth, you are life, you are risen. The tomb is empty as proof Because you have gone to be with the Father so that we can also be with the Father. You are our intercessor, and we thank you for that. We thank you for taking upon not just my sin and everyone's sin in this room, but the sin of the entire world. What an awful, awful thing to bear, and yet you did so willingly You took on all of our sin, past, present, and future. You took it upon yourself so that we can take upon your clothes and be righteous in the sight of God to those who believe and accept this wonderful gift, not for anything that we have done, because there's nothing we can do. Even our righteousness is filthy rags. Father, convict us. Show us where we have fallen short so that we can see where you have filled in everything, where you are our all. All and all. You are the beginning and the end in everything in the middle. May you be glorified through our lives. May you reign like you do. Thank you. Come quickly. Um, feeling lead that we might um have the Father's, the the Lord's Prayer. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who have trespassed against us. Lead us not into temptation, Lord, and deliver us Deliver us from all evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory now and forever. Amen. All right, well, Jesus Christ is risen He is risen indeed, and therein rests our hope. See you next week. God bless