Look happy too. And we'll be able to get my Bible right there. Welcome uh Facebook and if you're watching this later on on Del on YouTube. Welcome to YouTube. If you'd like to join the conversation virtually, you're welcome to do so in the comment section below. And I mentioned YouTube, if you are uninitiated, you don't don't know all these Facebook live videos that we do end up being housed and archived on the YouTube channel. Go to YouTube and type in Household of Faith in Christ And you'll see our blue and purple logo there. That's our channel, and all the videos are there. You might remember last month we we did a couple of messages is we're talking about uh the third epistle of John, actually, the tail end of that, and we are beginning to pivot into talking about some of the theological views that are expressed in a very popular book and movie called The Shack. And we took a break for Palm Sunday and Resurrection Sunday, but now we're we're back tackling that subject matter this week and for the next couple of weeks. as well. You don't have to have seen the movie or read the book to follow along. It might be helpful, but it's not critical. Try to touch enough of what's going on so that you can feel like you know what a talking about at least at some level and then participate in the conversation. And I say this with some regularity. We're thrilled that you're joining us. Absolutely love Tell your friends, have them join us too. But if you're doing this instead of going to church, that's just that doesn't cut it. Uh you need to be going to a church, the body of believers, gathering together That's what it means to be church, do church, behave as the church. Uh if your church isn't meeting, find one that is. And if you're within driving distance of Frederick, you know, within you know 30 minutes this to an hour or so and you don't have another church that you would feel good about cup come join in with us. Well but this is not a replacement. Uh this is a supplement for the being part of a church. Unless of course you're joining us, then this becomes your church. So we're gonna get into the message here in a minute and then we'll have about a half hour or so for discussion about the things brought up in the in the message. But before we do that, I'm going to ask Angela if she wouldn't open us in a word of prayer and then we'll we'll get started. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for another opportunity to come together. in fellowship in the name of your son Jesus. And we just pray, Father, that you would seek by your Holy Spirit you would speak truth through the mouths of the people gathered here. We pray, Lord, that nothing comes from our flesh, Lord, that everything that is said comes straight from the flesh. throne room, from your throne room, Father, so that your message is glorified. Your truth is glorified in this gathering We thank you, Father, and we ask that you would bless this gathering in this manner in the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. First John chapter 2 says, I write to you not because you do not know the truth, but because you know it. And because no lie is of the truth. I write these things to you about those who are trying to deceive you. First John chapter 4 says, Beloved, do not believe every spirit But tests the spirits to see whether they are from God. For many false prophets have gone out into the world. Second John says, The elder to the elect lady and her children whom I love Love in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth, because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever. 3rd John says, For I rejoiced greatly when the brothers came and testified to your truth, as indeed you are walking in the truth. No greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. These verses are from the inspired inspired in errant infallible word of God, which is the perfect rule and guide for faith and life practice, those who have ears to hear. Let them hear. You might, if you've been with us for a while virtually, you might re recall and know that we've spent months working our way through through the epistles of John. Sorry, well 1 John and 2 John, 3 John. Pretty much wrapped up 3 John of just a few weeks ago. And now we're kind of putting a catstone finishing touch by looking at the themes that are brought up in the three epistles of John and using as a foil the themes and teachings that are brought up forward in the book and movie The Shack and seeing how those very popular teachings stack up to the scriptural teachings that are advocated for and defended The Epistles of John, they emphasize the fact that Jesus Christ's identity is the Son of God. And these letters, they emphasize the importance Of obedience to this Messiah, our king. The Apostle John also emphasizes the importance of mimicking the love. Of our Lord and Savior. Huge themes for John. Truth and love. Again, as I mentioned, last month we took a rather extended peek at the very very successful book and movie and phenomenon called The Shack. And we spent some time lauding the Shack. For his positive aspects, for highlighting the love of our Creator, Father, Son, Holy Spirit. But we also drew attention to reasons for having concerns about the Shack for potentially having an unbiblical bias and therefore an unbiblical agenda. This is important for Christians to grapple with because the Apostle John, in his three letters to us that we have preserved for us in our Canon in the New Testament emphasizes the importance of truth. Does the Shack teach the truth? Some yes, but not all. Now a quick Refresher or introduction for the uninitiated, the Shaq tells the story of a man named Mac and his six-year-old daughter Missy is kidnapped and she has taken Taken to a shack deep in the woods, and she is murdered. And this causes Mac to enter into what the author, William Paul Young, describes as the great sadness. And you might relate, masked life, it feels inside out Doesn't feel normal anymore, if it ever was. He questions what he was taught in church and even at seminary. He wonders if it's just all a dream, a hoax, a hallucination, a nightmare. Is God toying with him? His relationship with his wife and his other children has weakened As he goes through this season in life. And Mac finds no answers at all from his pastor or from the fellowship of believers who join him at the worship service, mostly because his congregation is really just a religious social club. And so he's not certain of anything anymore. He's not even certain of the distinction between the irrational and the rational. Does any of that connect in your life? Can you relate? having these kinds of questions. Now it's at this point in the story that Mac receives a letter from someone named Papa. And Mac wonders, could this Papa be be the killer? Could it be God? Because I was really shocked. I was beginning to wonder, could it be the devil? Max says on page 71 of the Shack, part of me would like to believe that God would care enough about me to send a note. Find that ironic as we've just finished up studying three notes from God that we call the Epistles of John, demonstrating that yes, indeed, God does care enough to send us note more than one. And Mac wonders, if this Papa maybe is God, will he have a long white beard? Will he be a bright light or a flame? And with all this, we conclude our our our setup of the story. This is an achy, breaky heart sort of a story. It's a story of hurt and doubt. is so relatable. And this is what makes the shack popular. It is so powerful a scenario, this story And this is what makes the shack dangerous if what it teaches about God Is not true. Now the book it does admit to the presence of evil in the world. So there's a Positive check mark for the shack. It honestly acknowledges the brokenness and the deadness of living in this evil world. It calls attention to dead and empty and evil horrors of the demonic that might dare us all at some point in our life to shout at God angrily, I hate you To blame God, to think of him as indifferent, not being there for you, to doubt that he even exists. Which would mean that we exist in a black chasm of darkness, sucking any last vessels of hope that we might have had Remaining in our hearts. These are powerful things, and the Shack hits upon them. And Max only hope is for God to come and find him. and show himself as a God who brings life and order out of despondency and chaos. And this is kind of what happens in the shack Now maybe Mac is dreaming, hallucinating, but in the shack, he has an encounter with God. At least this is what William Paul Young intends for you to understand. But is it God? The real God, the truth True God, the biblical God, there is reason to have doubt Now in the shock, there is at least some truth. If it's okay that I should say that there's some truth without upsetting The author, because after all, he does quote Albert Einstein on page 151 of the Shack, saying, Whoever undertakes to set himself up as a judge of truth and knowledge is shipwrecked by the laughter of the gods. However, attempting to follow after the noble character Of the Berean Jews in the book of Acts. We're going to press forward with great eagerness and we are going to examine what the Shack has to say in light of what the Scripture has to say. And see if what Paul Young says in the shack is true. Now the book presents, as I mentioned, the idea of a God Who brings order out of chaos, especially out of order out of the chaos of our lives? Lives filled with emotional pain. Pain that is often best dealt with by pressing into a hurt. I'll give the Shaq point there And it indicates that God is able to take what is bad or dangerous and is able to use it for good And good does not always mean what makes us feel good. And Beshaq says that there is such a thing as good, distinct from evil. evil. This is confirmed as true in the Shack. The book illustrates beautifully that we are each co-laborers with God. These are all points in the Shack's favor. These are all biblical truths. exemplified by the shack. So if you're a fan of the shack, these might be some of the reasons why. And you know what? It's kind of a personal agenda thing, but the book also it it books a little hole in that phenomenon What would Jesus do? Remember that was very popular a number of years ago? And anything that pokes pokes a hole in the what would Jesus do phenomenon is actually a pretty good thing in my book. And there's a little bit of ink that's spent on the benefits of leaning on God, because depending on things absent of good. Well that's depending on evil. And the book highlights the Son of God as one who did not grasp after His rights, choosing instead to serve. And in this, there is an example to us. Are we willing to surrender our rights rights, our rights to life, to property, to fill in the blank. These are all very positive aspects of the And I'll add this too, while it's fleeting, there is a fleeting moment Of reverent heavenly worship in the book. You can find it on page 138 if you'd like to look it up yourself. And there is a trinity in the book, for example. There's Papa and there's Jesus and there's Sarayu. Meant to be direct the uh Holy Spirit. So there is a lot that is true in the Shack. Well now let's take a look at Papa. Papa in the shack is described as a large African-American woman. Who meets or sees Mac, or Mac sees Papa face to face, and wears Mac's mother's perfume So there are some dispute points to note about this right off the bat, right? So John chapter 4, verse 24, other places we understand From Scripture that God is spirit, therefore not a man or a woman in the biological sense of things. Well, this is true, the Bible does pretty consistently Refer to the father in masculine terms, using masculine pronouns and those sorts of things, for the most part. And I think that this is important. It helps us to understand very important concepts in the Bible like like uh what was called federal headship and uh uh customs of the ancient Near East and practices that are related to inheritance and adoption and questions of leadership and order, you lose a lot of those insights if you lose the gender designations. So people get rather upset sometimes with Shaq on this particular point and they're not exactly wrong But despite all these big theological issues that get raised by these sorts of things, I don't think that Bible Unbelieving Christians should spend all their ammunition on this point and get completely bent out of shape because Papa is presented as a female. I mean later in the book Papa is presented as a male after all, even though most of the story presented as a female. And there are times in the Bible when God is presented in feminine terms. So that's not the be-all end-all argument to make. It's more concerning, should be, this to me. Hopefully after I've done explaining to you, it will be you too. It's more concerning that Papa Is seen at all. In the Bible, no one ever sees the Father face to face Never. Point you to John chapter 1, verse 18, 1 John 4, verse 12. There's other places you can look. So we have in the shack a situation where Mac sees the father face to face when no one else does And this papa seems to be a construct of Mac's own imagination, his own desires. And remember, Papa wears the same perfume as Mac's mother. And Papa says things to Mac like, that's okay, we'll do this on your terms. Find that quote on page 83. You might remember from last month that I wondered if perhaps our author, William Paul Young, is a pacifist. And it could be, because Papa is clearly anti-gun in the story, disdaining even holding one. So I ask, are we free to make a mental image of the Father and to make him in our own image. I mean this is a character in the shack. These are words that are used to describe Papa in the shack. Papa in the shack is joyful. Oaxy, casual, affectionate, playful, constantly thinking things hilarious, roaring, belly laughing. Chuckling, smiling, grinning, giggling, grunting, snorting, smirking, humming, beaming, winking, mocking, muttering, snickering, and soup Super silly, delighting with spasms of mirth and amusement, yelling things like, Time for some fun It's the portrait of a kind of slap happy God. I mean, at one point, Matt asks Am I supposed to believe that God is a big black woman with a questionable sense of humor? That question appears at the bottom of page 88 filling over at the top of page 89 and it is an excellent question. What we have in the shack is a very domesticated, laissez-faire and whimsical God, always quite pleased, perpetually satisfied. With shoulder shimmies and hip shakes. Lots of cooking in the kitchen while listen to uh West Coast Juice, which is described as Eurasian funk and blue. On page 90 of the shack. And this musical choice is a surprise to Mac, because he he expected that God would listen to the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. Mormon. Mac is supposed to be a seminary trained Christian. And he thinks that God will listen to Mormon music? Really? Now again, let me say something For half a second here, there's more positive about the shack. In the end of the story, the pain that Mac was experiencing, it vanishes. Leaving Mac happy. There is a happy ending, and this is good, of course. And the Christian message is about a happy ending, right? We were we our our horrible experiences will come to an end. No more crying, no more pain, no more death. Everything will be as it should be at Christmas coming as we live with him in glory. That is the Christian message. But in the shack, Matt gets to this glorious happy ending. With God not being glorified. God is basically explained away. Human decisions are in control. Not God. Not his word. The God of the Shack does not inspire much in the word Way of worship or awe. In fact, Mac is downright irreverent early on, and he He is astoundingly sarcastic and informal later on, constantly blaming and doubting God. Now how does this stack up with how people in the Bible react when they are in the presence of God, falling down as though dead Saying, woe is me, recognizing their own uncleanness, their own sinfulness, their own unworthiness before the grandeur of God In the Shakter is no sense of awe of God. I point you to page 183 if you have a copy of the book. Mac uses the Lord's name in vain on page 166, and he curses in God's presence again on page. 140 and then again in God's presence on page 224. Mac is rude. He repeatedly cuts God off. He interrupts God And the shack's god, totally fine with Mac constantly and irreverently interrupting and using sarcasm. Indicating his irritation with God. And God in the Shakta is routinely doubted as a liar. One example on page 102. God is made to cry by Matt on page 92 You know, the the shack it presents a tender God. And that's a good thing. God is tender. But in the shack We also have a weak God. A God who says on page ninety-two, I have no magic wand to wave. I mean, forget the occult reference for half a second. God can do no miracles? Now Paul Young does once use the phrase awestruck wonder in the pages of the Shack, so that might keep some readers happy. You want to find that one reference reference to Austruck Wonders on page 110. But prayer before meals is disrespected in the Shack on page 105 and disrespected once in the again on page 120 and Mac is said to be amused by God on pages 115 and 117. And right before this on page 114, Mac says I hope you're right. To Jesus. Seriously. I hope you're right. This is supposed to be Jesus. Yeah, hello. There is no sense pretty much ever in the shaft of the Throne of God. Instead, we have scenes like Jesus skipping stones on Page 170. Or on page 176, Jesus depicted in a childish fashion chasing after a fish that he just can't catch. I mean, the one who proved to be a great fisherman, just asked St. Peter, for example, he can't catch just one fish Near the end of the story on page two hundred thirty-seven, Matt says saying goodbye to God seemed a little silly. Mac's whole relationship with God in the pages of this story has been rather silly, if you ask me. Now there is a thread of anti-Nonianism that runs throughout the chap This means that there's an anti-law view that's put forward. Anti is against and gnomonism, the root word there is gnomos, law, anti-law Page 88, Mac is told by God, you can do whatever you want. Very next page, you're not supposed to do anything. You're free to do whatever you like. And then, now Jesus was serious. Don't go because you feel obligated. That won't get you any points around here. Go because it's what you want to do. Are you kidding me? prepared this message. It was designed actually to be something that would be like a lecture that would last about sixty minutes long. We would have no time for discussion if we did that. So I'm going to pause here. We're going to break this up Actually, into three different messages and three different discussions to go through all the various issues that are at play in the shack And I'm emphasizing the shad because that's our foil. These are issues in our culture at large. These are issues that have infected the church, the visible church anyway. It's very own self. We need to understand how to recognize things that aren't true and do battle against them and replace them with what is true. Now, didn't quote a lot of scripture today. I started by quoting some verses of scripture. And if you remember the messages from last month, the two that we did that talked about the shack a bit. And today and then the next two we're going to do in the coming weeks. Not be quoting a lot of scripture, but I am going to be referencing a lot of scripture, already have and will continue to do so. And I would encourage you to do your own self-guided study and one of the beauties of doing this on a video is that you can stop and start the video, you can jot down these passages and you can look them up. And you can one, check and make sure I'm not misrepresenting what God's Word says You can see that it actually says that you can kind of build all the pieces yourself. So in chronological order as they appear throughout this, what will turn out to be a five-message series on the shack, in the Order in which I bring them up in the series, here are the scripture references. Third John verses thirteen through fifteen, Isaiah chapter six, Ezekiel chapter one Exodus chapter 3. Exodus chapter 33. Hebrews 13 verse 17. John 14 verse 6. Hebrews 10 and Hebrews 13. Acts 17, verse 11, the book of Job. 1 John chapter 2, verses 18 and 26. 1 John chapter 4. The Gospel of John chapter four verse twenty-four. The Gospel of John chapter one John verse 18, 1 John 4, verse 12, John 16, 2 Corinthians 7, verse 10, Mark 3, verse 5, Ephesians Ephesians four, verse thirty, first John two, verse twenty-eight, Isaiah fifty-nine, verse two, Romans six, verse Verse 23, Deuteronomy chapter 28, verse 63, Proverbs 16, verse 4, Psalm 11, verse 5, Romans 2, verse 5, Revelation. Revelation 6, verse 16, Revelation chapter 17, Isaiah 53, verse 2, Gospel of Mark, chapter 15, verse 33, 2 Corinthians 5, verse 13 twenty one, Isaiah chapter fifty three, verse ten, first Corinthians eleven, verse one, first Corinthians eleven, verse three, John chapter six, verse thirty eight, John chapter 8, verse 28, Mark 14, verse 36, 1 Corinthians 15, verse 28, Luke 12, verses 47 and 48 First Corinthians four verse two, Micah chapter six, verse eight, Matthew chapter twelve, verse thirty-six, and first John chapter five, verses twenty and twenty-one. I close with a word of prayer and then we'll have our discussion time. Father, we thank you for Revealing yourself in a way that we can trust, that we can study, that we can come to know you better. Thank you for preserving your word all these years We thank you for the power and presence of your Holy Spirit to soften our hearts, to illumine our minds, to understand your truth, and to grow in discernment, to recognize things that are common Contrary to your truth. We ask that you would continue to bless your people, that we would grow nearer and dearer to you with each passing day. And we ask that the conversation that we're about to enter into will be rooted in your truth and would be edifying to your people. And glorifying to your name. We praise you, Lord. We thank you. In the precious name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. All righty So, by the way you don't know uh watching, but before we started uh on Facebook Live for this video, we actually watched a documentary That uh featured William Paul Young kind of explaining his story and his theological view and that sort of thing. And uh it just helps to support you know what we're talking about in these methods. So uh if anybody has something on their on their chest you know regarding that or this message or things we talked about in recent weeks that you want to start with, we can otherwise I've got some Some prepared questions as well. The only thing I wanted to say was you know, when he was when you were talking about how um basically God is presented as approachable and you know doesn't have a standard of holiness and basically negate all of what scripture says, which is why we needed Jesus to come so that we can be a approach the throne of God. God but only through the mediator of Jesus. And the book of Job, of course my favorite book, came to mind where yeah, so he gets he hints on a a little bit of truth that we can go to God with what's on our heart because he knows it already and we can be bold in our in essence in the sense that we can ask the tough questions of God. But you know, the other part of Job is God says, all right, now let me question you. And that never happens with the shack. There is no, okay, I've allowed you without basically burning you up because that's what you're deserving of. You know, I've allowed you to be so bold with me and question me, but now I'm gonna put you in your place and tell you exactly what's going on. And that never happened. you know, the God of of the shack is um is just one of us and that is not at all the truth In human terms, I'm thinking about you know uh biological fathers, you know, and the and way their children relate to them. And you know children can go through So we can go with a boldness. A child, uh uh, a biological child shouldn't be coward Absolutely for the father, like he's also the authority, he's also the dish. He's also the guy who's in charge. And compare, it just occurred me as you were talking. How are fathers depicted so often in movies? Yeah, they're goofballs. They're weak goofballs. And that's kind of how they're upgraded by their children. And there's an element of that in how Papa is presented in the shack. You know, and the way the he presents the Godhead You know, um he he he goes to the extreme to make God approachable. Um There's feminine aspects I believe there are feminine aspects to God's character and that's com that that is the compassion part, that's the compassion in in in in humanity that's why there's a woman. You know, because there's feminine aspects to his personality. But he He makes the father in the shaft a woman, which I never understood. Why you need to make the father a woman and um and uh you know he makes he makes he makes the the the the the father, you know, um kinda goofy and kinda kind of you know. And in the shack he also makes Jesus quite goofy. You know, I mean the way that he the way that he pictures uh uh uh uh m um makes Jesus in the shack I mean you the picture you would get in your head is a a a a a hit with tobacco stained teeth, with a straw in his mouth, you know, with a straw hat on, with torn dirty overalls, you know, and holes in them. That's how he makes Jesus look And and and you know, like a bubbling idiot. You know, and I just remember when I uh a long time ago when I read the share, I just remember being so offended By and I was just thinking other people in in in false religions who reverence their God, I think they would actually be offended by it. By if they think the Christian God is this I think they would go. You know you can keep 'em. You can keep 'em. You know he just he's not gonna do much for me. He has he has no power. He has no power. He's kinda stupid, you know, and And and and and he's in it, you know, uh it's been a long time ago. So the the fish story that you took about how ironic. I mean the like with Peter Peter followed Christ Because he had been fishing all night. He couldn't catch a thing. And then he caught a hundred and fifty three. Because Christ just said, just throw it over the boat. Right But in the shack, Craig is like, Oh god, oh what about butterfingers? Oh my gosh. It's just it's so irreverent. And And and the first commandment is to honor God as God. And it's just, you know, so he doesn't necessarily say something heretical you know, by by misquoting a scripture, the shack is heretical just by how it presents God. Speaking of the Jesus character, on page 181 of the shack, here's a quote that's Jesus, the Jesus character speaking, talking to Mac. It's not your job to change people or to convince them you are Free to love without an agenda. So how how would we respond to that? Some of our response, we'd be nuanced, right? But we need to we need to give Shaq credit for where there are elements of some truth so that we don't come across as just mean spirited, hard hearted, or just antagonistic. So let's meet the author where he is, but then let's also go beyond that and say, okay, that's true as far as it goes, but what about this? So how do we respond to this in a certain context you might say one thing and another context may something else. You know I I think I think there's truth to that. I mean when you tell people the truth when you when you preach the gospel somebody. You're not responsible for how they receive it. You know, they don't have to receive it. And it's not our job. I mean it's it's it's the Holy the Bible says it's it's the Holy spirit that convicts and convinces people of the truth. Mm-hmm. What about the love without an agenda part? Yeah. So agenda is one of those words that have a very neutral meaning but a very negative connotation. So it's kind of like propaganda, which just simply means the spread of information. But the connotation that's associated with that word is entirely negative. Mm-hmm. So agenda is kind of like that same way. That you know, you can have an agenda in loving someone, you know, in order to reach them to Christ. But But you know, it's an agenda in a neutral sense of the word, but obviously, you know, he's applying agenda in a strictly negative connotation there. Paul He he's uh loving with an agenda at Mars Hill, I would argue. Right? He's trying to speak to the Greeks, meet them where they are. He's loving them, but he has an agenda. He's trying to be useful uh by God in persuading these people to recognize the truth of their need for Jesus their Savior. And all of us, shouldn't we always have an agenda in all that we do to glorify Glorify God. That should be our un undergirding, overriding agenda in all that we do. Yeah. That's true. There's a little page 185. A few pages later, Papa is now speaking. Just because I work incredible good out of unspeakable tragedies doesn't mean that I orchestrate the tragedies. So again, some thoughts on this. There's an element of truth there too. Well and there's an element of I have power there which is not at all what was being displayed you know in other parts of the book. It's I don't need it because I'm God and I can work things for good regardless Regardless of the tragedy, in spite of the tragedy. Okay, fair enough. We shouldn't assume that God caused it, right? What about the flip side of that? Should we assume that God didn't cause tragedy? I think um that it it's Very it's very much an empty statement while you know he states that I didn't cause this. He doesn't say who does. Um but the Bible does say who does. And um that's us. You know. We're fallen, um, we're man, we're broken. And um It's a result of us eating of Adam and Eve eating the fruit of the tree that they were told not to eat from Yeah. ultimate root of things, you keep going back logically, you end up with, hey, all these bad things happen because of our sin, because of me. Uh but there are times in scripture God directly causes the tragedy. But what are some examples that might pop to our head? Ten plagues. Yeah, ten plagues in Egypt, absolutely. Saddam and Gomorrah? Uh plagues in the book of Numbers. A lot of plagues there. The destruction of Yeah, the floods. use he can't use anything to make good come out of it. And because people have decided that sin should be in the world, which is basically what Adam and Eve did The sin that's in the world God doesn't agree with it, he doesn't like it, he hates it, but at the same time it's sovereign under him. And so therefore it's not outside of his ability to use So it it's an oversimplified view of God to think that you know somehow the devil is just has total control over evil and God He he can't do anything uh about it or or anything concerning it. God is sovereign over sin. He's sovereign and so he uses He uses things to bring g to to bring good. Now I'm not saying he's malicious or capricious in it or thoughtless in in doing that, but he he will do Do what is necessary to bring good and he will use evil to bring good. And a very good example is is the play that he put on Egypt because he said Pharaoh, I'm gonna use you, Pharaoh. I'm gonna use you to show to to give me glory. And and he did that through the plagues, and you know The Pharaoh's magicians at first they can mimic this, and then it got to a point that they couldn't even they couldn't even mimic what God did. So God's glory began to be manifest in that. So that's just one example. We're gonna watch it? We're gonna watch it later. If you turn the TV on, we're not gonna watch it later. Oh back off. Okay Tyler. Do you hear me? Yeah. Let's turn the TV up. We're gonna watch it later. No, we're ready well we don't touch that. Oh my smart block. Halloween Go play arcade, come on. Let's go play arcade. All right, so we just had uh quote by the Jesus character and by the Papa characters. So talking about them, Mac says he likes Jesus, but not Papa. And Papa harms religious folk, quote unquote, for Reading a stern God, the Father, and a comforting God, Jesus. So how do we respond to the common thing that comes up? How do we think about the Old Testament God, so often depicted as a stern God, and the New Testament God as a comforting God? Yeah, and you don't get that from reading the New Testament by God. It's very you know, the amount of times Jesus talked about hell and casting out leads and sh separating sheep on goat and then uh coming back to reign judgment in the book of Revelation. And then you you look at Paul's writing of the Pauline canon as well and you know it's like people get the uh uh the sermon on the mount and that's their association and that's all the new canton version of Gaudai really sees It's just that Sermon on the Mount. They really they don't see the eight woes or anything else in really Jesus' ministry. And when you take the Sermon on the Mount and And you don't really apply that with the rest of Scripture. Yeah, that that's where you get the notion that Jesus was a good teacher. Yeah, and we neglect oftentimes the patience Of God in the Old Testament and focus only on He brings destruction and and judgment. But he I mean how many hundreds of years was he patient with people before he actually executed And this is a strong man, right? I mean the God of the Bible is not two gods. The Old Testament God and New Testament God are the same gods, so to try to pretend that there's two separate gods. That's what the Bible teaches, so yeah, uh yeah, okay, I'm gonna reject what you're what you're wanting me to reject, but of course everybody would, because it's a straw man. It's it's Easy to knock down, it should be knocked down. So and uh yeah, you look at the story of Noah when you talk about you know God is Yeah, he's has a plan and his plan is to flood the world and it's actually you know, he's actually greenied by his own plan, like he realizes that there's a long term term plan that will bring glory to him and all that, but he's grieved by the short term consequences and how that will be realized in the short term. So there's There's a balance to you know you know God has a long-term plan, but he understands that there's short-term Yeah. I don't want to say negativity because that's a very fright word to use, but there's something in the short term that may cause him grief Here's one of the uh I think central doctrine doctrinal issues that comes up in the shack, and the author is in Consistent. If you hear interviews or other contexts where he talks about this, he sounds very orthodox and biblical. And yet when you read the Shack, it's like, okay. He's got a war in his own mind on this, it seems. But in the Shack, on page 186, the Papa character says, We were all in him, meaning Jesus. And the we all meaning the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. So the Shack would be teaching that the entire Trinity became man So who wants to explain how we should understand the Trinity and the humanity of Christ? Oh, the Trinity is Pro-eternal. So they've always existed as the Trinity, at least as far as our eternity goes. And you know, Father, Son, Holy Spirit And they're always distinct from each other. God does not change forms from the the Father to the Son or to the Holy Spirit. Those three forms have always existed. And yes modalism as is what that's called in a more technical sense. And but it's interesting in the movie, I believe they're in that scene where that happened where uh the God character says that she's the one with the uh scars from the crucifixion. So the father has crucifixions and I didn't really see that on the sun at all. So we're the Holy Spirit, for that matter. But it was the Father that had the scars from the crucifixion, but not the Son Yeah. If you look closely in the movie, the Sarayu does have scars at her wrist as well. Okay. So the idea is that all three members of the Trinity were hanging on the cross of the person of Jesus. Christ. So how umbibled how do we understand the humanity of Christ and the divinity of Christ if the Son Right. So there's again it's a kind of a mystery how the Trinity works, but it's one God, three persons, and those three persons are not to be confused with one another. They're distinct as as Ray mentioned and they uh And by the way, if they're not free persons then how are they? The Trinity. I mean that just doesn't it doesn't make any sense. It's it's self contradictory And and who was j who did Jesus pray to when he was praying? And what did Jesus mean when he said, uh, it's good that I go away because if I don't go away then I can't send the Holy Spirit to you. So it's just it's it's they are one. And this isn't an accidental thing in the story, so I mentioned those on page Well on page one and eighty two, Papa again speaking, says, We, meaning the three members of the Trinity, we are now fully human. And on page two hundred one, Papa says, I am truly human in Jesus. So as you know was mentioned, you know a technical term for this form of heresy is modalism. It's a form of Sabellianism. Uh students of theology will know what some of these terms mean And it you know the shack reeks of these sorts of things and more. We'll get to them. We can't cover them all in one time. Uh and if you're like does the Bible really say what the people in this room are saying? Uh Acts chapter ten, verse forty-three, uh Acts chapter eight, verse twenty-two, Luke chapter twelve, verses Verse 8 through 10, Matthew 25, verse 46. These are just a handful of places you can turn and look to see what the Bible says in distinction from what Heshak has to say. say. Um there's a quote on page one ninety-four of uh the shack, uh it's a quote from uh Buckminster Fuller. I don't know that name or not, Buckminster Fuller known to have revised scripture with science and a secular definition of divinity. So it's basically a secular humanist Translation of the Bible. And Buckminster Fuller says that God is a verb. And on page 204 in the Shack, Saryu, the Holy Spirit character, says the same thing. She says, I am a verb. My very essence is a verb. What do we think about some of that language? If you read the shack, you'd even notice that sort of thing at a strike you. Uh they're referencing how God refers to himself as I am, right? And I guess that's where that's starting out from. Yeah well Possibly. I'm trying to remember if that was in the movie or not. But there is that then you know, I am is more like a conjugate rather than a verb itself if we want to get grammatical about it. I just think it's interesting because you know you think about something that is You think of a noun. Right? So a verb is an activity, an action of some sort. And so is is God some sort of Uh, I think that's a good idea. I don't know what he means by that. God is action. I believe that. I don't believe he's just sitting around, you know, like a like a lump on a log or something. I mean he's he's he He's in he's involved, he's doing things. I mean he takes action. He takes action and he's love. Love is action. I mean but yeah it's my very essence is a verb. Like that. Yeah. essence. No. This very essence doesn't involve any sort of being. Okay. Right? That that's troublesome to me. And we're gonna get into that next week a little bit about the Importance of this essence being absent of being. We're going to talk about that next week, so it's kind of leading into that. Maybe one more and then we'll wrap up for today. Here's a positive from the Shack. Found on page 202, William Paul Young, the author, he accurately says that only Jesus has successfully Lived a life fully obedient to the law, and that we are dependent on Jesus. It says, quote, that's why Jesus fulfilled all of it for you. Well that's true, although well fulfilled all of it for you. That word you is important in in the context of the shad would really define who does he mean by you. Because if he means Mac specifically, okay, I would say that's true. That's a representation of the gospel applied to a specific individual. It is meant for believers as a whole, that's true. Those who are chosen, those who are elected God, they are the ones who are who have everything fulfilled. Jesus, that's true. But is it is the you a universal you? All of the you's that are out there, and if so, that would be problematic. But Let's give them some benefit of the doubt, at least for our context, let's give the statement some benefit of the doubt and say it's only applying to those that are washed clean of the blood of Christ, that are the blood of Bride of Christ. You know, let's let's let's talk about let's who wants to take a moment to kind of expand and reflect upon this truth and our need for Jesus having fulfilled the law for us. I mean it is a need for all of us, so even to your point saying it's a It's not true for the U U meaning everybody. It is, it's just that not everyone um perceives that as truth. They reject that truth. But it is true for everyone. They just reject the truth. So to sacrifice this is sufficient for everybody. Exactly. Uh not everybody who believes in it receives it. Right. Right. And the only one The ones who believe it and receive it are those that God calls to himself. We all reject it. Anyway. Well Tyler's just He's gonna be a disruptive force tonight. So we're about done anyway. So we'll wrap up. Um anybody want to close us in prayer? Anyway. I'll do it. Okay. Thank you, Father. Thank you for another um time of just Glorifying the truth. The truth is Jesus Christ. The truth is your word. Father, help all that has been said to Lord God be received with with love and with grace. It was certainly not intended, Lord, just to beat upon William Paul Young. It was intended for to just love people with the truth because it is the truth that sets us free. It is a lie and slaves no matter how clever it's it sounds no matter how sweet it sounds it it it just serves to inflate and Father you know the motive of our hearts is that people would be set free your truth, the truth that's found in Jesus Christ, the truth that's found in your word. So Lord, thank you for another opportunity to share your truth. We ask that We would bring people to this broadcast board who would benefit from it. And we thank you and we ask all this blessing in the name of Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining. Dina will have to leave the room a few times. If he left comments, he's using my conduit for knowing what comments might have been said. So if you shared some comments, you know, uh sorry we didn't get to them, but I'll try to answer them later. We'll join you next week. We're a little late this week, but we hope to be on time at six o'clock next week on uh at uh six o'clock next Saturday. God bless