And welcome Facebook. And if you're watching this later, welcome YouTube, says live. I don't see the counter anymore, but I assume it's up there live. We're gonna have a uh a message about a half hour or so in length, followed by a discussion, maybe a half hour or so in length. So we should be done around seven seven o'clock or so, maybe a little earlier, maybe a little later, kind of depends on how things go. And um if you I I don't know if you saw our sneak in, but we had a later one sneak in. If you um catch this in the progress and you want to watch it in the party later, and you can't find it very easily on my Facebook page, uh it's also going to be housed On YouTube. We have a YouTube channel. Just go to YouTube and search for the Household of Faith in Christ. And you'll see our blue and purple logo there. And that's us. So and now Tyler making a cameo. What are you looking for, honey? Oh your name going down. I think grandma might be willing to say hi grandma. Hi grandma. Well she's up there on the she's not there, but she might she can hear you Yeah. Okay. He he thought we were on the phone. Um anyway we're gonna uh have a passage from Jeremiah twenty three read later, so if you want to get your Bibles out and ready for that so you can find it quickly. when we get there. Uh Jeremiah chapter twenty three. And um we're gonna have the middle part of a of a of a of a message that started last week and it's gonna to end uh the messages next week but we'll get into all that in a little bit. So without further ado, I'm gonna ask Angela if she wouldn't mind opening us in prayer and then we'll have the message. Heavenly Father, we thank you. for uh a day filled with blessing, Father. We thank you for bringing us together here in safety, Father, and we invite the presence of your Holy Spirit to be amongst us Father, that um the teaching that comes forth, Lord, would be of you. It would it would the message would be what you would want to have said, the message would be a message of instruction, a message of edification, a message of guidance. And we just want to glorify you, Father, so we invite your presence here for this purpose. May the name of Jesus be glorified in this message and may many be blessed by it. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Amen I'm gonna go transition over there. I mentioned this is part two of a three-part message that was uh originally intended to be like a 60-minute lecture if you will, uh breaking up into three pieces for our purposes here. And if you haven't read the Shack or seen the movie, uh let's do a bit the disadvantagement, not a huge one. Uh and if if that is you, really quickly, Kishak is a story about uh a little girl named Missy, she's killed in the woods and And her father Mac is then the main character through the rest of the story in him dealing with that trauma. And in him dealing with it, he's this By who the author would have you understand to be God, represented by three characters in the story. Papa, who's supposed to be the father character of God. Jesus, the s the son character of God, and Sarayu, the Holy Spirit character of God. So that's kind of a quick overview. That should be enough for what we're doing. doing here. This is actually, this is the middle of three messages on this particular account that I'm giving, but it's actually the one, two, three, fourth out of five total messages on the shack that we will uh be doing. And so if you missed those and you're interested in all of the different things about the shack that can be unpacked, you can go back into the archives and you can But to help us kind of get started here as a bit of an introduction, I'm going to share a newsletter thing that I wrote as a promotion for this message that might be helped to set the scene a little bit. When writing the blurb for last month's newsletter, I hadn't yet written the Sunday sermon or the Saturday sermon. So I didn't quite know what I would say, but this time it's different. I have written the message, and so I know what I will say. This week we head down the home stretch of rapid Wrapping up our extended look at the epistles of John. For the second to last time, we're going to use the Shack as a case study. What do many people in and around the church Church believe about the nature of God? How well does this match up with biblical teaching? What are the implications of these beliefs, both good and bad? The book continues to be popular. The movie's out on DVD. It could very likely be a big gift item for years to come during the holidays. Do you know what the Shack teaches? Are you equipped to talk with others who might ask you questions about the issues it raises? Do you even know what you believe, what you should believe about these things? The Apostle John would hope for you to know what you believe and why. John would want us to understand the truth And be witnesses to the truth. This is the endeavor we continue to undertake. I am eager to worship with you once again. So truth, one of the two Huge themes in the epistles of John. First, second and third John, uh the thumbnail understanding of those messages. Truth and love. Love and truth. It's not truth opposed Love opposed the truth. They go together. Can't have one without the other. And what happens with something like the shack is it puts so much emphasis on love as we want to understand what love means, not necessarily the Bible Bible thesis about love, that we're willing to sacrifice the truth to try to achieve it. That really would be the crux of the issue for the Shack. So in a very simple sense, That is the problem with the shack. But it's so much more complex and complicated, and there's so many issues that are raised in the shack, so many different Kinds of heresies, so many different variations on those heresies that it really is kind of a primer, if you will, for us understanding the world around us, which is why we're spending the time that we are on this so that when you hear these kinds of things in a different context, we're like, I kinda know what that is. I might not remember the name for it, I might not even know why I remember what this is, but I kind of know what it is, and I know it's not biblical. So that's kind of the goal with all of this. So we're going to jump right in. This is probably the most awkward of all the messages because this is the middle part of a three-part message So it's kind of absent a natural introduction, it's absent a natural conclusion. So we're kind of just jumping right into the pool here. But before I do that, actually, let me have a word of prayer real quick. Father, we ask that we would have Increased discernment and wisdom as your people through instruction like this, that we would recognize our need to be dependent upon you, your truth, what's been preserved for us in your word. the scriptures, the Old and New Testament, and recognize that you can't have love without truth. And of course, if it's truly the truth, then it's rooted in love. These things are both from you, they're both who you are. You are love. You are. Truth. Help our minds to be illuminated and our hearts to be softened through this message, and help be better equipped to share the gospel truth and advance the kingdom with the neighbors around us. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. So on page one hundred twenty-six of the Shack, Papa, who is again supposed to be the god father character says and and this is talking to Mac who in a sense is the everyman. Mac is supposed to be you and me. Mac is humanity in a sense Toppo says to Mac, our relationship is not about performance or you having to please me. I'm not some self-centered, demanding little deity. Now, it starts out not so bad, right? Our relation with God isn't about us performing for God per se, but is God being righteous, the same as him Being a petulant bully, as he's represented here in that quote. And so this sort of thing makes Mac confused. He's thoroughly confused. And he says that Papa Is not anything like the God I've known. That's what Max says on page 164. And I would say, me neither. And Matt adds on page 179, I find the way that you are, talking to God, to be so different from all the well-intentioned religious stuff I'm familiar with. I guess like what? From the Bible? And from the Church Fathers? This is a problem. On page 187 of the shap, Papa tells Mac, who says of himself Mac does, that he hides inside lies. And Papa says to Mac, this There's no shame in that. There's no shame from hiding inside lies. And Papa also says, it's not about feeling guilty. Guilt will never help you find freedom in me. Well then why do we have a conscience? How are we ever going to be pricked to conversion if we never feel the guilt? In the shack, God is kind of like a cosmic salesperson. When his people refuse to listen to him, he's not frustrated, he's not disappointed, he just looks down the corridors of time and he You see that with just 46 more attempts, you will be successful. It's as I was taught in the sales field. You know, well, every no brings you that much closer to a yes. And in the shack, it seems that there is a yes awaiting each individual. I mean, does this mean that there's universal salvation? Well perhaps, according to Paul Young, the author of the chat, on page 149, he has Jesus say, if you want to do things. Or or uh if you want to do your thing, have at it. Time is on our side In the end, I guess, love wins, to borrow a title from Rob Bell's controversial book. No one faces eternal condemnation apparently. Now the Shack mentioned this last week, antinomianism, anti-law. The Shack places this antinomianism at the foot of the So at least it does that. On page two oh three it says Jesus laid the demand of the law to rest, and goes on to say it no longer has any power to accuse or command. Is that right? Does the law have no power to command? We're all people, each and every specific individual person, were all people's condemnation nailed to the cross. I'll point you to John's Gospel, chapter 16, verse 8, and 2 Corinthians 7, verse 10, and a variety of other places you could turn for an answer. question like that. On page 223, Papa, again the father character, says, I don't do humiliation or guilt or condemnation. But is that right? Is there no judgment? Is it fair to say that Jesus humiliated the Pharisees as they were trying to Trick him? Don't all people stand guilty before the throne of God saved only by the blood of Christ? Is there or is there not a judgment day coming according to the Bible. Papa also says on page 206, you never disappoint me. Now maybe I'm mincing words here, but was God disappointed in Moses, resulting in Moses not being allowed to enter into the practice? Promised land? Was God disappointed with all the Israelites as they wandered in the wilderness? Was God disappointed In the whole world at the flood? Is God disappointed in any of the seven churches that are uh have letters written to them in the book of Revelation? Also look at Mark chapter 3, verse 5, Ephesians chapter 4, verse 30, 1 John 2, verse 28. And Sarayu, the Holy Spirit character, digs the whole thing. Deeper saying on page two oh six, the trouble with living by priorities is that it sees everything as a hierarchy. So how No priorities. Be anti-authority? Are humans on an equal footing with God? The Jesus character tries to clarify in the next page, saying that he doesn't want to be at the top of the pyramid because he wants to be at the center of everything. That is a straw man argument that is built upon wordplay. And it leaves no one in charge, no authority, no law, no rules. And with no rules, there can be no Sin. And so Missy's killer, again, she's a little six-year-old girl who's killed early in the story. Her killer, her murderer, he's not said in the shack to be a sinner But he is rather said to be a victim of pain. Look at page 225. That's where you find this. Papa says that the killer is a quote broken child that has been twisted By his pain. And the same is true for Mac, I guess. I mean, that's true for all of us. We're all twisted and broken by our sin and our pain and that sort of thing. But what causes our pain? But our sin. It's not a get out of jail free car because we're in pain. The victim mentality that's seen here in the shack is something that is pervasive in the broader culture right now. And Matt flies right into this. Matt calls himself, on page 186, a mess, a screw-up. Doesn't call himself a sinner Papa does this too just two pages later saying, When you mess up again, ask for forgiveness again. And stare are you, the Holy Spirit character says On page 196, that sins are mistakes. But the trouble with this sort of language is that not all mess-ups are sins. And to say that they are is to diminish what sin really is. I mean if I bump into a milk carton and I splatter the milk all over the counter, spill down on the floor, I make a big mess. I have messed up I haven't sinned. That is, by the way, why we don't cry over spilled milk. Seriously. So if God isn't an authority figure, what is God? Well, in the Shaq, Kappa says, quote, I am the always present observer. It says it on page 95, the always present observer. Interesting because if you see an interview with the author William Paul Young or hear him speak in a different context, he will actually on occasion speak against Deism. And yet, right here in the pages of the Shack, this is deism. A distance God. He's not active and involved and personal and imminent. He is removed. He is an observer. An observer who describes sin as quote your soul's sickness, who sees Max's soul as a complex garden. This is beginning to be unfolding. But where is the sin in this complex garden? The God of the Shack asks postmodern questions like: what is freedom really? Asked that on page 95, and then answers that freedom is an incremental process. Freedom is a verb? It's mere movement, motion. It's never actually attained, never gained. You can never actually have freedom. The words have meaning. We need to be mindful of their definitions. Take, for example, the meaning of Papa's name in the shack. You know, something that could easily get lost when you're reading the shack is is the importance of Papa's real name. Papa is the familiar name that's used over and over in the pages of the Shack. for the father character. But the official name for Papa in the shack, you find it on page 86, is Alusia. And theologians might find this name Rather interesting. Elusia means God of all being. And later in the book, Papa is said to be the ground of all being. That's on page 111. Why do I point this out? Because it appears that this is language borrowed from a 20th century existentialist Philosopher and theologian named Paul Tillich. And Tillich taught that God isn't a being per se. Himself. Rather, God is the ground for all being. He is the foundation for all being. He is an abstract idea or notion. He is a figment. He's not an actual being. So as I was reading deeper into the shack, I began asking myself, so is William Paul Young here trying to build a system The Shack tells you on page 112 when the Jesus character says, God, who is the ground of all being, dwells in a Around and through all things, ultimately emerging as the real. So God is In and around and through all things, but God isn't actually a being himself. You're on a nature walk, you see a big boulder over there. Oh, that big boulder. God's in that boulder God's around that folder. God's through that boulder. And this little pebble I'm going to skip across the water. That's God. And the water is God. And the breeze I feel, my hair is God. All these various ideas are God. God isn't anyone. He's not even anything. He's in everything, but he's not actually anything, or more importantly, anyone. But is it often the case in the shack? The book is a bit inconsistent on this point. On page 135, Sarayu, again supposedly The Holy Spirit says, original sin, quote, tore the universe apart, divorcing the spiritual from the physical. That's not exactly a biblical view, but it's also not exactly the shacklical view either. I mean, how can God be in and around and through everything when the spiritual and the physical have been divorced? They have been torn apart It's an attempt to have it both ways. It is a logical inconsistency. And it's pervasive. These sorts of things are pervasive throughout the story of the shack. And if you're a little confused at this point, you know, it's okay. So is William Paul Young. Now I've taken a moment here to talk about Papa's name, Elusia. Let's allow a few minutes here. We're going to talk about the three main God characters. We're going to tackle the Pampa character this week, and we're going to get into the Jesus and Sarayu, Holy Spirit character, next week. So there's these three main God characters in the shack. Now Papa, again, is intended to be God the Father, but represented throughout a majority 95% of the Papa says repeatedly that she is, quote, especially fond of people. her favorite phrases. And so Mac he finally asks her if there's anyone with whom she is not especially fond. Is there anyone you're not especially fond of, God? Anyone at all? And popular answer comes on page one nineteen after running through the catalog of all beings who ever existed, right? All the false prophets who God's people, all of the Antichrist bedeviling Christ's church, all the demons, the devil himself. Papa answers Nope. I haven't been able to find any. Guess that's just the way I is. To this, Macks actually asks, What about your wrath, God? What about your wrath? And possibly the answer, I don't need to punish people for sin. Sin is its own punishment. It's not my purpose to punish it. That's on page 120. This is totally unbiblical, of course. I mean, Isaiah 59, verse 2, Romans chapter 6, verse 2 23, Deuteronomy 28, verse 63, Proverbs 16, 4, Psalm 11, 5, Romans 2, 5, Revelation 6, 16 Steve, Revelation chapter 17. I mean the list is unending. It goes on and on and on. If God doesn't punish for sin, With death, then why did Jesus die Isn't this what Christians believe? Don't Christians believe That Jesus had to die for our sin? Well, in the shack Papa says, I'm not asking you to believe in anything. I'm not asking you to believe anything. to page one nineteen. Well why not? Well because on page one ninety two Papa says, I am now fully reconciled to the world No matter what they believe. Mac asked, The whole world? Papa replied, the whole world. This max of universal salvation, huh? And what Max says he doesn't understand, Papa says, men, such idiots sometimes. So if you disagree with William Paul Young on this point, you are an idiot. Especially if you're a man. And I suppose I'd have to be. I mean if Papa, God the Father, is the one calling me an idiot in the shack, I must be an idiot. Now almost as bad as being called an idiot by a sick Fictional God? Being called an idiot by a fictional wuss god. As I alluded to last week, the God of the Shack kind of We see this weakness on display. For example, page 224. Papa says, Mac, for you to forgive this man is for you. You to release him to me and allow me to redeem him. Allow? God needs master Ask permission. Later, page 225, Papa says, When you forgive someone, you certainly release them from judgment. Whose judgment? God's? Apparently. Look at page 227 of the track if you have a copy. So it doesn't matter what God declares in the shack. It matters what humans declare. And this helps to explain why Papa says, just say it out loud, there is power in what my children declare. Now do we have here a word of faith theology, Virginia? bubbling up I'm not sure. Papa Cole Mac says, Mac, give him over to me so that my love will burn from his life every vestige of corruption. Again, you're hinting at universal atonement, but only if MAP representing us humans says it's okay. We're going to pause here in a second so that we can enter into our discussion, but I've obviously quoted an awful lot of William Paul Young's words, the words he's placed into the characters of his story, characters that in some cases are supposed to be God. Let's end with God's actual words. Jeremiah 23, I mentioned it at the the start tonight so hopefully you've already bookmarked it stuck a thumb in there or pencil something so you can find it quickly. If you haven't done that, give you a second to find it. Jeremiah 23. It's in the Old Testament. Latter part of the Old Testament. If you find Isaiah, you're close, go a little bit further. in and if you find yourself in Lamentations Ezekiel right around there you've gone a little too far back up and you'll find Jeremiah. We're looking at 23 beginning of verse 16 We're going to read seven verses together. Basically, seven verses that warn against what's happening here with Paul, Yon and Meshach. 16 through 22, and Jeremiah's 23 say Thus says the Lord of hosts, do not listen to the words of the prophets who prophesied to you, filling you with vain hopes. They speak visions of their own minds, not from the mouth of the Lord. They say continually to those who despise the word of the Lord, It shall be well with you And to everyone who stubbornly follows his own heart, they say, No disaster shall come upon you. For who among them has stood in the council of the Lord to see it Hear his word, or who has paid attention to his word and listened. Behold the storm of the Lord. Wrath has gone forth A whirling tempest. It will burst upon the head of the wicked. The anger of the Lord will not turn back until he has executed and accomplished the intents of his heart. In the latter days, you will understand it clearly. I did not send the prophets, yet they ran. I did not speak to them, yet they prophesied. But if they had stood in my counsel, then they would have proclaimed my words to my people, and they would have turned them from evil way and from the evil of their deeds. This is the inspired, inerrant, infallible word of God. Perfect rule and guide for faith and life practice. Those with an ear to hear, let them hear. Let us pray. Father, you are a magnificent God. We ask that you would forgive us for our tendencies to minimize who you are, to deny your character, to invent with our own imagination a God of our own making We can fit inside our own box. Imagining pretending that you need our permission to do anything Lord, we ask that you will bless our time of discussion, that we would grow from this time, that we grow in our understanding of you, your word, our obligation. uh to serving the world around us, to being ambassadors for your church and advancing the cause of the kingdom. We beg your forgiveness for our inadequacies. But we trust that your Holy Spirit will be alive and active and apparently in a uh clear way involved with us in this discussion that we're having. Thank you, Lord, for the opportunity to have this time to live in a place where we can freely gather in this way We appreciate you and the freedoms you grant us in Christ so much. In his name, Christ's name, do we pray? Amen. All right. So I've got some questions kinda lined up, but is anything that origin is struck That I might not ask a question about it. You know, you get to be guided, you get to be guided. You get to be God. You know, it's just the idea that um God is in everything and And um that which which suggests that he's not a person with a personality and yet he's standing there talking to someone with a personality. personality. I mean he's just just contradiction after contradiction. I mean he's talking to a God who's saying I'm in everything and I I'm just a force. And I don't really have a mind, I'm just a force. Yeah, I have a mind enough to talk to have this conversation with you. Right. And that can be one of the indicators When somebody's talking about spiritual things, talking about the Bible supposedly, when there's an inconsistency, that can be an indication that there's something So yeah, how is it that we have this basically impor impersonal God who's being very personal in the shack? One of the things people love about the story of the shack is is you have this personal God. But at the same time there are there's an argument being made by this personal God that I'm not really personal. Because really what you have is an imagination of Mac, the main character of it imagination of his own mind really because that I don't know if we've mentioned this yet or if it's coming up next week I can't remember there's this point in the story where Mac is wondering if he's is he hallucinating, is he dreaming? Uh Is he imagining these things? Is he having a vision? Like he's not sure. And that's putting the story on purpose because I think we as the reader are supposed to be like, oh, maybe he's just projecting in his mind this story, which would make sense if we have a panentheist god. And there's a difference between pantheism and panentheism by the way. So if you might have heard me throw in the extra N in there, that wasn't me misspeaking Pantheism is God is everything. Panentheism is God is in everything. So they're very similar and close, but they're slightly different. And I don't think the Shaq is advocating a pantheistic view quite so much as a panentheistic view, more likely. So anyway, a little there's your word of the week. So Sarayu, we talked about Sarayu, I think the meaning of the word, right? The Hindu, Hindu God, the name of a Hindu god. It's interesting that that's the name for the Holy Spirit that was chosen. Syria says on page 203 that humans like the law can inconsistent, right? Because Paul Young and the Shack is basically saying we don't like the law, we don't need the law, we don't want the law. But Sarah is saying we like humans like the law because quote, it grants you the power to judge others and feel superior to them. That's not what the law does. No, that's not what it does, and I think it's interesting Interesting. That's similar to the kinds of things we're hearing now, right? With the the hegemony, right? The the the the the the power structures that are, the systemic issues that are oppressing people, the laws that have been created are there so that you can be a judge of others and feel superior to them and you can oppress them. That's there's a connection I said this kind of thinking that was so popular for like a decade the shack first came out for like a its popularity has begun to wane but for like a decade it was hugely popular and on the heels of all that we have all this woke theology it like feels like it came out of It didn't come out of nowhere. It has its seed bed in a variety of things, including the kinds of theology that are taught in the shack. And because we are slow as a people to pick up on the mistakes, the theological mistakes in the shack, not only to pick up on them, but to we've talked about this in the past, to use the shack as a Bible study in a non-critical fashion, to see all the positive things they can learn about God by studying the Shack. Shack instead of b studying the Bible. We were so weak ten years ago on that question that it doesn't it shouldn't be surprising that we're caught, you know, run through the streets naked right now, theologically speaking. So um so it's inter so we have this you know judge not lest ye be judged kind of uh mentality here, right? Mastery goes on to speak against, quote, responsibility and expectation. Is responsibility and expectation bad? Is it bad Can you think of a t of a reason why someone like Paul Young would suggest that it is bad? There's no accountability. There's no sin if there's not responsibility and sort of just kind of speaks to his full mentality. uh you know pop-up. Forgave it all. It's all done. You don't have to worry about anything anymore. It's already forgiven. Whether you want to receive it or not, doesn't matter. It's all done. Yeah, again, it kind of fits with what's going on now, even though the shack predates what's happening now by a little over a decade now, right? Decade and a half really since the book was written, I think, or pretty close to it. Um this anything goes, your truth is your truth, my truth is my truth, who's to say what is truth? So you can't hold me responsible. I mean who's to say I really should have done that anyway. You can't put that on me. Who are you to put that on me? Like this very Las des Fair's squishy kind of way of thinking about the world uh plays out here. Uh and this one jumped up page of me when I read a lot of home did but this is one that did Saryu again speaking here says I have great fondness for uncertainty this is got God speaking. Would the Apostle John agree that God is a big fan of uncertainty? I mean, you know, that's just flat out ridiculous. Um God one of his attributes is that he's omniscient. Right and not genius. So he doesn't even know what it is to be uncertain. a human limitation and even when Jesus was human, he didn't know things in his humanity um uh because he he purposely condemned himself to be to be human, but he wasn't uncertain about anything. He knew who he was and he knew his mission and And and he knew he he called himself the way, the truth, and the life. He was saying, if anything you would need to know, I'm your guy. I'm gonna tell you, you know, come to me and you'll get it. So um that's just yeah, it's just it's just ridiculous. Like so many things that this man said in this book, it's just it's it's it's it's just It's absurd and God is not a fan of uncertainty. God is the answer to uncertainty. You might remember a theme, I don't think we said And the whole theme of the particular message was John is driving home the point that he wants us as believers uh in the true God, followers of Jesus Christ, he is written so that we can know that we may know that we have eternal life. There's no uncertainty. It's a message of a Assurance. You who are in Christ, you know that you're in Christ. You know that He is who He says He is. You know God is who He says He is. You know you are who God says you are. No uncertainty. If you have uncertainty, John wants to remind you and say, no, no uncertainty here. Be certain. So John would disagree with Sarayu completely, and yet John's writing under the inspiration of Sarayu No he's not. Using using Shaq's language, right? Right, right. Writing under the spirit inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he's in disagreement with the Holy Spirit? Obviously that's not true, so the Shaq is in disagreement with Holy Spirit is the point there. Papa says on uh pages two oh seven and two twenty that nothing is ritual. So says it once and doubles down. Well yeah, communion. Yeah, Lord's Supper, there's one. How about the the command to Not be conformed to the world, but transform yourself by the renewing of your mind. How about dying daily? Mm-hmm. I mean that that's something that you know if you don't do it every day then how is it a that's the only way it cannot be a ritual is if you don't do it. Right. If you don't die daily, you know, then then then it can't be a ritual. But you're told to die daily mind is the Lord's Supper and of course Paul Young knows this and so Paul Young actually has uh the Shack say the God character one of the God characters says without any ritual think it's Papua. Without any ritual, without any ceremony, they savored the warm bread and shared the wine. Actually this wasn't a quote, this is a description. They actually have a communion meal in the shadow And they didn't treat it as a ritual. They did it with no ceremony, no nothing. They just happened to have bread and wine. As like it was a regular meal, I guess. Yes, not a Lord's Supper meal. Not in Roman. But it was meant to be a picture of the Lord's Supper. So ritual and ceremony, apparently, those are bad things in William Paul Young's view. See, the the thing he doesn't do is he doesn't he doesn't distinguish between something being ritual in a mindless way and something being ritual Absolutely. You know, because um Jesus said the Father is looking for worshipers who worship in spirit and in truth. So the Father doesn't work want mindless ritual. Just for the sake of doing it. Just for the sake of doing it. Right. He in in fact he was he rebuked Israel in one of the uh major process after which one I think Isaiah for that um for that very thing you know he said you know just get away with me with with with your I'm a paraphrase with your minus You know. Um so it's it's the attitude that you bring to it that God is concerned about. But certainly there are things that um Um it for our own spiritual growth and enrichment, we need to do them routinely. And it's the attitude and it's also the practices themselves. Now if we even sinfully on occasion, those things are paid for at the cross in Christ uh at the cross in Christ as believers, but it doesn't mean that the demands aren't still there. Think think about all the the layers upon layers of ritual in the Old Testament with the temple sacrifice system and the way they were to uh uh handle the Ark of the Covenant and uh I mean uh what's his name? The guy who actually who touches Otza. Other reaches out the ark and they're not carrying they're not following a ritual. They weren't supposed to supposed to be loading it up onto an ox cart and they're supposed to carry it out of poles, but they neglected that ritual, decided to put it on an ox cart. The ox cart starts to topple over, so the other reaches out his hand to stop the ark from hitting the ground, and God strikes him death. Oh but he didn't punish God. Oh how about that how about that other tiny ritual in the New Testament spoken of in the book of Hebrews which in that ritual in which the writer of Hebrews says, forsake not the assembly of yourselves together. Right. I mean going to church is a ritual. Mm-hmm Yeah. But the Shack speaks against that. And you can see but in today's contest, how many fellow professing believers do you know that would say we don't really have to go to church? Exactly. We can just go out by it And we can just, you know, um lay in the grass and take in nature. I have nothing against that, but it's not a substitute for what the Lord has commanded that we do And you have a lot of professing believers who refuse for whatever reason I don't understand it, but they refuse to be baptized. And they're like, well we needed more another example, I'm going to go back to baptism in just a second, but people who live together forever, they call themselves Mary, but they never act actually do anything to recognize that we are officially married. There's no ritual, no covenant ceremony, no nothing. Now I'm not saying the Bible requires that, but they're they're animus towards that really belies something going on in their heart. But the Bible does say the believers should be baptized. But you were saying, I think, because I don't want anybody misunderstanding, when you say said marriage. You weren't saying that the Bible doesn't say that we're required to be married to go have it. That's not no no you see married to go have it. What I'm saying is there's no biblical requirement for spending forty thousand dollars to have a ceremony for Right. There's no the that but yeah you you need to be married uh to to go have it. Yeah, so yeah, thanks for clarifying. But on baptism, if you call yourself a Christian, I'll speak because I know you guys If you call yourself a Christian and you have not been baptized, get baptized. And if you're saying no, I don't really think I need to be baptized You are in sin. You are in sin. Stop it. Get baptized. Well, I I think just to put the kind of to put the cherry on the top of what you said, um The one person who did not need to be baptized was Jesus. And he did. And he did it. So and he did it, he said to fulfill our righteousness. So what does that mean? I I I think what that means is he said he Said, I'm doing this as an example to you. I don't have to do it for myself. I'm doing it as an example for you to follow because you know that's that's basically what he was saying to to to his cousin Yeah. John the Baptist who was saying, But why would I need to be baptized by you? No, just allow it this time. Because this will help to fulfill our righteousness. So yeah, um if the if the Lord did it when he did need to we most definitely need to do it. Now here's a point that's actually one of the stronger points made in the shot, but even it has some issues potentially Page two uh two thirteen, Sarayu says, Each relationship between two persons is absolutely unique. You love each person differently because of who they are and the uniqueness that they draw out of you. And the more you know another, the richer the colors of the relationship. What do you think about that? I could break it down as a lone quote. Each relationship between two persons absolutely unique. I don't know if I like the word absolutely. There necessarily, but each relationship is unique. But to say it's absolutely unique would almost indicate that there's like no commonality with any other sort of relationships. absolutely there, but okay. You love each person differently because of who they are and the uniqueness that they draw out of you. Again, that's interesting. Well love it that a feeling love is a verb so the action part may vary from person to person but Yeah, I mean when you think about like the seven love languages. Right. And so what what what makes one person feel the most love is different than than than the next person, if you put it in those terms like you know with and I think even parents with children sure can say can say that much, you know, that you know this one child feels fully appreciated by whatever. So So um if if if it's understood that way. We the sacrificial servant heart, you know, respecting them as image bearers. So I'm I'm not trying I mean actually this is one of the best passages in the shack for what it's So I'm not trying to tear it apart. Uh and the more you know another person, you know, the richer the colors of the relationship. Yeah, the more you get to know someone, the richer that they so there's a lot of truth here, but the way it's phrased, because there's a little ambiguity, throws in a couple of uh you know absolutely this or you know whatever, like the the way it's phrased In some sense it feels biblical to me, and in another sense it feels a little bit like Dr. Phil to me, you know? So So for what it's worth. I think if this exact phrase showed up in a different book, I would be fine with it. surrounded by so many other problems, I'm suspicious even of this. I think it's just saying it's like, you know, oh my God, what can I take from this that not does not fully So Mac, again, the main character in the book who kind of represents all of us is kind of the idea I think of Mac. I think more specifically is supposed to represent the author, William Paul Young, but As a stand-in for us. Mac has anger at his earthly father who abused him as a child in the story. Now the father in the story of the Shack is supposedly a Christian That's interesting. But was he really? What do you think? This abusive father, and the the abuse in the story is pretty dramatic kinds of abuse. If I remember correctly, it's been a while now, but if I remember correctly you used to strap him to uh tie him to a tree and then whoop him with a belt. He would get into a drunken stupor and be completely out of control with rage and just just beat the snot out of his son. Is that I mean i I don't know. Does that evidence enough fruit of the spirit Not so much, yeah. Not so much. you know, having a whoop butt session went through a season like that and then repents you could say, Oh, there's been a change. But it it would appear that the father like goes to his grave having been that kind of a father. Well and I think that's actually done on purpose by the author to paint a Christian as something that they're not, like they're as a hypocrite. Mm-hmm. You know, this you know, th this is what Christians do. They beat their children, they but they go to church on Sunday because it's all about the ritual. Right. So he's kind of doing another layer of Yeah, it it kinda it comes across to me like he's had this trauma in his life and and so he's kind of Um I don't know what has caused him to do this, but he has created in his mind what God is like. Um his maybe his earthly father really did call himself a Christian and and abused him. So that warped him. Now he's going to explain what a Christian really is is and you know from one extreme to the other, you know, this guy probably really wasn't a Christian, at least not at first, abused him So now I'm gonna go all the way over to the other side and I'm gonna create a God that has basically no standards. Um and that's really who who who God is who who God is. And I And and I I just think I I just get the sense that that's what William Paul Young has has done. You know. And it almost seems as if William Paul Young the you know, the pop-up The Mac character has to, in order to be able to live with himself, has to accept what Papa said, which is uh you know Well it it's all done. All this you know, it it's all done. The sins, you know, it I took care of it all. Because in his mind he's like, Oh, okay, so that's how I can relate to my father. He just didn't know any better. He didn't know what he was doing, just like I didn't know what I was doing. Neither does the killer know what they were doing. It's it's all forgotten because that's how I can him because how else could I possibly accept that my own father would do that to me So I almost think like that's in his mind how he can and it does appear that there must have been a post death conversion for Mac's father in the story because Mac and his father meet in the afterlife and they have a reconciliation where they they come together in in a peaceful, loving kind of a context. So here you're somebody who was professing to be a Christian but wasn't acting like one it all dies and then all of a sudden becomes this loving, almost perfect picture of what a loving good uh father would look like in the afterlife. Uh again, this idea of uh universal salvation even if you go to your grave not a Christian not a believer in Christ that somehow after you die you will have more chances to accept the truth But this would go completely against what Scripture says. It's appointed to each to die once and then the judgment. So uh and I'm uh I'm familiar enough to know that, you know, there's a variety of people that might see this video and we've all seen stories in the news and all of us probably have stories in our own histories. People who were Christians who did bad things to us. People who were leaders in the church. You know, pastors or Roman Catholic priests, you know, they're pretty high profile in the news over the last number of decades with these kinds of stories. And that becomes a pretty big issue for people's sounding block for people who say, oh Christianity, yeah, a bunch of hypocrites. Christianity is not about me. It's not about these wonderful ladies, about any other pastor or priest anywhere, or kingdom priests, or all priests. It's not about any of us though. It's about our eternal Perfect high priest, Jesus Christ. The church rests on him, who he is, what he's done. As Christ is not a hypocrite. And we all call ourselves Christians and we call we throw ourselves upon the mercy and grace of Jesus Christ because we recognize we're not Him. And we are a work in process. And that is not an excuse, but that is an excuse Explanation as to why you see a difference. Why don't Christians act like Christ? Because we're not Christ. When we're uh fully, perfectly glorified at the end when when Christ returns and heaven comes to earth and there's a a renewed creation and all those who are in Christ were When we come to be believing Jesus Christ, we are declared righteous. That's called being justified. We have a declared justification. It's not because we are innocent, it's that God accounts us as though we're innocent. And how can he do that? Because he's assigned our guilt to Jesus Christ who pays the penalty on our behalf. So it's like the judge saying, all right, the fine's a hundred bucks, I don't have a hundred bucks Well then you're gonna stay in jail forever. And then Jesus shows up and says, I got it. Here's the hundred bucks. It's on me. That's kind of what justification is. And then out of gratitude for that transaction that takes place that legal transaction we now want to make him happy we want him to be satisfied with our life we want to be a good example and as we progress and some of us do this is faster and slower than others. It's kind of like the stock market. A little bit up and down, but kinda like the stock market, it should be a general upward trajectory over time. That improvement in our life bec is what's called sanctification. We get increasingly holy in our living. And then the final step is glorification, where we won't be able to sin anymore. Hallelujah. But until that day, we're still sadly, horrifyingly able to sin. So if you're one of those of us, Christianity man, they're all a bunch of hypocrites. Yeah, we are But when we're glorified, we won't be anymore because we'll we'll be like the one who saved us. We'll see him as he is because we'll be like he is. But we're not there yet. So judge the faith and the truth of what the Bible teaches based on the standard of Jesus Christ, not upon any faulty standard that I might try to put forward. Anybody would try to put forward in our lives. Let's see. So here's a quote from 224 in the shack. This ought to be a fun one. Son, you need to speak it, to name it. I wonder, in a sense we might be okay with this, but Is this a name it claimant theology at play? Well who even knows what name and claimant theology is and wants to take a stab at that. Well I think in the worst sense of of that phrase it means that you can live any kind of life you want to live and and you can Can a and and and despite, you know, your rather rebellious and even depraved life, you can just speak whatever you want. it'll s it's sort of like a uh it'll sort of materialize just because you spoke it, you know. Um, you know, I e even in it uh here's a here's a way to put it. Even though you're sewing poison ivy, you can s just speak daisies into your life and you'll get daisies. It doesn't matter that you're sowing poison ivy, you're going to get daisies just Because you speak it and that's a a false um version of it. But I I think that if you're living obediently before the Lord and And um and you know, not perfectly, but um in spirit and in truth, you are living in a uh uh the kind of life where you're repenting and you're, you know um going forward with the Lord with integrity, then I think you have uh uh some power there we have authority to some authority there to um to cast demons out to exactly to to speak certain things because we are made in the image of God who spoke things and he said um call those things that are not not as though they are. And so um you can you can call you know for your children you know certain things. You have authority over them. You can call those things You c you know, they're they're going astray, you say, no, you're going to be a servant of you're going to God's going to get a hold. You can start decreeing and proclaiming over their lives. Um that which is in alignment with the will of God. Yeah. Yeah. And that's a huge key because in a sense, again, if we wanna It's kinda like Bill Clinton, it depends on the meaning what the meaning of is is. And so when it says you need to speak it co-heirs with Christ, but we need to be seeking his word. And what is it we're to name? Well his word, his promise. So we're naming his promises. And so oftentimes this gets misused where somebody decides that they want Wanna have a uh how much does the new electric uh hummer? A hundred and twenty thousand dollars, something like that? If somebody says, I want a new electric hummer And somebody says, all right, well, you just need to speak it and name it, and God's going to give you an electric hover for $120,000. I would say, okay, good. Show me a scripture. Where has God said anything about that kind of a promise? Where does God's word indicate that that's what we should expect? But it gets misused, and so we have a lot of people a lot of context, a lot of churches who they want the Hummer and they don't get the Hummer and then they get castigated for it. Well you don't have enough faith. If you have enough faith, you'd be able to speak it into existence. You should be able to say, boom, I want a hummer, and tomorrow you have one. But that's not God's word, right? That's not according to His His will. So we need to figure out what his will is. We know what his will is from his word. We need to name, we need to speak his word into situations and into our life. And we need to name the promises. What has he promised And he loves that because it brings him glory. And you lay claim to that, and God will not deny that because he has promised it, because he has declared it, and you're walking in his word rather than an imagination of your own word, which is at the crux of it the issue for William Paul and he made himself a He has declared his own word. He's naming his own thing that has nothing to do with what God has revealed in special revelation in what we call the Bible. But it makes sense because earlier you know in the book he talks about how God is in everything. So you should just be able to name something. Right? I mean to use his own In his own logic, I mean that's just kind of playing into his own Yeah. Deal. Yeah, it could be. I'm gonna do one more just so I can finish with on this page. That'll make it easier for me next week. So on page two twenty-six, Papa says Forgiveness does not excuse anything. Well, I mean there's there's truth to that. I mean consequences But yeah, forgiveness doesn't excuse the sin that we commit. No, I would I would agree. I if if if I go to the Lord for forgiveness He's not saying it doesn't matter that you did that. Right. Yeah. So yeah, i it I I I think that's true. Um but I feel that there's a butt coming. But what is That's the quote. Oh, that's it. Forgiveness does not excuse anything. Well, yeah, i i it it forgiveness does not It doesn't give it it doesn't give the person who committed the offense an out as though they had an excuse for doing it. Exactly. So yeah, in that sense. But in another sense When God forgives us, we are free to go. Yes. We are, in that sense, excused. I mean, there's a lot of churches which kind of bothers me when they do this, but a lot of churches will end their worship service with, you are excused. You ever been to a church like that? Oh, I have. And I've never liked that the way that's Phrase, you're excused. It's like we're we we've been held in prison? Yeah, exactly. We've been held captives. You're now your excuse, right? It's always bugging me just a little bit, but that might just be me. Uh but but yeah the idea we're excused meaning we're free to go in that sense, but we use the word excuse uh you know uh excuse and excuse aren't exactly the same word. So forgiveness doesn't mean we have an excuse for having committed a sin uh a sin. But when we are forgiven, we are free to go, and so we are excused. We shouldn't hold it against anybody any longer, right? It should be dealt with. Right. I um forgiveness is Is um releasing a person um at the same time it's still being wise and how to deal with them. Right. Um, putting yourself in that same situation. What what you're doing is you're releasing your anger. Right. But but God but God in in terms of consequences I don't think we're ever excused. No, we're not because that's with the cross. Because I n when I say consequences, I don't mean eternal consequences. I believe that when we're when when God forgives us, the eternal 'cause the eternal consequence really is hell. That is excused, but um earthly consequences really aren't you replacing so yeah. Yeah yeah you you you get the repercussions of of of of of your behavior. So there I mean there's there's Yeah, yeah, and and that's one of the reasons I highlighted this quote is because if you want to look at From a particular point of view, you say, yeah, I kinda could go with that. But this other way I can't go with that, but that's not what's presented in the shack. It's a flat black and white statement. Forgiveness is not excuse anything. Period. End of thought. Like that's a little bit problematic. Somebody could take that the wrong way. And given the context of the shack, again in a different context, surrounded by a lot of really good theology might not bother me so much. Uh although if it was certainly a lot of really good theology, it probably wouldn't have been quite so cavalier in making us a bold statement like that and not explaining it. So anyway, uh we've been gone just a little over an hour, so I guess we'll uh we'll wrap it up. Okay. And I wanted to mention this, uh mentioning at the end because if you're still watching at this point then you are obviously you know uh supportive of what we're doing here you're you're you're involved what you're doing you didn't just check at check in early oh this isn't for me and check out you're still here now so you're the ones that want to hear this we are beta testing a website for the household of faith in Christ and so it's free for you to go Look and I would love to hear feedback. It's not done, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't point some things out if you notice them. I will tell you there's a page on the website called Resources. That is gonna be totally redone. So you can kind of ignore the resources page. But the rest of the website is mostly done and right. So if you see some things on there, typos, things make you scratch your head. you know whatever, you know, private message me or email me or call me or text me or whatever um and hopefully within the next handful of weeks we'll have what we feel really good about and say this is the website. It'll always be evolving and changing obviously but this is the website and we can put it out there with some pride and confidence that it's not going to embarrass us. So household of faith in Christ dot com. know it's a lot of words, a lot of letters, but it's the name of the church, so hopefully it's easy to remember. Household of Faithinchrist. com. That's the website. So if you would check that out and give it a Any feedback, I'd appreciate it. I'll close this in prayer. Lord, thank you so much for this time together. We thank you that you are truth, you are unchanging. And um Um well you're not everywhere. I mean you are everywhere, but you're not the way that Paul Young says it. So we thank you that you've given us the whole Holy Spirit that dwells in us so that we can have the ability to discern truth and discern that you are truth. So we can identify Anything that's pretending to be that are that's truly an imposter. We ask that you would bless the remainder of our weekend And bless the week coming up, that we would have opportunity to discern truth and give us success in that, to grow us in that, to train us up in that We ask that you would lead us not to temptation, Lord, and that you would deliver us from all evil. In Jesus' name. So God willing, next week we will wrap up our look at the shop. And that will put the final period at the end of our look at the uh series of the epistles of John. And then the week after that, the first Saturday, I think it's the first Saturday in in in May, if I'm not mistaken, whatever the next area is after next week, two weeks from now, we're gonna look at um Revelation, the book of Revelation, and that'll probably take us many months to work our way through. So anyway, until next week, God bless.