Let's see. And we're live. Hello Facebook. Live. If you're watching this later on delay on YouTube, hello YouTube. Uh get out of plug. We have a YouTube channel, Household of Faith in Christ. go go to YouTube, look for that, you'll find us. And all of our sermon messages are kept there as well. Tonight we're going to begin our sir our series on the book of Revelation. Uh so if you want to get your Bibles ready so that you You can mark them up. I'm a big fan of people opening their Bibles and marking them up. The passages you might want to bookmark today are Revelation chapter 1, verses 1 through 3, and we're also going to read Revelation seven verses nine through seventeen. So if you want to get those if you're brand new to the whole Bible thing, Revelation's really easy to find. It is the last book of the Bible. So go to the very end of your Bible and find chapter one of Revelation. And I encourage you to Anyway, I encourage you to visit our website. It's in the beta testing mode right now, but I would encourage you to check it out and give me some feedback if you like. It's household of faith in Christ. com You know with a lot of keystrokes, but hopefully easy to remember. Household of faith in Christ dot com. So I'm gonna uh just jump right in here in a second. Our designated open us and prayer person is not here today, unless you're designed. Uh uh so uh Ray is gonna open us in prayer and then we'll get right into the message after that. All right. Dear Lord, we thank you for this day, we thank you for this gathering, Lord, and we just thank you for this fellowship. also and Lord please uh allow this to be a very fruitful fellowship in which we grow deeper in understanding of your word especially some more uh complicated and well debated and material that we just go through with your understanding and that the Holy Spirit provide uh revelation to us on what this passes of scripture means and what you meant it to mean. And we just pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you. So tonight's message is primarily focusing on On Revelation chapter 1, verses 1 through 3. And so give you a kind of a frame of what to expect. This message, by the way, is titled The First Motion Picture about the Exalted Christ And we're going to open with a story. We're going to close with a story. And in between, we're going to have an exposition of these three verses to determine what it is they tell us, not just about these three verses, but what to what they tell us about what what to anticipate in the rest of the book of Revelation. So first our our opening story, it's story time. Pablo was a bit tattered and disheveled. His eyes were bright and his gaze expectant. The people of the town weren't entirely sure what to think of his arrival. They hoped for good news, but this hope sometimes felt hard to hang on to ever since Johnny was taken away. Some of them had first heard of the Christ, Jesus of Nazareth. From Johnny. All of them had learned deep truths about this Messiah's mission and ministry from Johnny. Johnny knew about As a younger man, he had traveled with Jesus, and oh boy, the stories he could recount. They were riveting, life transform. But then Johnny was taken away. He was sent off to prison, some sort of an island prison, they had heard. The governing authorities claims to be protecting the people and the culture from disinformation and outright falsehoods. But they were in fact punishing him for speaking the truth. Standing for truth. Truth, doing all that he could to live out the truth. It was a desire for this truth that brought Pablo to the island prison to see No one ever really said how Pablo got there or how he then got away, but they were glad that he went. Johnny encouraged Pablo with the truth and then gave These things were such an encouragement to Pablo, and he knew they'd be an encouragement to so many others when they heard of them. Encouragement was so needed. It wasn't just Johnny Who was paying a price for spreading the testimony about the king, not of this world? All the subjects of this king were suffering. Some handled it better than others. Some coped in healthy ways, some in not so healthy ways. It was difficult sometimes to know how to cope when the powerful arm of the government Persecuted them. And it wasn't just that. It was also difficult sometimes to know how to cope when the powerful presence of peer pressure beat down on them from their neighbors and so-called friends. These difficulties weighed on them physically, emotionally, psychologically, relationally, mentally, spiritually. There's a word people use to describe these difficulties. Tribulation. And they wondered, when would it end? And if the tribulation might even get worse, what was happening to them? What would happen next? What did it all mean? How were they to interpret and react to all the troubles swirling around them? Paolo excitedly told everyone that the scroll parchments in his hand would help answer these questions. He warned that not everyone would necessarily like what they heard, but it was awesome information. So all those who professed to be followers of the way gathered around Pablo to hear what the letter had said He was tired from his long trip of dodging the angry glances of neighbors and the sinister aims of the soldiers that he encountered. But he was buoyed by his faith and eager to see others feel the same way. This had been his experience during his previous stops, and he anticipated nothing different this time. So he handed his parcel to the one responsible for reading to the group, and he began to read. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John, who bore witness to the Word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ. Even to all that he saw. Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of his prophecy, and blessed are those who hear and who keep what is written in him. For the time is near. These are the first three verses of the book that we call the book of Revelation. It is part of our holy canon inspired by God, therefore inerrant, infallible, a perfect rule and guide for faith and life practice, those with an ear to hear. Let them hear. Now this book of Revelation is sometimes called the Apocalypse of John. Sometimes it's called the Revelation of Jesus Christ. Christ. We take these titles from the opening line of the book. The very first words tell us that this apocalypse of Jesus, that's the Greek word there. It's given to John so that it can be shared with all Christ's servants. The word apocalypse, it means The unveiling, the revealing, the disclosure. Or perhaps to put a very fine point on it, it means the revelatory unveiling. We use this word now to describe an entire category of literature. This category, this genre of apocalyptic literature. It almost always focuses on what is called eschatology, that is the study of last things, of end time. This kind of writing it uses deeply symbolic language, often depicting visions that are received within historic Setting from heavenly beings typically addressing the warfare between good and evil in human history. Now this kind of book was very popular for about 600 years. And interestingly, the book of Revelation, it was written. almost smackdown in the middle of this popularity. So the people in the last part of the first century, they would have been very familiar with his style, with his images, with his illusions, with this mode of communication, like people today. They almost intuitively recognize and understand the style and images of the genres we're familiar with. Like if you turn on the TV and you're Smackdown in the middle of a Hallmark movie, you're like, it looks like it might be a Hallmark movie. You just the way it's lit, the way it's acted, the way it's staged, you just kind of We intuitively kind of understand. The same thing with futuristic dystopian novels. We understand the genre. Science fiction, space odyssey. Right, we we get that. Now let's think about this dynamic in the reverse, rather than us trying to understand what it was like for them Almost 2,000 years ago, let's imagine our ancient brothers and sisters pulled forward in time uh kind of a quantum leap to join us right here, right now. And they're trying to decipher a narrative that we present to them in the genres from our culture. And they're trying to figure out what exactly the Jedi mind trick. Uh what is meant by lightsaber? Who are these creatures called two backups and C3PO and R2D? to. What is that? They have a hard time figuring that out without us giving them a little bit of aid to share with them what we know about the genres we're familiar with. Well, similar to this, we're not steeped in the apocalyptic writings like our ancestors were. And so understanding the book of Revelation Might require a bit more study, a bit more patience for us now than it did for many believers 1950 years ago. And this would be even more difficult for us when we begin with a faulty premise. All the Christians I know, they say that the book of Revelation is prophetic. But what each Christian might mean by prophecy, that could that could be differ and therefore it could alter our approach to the book. It could have a big impact. So I want you to understand as we enter our exposition of this book of Revelation I want us to realize we're not we're not primarily examining how this book does or doesn't reveal to us politically It's not about revealing political secrets to God's people. Instead, we're primarily examining how this book calls us to Repentance, faith, and worship. Repentance, a turning away from sin, turning toward Jesus. Faith, trust and belief in the work and teaching of Christ Worship, devotion to, adoration of the lamb who was slain, the king, the lion Who now rules as king. This is what this book is all about. It tells us so in the very first phrase What does it say? It says the revelation of Jesus Christ. Now this can mean the revelation from Jesus. can mean the revelation about Jesus. And in this case, it is both. This book is the revelation of, from, and about Jesus Christ. And we get ourselves into interpretive difficulties and even interpretive mistakes when we forget this. This book is not the revelation of world events This is not the revelation of today's headlines. This is not even the revelation of the coming Armageddon. This is the revelation of Jesus Christ. Christ coming from Jesus as he tells us about himself. And then what this means for the world and especially for his church This is a book for Christ's Church, or the Universal Church, and this includes us. I want to encourage you. It includes those who were in the church in the last half of the first century. And uh includes us now. We can see this told him at verse one. He wants us to see how God gives it to Jesus. And then Jesus gives it to his angel, who then gives it to John, who then gives it to the church, Christ's servants. In the verse read the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants, the things that must soon take place. He made him known by sending his angel to his servant John And so this is actually why, part of the reason why I opened the sermon today with that story about Pablo, our fictional representative, who would have been a very real historical figure. Now some traditions they say that this was a man named Procorus, who is actually a deacon who's mentioned in the book of Acts. This is possible, but the text in Revelation it doesn't tell us this specifically so I wouldn't press that tradition too far. But historical customs they tell us that one potentially very legitimate scenario is that this book was carried by a courier likely carrying the one and only copy of the letter at that time before more copies were later made, who's carrying the one and manuscript that exists and he's bicycling it around if you will he's carrying it to seven different churches at least in a specific area of the Middle East. And when the letter arrived, the letter will be read aloud and then it will be taken to the next congregation to be read aloud there. Let's think about it. The first audience, they didn't necessarily see the words on the page with their eyes. They heard the words on the page with their ears. This is a picture book, but the word picture book The people would visualize in their minds what they were hearing, trying to capture it. Kind of like what a director does in a movie who's trying to film a dream sequence and capture the the images. So this is what we're invited to do. Now without the benefit of contemporary technology, we can't make a motion picture Now they could make a motion picture almost 2,000 years ago, so the book of Revelation, we could say, was ahead of its time in helping us to to do this. It's a sort of moving picture show. On the page. So let's imagine that. Seriously, I want us to imagine that. Because this is what we should Do as we hear the words, as we read the words, as we study the words. Imagine the symbols as a vision inside your own brain. Symbols that are provided from our Lord Himself. To his church. And again, keep in mind that this is Christ's revelation. It's given to John, and John faithfully handles it That transaction transaction, kind of like the director in the in the movie that I mentioned, he hands that transaction of getting it to us. This is what it says to us basically in chapter two where it says John bore witness to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw. Now I want us to notice that last word there, the word saw. As I mentioned, this is a word picture book. Or better said perhaps it's a series of word pictures that are recorded for us in a book Now when thinking of symbols to be deciphered inside of books, perhaps you might remember those uh those magic eye books and pictures They're pretty popular, I think, like back in the nineties. You might might remember those if you're old enough. Sometimes you see with posters hanging in the store windows and things too. Um they're basically just colorful dots and squiggly lines. Yeah, on a page in a book or on the poster of the store window and it looked like just a a mess of color. But the idea was he would focus deep into the photo Deep into the picture. You kind of focus beyond the surface of the picture. And when you did this, if you did it right, you'd be able to see a hidden image emerge, kind of like from behind all the squiggly lines and dots. And maybe you don't remember the magic eye uh pictures. Maybe you weren't even born yet to remember them. Have you ever been invited to look at one of those uh Well it looks like just a blot of ink on like a white card, or maybe you know somebody emails it to you or sends it to you in this attachment or something on your computer screen. It's just a blob of like black And they tell you, stare at this for like 30 seconds, 60 seconds, whatever. Don't take your eyes off it. And then after that amount of time, look away and stare at the wall in front of you or look up at the white ceiling and then tell me what And look, it's almost always, the ones I've seen, it's almost always an image of what appears to be a person, and you say, that's Jesus. No. Right? You saw the eating light, you looked away, you saw Jesus. Well here's another example, similar to what happens when you go to uh one of those really nice uh museums that have famous paintings hanging on the wall. Uh how many years ago was it? I don't know. At least a half dozen, maybe more years ago. Remember Dean and I we went to Philadelphia for a short vacation. It was like one of those four four day free night kind of things. And you can't vacation in Philly without going to see the Rocky Steps. And you just can't It's like a rule. So we went and took photos with the Rocky Balboa statue and we we climbed those famous steps. Famous for those Rocky movies, and then once you're at the top at the steps, uh I mean you might as well go inside the building that's there at the top, just waiting for you to go in. It's the Philadelphia Museum of Art. So, Dean and I, we went in And you know, I enjoyed it, I guess. I mean I've never appreciated those old paintings maybe as much as I should. I'm sure of that, but there were lots of other people there who were really into it And they have these these benches set up throughout the the gallery in different spots set up near some of the paintings and the idea is that you you sit there on one of these benches and you stare at one of the paintings in front of you. You just stare. And some of the paintings they don't have the benches, so in those cases you just have to to stand by those paintings. But whether you're standing or you're sitting, there were people stationed there throughout the museum doing just that, just standing there, just staring, looking intently at the image before them About 15 feet in front of them. Gazing. Analyzing. Absorbing. And Imagining. Now I didn't do much of this myself, but I am told that those who do this, that if they do it long enough or from the proper perspective Then they start to see the painting and its meaning and its purpose More truly. He's right there in front of them. I spent there the whole time, right in front of them. It's not in front of everybody who enters the display room, but the ones that look to really see And imagine what the image means. They begin to understand. So all of this is a bit of an analogy for the book of Revelation. In verse 1 we're told that this revel revelation is given to show That's a visual word. John bears witness. It's a visual concept. It's all he saw, again, a visual concept. Descriptor. What's the point of all this showing and seeing? Well, as I mentioned just minutes ago, it is to unveil, to reveal more visual works. And the the beginning Um well to go back to exactly what I said at the beginning. So let me just say at the beginning you see where I'm going in all of this. God has given his people This book is a book of light. This book unveils. It's not meant to confuse. It is meant to be a blessing. To the one who reads it. A blessing to those who hear it read. By the way, singular and plural. Word choices in verse 3, they can help to illuminate what we've been talking about so far, particularly regarding the transmission of the book and that story I told at the beginning. It is a blessing to the one who reads it. Remember how we pointed out that there was one copy originally being bicycled around. This copy was read by one person to the entire congregation. So it's there Therefore a blessing to those who hear it, those meaning more than one, those meaning the entire church. But I want you to notice here it's it's It's a blessing to more than just those who merely hear it. Look at verse three. It says Blessed is the one who reads aloud the word Of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear and who keep what is written in it. For the time is near The audience for this book, again, is all believers. And all believers are to receive this prophecy and to To apply it. All believers. Those from bygone days, those of us alive right now now all of our brothers and sisters in between all in view all of those around the entire world This was true for those who are now dead and buried, and it is true for you and for me and for your believing children and for the members of your church and for Presbyterians and for Baptists and Methodists and Anglicans, all brothers and sisters in Christ. In other words, do you profess to follow Jesus Christ as your Lord and King? The answer is yes, then this book is for you, and you can understand the core of experience. teaching. And you are to live your life accordingly. And part of what this means is to live your life. Expectantly. And why do I say expectantly? Well, the first verse that we examined today says that the things of this book must soon take place. The final verse of today's examination says that the time is near. Now what these sort of timestamps precisely mean is the sort of stuff that we'll be detailed more closely as our series on the book of Revelation continues. We don't have time to get into all that now as we're about to draw to a close here shortly. Incidentally, before the message reaches its conclusion, I should probably say something about calling this literary masterpiece a Book. There's nothing wrong with calling it a book. Of course, it is, after all, one of the sixty-six books of the canon, right? The parts of the Bible. Bible are called books, so it's fine. It's accurate to say that it is a book. But the book they can take on different forms sometimes, particularly in pages of scripture. And as is the case with so many of our biblical books, this book might also be called a letter. It is an epistle. Actually, it's an epistle filled with epistles, as we're going to see in the coming weeks as we read from the pages of Revelation. These are short letters addressed to seven churches. that I pointed out in the past. If this is a letter, then what should we do with it? In other words, how do we generate consume letters. We consume them all at once, right? You get a letter from a loved one, you don't read the first paragraph and set it aside for three minutes. we can come back week seconds that appear back. You just read it all the way through. So I encourage you to do this. Read it straight through from start to finish. Mark got enough time in an evening or on a weekend and And try to read it through in one sitting. And don't get bogged down in all the stuff that seems kind of arcane to you, difficult to grasp. from your current perspective. Just press through. Keep reading. Gather from it what you can. Later you can go back and reread it or press into particular parts of it. But read it all the way through, at least once in your life, read it all the way through. In one thing. And if you do this, well, you might notice some things. For example, and you know you notice some things perhaps you You wouldn't notice otherwise is the point. But for example, you might notice a lot of the same words, a lot of the same themes, concepts that are introduced in these very first three verses of the three-verse prologue of chapter one that they're repeated in the closing section of the final chapter, chapter 22 Now this indicates that the author has given bookends to his writing. The fancy word for this is inclusio, for the scholars or wannabe scholars of bookends. among us. But you might not notice this inclusio if you don't read it all the way through. You might not even notice it initially, perhaps even if you read it all the way through. But your odds increase if you read it all the way through in one second sitting that you might notice these bookends, these brackets, that help draw attention to the purpose and the message of the letter. This is a book for helping you You see, it is a book about Jesus our Christ. It is a book about what must soon come to pass. It's a book of prophetic truth And you can trust what it reveals to the Lord's church. These are important themes at the very beginning that are echoed again at the very end. So recapping, real quickly, Revelation is a book of symbols in motion. It's like a motion picture presenting to us active symbols, much like book what we might see and hear in a dream. And because of this, it gives us strong vividness. The imagery is very vivid. But also an ambiguity, right? We're never 100% sure And this is why we must keep our focus on what it is saying so that we don't get lost in some theological Ditch somewhere by accidentally reading into his pages what it is not saying. We read Revelation To hear our King call us to courage. We listen to its words and we fall down. In adoring worship of our Maker, our Savior, our perfect priest, the Almighty King, the righteous child. Judge the ultimate priest, he is Lord, and he He has given this word of truth to you who are his. I hope that this series and even today's message impacts you the way that a woman was impacted about a decade after World War Two. She was an older woman. She was nearing the end of her days here on earth. And her young pastor visited her in the hospital. And when he arrived, she asked if he wouldn't mind please reading to her from the book of Revelation so that she could hear the Lamb of God's comfort for herself. And so the pastor you read to her her favorite passage, which happened to be Revelation chapter 7. Verses 9 through 17. And as the pastor read, the elderly saint, she recited the words with him from memory. And these are those words. After this I looked, and behold, the great multitude that no one could number. From every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes. With palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne. And worshiped God, saying, Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever. Amen. Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, Who are these clothed in white robes? And from where have they come? I said to him. And he said to me, These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore they are before the throne of God, and serve him night and day in his temple, and he who sits on the throne will shelter them. With his presence. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst anymore. The sun shall not strike them nor any scorching heat. For the lamb in the midst of the throne be their shepherd, and he will guide them. The springs of living water. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. The pastor set down his Bible and the dear sister in Christ Said to him with a weakened but a clear voice, Tonight I will be with Those blessed saints in heaven, because I also have been washed in the blood. Of the Lamb. For those who are numbered among the elect, the revelation Of Jesus Christ is beautiful. It is so very Beautiful. It's great. Father, we thank you and praise you for your glorious magnificence and your plan that includes us. A plan that Knew we would fail to be proper image bearers, and so you have rescued us by the blood of the Lamb from our own sin. Washed us clean So that every tear would be wiped from our eyes. We thank you for this beautiful, magnificent wondrous work of art that is the revelation of Jesus Christ. We thank you for granting us the time and the capacity to Study it, wrestle with it, and imagine its images in a proper biblical context as your people. We thank you for the illumination of your Holy Spirit. that allows us to do so faithfully. We ask your blessing upon our time of discussion. May all that have that have heard this message today All that understand the truth of the gospel, be motivated to act upon what we all know to turn our attention and affections to Christ for the first time if that is where we are or to turn and or return and reset our affections upon Christ. If we're already knowing that we're counted among this weekly. It is in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Alright, so are we in time? Well started a little bit late and I might have gone a little long, so we're probably a little short on time, but are there before I you know try to guide a particular conversation Is there any first reaction to these verses, to this message? To uh since our first we're just beginning our Sam and the initial of Revelation together, even a broader question about Revelation as a whole. Or a comment about it rather. Verse uh Revelation 7 14, these are the ones who can't come out of a great tribulation. Is that is there a tribulation that's less great? I'm just wondering whether this is everyone who is part of the elect or just a certain people that come from a certain time frame within Uh the church. This uh the the passage I closed with, you know, obviously when we get to that part of the series will be preached upon more specifically and these themes will be preached upon and touched upon either. So I don't want to uh Uh I don't want to necessarily get ahead of ourselves. However, uh and there is some debate, so I I'll maybe I'll say this much, at least for now. There are are are those that would believe or you know and and teach That there is um uh that the the church is kept from a tribulation or a sense of oath Of of tribulation uh and you know and that the church will be withdrawn towards the end of uh human history through a rapture, and then there's tribulation that is understood very differently than any of the troubles we have in our life today. And so and from that view, the Great Tribulation is very different. And then there's a another view that talks about there's there's ongoing tribulation and there's a cyclical nature to uh the tribulation where there's maybe a little bit of an ebb and a flow, kind of like a sea swell, where uh there's always tribulation with some time to power the way uh is a little bit more intense than other times kind of thing and uh and and that might be all of this is mentioned or pointing to one of those swells Or there's a view that there's maybe that kind of idea that there's ongoing tribulation up and down perhaps at some level, but then at the very end there's some sort of So those would be the three prevailing views. Um generally those views are dictated by eschatological approach. Oh we don't want to do that, sweetie. Um so the without getting broadcast we did a whole series actually a whole message and and ser short series on Square views the last summer. Um but if somebody's dispensational, uh they they're holding out for there's this great tribulation that is like almost wholly of from what came before. The post-millennial view would be more of the the sea swells up and down, up and down, up and down. And uh uh uh and actually probably getting more and more down as time goes on until finally, you know, everything is so great for so long that Jesus then returns. Um after like a thousand years of peace kind of thing. And the all millennial view would probably be a mixture of those two where there's the swells up and down, but then there is something maybe a little bit different at the very end. How is that the answer to your question or helping? No, it just sounds like you can't think your entire eschatology off that one verse or one take the whole of scripture. I was just wondering whether that okay whether there's like a defensive I will say this, that is one uh and that's actually a pretty good theme for to touch on. As we work through the book of Revelation, we're gonna run into a lot of um Proof text verses. A lot of individual verses in the Bible that different people with different views of the end times. hang their hat on and say because of this verse that proves my position is right and boy oh boy I just want to say and hopefully you're up for this if you're watching on Facebook If you're gathered here, I feel like I know we're up for this. You gotta be so careful to take any single verse out of an apocalyptic book and say this highly vivid, highly imaginative, uh, highly metaphoric type of thing is going to be that didactic and that exacting and press it for all its words and say this proves everything. So you've got to look at the the always it's always true. But in situations like this, like we're going to probably run into it for the first time in a serious way in Revelation chapter three I'm I'm anticipating. Because there's a proof text in Revelation chapter three that we're gonna have to uh deal with. But what is so what does the verse actually say? What does the Greek mean? Let's start there. You know, what's the range of possibility? What could it mean? It could mean this, it could mean that. It can't mean this, it can't mean that, so we've limited our options. So now we understand the grammar and the and the words on the page. And now let's look at the broader context within just that little passage or what pastors like to call pericopes. That little section that you're preaching on, in in that context, what do any of the two or three ideas that it could mean are anything eliminated? And oftentimes only one is left or you might be well they're all eliminated except for these two and then you gotta do a broader context for the entire letter of the book of Revelation or to your point all of Scripture and say okay we Limit it down to these two. Now given what we know about all of Scripture, does that help us? And there are times when we get a little frustrated and we're like, yeah, I don't know. Even all of Scripture kind of leads both interpretations. interpretations, which is why you have different flavors within Christianity and people will argue round and round and round. Oftentimes, uh I'm going to say probably most often it seems to me that if you argue really to take the whole Bible into account That you pretty much most of the time you end up with one prevailing understanding, and those that insist on some other understanding just have a blind In our context of the tribulation, I mean particularly with everything that's going on the last year or so a lot of people were talking in terms of oh I think we've entered the tribulation. You know, that kind of thing. And so I know it's a it's it's it's a kind of question for Ansi to have answered, but uh if we spend our time time trying to answer those kind of specific things and and flesh it out more fully. Um you know it'll be more than a fifteen, twenty, thirty minute conversation. It'll be a number of sermons that we'll touch because it comes it's a recurring theme in the book of Revelation. So we're going to come at it from different angles. By the time we're done with the series, I think we'll all have a pretty good understanding of what we think God's Word is recognizing. I'm not trying to punt, I'm trying to be judicious with time and trying not to steal our own thunder necessarily later either. You were the one that uh recommended that we tackle you know the book of Revelation next after we finished our series on the Epistles of John. So why did you want to do that? Because it's there's so much imagery and so the imagery Because I don't know the Greek. I'm sure it means something when it was written that has been lost in translation. No I mean to what we have now. So okay, so what how was it intended and then how is that applicable to what we what's going on now? How are we living our lives in light of what actually was intended. So that was my cause it's not like reading the gospel. The gospel's pretty straightforward. You're a sinner, you need to repent, now do it now. So, you know. Yeah, and and as a word of encouragement, um some parts of the New Testament Knowing the Greek can be particularly helpful. I would say it's mostly helpful uh with Paul because he's making very specific intellectual arguments and you want to know sometimes it's really helpful to know what specific Greek word he's using with the range of meanings. Oh and for those who are the wannabe uh scholars, you know, the glosses. You know, what are the what are the what's the what are the the uh the glosses available to us to understand how to def And interpret these words. The book of Revelation, understand the Greek is always helpful. But I think our biggest challenge, it's not that we don't know the Greek, because we do have really good English translations. Uh you know the NASB, the ESV, the uh um you know e the New King James, uh the NIV These are all fine. If you want to get a general sense of just kind of the narrative story arc, even the New Living translation, I wouldn't use it as a study Bible. per se, but if you're just trying to get a sense of what's the story, what's the basic flow of what's happening here reading that's fine. Uh I wouldn't camp out and live in the New Living Translation though. You want to go to At least the NIV, if not the NS NASV or ESV or something like that. But anyway, um the real challenge we have is we're We're just not familiar enough with this style of writing. Like think about in a movie. But we all have been immersed in a culture that's about television and movies. So you're watching a movie and it can be the exact same theme. Right, you're watching a movie, it's the first five ten minutes of the movie, and it's the exact same scene. But if you know the genre, you react to the scene differently. So for so here's what I have in mind. So It's a classic kind of a scene. The husband and wife or the boyfriend and girlfriend, they're in the car, and you know, one's on the passenger side, and they're talking back and forth, they're having a vigorous discussion. maybe an argument, maybe or whatever, or maybe they're really happy sharing. And if you're watching some sort of drama Right? You anticipated. Oh, I've seen this happen before in this genre. A Mac truck's gonna hit them from the side any moment now. I just know it Right? You just you're you're like, uh oh, it's coming. I know they're having this I just know it. And then sure enough you're more times than not, you probably had this thing. You're like, oh I just know. You get nervous and expecting the accident Right? And then all of a sudden, five seconds later, there's an accident like I knew it. And even though and even though you knew it, you're still shocked and jarred so it's still effective in the movies so the genre works right it doesn't work but that same scene the exact same scene in a romantic comedy Doesn't have you sitting on the side if you receive something, uh-oh, there could be an act and I just know it. Because we know the genre. So Revelation is And I I don't want to get too ahead of us, but I think I might mention this in the coming weeks as well. It fits well within apocalyptic literature. It is not wholly other and completely unique among a Apocalyptic literature and yet it is unique among apocalyptic literature. There are some things going on with Revelation. So what's going on here is the Apostle John through the revelation that Jesus has given him is kind of rifting on apocalyptic literature. It's like a jazz interpretation of a cut literature if you will. So it fits within the scope of apocalyptic, but there is something special and different here that sets it apart from other uh popul. This is one quick example. I might mention This again in coming weeks up. Maybe I won't, I don't know. But apocalyptic literature is almost always in the ancient world is almost always pseudographical. Which means I would write it and say Landon wrote it. Right? I'm writing under somebody else's name Uh in this case, no. Jesus wrote it, gave it to John. John writes it through the Holy Spirit as well. We know who the authors are and they're not They're not trying to claim someone that they're not. This really is an authoritative word from Jesus through the Apostle John. That is true. claim game is there. There's some of the things with the way he uses metaphor analogy and stuff that's a little bit unique and different too. And that's why I said, read it all the way through. So the concerns 'cause I think Revelation probably more than any other book of the Bible, people are afraid of it. Afraid of it. They're afraid well I mean they're they're they're afraid that they can't I can't understand it. It's just too complicated, too hard, I'll just never get it. Yeah. Um we just talk about this this evening. earlier this evening. So I guess I'll mention it here from a broader a broader Facebook audience. The entire Bible at its a foundation It is about God creating us in his image so that we would have a relationship with him and be screwed. The whole Bible is about that. The whole Bible is reiterating that. It's helping us to read focus on that, helping us to understand that. If if it's the first time somebody's opening the Bible, well it's going to tell them that for the first time. Every book of the Bible is doing that. You know, it's like the old clue joke and cliche. You know, if you're in Sunday school, some the Sunday school teacher asks you a question and you're not sure of the answer, just say Jesus. Because the answer is always Jesus. The answer in our Bible is always Jesus. So if nothing else, read the book of Revelation, read it straight through like a letter, and and If you have a study Bible with lots of notes in the margins or at the bottom, and try to read the notes uh as you're reading the book. The first time through, don't do that. Or if you've already read it the first time through, or many times in your life, but you've never read it straight through one time in your life, ignore the notes and just read it through. And try to see what the story says to you. And I promise you, I feel confident If you're a believer and you have the illumination of the Holy Spirit, I promise you when you're done, you're not going to know every little you want the details why we're teaching us, why we're teaching us, why I'm spending hours getting ready for these messages, because there's a lot that our current culture doesn't understand intuitively. But you're going to know at the end. It's a book about Jesus and He's glorious. And we should turn to him and trust him and not ourselves, and we should worship him and we should live an obedient life that walks after him. We're gonna know that And if that's all you get out of it, it's all you need to know. The other stuff is fun to know, helpful to know, useful to know. But you don't need to know. What you need to know is that you are a sinner in desperate need of a rescuer, and the book of Revelation makes it so clear that we We have that rescuer Jesus Christ. And that's its main purpose. So read it knowing that as you read it, your faith will be encouraged. And some people get nervous about the More dramatic images like, oh my gosh, what's gonna happen? That's part of what I think stands behind a lot of the theology that believes big time in the rapture, the rescue from the tribulation is, oh I don't want to go through that Again I want to steal our thunder, but there's different things going on here. We got you know tribulation that's like meant for the world, you know, wrath of God kind of tribulation. And we've got testing and trials that does come from God. That's, you know, so there's different, I don't want to use the word nuance because that's become such a loaded term and so many people are turned off by it. Um what's a word other than nuance? There's so many different layers layers, aspects, perspectives, uh elements. Elements. Good, good, I like that. To uh to think about. And so um Um helpful tip if you if you're if you're reading a uh a more literal literal a a a more wooden A more word-for-word translation, some of these uh translations that's attempting to be word for word, that would include something like the NASB, that would include the King James, that would include um the E They're going to be a little bit easier to see this. It'd be harder in the NIV and it'd be almost impossible in the New Living translation. But look for the same word showing up. Over and over. And you might not notice it right away, but you get halfway through the book of Revelation as you're reading it straight through, and you're like, man, I feel like I've read this word. That's going to be the 20th time I've seen that word, or the tenth time I've seen that word. Start like, no, maybe jot that down in the margin somewhere. There's something going on there. Look for little things like that. Look for patterns. Look for repetition. Um but really simple, something we're more familiar with because we read it more often because how many of us have decided we're going to read the Bible for any year? So we start uh generation uh Genesis chapter 1 verse 1 and we read and then at some point we stop and then a year or two later we said I'm going to read the Bible and we start back in re in Genesis chapter 1 verse 1 and we read until we stop. So we've read Genesis chapter 1 one verse one a zillion times. Right? Well we've done that a zillion times. So with more familiar, so I'll use this. Have you ever noticeed there's like oh that might not be safe for you sweetie. That's got See then you fall and go boom and then the pointy thing could pop you in the eye. Ooh, that'd be bad. That'd be bad. Yeah. So um you ever notice if you're booking reading the book of uh Genesis in chapter one And then chapter two, and you're like, I kind of read this sort of already, chapter one. Like there's a re there's a repetition that happens there. Now we're not doing Genesis right now. I would argue in reason. It's not by accident. Well look for that revelation. See, are there things that are being said a second time, a third time, a fourth time, whatever, are in the repetition. So look for Repetition of words, repetition of ideals, repetition of themes and cycles throughout, and see if you can get a sense of what that might be telling you about Jesus Christ. Because if you can't take nothing at all from this other than this, tonight will have been a success. What is the book of Revelation about? Yes. It Sunday school answer. And it is so profoundly true in this case because it tells us right at the start This is the revelation of Jesus Christ. I know I sound almost sophomoric emphasizing that. But I have have to because in our present day culture people turn to the book of Revelation and that's not what they're looking for. How do we understand what's happening in the Middle East How do we understand what's happening with our election? How do we understand what's happening with the broader culture? Is the Pope the Antichrist? Like these are the kinds of things that people are focusing on and those can be fun or whatever, I don't know. But that's not what it's about So those can be distractions that take us away from what it's about. And if we don't understand what it's about and how it's about Jesus Christ, we will misapply it into our own situation. situations into our own lives. So really, if that's all you take away from today, today's sermon could have been four seconds long. Revelation chapter one verses one through three tell us that this whole book is about Jesus Christ. Period, full stop. You're dismissed. Okay, eight seconds. Sorry. How many seconds was it? It was like seven. Seven seconds, okay. I think you count too fast. A pause possibly. I didn't do anything. Anything else you guys want to touch on tonight We're gonna have weeks and weeks ahead of us to touch on this stuff, but in a rush. Anything in the comment section you're paying attention? No? Okay. All right, well then I it's uh been about an hour, maybe just a hair over an hour, so we'll wrap it up. You want to close us with prayer? Sure. Thank you, Lord, for this time Together, we trust that you will pour out your spirit throughout the week and touch on the things that were illuminated tonight so that we can better understand your your word and apply it to our lives that you might be glorified. Pray that you lead us not into temptation, you deliver us from evil. In Jesus' name I Amen. Well thanks for joining us. Share with your friends. We'll be back live again next Saturday at 6 o'clock, as usual. Until then, God bless.