And I think we're rolling. Hello, Facebook. You're watching us on delay later. Hello, YouTube. Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ. I'm going to sneak in here next to you That's okay? Is that all right with you? We're going to be uh reading from Zechariah chapters 3 and 4 tonight. So if you have your Bibles and you want to get those ready, you can read along Make sure we're not making up any words as we go. Zechariah, in case you're not real initiated, it's in the Old Testament, and it should be Easy to find. It's not the last book of the Old Testament, but it is the second to last book. So you should go to the end of the Old Testament and just go forward a little bit and you'll find it. Zechariah chapter 3 and chapter 4. And the sermon tonight is going to be on Revelation chapter 1. That's also very easy to find. Again, if you're not initiated, Revelation, the very last book of the entire Bible. And you'll be looking for chapter 1 in Revelation. So in a moment we're going to open with a word of prayer and then we're going to have the readings from the Old Testament and then our message and then following the message a time for some a short amount of time for some discussion. And then you can participate in that discussion if you like through the comment section here of the Facebook Live. Okay? So without any further ado, if uh Angeli, you wouldn't mind opening this with a word of prayer? Sovereign Father in Heaven, we bless you as we come together in the name of your Son, Jesus Christ, to lift up, Lord, the Word of God, your word, Lord. your word that corrects, your word that instructs, your word that informs, your word that comforts, your word that warns us. We lift up your holy word. Remembering that you live not by flesh alone, but or not by bread alone, but by every word that comes forth from your mouth. So we just ask that life would be delivered through this word that is shared today. We ask that um only what is of you be delivered, that nothing from the flesh from any of us. contaminates the pure word of God to be lifted up as we receive your word father to our life, our health, our well-being. We thank you in the name of your Son Jesus Christ, our Savior and Lord. Amen. Alright, so now if you have your Bibles ready, if you want to read along, open up to Zechariah Chapter three. Uh Ray is, I think, the one who's gonna read chapter three, and then as soon as he finishes chapter three, Dina's gonna jump or Angela's doing it? Oh no. Yeah, because Ray's got my Bible. Oh I can hand it over. Oh, he can hand it over to me. Okay. Okay, so he's gonna three hand the Bible to Dina. Dina's gonna read four so you can follow along at home Then he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand. The Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, Satan. Indeed, the Lord who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you. It is is this not a brand plucked from the fire? Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments and standing before In your iniquity away from you, and I will clothe you with festival robes. Then I said, Let them put a beam turban on his head, so they may So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments while the angel of the Lord was standing by. And the angel The Lord admonished Joshua, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, if you will walk in my ways, and if you will perform my services, then you will also govern my house. Now listen, Joshua, the high priest You and your friends who are sitting in front of you. Indeed they are men who are a symbol for behold, I am going to bring my bring in my servant the branch for behold the stone that I have set before Joshua on one stone of seven eyes. Behold I will engrave an inscription on it declaring the Lord of hosts. Now we'll remove the iniquity of the land in one day. In that day declares the Lord of hosts, every one of you will invite his neighbor were to sit under his vine and under his fig tree. And the angel who was speaking with me returned and roused me as a man who was awakened from his sleep. He said to me, What do you see? And I said, I see and behold the lampstand olive gold with its bowl on the top of it, and its seven lamps on it, with seven spouts belonging to each of the lamps which are on top of it. Also two olive trees by it. One on the right Then I said to the angel who was speaking with me, saying, What are these, my lord? So the angel who was speaking with me answered and said To me, do you not know what these are? And I said, No, my lord. Then he said to me, This is the word of the Lord to the Rubybel, saying, Not by might nor by power but by my spirit says the Lord of hosts what are you O great mountains before Zerubabel you will become a plain and He will bring forth the top stone with shouts of grace, grace to it. Also the word of the Lord came to me, saying, The hands of Zerubbabel have laid Laid the foundation of this house, and his hands will finish it. Then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. For who has despised the day of small things But these seven will be glad when they see the plumb line in the hand of the Rubabel. These are the eyes of the Lord which range to and fro throughout the earth. Then I said to him, What are these two olive trees on the right of the lampstand and on the left? And I answered the second time and said to him, What are the two olive branches Which are beside the two golden pipes, which empty the golden oil from themselves. So he answered me, saying, Do you not know what these are? And I said, No, my lord Then he said, these are the two anointed ones who are standing by the Lord of the whole earth. Thank you for reading. I appreciate that very much. By the way, I forgot to mention at the very beginning beginning. Um if you want to connect with us most easily on social media or just in general whatever the best way probably kind of a centralized hub for that is our website where everything is now beginning to fall into place. Still not exactly where we want it, but it's getting closer. Household of faith in Christ dot com, so I encourage you to visit there, check it out. If you notice any misspellings or things that have you scratched in your head, reach out to me, let me know Household of Faithinchrist. com. So today we continue our look at the book of Revelation. This message I'm titled Greetings from Two Millennials Looking at Revelation chapter 1, verses 4 through 8. So you might want to flip from the Old Testament into the New so you can follow along with what we're going to talk about here. in the book of Revelation. Last week we started the series and we learned that blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy and blessed are those who hear and who keep what is written in it for the time The book of Revelation is the only book in the entire Bible that has a promised blessing like this. A blessing for reading. And hearing it and keeping it. How blessed are we then to continue our study of it in great earnestness and great detail during our sermons over the coming months. Now this promised blessing that I just read to you is found in chapter 1, verse 3, which just so happens to lead right into verse 3 4. And that's what we pick up today. Last week's message was the prologue of chapter 1, verses 1 through 3. And today we move into the formal introduction of the letter, verse 1 through Verses four through eight. As we've kind of alluded to last week, this letter is a brilliant and beautiful Interwoven literary masterpiece that tells us about the brilliant and beautiful interwoven historical masterpiece of the gift of remote. redemption, which is due to the brilliant and beautiful Trinitarian Master, who is our creator and our Today we're going to examine the human authorship and the insertive approaches, things like that. We're also going to examine the spiritual authorship and the paternal truths That witness to who God is and who He has made us to be. So we're going to read God's word together now, Revelation chapter one, verses four through eight. John, to the seven churches that are in Asia, grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come, and from the seven spirits who are Before his throne. And from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth, to him who loves us and releases us. From our sins by his blood, and he made us into a kingdom, priests to his God and Father. To him be the glory and the dominion forever and ever. Amen. Behold, he is coming with the clouds. And every eye will see him, even those who pierced him, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn over him. So it is to be. Amen. I am the elf of the And the Omega says the Lord God, who is, and who was, and who is to come, the Almighty. This, as well as Zechariah chapters 3 and 4 For is the inspired word of God. Because it is inspired of God, it is without error, it is infallible. And it is part of the canon, which is the perfect rule in God For faith and life practice. Those with an ear to hear, let them hear. Now, if you spent a lot of time in the Bible, or perhaps even if you just spent a fair amount of time in the church, then you might be familiar with the teaching of what's called Christ Humiliation. The Son of God condescended to become a man. He didn't see his lofty status as something to cling to to instead allowed himself, even caused himself to be humiliated, even dying a brutal and insulting death on a cross. For the payment of sins that are not his, they are ours. And yet he was the suffering servant. He washed the feet of others. He was born and placed in a manger, no crip over his bed. He was mocked. He was framed in a sham trial. He dealt with weariness and sadness and abandonment. He endured strife so that we might be healed. Are you familiar with any of these things? Well, if so, then what we just read a moment ago was stunning in its contrast. Wasn't it? I mean yes it mentions his blood in verses four through eight, but the emphasis it's on his glory, his dominion, his victory, his Authority. This isn't focused on Christ's humiliation. It is focused on his exaltation. And this isn't merely the focus of this introduction, it foreshadows the focus for the entire book. This is a book of praise This greeting from two millennia ago, it lifts up the name of God, inspiring us to lift up our voices and sing the praises of God. Calling us to repentance so that we obediently serve the one true God. Contrary perhaps to what you might have been told somewhere along the line, the book of Revelation it is primarily a call to repentance. It is not primarily a secret decoder manual for God's people to decipher news reports and News headlines. It is a book that echoes what Jesus said in the gospel account. Repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. The explicit goal is to lead us to the place where we utter the prayer, come now, Lord Jesus. Come now, Lord. And that's what Revelation is all about, Charlie Brown. So now let's dive into the text. Verse 4 begins, John. Okay, let's stop. Who is John? There has been plenty of discussion about this topic for many years. Lots of books written, lots of lectures given, lots of debate between both men and women. So what has everyone decided? Well, everyone never seems to decide anything, no matter the question. There are always gonna be disagreements. But for the most part, the authorship question tends to be answered in one of five ways. Some say that John here is someone known as John the Elder, not to be confused with the most famous John. We all tend to be. to think of. Some believe it or not think that the author is John the Baptist. Others say that it's a guy named John the Prophet. Someone else say it's someone Named John the Seer, but there is one man whose identity rises above all of the others. The majority view throughout church history has been that John Seer John the apostle, as in John the son of Zebedee, John the disciple whom Jesus loved, John the author of the fourth gospel. This John is the John who received And not only is this the majority view, it is also the earliest view, it is the view of the early church fathers, and to this we can add stylistic commonalities with other writings attributed to John. For example, the genre is different, but the structure of John's Gospel and the Book of Revelation are very similar. They both have a sevenfold pattern of seven signs, for instance Both had a prologue and an epilogue with a central message in between. And interestingly, the only places in all of Scripture where we find that The concept is of Christ as the Word of God, the Word, the Lagos, is in the book of Hebrews, whose authorship is unknown and in the Gospel of John and the first epistle of John and in the book of Revelation, which we should understand was written by John. And so John is our man. And what a blessing, because in many ways John was the man. Because he was personally with Jesus through the majority, the earliest days of his ministry, all the way through his death and the empty tomb and the ascension And because Johnny outlived all the other apostles, he was the theologian of the church during the final quarter of the first century. John was the elder, the apostolic spokesman And he has given us what one commentator, Philip Carrington, has described as the only masterpiece Now I just mentioned a moment ago that uh I used the words final quarter of the first century. So let's talk about the date that the book was written. We don't know. Most say it was written in the early 90s. during the tail end of Emperor Domitian's reign. Others say it was written in the late sixties during the tail end of Emperor Nero's reign. And deciding on the date it can impact one interpretation of the book. But I think you're going to see as we work away through the series, the way that we're going to be handling the text, you're going to see it doesn't critically alter what it is that we need to know, nor what it is is we are to do. Now without getting bogged down in all the details, the question of dating is very often argued between those in what called the full or complete preterist camp as opposed to the partial preterist camp and then all the other various camps that exist and I would suggest that we do okay to set up camps in most of the views. Just don't lay your entire foundation and build your entire argument and approach upon any one of the camps because the book of Revelation It does not lend itself to such a rigid and inflexible approach. Now there are so many different ways to examine the book. outline the book, to take in the book. And most of them, at least from certain perspectives and in certain ways, are valid. Revelation is a tapestry. It is it's jazz music and classical music and polka music and hip-hop music and the waltz all in one. And the symbols are metaphorical, not literal. And these artistic metaphors, they're models which offer pointer clues to proper application. And also recognizing the important role of the Old Testament in interpreting the symbols within Revelation is another crucial point. And actually the fact that so few Christians know the Old Testament is likely a big reason why so many Christians struggle in trying to understand the book of Revelation. Now where there is divergence in our approaches to interpretation of these visions of John, it's often with regard to the question of what kind of book have we been given? Do you view its contents, as a lot of people do, as a sort of puzzle book? What if I told you it might be better to see it as more of a Picture book. Many people they work to examine each individual isolated detail as one of the puzzle pieces to be fit together. Each individual word, each individual phrase, each individual Sentence, each individual verse, and how we fit all these little tiny individual pieces together into our puzzle. And I would suggest that we do not try to puzzle it out this way And instead work to take in the entire painting as it's displayed before us. Too many, I think, are seeking to solve the problem. Puzzle. There are puzzling aspects to scripture, I get it. So of course we're going to try to puzzle certain things out. God's word is inexhaustible. Rich. So we can't ever fully plumb all of its depths and mysteries. But my concern is If we're working to puzzle out all the details, rather than working to see the themes and and the teachings and the applications in light of the picture that's been artfully and brilliantly painted for us in this masterpiece that is the book of Revelation. then we might fall prey to using a knife by grabbing the wrong end. So the result is we we can end up wrong asking the wrong questions of the text. And if we do this, well then we might grab what is a good and useful tool. But in grabbing it, we find that we're mistakenly holding the knife by the blade. and not by the handle. So have you heard people tell you that you should take the book of Revelation literally whenever possible What if I told you that you should take the book of Revelation symbolically whenever possible? This might aid us in seeing the teaching intended for the entire universal church because symbolically is how the first hearers of of this letter would have taken what they heard. Well Christ revealed to John. It was true and reliable Relatable and applicable to the church then. 1900 years ago, and 900 years ago, and 90 years ago, and nine years ago, and today. And it will be true and relatable and applicable to the church also nine years from now, and ninety years from now, and nine hundred years from now, and so on, until the Lord returns. And because this is true, we don't have to change the interpretation based upon the arguments that scholars have over the date of authorship, for example. Because these words address the end times. And history did enter the end times profit. We don't have to change the interpretation based upon world events nor inventive new hermeneutic uh hermeneutical paradigm This final book of our canon was and is for the whole church. For the entire church hundreds of years ago and today. And tomorrow? And for as many tomorrows as there are prior to the second advent It's not as hard as we might imagine to come to grips with what this book is telling us when we have the Holy Spirit illuminating us. our mind and as a follower of Christ, as a true believer, as a brother and sister in Christ, you have the Holy Spirit which helps you illuminate your mind. So we We can do this. Remember we talked about last week, the book of Revelation. It's about unsealing. It is an unveiling, not available. It's not available to be kept sealed for seventy years, like with Daniel, for example. The knowledge in the book of Revelation has been revealed. That's what it says in the very first verse. And this is because we're currently in the last days. We're not in the last day, but we're in the last day. So we can do this. We can grab we can understand what the book of Revelation is saying. We really can. And so I'm looking forward to doing this together. So hopefully those who are nervous, you're feeling better about it. Hey, it's gonna be fun. We're gonna we're gonna be able to handle of this. Alright, so hopefully you're feeling better. Now before moving on from the dating and the interpretive questions, you should probably know some of the terms and the way the very Various people go about trying to discern the meaning of this letter. So we're going to take a short excursive here to talk about these sorts of things. There are four or five major schools of interpretation for the book of Revelation. Revelation and I believe that they all have something important to contribute. The preterists, they think that the fulfillment of all of the prophecies in the book of Revelation occurred in A. D. 70 with the fall of Jerusalem. Jerusalem. Now there are partial preterists who say, well, this is partly the case and partly not the case. And by the way, there's a minority view within the preterists camp. There are some preterists that say that the prophecies were fulfilled in the fall of the Roman Empire higher as opposed to the fall of Jerusalem. But anyway, that's the properist. And the futurists, the futurists, they think that the fulfillment, it hasn't occurred yet at all. It occurs in a final crisis just before the second coming And then there are historicists. They think that the book offers a basically a chronological outline of church history. from the first century onto the second coming. And there's idealists. They think that the scenes of Revelation do not depict specific ideas Events so much as they depict the principles of spiritual war, but these principles in operation throughout the church age and in repetitive fashion. I mention all of this because you should probably know what they are if you get into these kinds of conversations with people they might throw these terms around and you might not remember everything I just said but you go like Hey, I I I've heard of that before. You know a bit of a toehold in the conversation. But also I mention all this because I want you to know I consider them all I really do. And I think you should too. The combination of these views is probably closest to the truth. Now that's a lot of detailed minutiae to try to hang on to, so let's simplify this. Put more simply, we could likely lump most people into one of two groups. There are those who look at the book in a straight line. Their approach is linear. Everything is chronological. Now this is labeled by some as the millinarian method, and it is very popular these days. Not everybody's gonna know what label they're working in, uh uh working under. But most people you run into, the American Church, they would actually be uh if they have ADU on Revelation, it's probably in the The millenarian method camp. And then there's there are those who favor what's called the recapitulation approach. This is a minority view. They see a cyclic and repetitive Pattern with the book frequently looping back will cover the same scenarios from varying vantage points. And I think see much to be favored with this particular approach for what it's worth. Now, to last little tidbit before we exam again examine the text. Did you know that the heaviest influence of the Old Testament upon any book of the New Testament is the book of Revelation It is replete with imagery and thought patterns and phrases and motifs and vocal vocabulary and mindset that is borrowed directly from the first thirty-nine books of our canon And in a sense, it seems that John appears to think of himself as the last in a long line of biblical prophets. He puts himself right in line with Moses and Elijah and Isaiah and Daniel. And Zechariah. And did you know that it's been suggested that the Gospel of John and the book of Revelation be read in tandem There is a case to be made that the Gospel of John serves as an introduction to Revelation. Some scholars they even think that John wrote the gospel after he wrote the book of Revelation, with the purpose of it being an introduction for the visions that he was given and recorded in Revelation. Of course, but at the very least, I think it's helpful for us to consider maybe we should read these two books in relationship to one another. So now back to the text, which Today isn't going to take that long because the teaching from this text is kind of like a whipped cream pie. It just kind of hits you right in the face. Verse 4. It begins, John, to the seven churches that are in Asia. Grace to you and peace. We will talk rather extensively about the seven churches later in the sermon. And so we're not going to take time to detail any of that right now. And the phrase Grace to You and Peace, so that's pretty standard fair for the opening reading of a New Testament epistle. And this is something that I have in the past and will again in the future talk about with some detail in other sermon series. And so for now again we're not going to take a pit stop there either. However, we will take a pit stop for the next phrase. Verse four continues and then into verse five. From him who is and who was and who is to come, and from the seven spirits who are before his throne. And from Jesus Christ. Notice the Trinity. It's right here. Him who is, and who was and who is to come. That's God the Father. That is an expansion of the covenant name that God gives in the Old Testament, Yahweh. I am, I am who I am, right? I is, I was, I am to be. Yahweh, the name given to Moses at the burning bush. And then next we read of the seven spirits who are before his throne, that's God, the Holy Spirit. Now some might mistakenly be tempted to say That this is a reference to angels, but in this context of worship, and of the Godhead, it cannot be angels. And the number seven, it's the number of perfect holiness. perfectly holy. And this phrase here borrows from ideas that we find in Zechariah 3 and 4, which is why we read from those chapters earlier. today. And it also brought some ideas we find in Isaiah chapter eleven and Exodus chapter twenty-five. We'll likely read those chapters in a future gathering together. And furthermore, the biblical thought, by the way, about the number seven, you may or may not know this, but the number seven in scripture oftentimes is a symbol for God Himself. It is the sum of three, which the god symbolizing the Godhead, and four, which symbolizes creation in Scripture And so you add them together, three and four, and you get the God of creation. And we should make note, throughout Revelation, the number seven is going to be used over And over again to represent God's presence by his spirit. So be looking for that as you read. And then verse 5 it begins with, and from Jesus Christ. Well, that's God's presence Son. The human nature of God incarnate. And verse 5 continues, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, the ruler of the kings of the earth. See, see how Jesus, he is the faithful witness who is the firstborn. He's first, we follow. He is a faithful witness, and we are to follow. We must give witness to the world about the ruler of the kings of the earth. Let's give witness to who he is and what he has done for us. Now continue with the remainder of verse 5. All of verse 6. To him who loves us and released us from our sins by his blood, and he made us into a kingdom, priests to his God and Father, to him be the glory and the dominion forever and ever. Amen. I alluded to this verse earlier. There's a hint here of Christ's humiliation. But even this is part of his exaltation. His shed blood, which is mentioned here, it releases his people from their sins. There is power in the blood of Jesus. And he shed his blood because he loves us and because he wanted to Make us into a kingdom of priests. And so we join him as part of his royal family, and we are priests Who are the priests? In the Old Testament, who are the priests? They are the ones who serve in closest proximity to God. Could approach God. They were set apart the holy service. Obedient That's us believers. Thanks to Jesus. Thanks to God. And I wonder, are you beginning to feel it a little bit? Gratitude growing up inside of you. Appreciation. Majesty of your Savior. Your Maker, your comforter, whose spirit dwells inside you. As a follower of the way. Are you feeling it? Are you eager to see his earthly return? Are you excited by the prospect? By the promise. If so, well then, hear this. Verse seven. Behold He is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him, and all the trials in the earth will mourn over him. So it is to be amen Amen, it says. Amen means it is true, or so be it, or it will be. It means take it to the bank and cash it. He is coming. Every eye. Yes. will see him. The whole world. Everyone. Those who are his enemies. Those who pierced him And those who adore him. Even the tribes of the earth who mourn over him. He is the returning king of all. Everyone. And that includes you. You will face your maker. You will You will face him as a foe, or you will face him as one rescued by him. So it is Are you ready for this? Are you ready to think your name? Are you ready only because you trust in him? Look, we're not talking about the man upstairs. We're not talking about the old guy in the sky. For the higher power that makes you feel like you have a higher consciousness. This isn't Buddha or Brahma or all Raman. He is who he says he is. And he says, look at verse 8, I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, who is and who was and who is to come the Almighty. We read here that God is the all-in-all. He is the beginning and the end. And all things in between. That's what's meant by the Alpha and the Omega. These are the first and last letters of the Hebrew alphabet. In English, we would say, I am the A to Z. And we also see here a repeat of what we read before. The Lord God who is and who was and who is to come the Almighty. Now, as we talk about this, is God the Father. But in this context, where the whole passage is highlighting the idea of the Trinitarian nature of God, we're drawing into here the whole idea of the Godhead So it's God the Father, but all of those have a picture of God the Son and God the Spirit because ours is a monotheistic God. One God. Three persons. One God. What that one God wants us to get from this message. You want to understand the book of Revelation in just two words. We're going to spend months in the book of Revelation. It's almost unnecessary. I don't know how to understand the correlation of two words. God wins. Amen. The one true God wins. God's heavenly glory and the exaltation of this glory not only introduces the letter as we've been seeing here today, it's not just the introduction to the prophetic message to the letter that is the book of Revelation. But the heavenly glory of God, the exaltation of this glory, it is what dominates and controls the entire letter, start to finish. It's what it's about. We step back and stop trying to puzzle it. We step back and take in the whole picture The entire tapestry. What does it say? It says he reigns. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you are a God we can have absolute total confidence and trust in because we know you are in control. You reign. You have made all it is. You're completely sovereign over every part of your creation. And we praise you and thank you. Thank you for your eternal plan and oh how grateful we are that your plan includes having called us to be in closest relationship with you. Brothers and sisters in Christ, collectively as the body and the bride of Christ, we ask that That you would forgive us for diminishing how grand this promise and truth is. And that you would, through the power of your spirit, enable us To live lives more in accord with that truth, lives of obedience and humility and the fruit of the Spirit. We ask you a guided directed discussion that here is the following. And I pray for everyone who's hearing this message that if they hadn't already known who you are, That you are the Maker whom all of us will have to face. That through the foolishness of this my preaching, that your spirit would move Soften their hearts, convict their hearts, turn their hearts to you, then they would have the promise that you have made to your people Through the blood and sacrifice of your Son Jesus Christ. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. So let me jump over here. Because of the Bible readings and stuff, we don't have as much time for discussion, but we still got a Maybe ten, fifteen minutes. Um you're certainly welcome to add any thoughts and comments you want in general, but I thought since we're early in the in the series, and I probably should have maybe added I asked this question last week and I didn't ask it this week. Coming into a series like this, you know, what had been your impression and understanding about the book of Revelation and what Were you or are you hoping that by the time we're done with our a steady diet of examining it to come away with it, you know, from all of this time together. What do you hope and take away from it? Anybody have a thought? I think less confusion, because there is so much imagery. And it's I'm sure beautiful, but I don't know the original Greek text. And so to get the full richness of it I feel like I it's lost on me 'cause I have not studied the original text, but you have, so Yeah. Uh well and we touched on this a little bit last week. I do think that by the time we're done You're gonna have a better sense of what some of the specific pieces mean. Like we did a little bit of that today, right? You know, when we talked about the God the Father. people are like so is that is that phrase God the Father Spirit and Son? And uh I think it's clear based on the context that it's talking about just the Father. And then the seventh spirit before the What is that? And so we'll we'll you know puzzle over that and think, oh hey, that's angels. Because they're looking at it in isolation, looking at the grander picture of what's being said in the passage, and it's clearly drawing attention to the Godhead, the Trinitarian nature. Of God. And so context dictates it must be the Holy Spirit. And then as I mentioned in the sermon, as a test against that, it's like, okay, context demands the Holy Spirit. But in addition, knowing that John is borrowing so much from the Old Testament Can I find some examples in the Old Testament where these sorts of ideas and thought patterns are used to describe God and his spiritual presence? And we do see them there, which is why we read the passage. that we did and that sort of thing. So there are things like that. We're gonna get into, you know, once we get past the seven churches, and there's some in the seven churches too in in chapter Chapters 2 and 3. But once we get past chapter 3, then it's a kaleidoscope. I mean it's right the the imagery and the metaphor and the simile and the analogies, and it's like off the charts. And And we talked about this last week. We're not steeped in apocalyptic literature like the generations were two thousand years ago. It was a um if we read a romance novel today, like what uh what's that guy named? Nicholas Sparks? You read a Nicholas Sparks novel. I mean you don't even have to know Nicholas Sparks. If somebody hands you a Nicholas Sparks book like halfway through the book that says, read a few pages and tell me what you think. Not be very long before you're like, oh, I think this is one of those cheesy romance novels, right? Right? It just feels like that to me. We we recognize the drum because we're immersed in it. We see it play out in movies and TV shows and in the books that get popularly consumed. Well, Apple apocalyptic literature was very, very popular two thousand years ago. And so they got it in the ways that we don't. I'm spending a lot of time in my preparation for these uh messages trying to wrestle with, okay, I understand the big picture, but I know people are going to have questions about what does because our instinct is the one who puzzle it out. So we're going to have questions, what does the what is meant by this, you know, the the horns or the The seven heads, that what does each of the heads mean? Or you know, what's the difference between the beast in the sea and the beast on the land? Like what what do these images mean? And so I've got to press in and make sure I'm understanding you know in the apocalyptic genre what are those things talking about not allowing us because I'm trying to help us not allowing us to get lost in the weeds Um, you know, this occurred to me. I think it's a good analogy. Um our son Tyler has a couple of different diagnoses, and one of them is he's on the for autism. And it was described to me once as what autism is like. And somebody said autism is like forgiveness. Seeing the uh you know the forest for the trees kind of thing. Like they don't see the forest. They don't see the trees. They don't see the branches. They don't see the leaves. They see the little Like they're so locked in on the finer details, which is why they're so savant in so many ways. Like they can you know uh you can drop a box of matches on the floor and they can win instantaneously in one famous case, there's not just a guy who could, oh, 273. That's how many matches are there, just by looking at it. How did he do that? He's so locked in. And he's like, wow, what a gift. But the gift is a curse Because you're so locked in on the minutiae that you can't filter through and see what the big picture and you can't live life. And that's what goes down with the book of Revelation. It's like trying to analyze a monument by looking at each individual brushstroke, each individual dot of paint and saying, I don't understand, what's he doing there? That's not how you analyze him You step back and you take in the impression of the painting. That's what autistic people are unable to do. They're interacting with the world. They can't step back and see the wholeness of it So we do want to understand some of the details that are happening in Revelation, but not at the expense of stepping back 15 feet and staring at the painting on the wall, not examining each and every of the millions of brush strokes. But saying, given all those millions of brush strokes, what is it the artist is trying to tell me? It's not simplifying it It's clarifying it. And we get so driven down into the weeds and we're worried about whether the the locusts are helicopters Oh, you've probably heard that sort of idea before. John's not making that point. And we're torturing the text to try to look at it that way. Now we should figure out what might the locusts mean. We should understand that, but in light of the fullness of what God is revealing through the visions given to John. So you know it's a kind of a dream, a vision, a dream, kind of similar. You you have a dream, you don't even remember it all of the the details in your dream, but you share the vividness of your dream, what you can remember from the dream, with the big themes and ideas and the things that really hit you in your dream with a friend, if you can remember your dream. And you try to understand what it might be telling you. What does it mean? I wonder what this symbol meant, that symbol meant. That's fine, but overall the full if people are trying to interpret dreams, the overall impression from the dream is sometimes telling you something. That's the book of Revelation. Don't get hung up on each little tiny detail. Try to figure out what the what the individual tiny details mean as part of the bigger picture. But don't sacrifice the big picture for the details because that's not how apocalyptic literature means. It's different than something that's uh um Like uh probably the most famous example would be uh the Book of Revelation, uh the Book of Romans. the ap the apostle Paul. And he's making very intellectual arguments and he's building a case. He's making like a legal case almost and sometimes the meaning of what he's saying will hinge on one word or one phrase that colors the whole rest of the argument and if you miss That detail, you've missed the argument. So something like that, you do want to wrestle with the Greek, but okay, he chose this Greek word and not that Greek word, and that means something. In the book of Revelation It means something, but it doesn't mean the whole argument. It's more about the flavor. Because it's an apocalyptic. Apocalyptic literature, it'd be like something we're more familiar with. This might be a better analogy for us to get our teeth sunk into. If somebody hands you a poem Or the lyric sheet to a really fanciful song. Are you going to examine that the same way you would examine the Third Amendment of the United States Constitution? If you're an English teacher in high school, yeah. Right? You're trying like what's the impression they're trying to capture? Like this one of my favorite lines from a pop song of all time is not And the line is, she just looked at me uncomprehendingly like a cow in a passing train. What? Now if that wasn't the book of Revelation, but that paints a picture for me. I can picture the kind of the dumbfounded look on the cows munching away on their cud, like I don't know train is move whatever right it's just absent minded not connected but disconnected from the world around them kind of Right idea. I I think it's a beautiful poetic way to say to capture that idea. If we applied uh a literal a literal like uh what we mean by literal, maybe I should have about that too. Uh by uh what we mean by literal to that poetic line, although we plugged that line into the book of Revelation. What did John mean by train? What did he mean by um un you know, uh looked at me. Is he looking at me? Is he looking at the me, like the collective me, like the we? You can get so bogged down and you're no that's not what Don Henry sang in the song So uh I'm talking a lot, but I feel like I need to kind of unpack and get a set on the right trajectory. So there'll be more fodder and time for discussion, you know. And less of me and more of of you later, hopefully, maybe even today as we went along. But um R. C. Sproul, pretty famous uh among Christian circles. you know he is and one of my favorite lines from him he talks about people come up to he says this is before he died he died a couple years ago. Before he died people used to come they call up me all the time and they say RC Do you take the Bible literally? And he says, I always tell them, without exception, I don't say yes, I don't say no. I say Of course. What other way is there to take it? It is literature We should take it literarily or literally, that's how you take in literature is literally, because that is literally what literally means. It has to do with how you take in literature. So we take in All literature, literally, but what we come to mean in our common usage of that word is wooden. And firm and exacting, a demand of the words, a uh an exactitude of meaning. You don't allow for a range of interpretation and we make a mistake, in my opinion when we do that because then we're not taking it in the actual classical sense of literally, because we're not taking it literarily. So we can't treat poet uh poetry and legal code and historical narrative and apocalyptic literature and prophecy and gospel an epistle. We can't treat all of these things exactly the same way because they're different genre. They're different forms of literature So you have to, that's one of the first things you should do. It's one of the first things I do, it's one of the first things you should do is try to make up your mind, what kind of literature am I working with here? And it's not always true throughout a whole book. Sometimes it will change. Parts of a book might be, well, Revelation is a good example. You know, we've got uh epistles within this epistle that are vaguely apocalyptic, but mostly should be written as uh uh understood as letters Then you got the rest of Revelation, which is still part of a larger letter, but we need to understand that part uh really firmly in the apocalyptic category. They have passages where uh You know, Paul's writing one of his letters, he's very very didactic and very exacting, and yet all of a sudden he'll break out a doxology, and he's very poetic all of a sudden. So he's also apocalyptic in some of his letters because Because he will say and I the phrase that comes to me is I tell you a mystery. Well that's revelation. There it is. Um yeah. Book of Daniel has apocalyp a lot of apocalyptic language in it. Ezekiel has a lot, Isaiah has some. I mean it's it's not just Revelation. Because again I mentioned this last week. There was like a six hundred years That's a long time. I mean six hundred years ago was fifteen hundred, right? That's a long time. During that six hundred year period of time, apocalyptic literature was a favorite among the people. They loved it. So think about what we have loved as our style of language for the last 600 years. And we love narrative. We love novels. And we love instruction. So we love uh higher thinking. Right? And we love biographies. Like these are things that are very popular in our day. So imagine if somehow biographies fall by the wayside Or or like docudrama. Let's use that as an example. Docu drama is very popular right now. Let's say that falls by the wayside and thousands of years from now somebody trying to analyze a docudrama using whatever is in vogue for their appreciated genre of the day. And they apply their principles to docudrama. And we know in docudrama that there's what do they call it artistic license And directorial discretion and they can decide, well, I'm gonna take these five characters from that person's life and combine them into one person because we gotta truncate this and to make it simple to work. Boy, this story sure does make a lot more sense theatrically if we take this thing that happened fifth in their life and move it to be second in their life. And we just know that that kind of license is taken. But if somebody doesn't know that and they want to be wooden about it, say, no, no, no, this must have happened fifth and not second second because it says right here yeah but it's Dhaki Brahma. So not a documentary. Right. So Charlene wants to know Isaiah eleven two State seven spirits, would these be the same reference? Well, let's look. Isaiah eleven. I can go there, I'll go grab it. My my uh my guess is we're gonna say yes, but let's let's let's Let's do this the good old fashioned way. Let's look and see what God's Word actually says. What was the reference again? Hmm. I don't think that in the spirit. I don't either. Sh let's see. Charlene, I'm not seeing Isaiah eleven. What translation are you using? I can see. Well this is talking about the branch. So yeah, the shoot will come up from the stump of Jesse from the roots, not from his roots, a branch will bear fruit. Now that is a reference to Jesus Christ the Messiah. Right, that's what that's what that's talking about. The spirit of the Lord will rest on him, the spirit of wisdom and of understanding, the spirit of counsel and of power, the spirit of knowledge and of the theory And he'll delight in the fear of the Lord. In that context, I would argue that that probably is talking about the Holy Spirit being fully uh embodied in and giving the Christ, the Messiah, the wisdom and the understanding and the power and and all those sorts of things. And so I would I would argue that that I don't see the seven though. Well it list those are seven. You just read No, six. The spirit of wisdom. The spirit of the Lord, the spirit of wisdom, understanding, counsel, might, knowledge. Well, no, the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him. It's like an Introductory statement. Understanding, counsel, might and fear of move am I reading that right? Um punctuation is in colour. Okay woodenly. But yeah, this is uh this is poetic. And by the way, if you want to have a little Most translations, they will offset the font and do things differently in your Bibles when it's a poetry uh portion of the Bible versus a um narrative or what's it called? Uh prose part of the uh the Bible. So you'll notice in this part of Isaiah it's offset it's set out like it's it's written as though it's poetry That's because it is. And so we should be applying a poetic view. So yes, poetically, Isaiah's not sing not Using the literal word seven because he's saying the spirit of the Lord, of wisdom, of understanding, of counsel, of power, of knowledge, of fear, the Lord. And so there are seven aspects and attributes or understandings. And so that makes me feel rock solid. This is definitely talking about So what this is probably yet the what I how how I was looking at it was uh a little different. I was looking at okay, the spirit of the Lord, and now we're gonna describe the spirit of the Lord Laura and there were six more descriptions. But I see what you're saying. In another Yeah, but I I but I think this is probably a a um it it's a um uh definition It's the actual description of the seven spirits. And some one of the translations separates the spirit of knowledge into reverend Or no, sorry, it separates fear into that. It it separates the spirit of the Lord is separate from the list, but then fear is actually not one but two, which would still be a good thing. So it depends on which translation. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. And this is interesting. So we're not doing you know this isn't a a a study or you know, sermon series or anything on the book of Isaiah, but since we're here, it's interesting to me, um in our day and age, poetry tends to rhyme. Right? That's kind of if it doesn't rhyme it's not poetry in a lot of people's minds, right? That's not Hebrew. Hebrew poetry is about uh repetition and couplets So it's about uh you'll hear basically the same thought said twice, back to back. That's kind of how that's uh that's a very prominent thing in a lot of the uh Hebrew poetry. And it's interesting here, this isn't just a couplet. This is a seven-fold repetition Which, again, Isaiah in the authorship of this through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit is drawing attention to. This is following the principles of Hebrew poetry and then some to a heightened level to if you ever see you know if if if you're uh if you're fully sanctified you haven't seen this. If you aren't fully sanctified you might Oh with that movie about the rock and roll band, he might oh uh oh drawing a blank now. Darn it Queen. No, it's from like the seventies. Spinal tab. Maybe it's from the eighties. Seventies or eighties. Spinal tab, you ever see spinal tap? I don't necessarily recommend it. It's not edifying But but one of the lines in the movie is that it's like this crazy rock and roll band is it's like it's supposed to it's a fake docudrama. It's a fake documentaries kind of thing is what it is A mockumentary. And it was like one of the first documentaries in history. It was very cutting edge. Anyway, the band has the amplifiers And they have the numbers one through ten. But the the guy goes out of the out of his way to point out that their amplifiers go up to eleven. And the guy's like, well, why don't you just change the numbering so that ten is the same. He's like, no, you don't understand. Others go to ten. Ours go to eleven. And that's what Isaiah's doing here. Use the couplets, or if you want to really drive something home, you might say it three times. But here, this goes to seven. But uh it's extra, it's fullness. It's drawing attention, like why do you say seven tons? The fullness of seven. Again, remember seven is the number of holiness. Seven is the number that represents God. Perfection. Perfection. Right, it's it's perfect holiness, it's perfection, it's Completeness, it's God. And so there's that's not on accident. He didn't just start writing and then after seven he ran out of ideas Or he wrote five and ooh, I thought of a couple more, then he throw those in. He purposely puts seven in here because he wants it to be seven to draw attention to the fact we're talking about God's holiness and his spirit. And they might have thought about Isaiah might have thought about it different. This is the question behind the question. Isaiah might have thought about it differently then, because prior to Christ and the sending of the Spirit at Pentecost The people of God had a uh a less fully developed idea of what the Trinity was and and what the Holy Spirit uh was all about who that is uh and what the messiah would be. So they those weren't fully formulated yet. And so I'm not saying that Isaiah wrote this necessarily saying, hey, I'm going to speak a verse to my uh 11th chapter here that talks about the Holy Spirit so that people can know that I believe in the Trinity. I don't think he was doing that, but he is trying to draw attention to the Spirit of the one true God and it's not just Isaiah writing this, God is writing this too. And so God does know there's a Trinity, God does know there's the Holy Spirit, and so So he and his supervision and combination, however that works, you know, through his guidance of uh Isaiah through his own personality. Right. There's a scripture that says even the prophets didn't always know Exactly. Well how many times does something come out of your mouth and you're like, I'm not even sure why I'm saying this, but God put it on my heart. And the person's like, oh my gosh, I was just praying about that. And you're like, okay. Because it was truly the voice of God speaking to them, just using you as a vessel. So I can totally see how that's And then we're gonna see in Revelation there's time. John doesn't know every Thank her for asking that question because that they helped much. And he's and he's asked her a question. He's asked the question, but John, are you understanding what you're saying? And John's like I don't know. You know? Mm-hmm. I don't know. But you do. So he so they don't always know every little tiny detail. I mean, we're talking about God. I think I mentioned this in the sermons today, didn't I? But we can't plumb fully the depths and the mysteries of God. He's infinite. We're finite. We can only know what God reveals And even then, only through persistent and careful study and uh attending worship services and hearing the word preached and going to Bible. Bible studies and reading the Bible ourselves and prayerfully considering what we're reading. Even then. But whatever God hasn't revealed, we can't know at all. Because He hasn't revealed it We can't out guess God's thoughts, but we it can't be done. So I'm sorry, I rambled a little bit. I get excited. I'm getting excited. Okay, that's all it's very cool. I don't ever remember there being a time when a person in the land, yeah, asked that kind of question, it actually brought some clarity. Yeah. To the discussion. We invited the Holy Spirit in the show. How about that? I feel a little guilty for having maybe dominated a little bit today. So I wanna I wanna sit back and and have an opportunity for any other thoughts that people might wanna have as a discussion or point of contention or or clarification or just an obstacle. You want to share or anything, I want to kind of open the floor if somebody wants to do that. I mean it would be very cool if there would be more incidents like that. But in addition to that, I just hope that um we all um We will be like the sons of Issachar that by studying Revelation we will better understand the times that we are in. Um and uh um you know, get hope from it. You know. Um I think Revelation is the future in advance and I think that um For every age that read this book and studied this book, I I think they did get revelation about where they're living right now and um if they uh if you know and and where we probably are on the prophetic scale because revelation culminates into something and And so we are on a timeline of culmination of this age. Right. And I I hope that people uh better understand about where we are on that timeline. I think the Lord wants us to understand about where we are on that timeline. Um not so that we don't live in the here and now But uh so that we can live better in the here and now, that we can be be more efficient with the use of the time that God gives us that you know maybe even our it'll help clarify people was calling, you know, what should I be doing right now? Since, you know, through this study I figured out that we're about, you know, i what's that all analogy? Midnight i is a is it times up and you know so if we're at at at at at eleven if we're at eleven, you know, fifty eight, you know, uh you know what should I That's gonna help me maybe reprioritize some things in my life. So yeah, I do hope that out of out of this study that we do under s we do understand where we are and um you know so that we can go live for the Lord and I think the one thing that uh when I read Revelation several times I've read it through, the one thing I glean from it is even if you know Jesus doesn't come back while I'm still breathing I am having that encounter face to face with God one day. So that revelation is going to come to pass. Whether it's after I go to the grave or while I'm here and I meet him in the air, bottom line is I will see him face to face. So that revelation will come to pass for all of us. So yeah, there's a fear, but there's also a hope, right? The fear is oh Oh crap, if I'm not in Christ It's game over. But the hope is, oh yay, because I'm in Christ, the game's just begun You know what I mean? Hopefully the people who are watching who realize that they're not Right, exactly. Exactly. So there there is a fear in this book But there's a it's a good fear because it's a fear that propels you into righteousness. And it's a right not a righteousness that you can get on your own, it's a righteousness that's bestowed upon you because of the righteousness of Christ. So if anything, I hope that that's something that everyone gleans from it. Any thoughts over here? Nothing right now? Nothing right now. One thing I want to say about the fear part, and then we'll wrap it up I guess. prematurely cut. Okay. Um we're gonna face our maker. He is a judge of the universe and he is a perfectly holy and righteous judge. And so yeah that's where the fear would come from, but for believers, for Christians, I can't impress upon you enough to rest your confidence in this idea Yes, you have to stand before the judge. But standing there with you, making the case for you on your behalf as your defendant. Attorney is that same God. Amen. God is your judge, but he's also in the person of Christ. He is defending you. And so the idea here is you're gonna face your maker as judge with that same maker as your defense attorney or on your own. And on your own, you might think, Oh I'm I'm pretty glib. I got a quick wit about me. I can I can think quick on my feet, I can manage this, I mean I've met the Fifty-one percent good life, forty-nine percent death, probably good enough. Oh oh I'll I'll I'll sneak my way in. I might get by by the skin of my teeth, but I'll get in. I'll you know God he's gonna be okay. That's not what the Bible tells us it's all about. What it's all about is you trust him to run your defense case for you and he's undefeated. He doesn't lose. But if you reject counsel, no, no, I'm going to do this on my own. According to Scripture, you don't stand a chance. Because what we say, God wins. So if it's you against God, who's gonna win? God's gonna win But if God's taking up the cause on your behalf, God wins on your behalf. So I it can sound mean spirit. I know that there are some people that like that are not Christian. Or atheists like that charge Christians with believing in a horrific, mean-spirited God. They'll use passages from Revelation as part of their armaments and their argument. They're misunderstanding revelation, and I'm telling you, this is why it's important what we've been talking about for the last, you know, big parts of the last hour, hour and a half now They are using specific isolated little parts of Revelation out of context to try to besmirch the reputation of God and therefore his people. They don't understand how to understand. And so they misunderstand. So all of these evil, horrible things that we're going to be talking about is the work of Revelation? Well, praise God for them, because we're talking about evil being crushed. Amen Evil being defeated unapologetically. That is evil and I'm snuffing it out. And yeah, okay, maybe it's kind of dramatic language and vivid imagery that can be a little bit off-putting to our sensitive spirits. But praise God for it. Praise God for it. If it weren't for goodness overcoming evil, then we would still have millions and millions of people killed every day. To this day, it would have never stopped. It would have never stopped. But because of some violent action, it was stopped. So If you're not a believer in Christ and you're still watching, then it tells me that there's something interesting about this to you. Maybe God is doing something. I don't know. I can't speak for God. But if you've been watching this this long and you're still into it, what we're doing, I would strongly, I would uh heartily encourage you to reach out to me, shoot me an email, pass it Skinner at protonmail. com, shoot me an email. If you if I said that too fast, go to our website, household of faith in Christ dot com to find a link to my email. email there. Shoot me an email. We can start a dialogue or a conversation and see where you are. And if you want to come here, you're more than welcome to. And if you want to just kind of talk over the phone uh or somebody who's interested in getting involved in a Christian church and you don't have a church, or you're belonging to a church that just still isn't meeting or has such uh a preponderance of restrictions I'm meeting that you can't uh easily attend and you're looking for a church and you're within driving distance of Frederick, Maryland, email me as well and we'll tell you what we're all about and maybe we can get you involved. Um just a little more momentum I think going on. I'm really excited to see what's going to happen in the coming months and coming years with uh the House of the Faith in Christ and what we're doing more broadly. I think it's pretty exciting stuff. Hopefully you'll agree if you can't talk. Oh, who wants to close us in prayer? Do you mind closing in prayer? Sure. Ray will close us in prayer and then we'll bid you adieu for the evening We thank you for this day. We thank you for this message of your just awesome and all powerful beginning and end, Alpha and Omega presence. throughout the book of Revelation. And we just thank you that that is the case because you know only because you're the Alpha and the Omega and that we can be saved Because of you and your holiness. And we just thank you for what you did on the cross. We thank you for giving us your word so that we can get to know you more. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, we're going to press on into the rest part of uh next part of chapter one next week. And I encouraged you last week, and if you haven't done so, I would encourage you this week again, try to find a time to sit down and read the entire book of Revelation all the way through start to finish in one sitting. If if possible, I think that will help bring in the full picture in a way that maybe hasn't done before if you've never read Revelation that way. You're not gonna hurt every little detail. That's not the point. Start with chapter 1, verse 1, read all the way to the end of chapter 2, uh chapter 22, and um and make note of things you might have questions about, but really just try to take it in. Try to glean from the the big picture as best as you can. Till next week, thanks for watching, God bless.