All right, I think we're live. I think so. Hello? I guess one of you could check the phone just make sure that it's Mm-hmm. It's up and running. There we go. I saw it making it back in the middle of the back? Now it is, yeah. Okay, not sure what's happening. Technology stuff. We've got two people, three people who have jumped on, so that's probably people in this room. I think I'm not on, so All right. If you can see us out in Facebook land, let us know. And if you can hear us okay, that'd be good to let us know too. And just get that set up. Alright, are we good? We are. Hello, five people. Hello. All right, so your sisters watching. Well? Hey, hi mom Um I've always I should say cold. So we're gonna do something a little bit different this time than we've done in recent weeks. Uh we're gonna do a lot of music, tweet it kind of like what's called the hymn sing, we just kind of spontaneous Two weeks ago was the was the atrocity. So we hopefully we're we're gonna hands. Last week was great. In in over the last month and a half I've shared, you know, uh in the comments section a bunch of links that I sent in gotten emails to to people uh over the last you know month, month and a half. And so look I'm gonna do that again this time. So look for a link later on this evening in on this Facebook page uh post to a short video lesson from Charles Stanley. Also a uh a helpier reminder about some differences between cultural and biblical celebrations of Resurrection Sunday and a short like three-minute video on the significance of what happened on the third day on Resurrection Sunday. Those are links that I sent back when it was uh that time of the year. But uh you maybe if you're just watching us on Facebook haven't seen those and they're they're interesting and helpful resources so I'm gonna include those. Um and there's a couple other uh um attachments or links that I'll include as well. Last month marked the 75th memorial of Dietrich Bonhoeffer's martyrdom. Not sure if you know who Dietrich Bahnhoffer is. He's relatively well known in church history because of uh his involvement in trying to push back and uh fight back against what uh Hitler was doing in Nazi Germany back in the 40s. Uh he ended up uh being killed for those efforts uh by the Nazi regime. And he wrote some pretty powerful stuff back then and he's a guy that's uh that was really well acquainted with suffering. uh and with uh with separation from fellow believers and I feel like some of us at some level, you know, are feeling like maybe there's some suffering Going on in our lives, it's new and different for us. We're definitely feeling um the separation from believers, and so uh Dietrich has some pretty poignant things to say about being a Christian in general. And so I'm going to be sharing throughout the evening about 10 or so of his quotes interspersed among the music. Um let's see. In fact, let me share one of those now and then we'll do our first song. Do you even know what our first song's gonna be? Do you want to do We Believe Pro Sure. Alright, so we believe uh made very popular by the newsboys a number of years ago. So if you know that song, great, you can sing along. If not, I'm giving you a heads up so you can begin to Google the words. And uh you can find lyrics and you can sing along. It's not that hard. You'll be able to figure it out probably after the first pass, I would think. Uh so here's a quote from Dietrich Bonhoeffer. And this is from his uh theological education at Findwald. At that time I was terribly alone and left to myself. It was quite bad. But then something different came, something that has changed and transformed my life to this very day. For the first time, I came to the Bible. That too is an awful thing to say. I had often preached, I had seen a great deal of the church, I had spoken and written about it, and yet I was not yet a Christian, but rather in an utterly wild and uncontrolled fashion, my own master. I do know that at the time I turned the cause of Jesus Christ into an advantage for myself For my crazy vanity. The Bible, especially the Sermon on the Mount, freed me from all this. Since then everything has changed I have felt this plainly, and so have other people around me. That was a great liberation. It became clear to me that the life of a servant of Jesus Christ must belong to the church. And step by step it became clearer to me how far it must go. I think that's profound. Anyway, let's sing our first song together and then after the song we'll have uh a scripture reading. And uh and a prayer uh we're gonna be doing our opening prayer after the song. Ishaw is John M. There is no thing on salvation. We believe we believe Is this broken generation? Oh this dog you help us be It is only one salvation you need We believe, we believe in God the Father, we believe in Jesus Christ. We believe in the Holy Spirit that He gives us new alike. We believe in the crucifixion. We believe that He conquered death. We believe in the resurrection and it's coming back up yet. We believe So let my face divide an end. We learn them the songs we sing. And we all witness content. We believe We believe, we believe in God the Father, we believe in Jesus Christ, we believe in the Holy Spirit. And if you let us do alike. We believe in the crucifixion. We believe that he conquered us. We believe in the resurrection. And he's coming back again. Let the loss be found in the drinking rage in the nearest. We believe we believe And the gates of hell will never reveal, for the power of God and join the fail that we know you are love, will never fail, we believe. We believe, we believe in God the Father, we believe in Jesus Christ. We believe in the Holy Spirit and He's given us new alike. We believe in the crucifixion. We believe that He converted. We believe in the resurrection. It's coming back. It's coming back again. It's coming back again. We don't need That was pretty good, huh? Yeah, how about that when you have a couple of months? Makes all the difference in the world. That was good. Um actually uh we're gonna have a scripture reading for Revelation chapter three, the first six verses, and also our opening prayer. Both of those will be done by Angela, so if you would. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending His angel to his servant John, who bore witness to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw. Blessed is the one who Who reads aloud the words of this prophecy. And blessed are those who hear and who keep what is written in it, for the time is near. John to the seven churches that are in Asia. Grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come. And from From the seven spirits who are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings. On earth, to him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood and has made us a kingdom, priests to his God Father, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Almighty God, our Father, to you be the glory Glory to you be the dominion, Lord Jesus, who shed your blood for the forgiveness of our sins, who is our hope, our ever-present help in time of need. We give praise and honor and glory to you as the one and only Savior, the way, the truth, and the life. It is by your blood that we come to the Father. Father, making our requests. And Father, we ask that your Holy Spirit would be amongst us. We ask, Lord God, that we would be taught only of and by your spirit of truth We open our mouths wide for you to feel them and we ask you to set a guard over our lips to keep anything that should not be said from being said, even as you feel. Our mouths with your truth. Lord, let those who are listening hear what you would have them hear, even as you have a say what you would have them to hear have us to say and we thank you and we ask for this blessing in the most high name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Here are a couple of additional, these are shorter quotes from Dietrich Bahnhofer. The first one is from his Life Together and Prayer Book of the Bible. On upper rise. The fact that Jesus Christ died is more important than the fact that I will die. And the fact that Jesus Christ was raised from the dead is the sole ground of my hope that I too will be raised on the dead. Day of judgment. Our salvation is from outside ourselves, extraneo. I find salvation not in my life story, but only in the story of Jesus Christ. And in discipleship he writes, suffering willingly endured is stronger than evil. It is the death of evil. The more terrible the evil, the more willing the disciple should be to suffer. Evil persons must be delivered to the hands of of Jesus. Not I, but Jesus must deal with them. So what's our second song going to be? Did we make a decision on it? Did we want to do um a revelation song? A revelation song made famous by um Phillips Craig and Dean about I don't know goodness, ten, fifteen years ago So if you're if you're a listener to uh Contemporary Christian Radio, you certainly heard this song played a lot over the years. And if you have a church that sings contemporary praise and worship music in their in their services, you've probably sung this song more than a time or two. Uh yes. I just need to nope, I just need to find the version that doesn't need a cable because I didn't bring one today. So it's all Okay. All right. Megan thrives on me. Spontaneity of life. It might be a little high, but it's okay, we'll give it. Sing a new song to him as we song heaven's birth season. Sing a new song to the end of six song and first piece. Holy, holy, holy, it's the idea of the world that did an With all creation, creation you need. You know all by everything in every home and join you. Oh, the greenhouse I share the lighting roll on the north. Let me another shape thing. Glory and cover me. You only want you king holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. The world that is a music with all creation I say I know the kingdom case You are my everything, and I will annoy you. Now they normally Filled with wonder wonder wonder at the mansion of your name Jesus, your name is power. Breath is living water The world I need to come with all creation race to be. You know my energy, and I will enjoy you holy, holy, holy, is the Lord God Almighty. The world is with all creation everything we still be able to do. You are everything, and I will adore you. Hmm. I think So this quote from Bonhopper, by the way, do we know what the third songs will be so we can you can start to get ready for it while I'm doing Do we know what we want to do? Is there a hymn? Megan pick. Is there a hymn we want to do? Alright, I'll pick I'll pick a hint. Alright. So this is from uh letters and papers from prison. Also Dietrich Bahnhofer. In the last few years I have come to know and understand more and more the profound thisworldliness of Christianity A Christian is not a homo religiosis, but simply a human being, in the same way that Jesus was a human being, in contrast for I do not mean the shallow and banal this worldliness of the enlightened, the bustling, the comfortable, or the lascivious, but the profound this world worldliness that shows discipline and includes the ever-present knowledge, excuse me, ever-present knowledge of death and resurrection. I'm gonna get a drink of water while we uh maybe are we ready to do the song here in a second? We can be ready to do this on here in a second. Okay, well Um well I we're I like be that my vision, so we're gonna sing be thou my vision. Okay. Okay. Uh oh, actually I changed the key because I like this one better. Sorry. Oh sorry, give me one more second. That's okay. I just don't like I have decided I don't like the chords to any of these songs. This is true, uh true hymn sing style where you just kinda wing it. Have you ever been to a church that does that where people just kinda how shout out their favorite hymn? Sometimes they give the name from the And then the person just happens to uh we were at a house where they had shouted out the hymn number and the pianist knew the song like instantly. Unbelievable actually. Um, no, that's like my favorite way to do this thing. All right. Is it still be valuation? It's one hundred percent still be now valuation. This is one of my favorite hands. I just want to find the right key that everybody's gonna do Alright, this is from uh Bonhopper's discipleship. Cheap grace is preaching forgiveness without repentance It is baptism without the discipline of community. It is the Lord's Supper without confession of sin. It is absolution without personal confession. Chief grace is grace without discipleship, grace without the cross, grace without the living incarnate Jesus Christ. So let's make sure that we don't have cheap grace in our lives. In my vision, no go of my heart. God be honest Make me voice waiting thy present. E down my wisdom and down true more will you do I ever will be more Oh my night, I die to die. Will be dwelling, and I will be one. It's like riches, I mean not the extra riches I need to praise. Dwell I gave her and go away. I came up there Thy big glory was May I reach out and join God and There will be my vision. It'll be my vision for Man. The lyrics from some of these old hymns are so powerful and put so much of what we sing today Don't they? Not the songs they've chosen today, those are good, but a lot of the passes for praise and worship music. Not doing a whole lot of praising and worship then unfortunately. Here's a Bonhoeffer quote from the Sanctorum Communio. Bonhoeffer writes, the miracle of the Christian concept of communion Is that love for God involves submission, but that God's love in ruling serves. That's pretty bad. By the way, do we know what our next song is gonna be yet? So Megan can start to look forward while I read maybe another quarter or two. What's a favorite song is? Oh my gosh. Um my gosh. Any suggestions from the uh Facebook crowd? Yeah, feel free to suggest to your Facebook as well We'll take the new system we can. We'll check and see if anybody's been jumping in with anything. Yep. Okay. How about a Matt Redmus? Hey Darlene. Any uh suggestions from the peanut gallery here? There's one that I can't think of What are the words? Do you know? Uh remarks. Oh we have some great songs. Do you know any more she needs honey? No. No, I mean like I know a couple. Which do you know Even F by any chance? Even if it's beautiful. Tony Mike doesn't really have praise of worship music so much. Does he have a worship song that you can think of? Um Chris Tomlin. Actually, I do know this song, but not enough to sing it on my own. So if you guys like know how the melon goes, I can We tried that a couple weeks ago. What about Will from Hillary Scott? Yeah, I know that thought. Okay. There we go. Let me just pull up. Let me do another Bonhoeff, this uh quote. Again, if you're joining late, uh Bonhoeffer was seventy-five Five years ago last month, uh that Bonhoeffer was uh was was put to death by Nazi Germany as he attempted to undermine what was going on with that uh atrocity in Europe at the time. Uh what did I read last? Okay, this is from Life Together and Prayer Book of the Bible. A life together under the Word will stay healthy only when it does not fall form itself into a movement, an order, a society, a collegium pietus, but instead understands itself as being part of the one holy unity Universal Christian Church sharing through its deeds and suffering in the hardships and struggles and promise of the whole church So do you want more or are you good? I mean I'm okay. I'm so messy. I know I heard Somehow I ended up here I don't wanna think I never understand that broken heart is a I don't remember when I try to break. All I got is turn and before. I know you're sorry. I know you know But it doesn't use right now with idle unity. Things I could never think about Hard to cannot enjoy, start to cry the noise Sometimes I gotta stop. Remember that you're not every My child on the knees on the com to meet it. I will be done. I will be time that I will be I know you're not going to be able to do it. I love you. I will be done, I will be done, that I will be Done thy child on the knees of a company I will be done Die will be done. I know you see me. I know you hear me That was like a Johnny Cash key for me. That was a little tough. That was a tough one. Do you happen to know Behold Our God? Sovereign Grace music? I can But anyway, if you can't find that, uh what was the song that you wanted to be drawn with But yeah. Lord help me, come back. I'm drawing a blank. Okay, I'm sorry. Um then usefulness. Let me see. Behold your go, our behold our God if you happen to know it. But if not Yeah, but um we could do another view's voice. I'm gonna read some Bahnhoff quotes while we figure this out. So um a Christian community either lives by the intercessory prayers of its members for one another or the community will be destroyed. That's from Bonhoeffers Life Together and Prayer Book of the Bible. And then another quote I just a moment ago, a couple minutes ago read from the Sanctorum Communio. Here's another one. The revealed community of love had to be broken up one more time by its founder's own action. By the way, listen to this closely because I found this to be particularly profound Found an insight into what was happening in the Lord's Supper, unlike anything I had ever quite uh thought about it before. So again, the revealed community of love Alright, so the church, the revealed community of love, had to be broken up one more time by its founder's own action, though not before Jesus had tied them tightly together with a This happened in the last supper. you eat and are filled from one loaf, so too will all of you be saved and united in me alone. And I never thought about Jesus talking about his body being broken I always think in terms of him being beaten and sacrificed on the cross. But the church is also his body, and the church is scattered and broken in that moment as well. And never until reading Bonhoeffer never thought about that aspect of what it meant for Jesus to say that his body would be broken. And yet in in the breaking it then gets pulled back together by Christ. So I just find that to be a a profound, profound quote. Um do we have a song yes? Uh yes, Angela picked um goodness of God. It is by uh Bechel music. Okay. I sent it to the I love you. Oh, your mercy never fails me. All night days have been held in your hand. For the moment that I wake up until I lay my head, I will sing of the goodness of God. All our life you have been baby. But tell my life you have been so long with every breath that I have made. I will sing of the goodness of God. I love your voice. You replenish your fire in darkest night. You are close like no other. I've known you as a father, I've known you as a friend, and I have lived in the goodness of God All my life you have been faithful. And all my life you have been so good with every birth that I am able I will see In the eyes you have been following with every breath that I have made Or I will sing of the goodness of God. You're gonna get the front enough, it's running out to me. You're gonna get the front enough, it's trying to meet. When my life lays down, I surrender now. I give you everything. You're goodness, it's running after, it's running after me. You're goodness is running out, it's running out to me. You're going at this running action. It's funny out to me. With my life ain't done and surrender now I give you anything. You are goodness is having after enough to me in all my life you have been faithful And so my life you have been so so good with every breath than I am. I will think of the goodness of God. Oh, I will think of the goodness of God. All right, so do we have another song kind of in the queue or we need to figure that out? Do you So here's another quote from Bon Hopper. His uh this book discipleship, it's a short one. To flee into invisibility is to deny the call. Any community of Jesus which wants to be invisible Is no longer a community that follows him. Find that to be rather profound. You know, for a number of weeks I was reading the text of a series of emails. That had some lessons in them and had some things talking about the context that we find ourselves in with the coronavirus and the shutdowns and all that sort of stuff. Um and I read all of those except for one. Last week I had one that we didn't really have time for and I wasn't intending really to use it, but now as we buy ourselves some time I'm going to share it. So um So um let's see if I can find where it is. These are words actually written by somebody uh named Andrew Simpson and his thoughts about the coronavirus. It's an interesting perspective. Different than what many of us maybe have been thinking about lately. He writes, I'm not here to downplay our current conditions. If you or your family have lost a loved one from coronavirus, I can only imagine Imagine your heartache. But for many of us, myself included, the truth is that our biggest loss in all of this is extreme inconvenience, boredom, being stuck at home versus being forced out of our home. More than five and a half million Syrians are refugees forced out of their homes against their will, and another nearly six and a half million people Are displaced within Syria. Nearly twelve million people in all in Syria need humanitarian assistance. At least half of the people affected by the Syrian refugee crisis are children and then he provides a link to a uh six minute a a 36 uh second video that shows damage done to their land i will uh provide that link. And he says, I've read a few articles about the Syrian refugee crisis and saw some pictures of the ruin families have encountered. That was all I needed to shift from an attitude of another day to an attitude of gratitude I need to remind myself today the great is the servant. If you realize that you are in a blessed position right now, then you are in fact filled with joy because you have more than you realize. I encourage you to serve five people today through text messages of inspiration, video calls just to check in, social media posts that bring hope. Inspiration to others. I thought Andrew had some pretty good thoughts there, so I wanted to share them. Christian, reminder, you are indeed in a blessed position right now. No matter how you feel about your circumstances, because you are a Christian, you are in a blessed position right now. Because he is risen. He is risen indeed. Anything else? And he rains, and that's the song we're gonna sing next. It's the song of the reason. Right in front of the end, we can play It's the song of the forgiveness, drilling out the elephants on the rain. The song of age and believers, filled with God's holy fire. Each every tribe, every son, every nation, a love sub and a grateful wise. It's called our singing glory, glory. Hallelujah you ready. Be raised, and we thought that children sing it glory, glory. Hallelujah, you raise He raised, let it rise above the story, call up in the heavenly face frown. Let phrases echo from the towers of cathedral To the faithful gallery when I ground Of all the songs from the dawn of creation, some were mis Of all the welcome from a thousand people, none rings true than it It's all God still is taking glory, glory. E raign, it's all that children sing in glory, glory. He rained this song that you miss me. Glory, glory. Hallelujah, he rained. Hearing and all the powers of arms tremble as one they just heard I love the sound, I love the palette. Yes, round out a single When all your children sing a glory, glory. Hallelujah. Hollywood raise, he raised it all that you're singing glory, glory. Have they known your eyes e may it thought that should be taken to meeting? Okay, that was good. All right, so um did you have a job? Uh sure. Okay, we can get that ready. Well we're gonna uh we're gonna have like very short little announcement time with some with a joke told. Oh yeah. Um we're gonna we're gonna do a round robin Prayer, anybody anybody in the room who wants to pray pray aloud and you you're watching on Facebook, you can join in spirit. You can pray aloud as well. We just won't be able to hear you on this end. And uh and we'll have some closing thoughts and we'll try to draw this to a close around seven o'clock. We're trying to keep these around an hour and we've got about ten or so minutes. So you got a joke? What did the bee say to the flower? What did the bee say to the flower? Hello, honey. Okay. I'm not ready to What's a bee's favorite flower? What is a bee's favorite flower? A bee Silly, silly go grind. Yes, they are so bad. Um why are trees very forgiving Hmm, why are trees very forgiving? Because in the fall they let it go. And by May Day, they turn over a new leaf. But that's fine. That's all you got? That's all we got. Good things come in threes. Apparently not so good things come in threes too. Alright, so um you gotta get your Facebook pulled up so that when we're done with the praying we can see we can do shout outs, see if there's any questions and then uh And I'm going to mention this now and then prayer. Um I'm intending right now that we're going to try to do something at six o'clock on Facebook again next week. I'm not entirely sure just yet what form that's going to take, but I have an idea. So I want to run the idea past our Facebook family. If you have a question, a conundrum a biblical concept, the passage of scripture that's always had to make you wonder, and you've always kind of, what are we to make of this? What are we to think of this? What is the true biblical teaching on this particular subject or whatever, and you can mention it in the comment section or if you want to private message me on Facebook. If we get some traction on this. Uh if we get a bunch of people forwarding things they'd like us to tackle, I'm not gonna try to tackle them all in one week. It might just give us a fodder, this is some fodder for discussion for a series of weeks If nobody has a question, you've got it all figured out, that's fine. I'll figure out something else to do next week because I don't have it all figured out, so I'll find something I have a question about maybe and and dive into it this week and then come prepared maybe to give a teaching on that. So um it doesn't have to be profound, you know. In fact, to be honest, sometimes the simplest question end up having the most profound answers. So um and it doesn't even have to be something that's always um been on your mind like for years you've wondered But that's fine if you have a question like that. Uh but it could also be something that's kind of struck you lately, or maybe as I'm asking this question something strikes you, or as the week progresses between now and next week, something strikes you feel free to again in the comment section or um if you have my phone number you want to call me or text me that's fine or private message me on Facebook. I'd be more than happy to try to take on the challenge of of doing that if uh if I'm able. And like I said, it no pressure. If nobody has a question like that, then uh we'll figure out something else to do that that is more Bible lesson uh and sermonetic ish if if you will. So do you want to pray? Yeah, we're gonna pray and then we'll do our shout outs and then a final word and we'll we'll wrap wrap it up. So um I'll close. Who wants to start? Anybody want to open us in prayer? I can open us in prayer. Uh, dear Heavenly Father, we just thank you for this um time that we're all able to come together um via uh Facebook just to to worship you and spend some time thinking uh and singing on God. We just want to pray for um our weeks, God. We know that um as things with this pandemic drag out, God, that things are getting um worse for most and not better. Um so we just we just pray for for those things we all know, someone God who just needs a little extra prayer. Um let us uh not miss when you want us to reach out to those people to God, what things we can do to help with them. Help us to just be able to be your hands and feet, God, throughout this difficult time. And we just pray that that this week we are able to to take time uh to see you even through the difficult moments, God. Thank you, Jesus, for our time of worship, of you. You are worthy. You are deserving of all our worship, of all of our praise. Get glory for yourself, Father. Get glory forevermore. We ask that our lives would be filled with worship for you. That when it all said and done, when we see you, you'll say, Well done, good and faithful servant. And we know that that's not possible in our own strength. It's only done by the strength of you. So I I pray that you would wash over us with the blood of Jesus Christ, that you would fill us with your spirit overflowing. I lift up my dear friend Alexis and her family as they are struggling with financial problems during this COVID-19 pandemic. They are in the healthcare in uh work field and you would think that they would be plentiful with work and get their hours have been cut and cut drastically and now they are um wondering how they're gonna provide for their family but we know that you are the great provider and they trust in you. They have asked for prayer so I am listening lifting this up to you. May it be a sweet fragrance. May it be a sweet aroma as I lay it on the altar right before your feet. Pray that it would just bring you great joy that they would come to you first and foremost. They are not the grumbling type. They are simply asking for prayer. And so we are doing that, holding them up in prayer. And I know that they are not the only ones. I know that they are people around not only our small town of Frederick, but throughout the world that are struggling with not knowing how they're going to pay their rent, not knowing how they're going to pay their bills, not knowing what they're gonna do for work, not knowing if they're ever gonna have a job to go back to. I just ask that you fill them with your peace that passes all understanding, that you would give them a sense of security That can only come from you. I pray that if they don't know you, that you would use this ache that they have to drive them to you, that you would call them to yourself, Father. That you would call them to yourself and that you would save them, that they would know that you are the answer to everything, to that longing that they have, that that those of us who would thirst We'll thirst no more when we find our rest in you. That you fill us and you fill us so that we are satisfied. And we thank you for that. We praise you That you never ever leave us the way that we are. We thank you that you see to completion what you started. May we be living proof of the work that you do. the body of Christ. In your name. Amen. Father, I echo my sister's word, Lord, that this be a time, Lord, where people will will discover you you Lord because it is a timeout of sorts uh because people's routines have been interrupted, Lord God. And many, many times for us human beings or the only time that we will stop and look up, Lord, is when we have nowhere else to look. And so, Lord Jesus, I just pray that in this time of shut-in, Lord, That you use it to reach people, that you use it to speak to people, that you use it to show people that their need for you. Because we have no greater need than to know you, Lord. And so Lord, we ask that you would reveal yourself as Savior and reveal yourself as I am, the I am that is everything to us. You are our provider You are our healer, you are our protector, Lord. Um there's so much fear, Lord, because people don't know you the way and even those who say they do know you, they don't know you the way that they should know you. But Lord, faith inoculates us from fear, Lord God, it is impossible for them to coexist. So Lord, we are praying, Lord, for a revelation of yourself, a first-time revelation for those who do not know you, and a deeper revelation for those who do. you would use this time Lord to build faith to deepen faith in you Lord Jesus and to have and to to give you our peace that wonderful peace that marvelous peace Lord God we come against the plan of an enemy to create havoc to create fear and panic or God we just speak against that in the name of Jesus Christ We ask that you as a sovereign God would have your way in this pandemic, Lord God, that you would have your way, your kingdom come, your will be done. We curse the plan of the enemy. We void it. We call it nothing by the blood of the lamb. We curse it. We pull it down. We tear it apart. We rip it to shreds. And we say that you You are sovereign God, the creator of the heavens and the earth, the sea and all that is in them, you who created man upon the earth, step into this world and have your way and your way alone Show yourself God in this situation, the God, the one God, the only God, the true God, the God everlasting, ever living, almighty God Um, may every provision be met in knowing you, Lord Jesus, and every plan of the enemy be uh burnt to shreds. We pray this in the awesome name of the Lord Jesus. Jesus, we also lift up our leaders, Lord God, our Governor Hogan and all the governors of this nation. We ask, Lord, that you give them a revelation, a revelation of of uh uh a wisdom revelation of how to open up our states Lord God we are praying for a peaceful um reopening of our states We curse any plan of the enemy that would uh cause people to riot and and and to and to um be lawless. We come against that by the awesome name of Jesus Christ, we say not so, it will not happen, but our states will reopen peacefully. Your kingdom come, your will be done. Let me Revival come, Lord God, a revival of who you are in this nation, Lord Jesus, a revival that this is a Christian nation. They did plant a cross. in in in the in the area that is now called Jamestown, Virginia, and claim this land for you in 1607. We go back to that and we say this is your land. This is your nation this is your country Lord Jesus we reinstall you as king of this nation your kingdom come your will be done in America and on earth King Jesus and your peace your will be released above upon us through this week Lord God protect us keep us in your perfect love and we ask for this in the awesome and almighty name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Father we ask. For your forgiveness that we have not been diligent enough in pressing into studying your word and learning the doctrines that are foundational. to the faith that is Christianity. And this has weakened our ability to have discernment and to stand up as both ambassadors for truth. So many high-profile Christian leaders, or uh supposed Christian anyway, leaders uh that the church had recognized as Christian leaders of Stepped away and renounced their faith. Um just recently a very high profile president of a seminary professing to be a Christian seminary has revealed that she does not believe in miracles, does not believe in the Life and work of Jesus Christ does not accept that there was a resurrection, and yet she remains the president of a supposed Christian seminary. Lord, we ask that you would give us not just discernment, but a fighting spirit to enter the battle of the of the spiritual warfare that we find ourselves in, that we would be advocates and warriors for truth, that would call out those things that are lies and we would use those as opportunities to point people to the truth because it's only in the truth where we have our hope. It's only in the truth truth that we have our life. It's only in the truth that we find our way. Forgive us, Lord, for not having been good about pressing in to learn what it is your word has to teach us. For not being more careful about the teachers to whom we subscribe and listen to. Help us to have more and more the attitude of the Bereans to check everything that those who claim to be Christian teachers, to take everything that they teach and test it against your revealed written word, your inspired, infallible, inerrant word. And help us to trust that word and to apply it to our lives in a way that is demonstrably loving and patient and kind while at the same same time standing for righteousness and justice and truth. In Christ's name, by the power of your Spirit that we pray. Amen. Amen. So what sort of shout-outs do we have? Not many today. Just Carrie, Darlene, Gary. And Steve. Alright. Any comments? Mary and Chris just started watching. Alright. And no uh no questions? Well, you gotta week to hit me with a question. If you want me to try to tackle it next week, I will To clarify something we talked about last week, just real quickly, I mentioned that uh Living Faith Ministries was closing, shutting its doors. Uh that was what I was told at the time, but it seems like things have changed. I don't know what exactly that means. It uh my understanding as best as I know is that living faith ministries Is at least for the moment shut down as a church and might be shut down as a church moving forward forever. I don't know. But that there's some discussion about it trying to reinvent itself and live Faith ministries might become more of a Bible study or more of a community uh resource for ministries or uh some sort of a fellowship and prayer group. To be honest, I don't really No, I'm not involved in those things. Again, my understanding is it's not it's currently not functioning as a church as I understand it and isn't intending to anytime in the immediate near future. And so uh with that being the case, they don't need a pastor. So uh so I'm out of that loop note. I just want to clarify that because there seemed to be a little bit of confusion uh after I made the announcement last week. So last things, parting words for this evening. Where do we stand at a time such as this? There are differences theologically within the church Some of those differences are okay. They're not denying the core of the faith. They're just differences. Sometimes Christian brothers and sisters can't agree to disagree. On things and both be trying to glean the truth from the Scripture and be faithful to God's revealed word. But despite these sorts of differences, there is unity in the church or or there should be unity in the church anyway. The unity is rooted uh in things like all Christians maintaining a a very high High view of God's sovereignty, God's holiness, God's love, God's provision, salvation through God, through the sacrifice of His Son. And so these things create unity, and part of the truth of the message is that we have freedom in Christ. But somebody recently not too long ago the other day asked me well why don't we have this freedom why don't we just do whatever we want and live lives as hedonists and Perhaps uh you've wondered this sort of thing yourself at some point in your life, maybe recently with everything feeling upside down and topsy turbul, you're like, what's the point of it all? Who cares? Let's just live for the day and enjoy it. Why not do that? Well, we don't surrender to living sin-filled lives because we recognize that living life to the fullest Is experienced by being obedient. By being obedient to God. That's where we find blessing. He gave us his word, he gave us his law. Because He loves us and he wants what's best for us. And so as we walk in obedience, we are blessed. And we have the privilege in that blessing of of experiencing his face shining upon us. And when his face is shining upon us, that That's flourishing. This is what flourishing means. This is shalom. And this is what I wish for the entire bride of Christ. It's what I wish for you. And that is the message, that is the truth. And any pretender who would teach something otherwise, any pretender that would say that the written word isn't true because it's legalistic, because it's out of touch, because it's old fashioned, it's out of date, it's not relevant. Those are lies from the pit of hell that rob you of an opportunity for shalom. So we're not obedient to the Law because we're prisoners. We're obedient to the law because we have been set free to be obedient to the law out of a humble gratitude. For what Christ has done for us. We desire to be obedient because we know that in that walk of obedience, we experience God's best for us. So that's my parting word for you this evening. Figure out what it is God's telling you to do in His Word. And then do it Obediently. And when you fail, go to Him in prayer and humbly ask for forgiveness, knowing that it's already been granted to those who are His. That is the beautiful lesson. of the Bible, the beautiful promise of Shalom. Until next week at 6 o'clock. Good evening.