Yeah, looks like it's rolling. Hello, Facebook. If you're watching this later on YouTube, hello YouTube. Thank you, uh For joining us here at the Household of Faith in Christ. If you want to have your Bibles ready, we're going to be doing a scripture reading here in a moment in the Old Testament, Psalm 47. Not to be confused with Psalm 147, no one, just plain old 47. So you'll want to turn to that, and also you'll want to have your Bibles ready to turn to Revelation chapter 1 because we're continuing our sermon series on the book of Revelation. So be prepared for that as well. Our verses tonight are going to be 20, I mean 9 through 20, chapter 1 9 through 20 in Revelation. Before we get going, I need to uh clarify or actually make a correction. I I was listening back to last week's uh broadcast over Facebook to to check on audio control. And by the way, I was hoping to have it for this week. It's not here in time, so next week hopefully we'll have it. I'm gonna try to uh uh improve our audio by having a wireless mic attached to me since I'm kind of far away during the sermon it might make it better. But anyway in checking out the audio, the acoustics and stuff, I listened to the sermon better And I noticed, oh my gosh, I misspoke. And either nobody noticed, or everybody noticed, but you're too gentle and kind and polite to say anything. But I made mention to uh Alpha and Omega and In the moment I said Alpha and Omega, the first and last letters of the Hebrew alphabet. Yeah, I know. Well, obviously it's the first and last letter of the Greek alphabet. We're talking about the New Testament. Revelation is written in Greek. So for those who are curious, Allah Fentave are the first and last last letters of the Hebrew alphabet. But anyway, uh ephopah, who knows where your mind goes. Reminds me of my grandfather when I was younger. He's trying to name one of the grandfather grandkids and he would always get through and he couldn't think of the names and he would go through like all the dogs' names first. You know, get over here, uh Gretchen, I mean Koki, I mean Fritz, I mean Troy, get over here. It was like one of those senior moments, I'm not sure. So anyway, so if you were confused last week or you're concerned about me being confused, Alpha and Omega, the first and last letters of the Greek alpha So anyway, in a moment we're gonna open with prayer and then we're gonna have the scripture reading and then we're gonna have the sermon and following the sermon We're going to have a discussion and you are invited to participate in the discussion in the comments section. We do our best to um incorporate your comments into what we're talking about. about so and we pretty much always touch on them so you're more than uh more than welcome to do that if we get overwhelmed we get hundreds and thousands of comments we might have a hard time that'd be a nice problem to have but uh so far we haven't had that problem so if you have a comment will you should be able to bring it up and then talk about it. Anyway, so enough of me introduct introducing things. Uh Angela will open this with our prayer and then we'll have the scripture reading. Gracious Heavenly Father, thank Thank you, Lord, for gathering us together again to honor your Lord, Lord, to learn from your eternal word, Lord, to be cleansed by its teachings, to be made intelligent and reasonable and wise by your word, Father. We are just asking that your Holy Spirit is among us among us to teach your word and that he does draw to this time of worship together those who Lord need uh edification those who need correction those who need direction in life We pray, Lord, that you keep away all who would come to do harm to this to our time of gathering here. We want your will your will alone to be done deny the enemy his will we ask that you um be with pastor troy and what is being delivered here together and we ask that you um Have this have your son Jesus glorified in what we do. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. All right, if you have your Bibles, open them to Psalm 47, and uh Landon's going to have that. That reading for us. To the choir master, a psalm of the Son of Korah. Sons of Korah. Clap your hands, all people, shout to God. With loud songs of joy. He subdued peoples under us in the nations under our feet. He chose our heritage for us, the pride of Jacob whom he loves. Salah. God has gone up with a shout, the Lord with the sound of Trumpet. Sing praises to God, sing praises. Sing praises to our king, sing praises. For God is the king of all the earth. Sing praises with a song. God God reigns over the nations. God sits on his holy throne. The princes of the peoples gather as the people of the God of Abraham Shields of the earth belong to God. He is highly exalted. That was the ESV, which by the way, the Revelation uh passage I'll be reading is from the ESV as well tonight, just see in case you wonder I don't have a overwhelmingly strong preference on translation, so you'll notice that we will mix it up on occasion. I think last week I read out of the uh NASB. Previous sermons I've read out of the NIV, I know I've quoted the King James on occasion. They all uh have value and and are good. None of them is perfect and I think we do well to have some exposure to all of them so we we mix it up a little bit. So tonight's message on Revelation chapter 1 verses 9 through 20 is I've I've titled this message Look to the One Visionary And I would invite you to uh to have your Bibles open because we're going to read from Revelation Revelation chapter 1 here in a moment. So when life gets hard, what do you do? You have a job, it doesn't bring you fulfillment, it brings you stress. Why is the boss so clueless? Why is your co-worker so mean? Why don't your customers pay their bills on You have a family. Doesn't bring you fulfillment, brings your stress. Why did my spouse cheat on me? Why will the kids ever respect me? How can I keep up with the dishes and the laundry and the yard work and the improvement projects and the repairs and the taxes? You have relationships more generally that don't bring you Fulfillment instead they bring you stress. Does the next door neighbor really have to shoot off those fireworks so late at night? Must my parents always look at me that way? What should I do about the friend who has now blocked me on social media? You're beaten down by voices telling you that you are bigoted for attending church, that you are selfish for seeing medical masks as a problem perhaps even dangerous that you are a terrorist for peacefully gathering with like-minded folks so as to not feel that you're alone Do you feel out of step with the surrounding culture? The news, the movies, the music, the TV shows, the magazines Even much of the preaching, it uh none of it seems appropriate to you, nor even respectful of you, maybe not even acknowledging that you exist. This is perhaps maybe how you perceive things sometimes anyway. Anyway. And so you wonder, are you alone? Does anyone get me? Is there hope? Or should I just quit my job, quit my family, quit my life? Curl up in a ball and surrender to depression, do self-harming things to myself using stiff drinks, strong pills, sharp objects, or perhaps Perhaps even sexual identity reassignment. Well there once lived a man who knew how you feel right now And he knew a man who also knows how you feel. And this first man saw in the second man marvelous truths. All that is marvelous, all that is true. He saw this because it was shown to him. And he wrote it down As a way of showing it to you. Revelation chapter 1, verses 9 through 20. They read, I, John, your brother and partner in the tribulation. And the kingdom and the patient endurance that are in Jesus was on the island called Patmos on account of the Word of God. And the testimony of Jesus. I was in the spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet saying, Write what you see in a book and send it to the seven seven churches to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamum and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea. And then I turned to see voice that was speaking to me and on turning I saw seven golden lampstands and in the midst of a lampstands one like a son of man clothed with a long robe and with a golden sash around his chest. The hairs of his head were white, like white wool, like snow. His eyes were like a flame of fire His feet were like burnished bronze refined in a furnace, and his voice was like the roar of many waters. In his right hand he held seven stars, from his mouth came a sharp, two edged sword and his face was like the sun shining in full strength. When I saw him I fell at his feet as though dead. But he laid his right hand on me Me saying, Fear not, I am the first and the last, and the living one. I died, and behold, I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death in Hades. Write therefore the things that you have seen, those that are and those that are to take place after this. As for the Of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand and the seven golden lampstands. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches. This is the word of God as was Psalm 47. As the word of God is inspired, it is inerrant, it is infallible. It is the perfect rule and guide for faith and life practice. Those with an ear to hear. Let them hear it. The book of Revelation, it contains lots of visions of suffering. We live in a world filled with suffering. The church experiences this suffering. Individual believers experienced this suffering and the writer of Revelation John experienced this suffering. Many of our English translations they use the word suffering in verse 9 Others use tribulation. There is great suffering in the world and among God's people. There is great tribulation. And John relates to us that he is our brother in this. He's our partner, our companion. him. He knows what it's like to suffer for Christ. Are you suffering for Christ? Have you been ostracized? Persecuted? Well, if so, John gets it. He understands you. Was banished to a remote rocky island called Patmos for having the audacity to give testimony aligned with the Word of God. To give witness of Jesus. He emphasizes the reality of the pain by speaking of the tribulation and the patience required to end. Endure it. He does this here in this text as a sort of word sandwich around the reality of the kingdom of God. Yes, there is a kingdom, but first Let me tell you, there is suffering. Okay? Suffering with which we must contend. And so you need patience, you need endurance, steadfastness. And you find this when you find Jesus You find what you need to succeed in Jesus. You can see that in the middle of verse 9. This kingdom is arrived at through patient and Endurance and it is ours in Jesus, it says. John understands your plight. He understands your plight Applied to the entire church because here in this passage he stands in as a microcosm for the entire church. What he experienced in his situation and in his vision is what we experience. Or at least it's what we should experience. Let's look at verse 10, for example. John says, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet. He was in the spirit He was praying. He was meditating on the magnificence of God. He was contemplating God's word. He was experiencing the presence of his Lord. And when doing this, he heard from God. There is a lesson in this. For us. You want to hear from God? Be in the Spirit. Praying, meditating, contemplating, communing with the Word. Now what's meant by on the Lord's Day? There's some debate. Most say that it references the first day of the week As you know, your people today talk about Sunday as the Lord's Day. Some say that John was specifically talking about resurrection Sunday. Yeah. Or perhaps Pentecost. And I just have often wondered if it's meant to be taken even more broadly, as in this is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad. in it. Jesus is the Lord of the Sabbath, so that is the Lord's day, but he's also Lord of every day, right? So we could expand it more broadly, I think. That sort of thing is kind of where I tend to think about this actually. Because remember everything we've talked about in Revelation, it's this word picture. It's symbolic. It's symbolic of a greater application, a greater meaning, a bigger picture. And so So I don't know, I lean in that direction anyway. But let's not get too hung up on all that right now. We can speculate later all we want. But I should add that there are some who try to equate the Lord's Day with Day of the Lord. And this would be an error. There is no textual, no historical, no theological, nor even any reason Reason to hold the view that the Lord's day and the day of the Lord are one and the same. And there are abundant reasons for rejecting it. Just give you a couple of quick thoughts on this. Again, I don't want to turn this into a Sunday school lesson necessarily, but John, as we know already, we're early in this series and we've already seen how often John is grabbing illusions, grabbing teachings, grabbing ideas from the scripture. John knows the Bible. He knows the Old Testament inside out and out and he knows Greek, he knows how to speak and write Greek. He knows about the day of the Lord. He knows how to say that and write that in Greek, and yet here he chooses not to say the day of the Lord. the Lord, he chooses instead to say the Lord's day. It's completely different grammar, it's completely different words, the vocabulary. It's not the same idea And yet I will say this, because of the symbolism, because of what John's trying to say, I do wonder if he purposely goes out of his way that he was in the spirit on the Lord's day as a little bit of a hint and a reminder that the day of the Lord is coming. He's not having this vision in the day. of the Lord because that's the final day, the day of judgment, the day of Christ's return. So it's not the day in that sense. I just wonder if he's drawing a connection there maybe. Anyway, last half of verse 10, it says that John he heard a voice coming from behind him And some wonder if this is an allusion to looking back to the Old Testament and looking back to the earthly ministry of Jesus for answers, looking back to what has been what's been taught already as the context for what's to come and I think that's a very interesting idea. So if we do look back For an understanding of the word trumpet, for instance, what do we think of? Scripturally thinking, you hear trumpet, what do you think of? You might recall the trumpet blast at Mount Sinai, signaling the Lord's descent to meet Moses. You might think about associating with God entering his temple, as in Psalm 4 47 which we read earlier this evening. But trumpets being used to call God's people to battle or signaling the liberation of God God's people in the year of Jubilee. There's so much rich texture with the idea of the trumpet in the Old Testament. And John, he might want us to recall any and or all of these illusions. Illusions to God coming to his people and liberating them. And I think that's exactly what he's doing. He wants you to understand that God is coming to his people and liberating them. Now verse 11 it's about John receiving instructions. To write letters to seven churches. And these churches, they really existed in history. But the seven signifies the fullness of the church. I remember last week he talked about seven and and and its meaning in relation to God. Well seven also is the number in the Bible of universality and of plentitude, of perfection. We think of the seven pillars in the house of wisdom in Proverbs. The seven deacons in Acts chapter six, the seven gifts of the Spirit, the seven days of creation, even perhaps the fact that the Apostle Paul in the New Testament wrote letters to seven churches. And we see in verse 12 that the seven churches, which again represent the entirety of the universal church, represented by the the seven lampstands. And this is explicitly spelled out for us in verse 20. I don't have to guess what the seven lampstands are. It tells us flat out. And notice that John, he turned to look at the one who was speaking. The one who hit the word to John he turns to see him and we should do likewise we need to make sure that we turn and repent This is just another way of thinking about turning. We turn from our sin. We turn from the ways of the world. We turn from our sinful, fleshy desires, and we turn to Jesus Christ. Christ, who is the truth, and we fix our gaze upon the one who speaks this authoritative truth to us. Now We don't want to presume too much. Let's just look at what the text actually says because we're steeped in Bible teachings and we just expect, oh, this is Jesus, but the text doesn't exactly say that. So who is the one doing the speaking? What are the clues that are offered in the description? Can we tell from the description alone that this is Jesus? Well, verse 13 says, He is one like a son of man. Well, that is straight out of the Gospels. It's the most favorite way that Jesus referred to himself. In the four gospels. His favorite way, Son of Man. It's the third most common way that Jesus is referred to in the New Testament, but it is the most common way that Jesus refers to himself. And this reference by Jesus to himself being Son of Man, well that's straight out of the book of Daniel. Daniel chapter 7, verses 13 to 14 they say, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. And he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom. That all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which none which shall not pass away. And his kingdom is one that shall Shall not be destroyed. This is the king. With authority from God Himself, from the ancient of days from the Father. And the Father and the Son, along with the Spirit, they are one. And so viewed from a particular angle, this King is the ancient of days himself. Just as the presence of God God would enter the tabernacle and the temple where the seven branch lampstand stood illuminated, this king stands in the midst of the the seven lampstands. And he wears priestly garments. He wears a long robe and a sash around his chest. But he's not Any old priest, look again, he's a royal priest. He has a golden sash, the golden sash signifying wealth, beauty, exalted status. He is the ultimate high priest. And we know from the book of Hebrews, the ultimate high priest is Christ. And his white hair, well as we know from Daniel chapter 7 the white hair is telling us that he is the ancient of days the whiteness of the hair representing old age and therefore wisdom like we're taught in the Leviticus and also in Proverbs. But in this case, he's not merely wise, he's divine and pure with eyes like a flame of fire. These blazing eyes burn through to the truth. They bring judgment and a purifying presence that destroys evil and his feet like burnished bronze that had been refined in a furnace. Well this connotes even more judgment Suggesting war and the strength to conquer his enemies. John is gleaning these illusions from the Old Testament, such as Ezekiel chapter 1, for example Also, Ezekiel chapter 43, where it's written, and the sound of his coming was like us the sound of many waters, and the earth shone with his glory, the roar of many waters. It's the best metaphor the biblical writers can think of, right? To describe the overwhelming, majestic might of God's voice. And the brightness of the sun at the full strength again it's the best they can do to capture the the the dazzling strength of his countenance let's pull this uh dazzling countenance poetically pointed to by Isaiah in his book chapter 60 where he writes, Arise, shine, for your light has come. And the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. John tells us in verse 16 of Revelation chapter. Chapter 1, even more about this mighty warrior. It says, in his right hand he held seven stars, from his mouth came a sharp two edges sword. The sword it is symbolically the word of God and is double-edged or literally here it is two-mouthed On the one hand, the sword condemns and demolishes the evil who wage war against the Creator, and on the other hand, it pierces to the division of soul and spirit, of joints and marrow, and discerns the thoughts and intentions of the heart so as to convict the attitudes and the motivations and to bring rest to God So on the one hand it's conquering foes and on the other hand it is comforting his people. people. Now when John borrows and sometimes repurposes the imagin uh the imagery of uh Isaiah and of Daniel and Ezekiel and Matthew and Hebrews Hebrews and elsewhere. What is to keep in mind, he's not pulling out his camera and snapping a Polaroid of the physical presence of Jesus here. I mean John, remember he's a disciple, or he was a disciple. He spent every single day with Jesus for years. And he saw the resurrected Jesus. He even saw the transfigured Jesus John knows what Jesus looked like physically. But that's not what he's describing. this passage. John is not telling us here what Jesus looks like. John in this passage is telling us what Jesus is. Like. And what he is like is like a holy rule giver who commands repentance and obedience and steadfastness and prayer and holiness. And people, they often think of the book of Revelation as something, you know, the whole book of Revelation is about revealing secrets, coming world events. But the book of Revelation, it's not revealing those kinds of mysteries. It's revealing mysteries about a person. This is a prophetic word. It's not necessarily foretelling the future so much as it is a prophetic word that is forthelling the mind of God. And we see here an image of Christ that details for us that he shares the attributes of the Father. We see here an image of Christ detailing that what was once distant for the prophet Daniel has now appeared arrived in full-blown reality. We see here a judge who brings fear That's why in verse 17 it says, when I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. John fell down. As one who is dead. Good response. Because John representing all of us. It's a time when he was dead. In his sin, he was dead and he falls down as the dead man that he was. And in this falling down, before the Lord, we hear echoes of Joshua and Daniel and Saul, later known as Paul. And standing before the mighty and perfectly holy, holy, holy God of the universe, John John comes undone, like Isaiah, woe is me, for I am undone. Except John He doesn't speak as Isaiah did. Because John falls down as one dead. Dead men tell no tales. What would you do if you were in John's shoes? You'd fall down as one dead too. And this kind of idea can be sort of frightening stuff. The awesomeness, the fearsome of God. It can be frightening. It's not always what we're necessarily used to hearing in a Christian setting. So maybe we do well to relate some famous words written by C. S. Lewis. I have a losing Alluded to these words before, but this time I'm not just to allude to them. I am going to now quote a full portion of The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe. Very famous book turned into a movie This is a story that's set in a sort of fantasy land with talking animals and has a central character named Aslan who presents us with a picture of Christ. Then on page 146 of the Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, we find this scene. Who is Aslan? asked Susan. As Lan, said Mr Beaver. Why, don't you know? He's the king. He's the lord of the whole wood. Is he A man? asked Lucy. Aslan a man, Mr. Beaver said sternly. Certainly not. I tell you he is the king of the wood and the son of the great emperor beyond the sea Don't you know who is the king of the beasts? Aslan is a lion. The lion, the great lion. Oh. Oh, said Susan. I thought he was a man. Is he quite safe? I shall feel rather nervous about meeting a lion. That's your will, dear. And no mistake, said Mrs. Beaver. If there's anyone who can appear before Aslan without their knees knocking. They're either braver than most or else just silly. Then he isn't s Safe? said Lucy. Safe, said Mr. Beaver. Don't you hear what Mrs. Beaver tells you? Who said anything about safe? Coursey isn't safe. But He's good. He's the king, I tell you. For his enemies, of course, he is not safe. But for those who are his people, well, they're not his enemy. Remember John, he's standing in as a representative for the entire church here. In this passage. And we stand before the judgment of God. We all are going to face the judgment of God. And if we stand on our own merits, on our own record We stand dead in our sins. And this is why Johnny falls as one dead. But when he does fall as one dead, what happens to him? Because remember, John's not standing before the judgment of God on his own record. He's standing there on the merit of Christ's record. So what happens to John? After he falls as one dead. What happened next? Oh, verses 17 and 18, they continue. But he, Christ, laid his right hand on me, saying, Fear not I am the first and the last and the living one. I died and behold I am alive forevermore and I have the keys of death And Hades. Christ places his hand on John and says, fear not And if you are one of his redeemed, he places his hand upon you too. And he says. Fear not. And I want you to notice here it's Christ's right hand. His right hand hand of mercy. God's right hand throughout scripture, it's biblically pictured as his strength and authority. And also His mercy. Psalm 16, verse 11. You will make known to me the path of life. In your presence is fullness of joy. In your right hand there are pleasures. forever. Psalm 17, verse 7, wondrously show your loving kindness, O Savior of those who take refuge at your right hand. Psalm 18 verse 35. You have also given me the shield of your salvation, and your right hand upholds me, and your gentleness makes me great. Psalm sixty verse five. That your beloved may be delivered, save with your right hand and answer us. Psalm 63 verse 8. My soul clings to you. Your right hand upholds me Psalm 139 verse 10, even there your hand will lead me, and your right hand will lay hold of me. To the world that rejects him, he brings fear of punishment. But to those who trust him as the Lamb of God, he brings a reverent kind of a fear, a honoring praise. exalting sort of a fear. He brings joy. Joy because the church participates in the royal power of Jesus. Those lampstands, those seven lampstands, they're golden lampstands, remember. Now this power, it remains largely hidden until the second coming and this is why there is suffering but we draw the strength to endure directly from him And the endurance, it connects our suffering with hope. Blessed hope. And John, he's been commissioned by Christ in this scene. He's been commissioned to write these things down. He's been commissioned to give witness. And again, he's A standing in a sense for us. He's a microcosm for us. And so we share this commission. We are to give witness. The church is a lampstand. The church looks to the radiant king as did John, and the church reflects the light. Light to a generation that is lost in darkness, lost in worshiping dead things, dead idols. But the one who has laid his right hand on us, he brings the message, fear not. So we need not fear him. We need not fear the suffering, nor even death. Because Jesus, he has revealed to us, I am the first and the last, and the living one, I die. And behold, I'm alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death and Hades. He is the living one and he stands in the midst of his people. This is pictured by him standing in the midst of the lampstand And he holds us in his powerful hand of mercy. It's pictured in verse 20 when he says. As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand and the seven golden lampstands, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches And the seven lampstands are the seven churches. There's a little bit of uncertainty about the meaning of angels Here. It could mean guardian angels sent directly from heaven. It could mean the messengers of good news sent to the congregation. from heaven as in the pastors. It's a little bit of uncertainty because in Greek here, the Greek word for angel, it simply means messenger. So it is a heavenly being messenger or it is an earthly being messenger. The point's the same. They're both sent from God. They're both sent from heaven So that's what we need to understand, that they are sent of God. And God stands in the midst of it all. He holds his people in his right hand. No matter the source of your suffering, he's holding you. What is your Patmos. Is your Patmos? A broken family? A lost career? An adversary? calls you names is your patmos a health challenge or maybe your patmos is literally a barren Island fifty miles offshore in the Aegean Sea. Whatever your Pat most, you are not alone. John gets you He he gets it. All the brothers and sisters in Christ, we all get you. We're all in this together. We all get you too. And of course, of course, Christ gets you. He gets it. I mean he truly he really does. He gets it. Get you. He gets you. But what's More. He's got you in the palm of his hand He's got you. So fear not. Pray Father, we praise you and thank you that you have preserved this word for us, that we can speak of these things, study these things, proclaim these things now, and know that we have no near of need of fear that you hold this in your hand. You always have, you always will, you protect those who are yours. And you are completely worthy. of all honor and praise and trust. We ask that you would help us to lean on you, to trust in you more than we already do. We ask that you would lead and bless our discussion that's here to follow a message. We ask you would soften our hearts so that we would apply these truths and take action. I live in our lives by the power of your spirit. It's in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. All right, so that is one of the longer passages of Romans that we or of Romans revelation that we will uh preach through uh in one given message. So there was a there was a lack there. Is there anybody here who didn't already know that this passage was talking about Jesus? Gecko. Did you already kind of have the idea that this isn't necessarily a picture of what Christ physically looks like in his resurrected state and body and this is more of a visionary expression of the character and nature of of who he is. Or do you try to imagine he's you know a guy with white hair and flames shooting out of his eyes and a sword coming out of his face and things like that Now part of what I would think is that you know the ancient of days was also him representing the father at the same time meaning you know from the beginning of time they existed together so So I see that kind of correlation like because they're you know part of the maternity so they're they are the same even though they're different. Yeah and this is Actually, a pretty good passage for you know those who want to try to say, you know, I don't know why you believe Jesus is God. He never claims to be God himself. But he delivers this vision to John and tells him to write it down and then he reveals himself to be the ancient of days to be the all-powerful king to be the one who's the judge gonna crush the enemy. I mean he he is God. This is clearly a picture of God. Uh there's there's no ambiguity. really here in my mind. So and this is the only place, I mean throughout the New Testament you you see evidence that Christ is claiming to be God. That's why that They put him to death, actually. That was the primary accusation against him was blaspheming God by claiming to be God. And this is where we get into the mystery of the Trinity, right? The Trinity, uh, I mean, three persons and they're they're distinct, yet one God. And so I think primarily we should think it more often than not we think of the ancient of days being the father, but then we realize the father and the son are one. So you're absolutely right, the son is also ancient of days days and Christ is manifestation manifestation of that in uh in both God and man kind of thing so I know that some people are concerned about how to handle the the imagery in uh in Revelation, like I would make sense of this. This is really the first time in our series that we've had to grapple with some significant image But I don't know that these are the hardest of the images, but any of these strike you as particularly difficult? Tongue sword. But I guess since you said like the word of God was the sword, I guess that makes more sense. That was my yeah, that was my thing at first too was two edge sword coming from his face. That at that point I I I still thought they were trying to describe an angel and I was like, well it's an angel, you know they look different. It's just describing Jesus in judgment mode. That's all it is. And his white hair, you know, will throw people sometimes too. Like what is that supposed to mean? Why is it white what's what's important about white. And it is it's pointing to the you know the the respect for old people for their wisdom. So it's it's it's talking about that. And it's also talking about you know holiness and purity. and you know that sort of thing so it's it's not necessarily just one thing um and it's helpful I think it's really instructive for as we work through the rest of the book is Jesus isn't going to do this for us every single uh he doesn't even do it in this passage for every single symbol that's given to us but he does make it a point to say you want to know about the those seven lampstands and those seven stars in my hand. Let me tell you what those are. I think that's instructive because that's telling us if we needed promotion permission we're given permission from Jesus himself look all these symbols you're seeing they have they they they're representative of something they're symbolic in their meaning Jesus is isn't literally standing there juggling stars. Right? They're they're symbolic uh of the angels of the messengers. And the lamp stand What is that? What's the lampstand supposed? Is it actually there are you know actual physical lampstands and God's you know kind of dancing around lampstands? What's that all about. And he he tells us explicitly the lampstands are the churches. So we're like, oh, okay. So if these are symbolic, I wonder if the other symbols are symbolic too, or if we need to take those in a really wooden uh meaning. So I think that's really helpful for us. I think some things are symbolic and I think some things are literal and uh haven't gotten to this point yet when we we start talking about the release of all of these demonic entities. I think that's a literal thing. gets when when it gets to it when it gets to that point we're not there yet but when the book of revelation starts talking about because um what all of that is you know this is an introduction a little back to what I said earlier. This is an introduction to Jesus in judgment mode. And what this is showing right here where we are is that he always begins with his church. He always begins with judging his people and getting us right and and so he begins there and then he he gets on to the rest of the world and um then they start to all all these different judgments that are unleashed on the earth. And I think those judgments are literal, you know, and and um uh we we know that you know for instance the Sue supernatural creatures are real, you know, and um I think that when when we get to that point and start discussing that there it really is a release of you know some Well even in this passage, you know, you know, even just staying rooted in where we are, this passage, this is literally real. Right. Jesus really is in authority. He really is the king. He really is one with the Father, and together, you know, the Trinity is the ancient of days when viewed from a particular perspective perspective that's all really real um the word is double-edged you know it's an offensive and defensive weapon that's true uh That's all you know the and the the the church is to be uh illuminating the truth to the world around as a lampstand. So all the all the symbols are pointed to to things that are actually literally true. So yeah, maybe I want to clarify just because we need to understand what these symbols mean, we need to try to understand what these symbols mean in fact. This is not like mythology. This isn't about Zeus and Apollo and Mars and you know those sorts of things this this is this is telling us about actual reality um a reality that's both inside and outside of history actually, you know, because God's not bound by time, is not bound by history the way we think about it. So this is not to be taken as this is just a fun story that's gonna be give us some sort of spiritual insight that I can then live my life by. It's not that Jesus actually exists. And he actually is an authority, and we are actually to give witness to him in actuality. So um It's not because of the genre of what this is, it's not stated in in uh in prose, it's not stated in the way that like Paul would write in a letter or like John writes in his letters for that matter. He's making his point through the symbols. So that we can get and not to be making it difficult on us actually. I think Once we begin to understand what the genre is about and how the symbols kind of work together, it's actually to help us have a better idea of who God really is and what's really happening. I might have said this a couple weeks ago. If I didn't, I might say it in a couple of weeks and a couple weeks from now. I don't know. But the idea here, we all know the phrase a picture's worth a thousand words We all know that. But in this case, you know, John is writing in such a way that you know words are worth a thousand pictures. And that's on purpose because we're trying to grasp with this the mystery and the fullness and the magnitude of God is beyond our absolute total comprehension so we're given this different way of thinking about it so we can get a better Fullness, a fuller expression, if that's helpful. What about the younger dunes in the room? What are your thoughts about I guess Revelation in general, but more specifically about the passage here if you have any Questions you have about it or doubts about anything that uh you know that I said in the message or something you feel like I well I was kind of hoping that he would talk about this and he didn't anything like that so a question about the angel Right, so it was so it was like seven trying to say. Like the seven stars in his hand. And then So are the angels like the seven kind of spirits that were in the previous section? Or are these referring to like each church man Yes, yeah, so um in the previous section as well, because again the Greek word here, if you were to just translate it, uh into you know what it means in English. It wouldn't even say angels, it would say messengers. So the the seven stars are the seven messengers Okay, what messengers? Yeah, angelic messengers, you know, like uh spiritual being messengers? Or are they messengers those who are uh messengers those who are commissioned by God to proclaim the message as the pastor and we don't really know but um either one is fine angels are real and it might be that each church has a designated guardian angel, that seems possible. We couldn't use this as a proof text because it's not unambiguous enough. It could mean the pastor It could mean both. Maybe there are spirit guardian angels and the the pastors who are there as under-shepherds, there to protect the flock and be messengers of the truth. truth and all so we don't really know but I think the thing that's important is regardless those seven stars representing those messengers they're in Christ's right hand again the the hand of power and authority and mercy so they're under those messengers are are are under Christ's control and not just his control but his protective control. Because again, it's not just authority and strength and power, which is what I think most of us tend to think about when we think about the right hand. You know, Christ seated at the right hand of God. You know, we're in the Old Testament talking about the right hand, it's almost always about power You understand though, it's also about protection, it's about mercy, it's about you know care, tender loving care. And so he's protectively caring, he he's got the whole church in his hand and not again not literally he's not juggling the messengers so again it's not telling us what Christ looks like in physical reality. It's telling us who Christ is, what Christ is like. So I don't expect, I mean who knows? Could be wrong, but I don't expect that we'll meet Christ at a second coming. and he'll have a sword sticking out of his mouth and and uh and white hair necessarily. I uh you know that's not and he's not gonna have stars hovering above his hand I mean, so this is trying to tell us about him and what he is all about. Which is more important, right? I mean, those of us who are married or been married, you know, what's more important? What your spouse looks like or what your spouse is is like I mean we like to be physically attracted and so that's important but the most important thing is who they are right what kind of character they have what's on their inside what is their makeup you know who have I married um so I think we kind of get that it always struck me personally as as angels because um elsewhere in scripture angels are represented by stars and also the fact that that in the epistles um we are told that angels are minister in the book of hebrews we're told that angels are ministering spirits to minister you know to the needs of the church. It seems to me that I would lean more towards the stars being angels because he talks about about the lampstand being churches and then the stars. Then he has and so it seems to me he's talking more about you know angels that are ministering to the churches. That's how I that's how I've always taken it. And the word angel does mean messenger, doesn't it? Exactly. Yeah, the yeah, the the the the Greek word literally means messenger We haven't so much translated the word as we've uh anglicized the Greek word. You know, we've just taken the Greek word and uh uh altered the pronunciation to make it sound like an English word as opposed to a Greek word. So we haven't called transliteration. Yeah we yeah we haven't changed we haven't really translated it. We've transliterated it. And so it leaves it ambiguous and it could be. Yeah I mean um well what the the the thing that typically they talk about angels being stars is actually uh later in revelation as well when it talks about the stars falling from the skies but if john isn't throughout revelation necessarily equating the stars with angels then we lose that as a proof text for the case because we get locked into circular reasoning. Well John's talking about angels from heaven because he's talking about angels from heaven. Okay well I'm not sure again I don't think it matters to be honest and it could be both. So I'm open to I'm open to both and it depends on when I read it. Sometimes I have a tendency to lean in the direction of it's talking about the pastors because you know the angels can be ministering ministering spirits to your point, but the pastors are ministering as well. So and their messages is they're and they're yeah and they've been commissioned to bring the good news to bring the message. Maybe it alternately mean means both. Yeah Evangelism. Angel that's the root or the main word in evangelism. Yeah. When we move into the the letters to the churches There's some symbolism there, but even that's not going to be really hot and heavy, incredibly difficult imagery to try to work through. But we're going to work through that stuff as well uh and then hopefully by the time we're done with the letters to the churches uh we'll have had enough exposure through the first three chapters of Revelation getting used to the idea of how to think about the imagery that when we get into chapter four, where you know the real fun on the symbolism uh kicks in, uh, we'll be better able to grapple with and it'll be more natural. And he's setting the groundwork here so some of the images, some of the decisions, interpretive decisions we make early are going to help us later. Because John is revisiting some of the images from different perspectives. And so if you were able to figure out what he meant earlier, it's going to make it easier to figure it out. more quickly later. Oh, I kinda remember this. This is very much like what he said earlier and this and I remember from my studies on that that it was this. So I can apply what I learned earlier to this later chapter and so if if you're locking in on this uh series because you feel like every mystery will be resolved you're gonna be disappointed because that's just not possible. Was it John Kelvin that said he wasn't even going to touch Revelation? Oh that's a shame when he could I don't know I think he said something that because it was was such a controversial earlier. So Calvin never did a commentary on Revelation? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well that's interesting. Well that would be, you know, I I'm a I'm a fan of John Kelvin in a lot of ways. I think that some of his insights, particularly actually one of my favorite I think he gets that like exactly right. But and I agree with a lot of other things he said. There's some things, you know, John Calvin's not inspired, you know, so he's got some things I'm a little unsure about he's a man like the rest of us. But if he was um so afraid of revelation that he actually said I'm never gonna touch that, well you know that's bad on John You know, uh he he he should have if he didn't. You know, it's God's word we're called to uh to wrestle with God on these things, right? We might get a broken hip in the process, but we're to wrestle with God on these things. Okay. All right. Although I'll I'll give him one brownie point. I I can I respect a person more for not touching it than for just being heretical with it. Yeah I guess we're worried about being heretical. From the from the shot. You know what I mean? I wish I wish he wouldn't have touched it. I don't have his commentary open on my computer. I'd be well I'm curious to know who if it is not John Calvin, I'm curious who it is. So let's see if collectively we'll try to find Right, he doesn't want to teach on it. Well I'll be honest, I never anticipated that like the next series we would be doing with Revelation. Um primarily because we spent a lot of time in the New Testament already. We did our series on you know the epistles of John. And so my instinct was to bounce to a book of the the Old Testament. Um and if I was gonna stay in the New Testament I probably wasn't gonna stay with John because we just did three books on John and Revelation's written by John. But you know given what's going on in the world and uh you know given the requests of the peanut gallery. I was like, you know what? Let's let's dive in and do this. And to be honest, I'm not sure yet. But when we finish Revelation I'm thinking we might actually stay in John and do the Gospel of John. Uh because I there's value in my opinion in in understanding the Gospel of John and the book of Rose. in tandem. There there's there's a there's a connection and some bit of correlation and so it might make sense for us to do them uh back to back. And in that case we will have done all of John's writings you know within a couple I was talking to my uncle recently and we were talking about gog and magog. Um You're getting many chapters ahead of us. Yes, I figured it was a lot farther ahead. But I could Yeah, well, you know, i i we're gonna that's gonna be a whole a tangent, but are there regions or people? Oftentimes people want to say you know, like they represent Russia or you know China and things like that. And are they are they leaders? Are they peoples? Are they regions? Uh are they are they nation states? There's lots of Fodder there and uh it's yeah it can be. You know when we get there, you know we'll we'll make a determination of what we think the the range of possibilities are we'll we'll we'll camp out there. So that's that sort of question is exactly the kind of thing that I'm cautioning again. I I think I'm bringing it up kind of every week in different ways and hopefully people are getting the idea. If we're turn if we're opening up Revelation to try to say, oh What's Russia gonna do today or what's China gonna be doing today? We're misunderstanding how to apply what the book of Revelation is really intended to be It might reveal some things about that sort of stuff, but that's not the primary thing. The primary thing is this is a this is the revelation of Jesus. It is from Jesus, it is about Jesus. That is the primary thing. So if we don't come into this thing, okay, what What can we know about Jesus as it relates to Gog and Magog? Until we've answered that question, we shouldn't move on to other questions. Answer that question first. So All right. We're just past seven o'clock. We've been going just a hair over an hour, so maybe we'll wrap it up with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for this time. Thank you for this teaching. We rely on the power of your Holy Spirit to instruct us. We thank you for the presence of the Holy Spirit. We ask that your spirit would continue to instruct us through the week directing us guiding us building us up we trust that you will bring us to a point where each and every day we understand more and more about you and we thank you for that revelation. We pray that you would be glorified in all that we do and say and that you would continually soften our hearts that we are quick to repent turn away from our sin and turn to you that's in Jesus Jesus' name we pray. Well thank you for watching those who are watching this either now or later. If this is a supplement to what you're already doing Amen. Glad about it. If you're one of those people that's just doing online church, listening to sermons on podcast or on YouTube or on Facebook That is not what God's people are called to. I invite you, I encourage you, I I I cajole you, I I guilt you, I'll do anything I can to get you to actually go to a church, a gospel proclaiming, Christ-exalting church You live within driving distance of Frederick and you're not currently involved with the church, or you're at a church that's not really a church because it's not proclaiming the gospel I invite you to reach out to me, send me an email, and we'll get a conversation started. Doing church online is not doing church Okay, so that might be hurt some people's feelings. I'm tasked with hurting your feelings today if that's the case. So anyway, uh till next week, God bless