Well hello, we are uh rolling. Um hopefully you're hearing me. We're trying out our new microphone here. Maybe somebody wants to pull us up on their phone and make sure that this is broadcasting. Okay, the number is what? Twenty-two. So uh welcome to Household of Faith in Christ. Uh in a moment we're gonna read from Numbers chapter twenty-two. Uh somebody's gonna read verses one through twenty one, I'm not sure who yet. And somebody's gonna read verses twenty-two through forty-one. Uh and in the message today we're going to be uh reading a small section from Acts chapter 19. So you might want to stick a bookmark in Acts chapter 19. It's working? All right. The new microphone, huh? The wonders of modern technology. Uh and then the sermon tonight is on Revelation chapter two. So you definitely want to have that bookmarked so you can follow along with what we're doing in the sermon. Uh Revelation chapter two verses one through seven. is what we'll be in. So um Angela's gonna open us with a word of prayer and then our our readers will go and then we'll get into the sermon And at the conclusion of the sermon, we're going to have a discussion amongst us here in the room, and you can join that discussion virtually in the comment section here on Facebook And if you're watching this later on YouTube, you can join the conversation belatedly in the comments section on YouTube, and we can interact there if you like. Alright, so I think that's all I had to say for now. So Angela, if you would open us a little word of prayer. Father, we thank you for a day filled with blessing. And we thank you, Lord, for bringing us together, together in the name of Jesus Christ. Christ for another session of knowing you better, worshiping you, learning from your word, being shaped and molded by your word. We ask that you cause every Everyone who needs to hear this word to encounter this broadcast. We ask for your protection over this broadcast and over everyone here that you would keep The enemy away from what we are doing. And we thank you for the word going forth, and we trust in you to have expressed and said during this time of worship, said the blessing of every hearer. We thank you for it. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Uh what am I reading to? Through through verse twenty-one. Through verse twenty one, okay. Then the sons of Israel journeyed and camped in the plains of Noah beyond the Jordan opposite Jericho. Now Balak, the son of Zippor, saw that Israel had done saw that all saw all that Israel had done So Moab was great in fear because of the people, for they were numerous, and Moab was in dread of the sons of Israel. Moab said to the elders of Midian, Now this ford will lick up all that is around us as the ox licks up the grass of the tree. And Balak, the son of Zippor, was king of Moab. At the time, so he sent messengers to Balaam, the son of Beor, at Pathor. which is near the river in the land of the sons of his people, to call him, saying, Behold, a people have come out of Egypt. Behold, they cover the surface of the land, and they are living opposite. Now therefore, please come, curse this people for me, since they are too mighty, mighty for me, perhaps I may be able to defeat them and drive them out of the land. For I know that he whom you blessed is blessed, and he whom you curse is cursed. So the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed with the fees for divination in their hand And they came to Balaam and repeated Balach's words to him. And the leaders of Noab stayed with Balaam. Then God came to Balaam and said, Who are these men with you? Balaam said to God, Balach the son of Zippor, king of Noab, has sent word to me, Behold, there is a people who have who come out of Egypt, and they cover the surface of the land. Now come, curse them for me. Perhaps I may be able to fight against them and drive them out. God said to Balaam, Do not go with them. You shall not curse the people, for they are blessed. So Balaam arose in the morning And said to Balak's leaders, Go back to your land, for the Lord has refused to let me go with you. The leaders of Moab arose and went to Balak and said said, Balam refused Then Balak sent again sent leaders more numerous and more distinguished than the former. They came to Balaam and said to him, Thus says Balak the son of Zip. Therefore, let nothing I beg you hinder you from coming to me, for I will indeed honor you richly, and I will do whatever you say to me Please come then, curse this people for me. Balaam replied to the servants of Balak. Though Balak were given were to give me this house full of silver and gold, I could not do anything either small or great, contrary to the commands Now please you may also stay here tonight, and I will find out what else the Lord will speak to me. God came to Balaam at night and said to him If men have come to you, call you, rise up and go with them, but only the word, but only the word which I speak to you. So Balaam rose in the morning and sat saddled his donkey and went with the leaders of Moab. But God was angry because he was going and he and the angel of the Lord took his stand in the way as an adversary against him. Now he was riding on his donkey and his two servants were with him. When the donkey saw the angel of the Lord Standing in the way with his drawn sword in his hand, the donkey turned off from the way and went into the field. But Balaam struck the donkey to turn him, turn her back into the way. Then the angel of the Lord stood in the narrow path of the vineyards, with a wall on this side and a wall on that side. When the donkey saw the angel of the Lord, she pressed herself to the wall And pressed Balaam's foot against the wall, so he struck her again. The angel of the Lord went further and stood in a narrow place where there was no way to turn to the right hand or the left When the donkey saw the angel of the Lord, she lay down under Balaam. So Balaam was angry and struck the donkey with his stick, and the Lord opened the mouth of the donkey. And she said to Balaam, What have I done to you that you have struck me these three times? Then Balaam said to the donkey, Because you have made a mockery of me If there I if I if there had been a sword in my hand, I would have killed you by now, the donkey said to Balaam. Am I not your donkey on which you have ridden all your life to this day? Have I ever been accustomed And he said, No. Then the angel then the Lord opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel of the Lord standing in the way with his drawn sword in his hand And he bowed all the way to the ground. The angel of the Lord said to him, Why have you struck your donkey these three times? Behold, I have come out as an adversary because your way was contrary to me But the donkey saw me and turned aside from me these three times. If she had not turned aside from me, I would have surely have killed you just now and let her live, Balam said to the angel of But the answer So Balaam went along with the leaders of Balak. When Balak heard that Balaam was coming, he went out to meet Meet him at the city of Moab, which is in the which is on the Arnun border, at the extreme end of the border. said to Balaam, Did I not urgently tell send you to call send to you to call you? Why did you not come to me So Balaam said to Balak, Behold, I have come now to you. And Balaam went with Balak, and they came to Kurath Kuryath Huzoth. Balak sacrificed oxen and sheep and said Then it came about in the morning that Balat took Balaam and brought him up to the high places of Baal, and he saw from there Well we'd thank you for the readings. What we just heard is the word of God inspired by God, therefore inerrant, infallible. God's Word is a perfect rule and guide for faith and life practice. So those with an ear to hear, let them hear. And the same is true for what I'm about to read now, Revelation chapter 2, 1 through 7. Because we began a message I've titled A Letter to the Ephesians Everywhere. Again, this Revelation, the first seven verses of chapter two. Do the angel of the church in Ephesus write, the one who holds the seven stars in his right hand, the one who walks among the seven golden lampstands, says this. I know your deeds and your labor and perseverance, and that you cannot tolerate evil people, and you have put those who call themselves apostles to the test, and they are not, and you have found them to be false And you have perseverance and have endured on account of my name and have not become weary. But I have this against you: that you have left your first love. Therefore, remember from where you have fallen and repent, and do the deeds you did at first. Or else I am coming to you and will remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent. But you have this, that you hate the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who overcomes, I will grant to eat from the tree of life which is in the paradise of God. Today's passage it speaks of an angel and a church in Ephesus and seven stars and golden lampstands and evil people, false apostles, Nicolaitans. The tree of life, the paradise of God. And we are drawn to these images. We're drawn to them Kind of like we might be drawn to a big craft table that has a pon it scattered puzzle pieces to a jigsaw puzzle. Maybe you've seen this happen. You go to somebody's house on a holiday, like Thanksgiving or you know, Christmas time or something, and In the den, they've got like this 5,000-piece puzzle scattered out, not fully assembled yet Most of the pieces are off to the side or maybe laying loose somewhere in the middle, although most of the outside pieces, those along the edge, those are put together because an experienced puzzler knows The OEs want to start by finding those straight flat edges so as to frame the area and give you the boundaries within which to work. Well, have you noticed how this item in a house can so often be a magnet for the house guests? So many people are drawn to the table. They wander on over and they find a couple of pieces and they fit them together and they feel a sense of satisfaction and pride. Yeah, look. I help provide a bit of a solution here. And other people they they have a uh a a sense of pride in being somebody that brings some organization to the whole process. Oh look these pieces all have a bunch of red in them. Let's put the red ones over here. Let's do the same thing with these blue pieces and with these yellow pieces over there, and then they feel good, and they're like, okay, I've done my part. Now this is a lot of fun for some of us, isn't it? We're focused on the pieces. To use a well-worn analogy, we're focused on the trees. And so we have to be careful to not lose sight of the forest. What is the full picture all about? What is it revealing to us? Now some puzzlers they like to keep the photo that's on top of the puzzle box, to keep it up on display in full view, so they can see. and have a guide to help them figure out to build their final product. Now there are others who, the serious puzzlers, they think of this as cheating. You see the true challenge in figuring out how to put that puzzle together without having the picture there, not having the answer in advance. Well, today we're going to do a little bit of both. We're going to examine some of the specific pieces and see how they fit. And we're also going to reveal the final picture so that you have a guide. to steer you into properly seeing what the maker of this puzzle wants you to see. So first we're going to notice, yes, this is the letter to the Ephesians. That's right, not only the Apostle Paul wrote letters to the church in Ephesus. And yes, there are tantalizing symbols, just waiting to have their meanings unlocked, such as the stars and the lampstands, for instance, and There are various actors that are listed within our playbill here. We have the fraudulent leaders and the wayward believers and those much-hated Nickel Aitans. But I want you to please hear me clearly when I tell you this. These seven verses are not about any of that. Not ultimately about that. Ultimately, the picture on the top of your puzzle box is a picture of Jesus Christ. This passage of Scripture is about Christ. Christ is the edge. within which all the other pieces must fit. All the little pieces that we've mentioned so far, they reveal a beautiful picture of Christ when they're rightly pieced together. Revelation chapter 2, verses 1 through 7 is a passage in which Christ is in the midst of his people. It is a passage telling us that Christ knows his people, where Christ commends his people, and Christ. Rebukes his people, and Christ commands his people, and Christ warns and protects his people. And Christ makes promises to his people. This is a word from Christ, about Christ, to Christ's people So, knowing this, let's take a look at the individual pieces. First one chapter two John is told to the angel of the church in Ephesus, right, the one who holds the seven stars in his right hand, the one who walks among the seven golden lampstands, says this. So here at the very start of the chapter, we have to run into that word again that we ran into last week, you know, angel. The Greek word here, again, as we talked about last week, this is the word for messenger. It's just a ch transliteration really, Angelos, angel. And so is it a special messenger, a special angel from the heavenly realm that's in view here? Could be, but the context in this letter to Ephesus, it does seem to fit better with the idea of this being addressed to the the messenger, angel. who is in leadership shepherding the local flock of believers in the old earthly realm, meaning pastors. And I gotta say, I'm persuaded that that's how we should read this. I'm pretty sure I'm right, but even if you disagree, it's not gonna really matter. It doesn't change the point of the passage. Not even a little bit, actually. This messenger, angel, is the one who receives the letter. And it says that the one who holds the seven stars in his right hand, the one who walks among the seven golden lampstands, he is the one. Who says what is to follow? And so that's what we have to really wrestle with. Who is the one? Who is the one? Well, it sure would help if we knew what the seven stars were. Well, if we recall from last week, the final verse of chapter one, there we have our answer. Jesus tells us in Revelation chapter 1 verse 20, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches. Again, we have here to wrestle with the word of angels and not want to beat a dead horse. I've already suggested that these represent, I think, the the local pastors, the elders leading and protecting the flock. Now if you're one of those who thinks that these angels are supernatural guardian angels, that's fine. But the point would be the same. The stars are. The angels, the messengers. And these angels symbolically represent the protective shepherds of the flock. These angels guard and protect the local congregations. But I want you to notice, these stars, they are held in the right hand of the one. The right hand, remember we talked about last week, the right hand representing the strength and authority and mercy of God. So the stars are themselves merciful protectors, but they are mercifully protected by the One. They are in his hand. They are his this These messenger angels are under-shepherds to the true shepherd, the one. Who holds everything in his hands? And who is the one? Well, it is Christ. And he walks among the seven golden lampstands. Just as with the seven stars, we know from the final verse of the previous chapter that the seven lampstands are the seven churches. And so Christ, he is in the midst of his churches. He's not remote from his bride. He's in the midst. He walks among them. Like God walked among his people in the Garden of Eden before the fall. He's in their midst in Revelation, just like he was in their midst in the Old Testament temple. He's communing with his people. He is truly with his sheep because they are truly his flock. And this shepherd, Christ, he knows this flock well, intimately well. Verses two and three says, I know your deeds and your labor and perseverance And that you cannot tolerate evil people, and you have put those who call themselves apostles to the test, and they are not, and you have found them to be false. And you have perseverance and have endured on account of my name, and have not become weary. As it says in John's Gospel account, in chapter 10, verse 27, My sheep, they hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. The king personally knows his subjects. He intimately knows them. He intimately knows you. And we can see in the second and third verses of Revelation chapter 2 that He knows your hard work, your perseverance, and he commends you for it. And he knows your intolerance of wickedness and how you test the teachings of the fraudulent so-called apostles. And he commends you for this, too. And he understands that you endure many hardships, and yet you're steadfast, not giving in to weariness. You work hard, and he tells you here, he sees it He sees your hard work. And in a book that is filled with symbols that are tied to the number seven. I think it's interesting that Christ commends his people here in this passage, in this letter to the Ephesians, for seven things for hard work, perseverance, Intolerance of wicked false teachers in their midst, because they test the teachings. They test the teachings, that's four, following after the example of the Bereans in the book of Acts. So that's four things. And then he offers commendation again for perseverance and endurance, steadfastness, not growing weary. That's three more things. This informs us of the importance. He swings back to talk about perseverance, endurance, not growing weary, being steadfast. That talks about the importance of hanging in there. Hang in there as defenders of the truth. Should hang in there doing battle against the liars who have slipped in amongst the church. And Christ tells us here this is all great stuff. And Jesus knows. So we should feel good about this. He knows your good stuff. And he holds you. In his right hand, he holds you. And he knows you. He knows everything about you, which means also that he knows your dirty little secrets. He knows your secret that sometimes you follow after idols in your life Yeah, maybe you do the right things, but you don't always do them for the right reasons. You might even stand for righteousness and do so on account of his name. But motivations perhaps are askew. Perhaps you're also doing it to fit in with others who belong to your church. Be liked by them, respected by them, trusted by them, adorned with praise from people. People who are sinners just like you. Jesus knows this about you He knows everything about you. And for these negative things, he calls you out for it But he also calls you to repentance from it. Read once more verses four and five. But I have this against you: that you have left your first love. Therefore, remember from where you have fallen and repent. And do the deed you did it first. Or else I am coming to you and will remove your lampstand from its place. Unless you repent. Brothers and sisters, God is your first love And he is our first love because he first loved us, as we learned during our series in the Epistles of John. I remember just a few months ago we were in uh first John chapter four, where verse nineteen he says We love because he first loved us. He's our first love and he loves us so much But he tells us to turn from our sinful actions and attitudes and to turn to him for exceeding blessing. This is what it means to repent, to turn. And considering this letter to the church in Ephesus, it's written to the Ephesian people. We might be reminded of Paul's letter. To that same church, the church in Ephesus. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8, we're encouraged in our repentance When it says, For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this not your own doing, it's the gift of God. You have been saved by grace through faith. And because of this gift from God Book of Revelation here tells you that you need to return to your first love. This isn't to say that it's easy. It's not. If it were easy, then Christ would not commend you for remaining steadfast and fearless even in a falling and failing world If it were easy to maintain our focus, we would need reminders that there is a spiritual dimension to reality. And that true reality is revealed by God's word If it were easy, it wouldn't be so difficult. Wouldn't be so difficult for the true church to remain true to her Savior. And think of it. The church in Ephesus, in Paul's letter. was commended for staying true to their first love. In Ephesians chapter 1, verses 15 and 16, Paul writes, For this reason Because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints. I do not cease to give thanks for you. But now, just a few short years later, the Apostle John relates to this very same congregation these words from Christ: But I have this against you that you have left your first love. What a turn of events. A horrible turn of events. But it can be rectified by another turn of events. The turning of repentance. And we must repent. Or else Christ says He will remove your lampstand from its place. If you don't repent. Because if you don't shine the light, well then that means that you don't really possess the light so that you might shine it. And so let's not pretend. If you will not repent, then you are not truly part of the body, and that dead weight, it must be jettisoned. Just simple as that. You know, this idea about first love, in our context, we might tend to romanticize what that means. But it doesn't mean that it's meaningless or unimportant to battle for maintaining moral and doctrinal purity and sound teaching and a charitable spirit. These Certainly are not all that there is to loving Christ, but they do fall under the umbrella of loving Christ. This is demonstrated in Revelation chapter 2 when Christ immediately turns his attention right back to battling. Battling those who are opposed to his message. Verse six But you have this that you hate, the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. It is good to hate the deeds of those opposing biblical teaching. It is good because Christ Himself hates it. He hates the deeds of the Nicolitans Well, who are these people? What's so hateful about them? Well, we're going to see in the third letter in a couple of weeks, a letter to the church in Pergamum. a connection between the Nicolaitans and those who were fooled by the teachings of Balaam. This is Part of why we read Numbers chapter 22 this week. We'll read chapter 23 next week and probably chapter 24 the week after that to make sure that we're familiar with Balaam and who he is and what that's all about. And so it appears the Nicolaitans were involved in a form of idol worship. Idolaters. Again, in today's context, I can only imagine there'd be somebody hearing me say those words and start to immediately mentally check out. Idols! I don't worship pagan idols. I don't even know anybody who does. So this has nothing to do with me. Well, let's uh set the full scene before you check out. You might recall from Acts chapter 19 that the city of Ephesus, it was home to the temple of Artemis. And this temple was a huge driver of the local economy. Now, in case you're not familiar, I'm going to read a very small portion of that story. Acts chapter 19. I'm going to be beginning in verse 24. If you want to read along, you can turn there. I'm going to read about a half a dozen or so. Verses, maybe not even that many, four or five verses possibly. Acts 19, beginning with verse 24. A man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of Artemis. brought no little business to the craftsmen. And these he gathered together with the workmen in similar trades, and said, Men, you know that from this business we have our wealth And you see and hear that not only in Ephesus, but in almost all of Asia, this Paul has persuaded and turned away many great people, saying that gods made with hands are not gods. And there is danger. Not only that this trade of ours may come into disrepute, but that the temple of the great goddess Artemis may be counted as nothing. And that she may even be deposed from her magnificence, she whom all Asia and the world worship. And after this speech, there was a riot. For two hours there was a dangerous uproar. Well, we can understand this, can't we, from our contest this past year or so? Dangerous uproars, riots in the streets. We see this in our society today. Well, in Ephesus, Paul's message was a threat to their economic interests and to their cultural norms and to their man-made gods. Well in America, there's been mob violence reported all over the news, all across the country, for these same sorts of things. Economic interests, what we want the cultural norms to be. People need to bow down and worship at the idols we make for them. It's the same thing. With the Nicolaitans in Ephesus. They didn't want their way of life disrupted. They wanted to live their way of life. And many scholars today they believe that this way of life was one of licentiousness. Free love. Anything goes. We have the truth, not God. That sounds kind of familiar too today, doesn't it? Makes one wonder how progressive the progressive movement can possibly be when it's at least 2,000 years old. And calling licentiousness progressive is a misnomer anyway. By definition, according to the creator of the universe, it is actually regressive. But however you want to label it. Those saying that they were following Christ, some of them anyway, they were tempted to compromise. to compromise with these rainbow flag waving types of their day. Pretty much like we see today But Christ gives a word of encouragement to the church in Ephesus because they didn't cave to the societal peer pressure. Most of them did not cave. And that pressure is mighty. Peer pressure. There's no doubt about how difficult it is not to cave to that, right? I mean, our present-day cancel culture, we really know how true this is But the book of Revelation reaffirms for us that faith triumphs over might. Because the one in whom we have faith is the mightiest of all time Now before tackling the very last part of this letter to the Church in Ephesus, let's spend a portion of our remaining time reviewing the structure of the letter. This is going to end up being really instructive, not just for this letter but for all the letters, because all seven letters to the churches in Revelation, they follow the same basic sevenfold structure. So the first part to each letter is that they begin with a greeting to the messenger, the angel, which, again, I think we should likely understand as the elder leadership of the local congregation. And in the second piece, each letter is a description of Christ that's provided, echoing what was revealed in chapter 1, verses 9 through 20. And then the third part to each letter, praise, is given to the church. This is true for all the churches except for Laodicea. And then four, criticism is given to all of the churches. Again, this is true for all the churches except for Smyrna and Philadelphia, who do not get a direct criticism. Then the fifth part to each letter is a warning delivered by Christ. Then sixth, an or exhortation comes from Christ, and it always begins with he who has ears to hear, let him hear. And then number seven, each of the letters ends with a promise. Now it's not an accident that there are seven pieces to each letter, and that there are Seven churches. The number seven, it is perhaps the organizing principle for the entire book. And for each of its sections, even. We've already begun to talk about the importance of seven in some of our previous messages. But as we're going to find as we continue in our series, I mean the author, and if you've Been doing your homework and you've read through Revelation, preferably in one sitting if possible, then you you you notice that the author mentions seven seals and seven trumpets and seven significant signs and seven bowls and so forth Now, while it's more prominent in Revelation than it is in other books of the Bible, the use of the number seven is not exclusive to Revelation. It's just one example we might be reminded and we I think we might have even talked about this a couple of weeks ago in our one of our group discussions The sevenfold ministry of the Holy Spirit, outlined for us in Isaiah chapter 11. The Spirit of the Lord brings wisdom and understanding, counsel, might, knowledge. Fear the Lord, sound judgment. Seven. So there's seven parts of this letter. So far we have covered the first five elements of the letter. So we still have left for Ephesus the exhortation, number six, and the promise, number seven. And both are continued are contained in verse 7, which says, The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches, to the one who overcomes, there's your exhortation, overcome. I will grant to eat from the tree of life which is in the paradise of God. There's your promise. And did you notice here in verse 7 the word churches? It's plural. This letter is to the church in Ephesus, but it applies to all churches. And he says, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. All the churches All the congregation, all those who belong to those congregations, the entire bride of Christ is encouraged to overcome. And the entire bride of Christ is promised eternal life in the glorious presence of God. That is what is meant by eating from the tree of life and being in the paradise of God. This is the bridegroom's promise to his bride. So is Jesus Christ your Lord? Is He your Savior, your King, your high priest? your representative before the judgment throne of God? Well if so, then this eternity in the paradise of God Is his promise to you. So be diligent in doing the work of overcoming Father, how we love and adore you. Help us to do this better. Help us to identify those areas in our life where we are tempted to give in to the pressures of the world, the pressures of our own flesh. Help us to turn back to you, to return to our first love, to repent from our sin, to fully trust in you Trusting in the power of your spirit to overcome, so that we might More than taste from the tree of life, but that we would know fully what it is to live for eternity in the paradise of you our God. We ask your blessing upon the discussion that is about to begin And that those who are hearing what we speak here today would be encouraged and where necessary. Rebuked in their spirit, in their heart. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. So let me wander over here. So as maybe a thought starting question. Some people grow up in the church and and they don't know what it's like to ever have had a memory when they didn't identify as a Christian. But then there are others who have you know, some sort of a conversion story, a moment in their life where they're like, yeah Uh I know for a fact that I wasn't living a life as a Christian and then s this event or sequence of events happened and I became committed to Jesus Christ and following him and my life changed So if anybody gathered here, or if you're watching, you want to try to figure out how to chime in on the comment section, has one of those moments that you can remember coming to Jesus At that first time as your first love. And then comparing that with those moments when you kind of have to admit, yeah, I kind of forgot my first love. You know, when I lost my temper, or I made that horribly selfish decision, or I used those cutting, biting, mean-spirited words and wished hate upon people inappropriately or whatever. Can anybody capture what that feels like? was and it might just be me, but um I I heard the gospel uh but I didn't hear it Yeah. So like I I you know, I always you know, I always knew there was a God. I always believed, yeah, there's a God out there. Um and I you know, I didn't think much of it and must have family started going to church. Um my dad especially and he was, you know, kind of showing me things. Um and I started to learn about the gospel and yeah, Jesus Jesus did that for me. But I kind of just left it there. Yeah, Jesus did that for me. And that's all I really yeah thought of it was, yeah. Um But it it took me a while to realize, no, he he did that for me. Like it was there, but it wasn't you know, like I I knew that's what he did But I didn't think anything of it. I kind of took it for granted and pushed it to the side. Yeah, these did that for me. So I mean I guess I'm going ahead and kind of thing. But and it it was Kind of a clinical academic kind of an understanding. So it just So now you've had that wow. Yeah, now I have that. So then so how does it you know emotionally or psychologically strike you when You allow yourself through distractions or pressures to lose sight of the wow. It it sucks. Uh that's one way to put it, I guess. variant but um how I would describe it is it's it's like you feel like you for you like you feel you definitely feel like you've forgotten something And y um and it's like, man, I can't believe you know, I wasn't thinking like that. You come back to it you really feel ashamed. It's like, wow You know, I know that's how it is and I know that now, but I forgot about it. And I went and did this thing or I went and told this person off. And that's not what I should have And I just wasn't thinking about that, the implications of so it was you know it's It sucks. Um we maybe can we maybe So that you know we're talking all from the same understanding of exactly what that means. We've used the phrase, but I I'm sorry if I missed it, but I didn't catch a definition of what that means. So um I'll try to say it slightly differently than I uh did maybe this will help. So our first love is God And then the expression of that love is is visible and is witnessed and the proof in the pudding is behavior that is in love. So, you know Jesus is asked famously in in the Gospels, you know, what's what's the most important one of the laws? And and Jesus says, well, love God and love your neighbor. And and there's and love God is the first most prominent, but if you have that, the second naturally follows. And so Our first love is trusting in God, obeying God, following after Jesus Christ, being the bride to our bridegroom, being a faithful bride to the bridegroom. And demonst and that love is demonstrated by uh the things that are listed here, for example, uh being discerning, not giving in to the peer pressure from the pagans. um not giving up and growing weary, uh not turning your back on on on s on the service. Towards others and that sort of thing. Um that's helpful. But in in that they say that they're doing all those things already, and then they said, you know I've seen you do all these things, but you've lost your first place. Right, and so that's um so I'm trying to that and that's why I got into the part where I was saying God knows your your d you know he knows everything about you, even your dirty little secret, so that even though you're doing the right things If you're not doing them for God, you're doing them for yourself, your reputation, for worldly gain, for So and we see a lot of that in the world around us, where you say, you know, uh uh I don't wanna It's not necessary for me to name specific names or groups of people. We all have experience where we say, boy, that person's a really good guy Or that woman, boy, what a what a generous woman she is. But then as you get to know them better, you realize, oh, they're that nice and that generous and that kind because They want recognition for it. They want to puff up their ego. They want to get build up some sort of s social credit score that they can then cash in and and get favors from people or whatever. And when so the people here they're doing all the right things, they're not growing weary, but they're they're doing it for the wrong reasons or they're doing it in their own strength. not trusting in the strength they're getting from God and so it can look good from the outside. And other churches that get letters, it's going to be the reverse, where uh their inner life is good, but their outer life is a mess. Here Christ is saying, look, your outer life is good. Your inner life not so good. You've forgotten who I am. You're you're forgetting The reason. Yeah, like w how often do we have this happen during Christmas time? Right. Remember the reason for the season. Yes. That kind of thing. Is that helpful? That's helpful. So going back to Uh kind of the question that was asked initially. So when we as believers, um when we React badly in a particular situation. Is that us losing is that evidence of our losing our love for our first love or is it just That we're imperfect, we're on a journey of sanctification, and we just get weak sometimes, and we just choose the wrong thing to say, we choose the wrong thing to do, in that moment but you know we just lose sight of it in a sense right but but I just I I want us and I want everybody that that that would watch this the broadcast I want us to get a pretty good grasp on what losing our first love is. Um because Because um I don't you know none of us wants to fall into false condemn condemnation either. I think there's a consistency of doing that without A repentance so that there's this motivational error that then causes us to over not to just a oh that what you're talking about but more of a nope this is kind of how it is now you become comfortable in that and that becomes then the way you operate so you've completely lost sight of a tender heart. Yes. And um this might be what you're what you're getting at. Every single 'cause you're asking about, you know, we uh act out in a way that's sinful. You know, what does that mean? Does that mean we've lost our sight of our first love? Absolutely. Every single time. It's part of that. Every single time we sin, in that moment that we're sinning, we've lost that our first love because if we've got our eyes on Christ in that moment we're not going to sin. And so what Christ is calling us to in in in this letter to the Ephesians is, okay, repent. Right. Don't don't beat yourself up and and wallow in it forever like it oh oh I just sinned and I forgot my first love, game over, you have to get divorced. They say no no no turn back to me. I still love you. Now you demonstrate you love me by repenting. And it's and and it's important enough he says it twice. He says repent and then has another little phrase and then he says repent in case you didn't hear me the first time. There's in my in this is my ESB study bible, there's the Christ evoked letters to his seven churches, which is essentially what you were saying, like the combination of rebuke and solution and like the combin consequences for disobedience. Um and for them uh the rebuke is like you were saying the loss of the first love and the solution is To remember repent and do the work done at first. So like it's not it's not a permanent thing. It doesn't have to be. Right. It doesn't have to be. When it becomes If it becomes a permanent thing, you walk away from the faith, right? You and you renounce Christ. And then that was you may not even have to have to physically Yeah, if you just refuse to repent and you just keep walking and living a life of of sin, you know, like John says in First John, we covered that about you know you you do not You know, once you're if you if Christ truly is your first love, then you will not continue to sin. You're still going to sin, but you're not going to continue in it. You're going to repent from it. You're going to Try to check it and catch it and and and and do better. And in in a contemporary society secular worldview, it's uh there's a phrase that you sometimes hear when somebody does something that's kind of out of character for them Uh even if they're not a Christian, they'll say, Oh, please forgive me. I uh uh I forgot myself. Ever hear that phrase? I forgot myself or I or I lost myself. Or someone here I I lost my mind. I was out of my mind. Or I I wa yeah, I I I lost myself. You ever you ever heard that? Yeah. Like an out of mind. Well, we can apply that in a Christian context because who is ourself now? We're a new creation in Christ. Our new selves are Christ-like selves. But it's like when we don't, we've we've lost ourselves and uh we've lost our first love. Yeah. It's like when you know you text me or I'll text you and you'll say, Boy, my heart really was tricked. If you've lost your first love, you're not gonna do that And I'm not going to do that for you. Because it's like, eh. Oh well. Yeah, I messed up. Mm-hmm. I know that Christ forgives me. I'll go about still going to volunteer at the rescue mission. Or whatever. So from the outside it looks great, but many little rotten secret is you could really And to be more uh that's what I To be more precise, because I'm realize you know sometimes language can be really important and and an occasional an occasional stray word here or there You know, no big deal. Context will help flesh it out, but I feel like we've used the word lost a lot in the last five minutes. The text doesn't say you've lost your first love. It says you've left. Yeah. Your first love. So I had a question about that. So how did it how do you reconcile them being praised for perseverance and the idea that they So they're being they're being pressured, right? So they've got uh the Nicolaitans you know are uh They're representing kind of in my mind, they're representing everything that's going haywire in our country today Right? Well uh I mean all right. Yeah, all these new rules that we're supposed to and there's this huge pressure and one of the challenges we're having in the the church right now, the church, the American church um the Western church probably, uh more exactly, is that they're giving in to those pressures. And yet a lot of these churches, and I'll use the phraseology of the day, these woke churches giving into wokeism, they're still doing a lot of good things. There's they still maintain their food pantries, they're still taking care of orphans and widows, there's they're still trying to even evangelize for that matter. They're still doing a lot of good things. But they're doing them wrongheadedly, wrong the wrong motivations. They've lost sight of even the reason they're doing it. You're feeding the poor. Why? You're taking where care of the orphan and widow. Why? You're calling people into the church, but why? Whose church? Your church or Christ's church? So I think that today's woke church would receive a letter much like this letter to the church in Ephesus. They're saying, look, you're doing a lot of good things, and you're not surrendering everything, you're not turning everything over to the power of the government, and yet, well now I think over the last couple of years The American Church would have received this letter five years ago. Now I think they would receive a different letter. But the condition of the church five, because now I feel like the church isn't beginning to lose its way with wokeism. It has gone in. Full in. It's another gospel. It's it's a real problem. So they would get a different letter. But w you can do a lot of the right things and you can hold up against that pressure and people are gonna say, look, renounce Christ And you say, Well I'm not gonna renounce Christ But why are you going to not renounce Christ? Because you want to look good to land in? Or because you want to truly honor your Savior? Are you going to say, I'm not going to renounce Christ because Uh uh I don't want to come across as a devil talker and uh and a hypocrite, so I'm gonna defend my own integrity or are you defending Christ's integrity? I there's some it might be more of a cultural aspect. And I kinda took it as very intellectual. Like this church has had a very intellectual understanding of the scriptures and that's why they're able to test like the Bereans did, but in that they're kind of going through the motions. More of a paraphaiical approach. Right. Yeah. Something like that. Yeah. I I I my read on it is it's It's more than they're going through the motions. Because look at the the the way he emphasizes, he says perseverance twice. And he's talking about the hardness of their labor and their work and they're not growing weary. And he he he swings back around to emphasize that again. So they're working hard. But in our context, there was no LDS church 2,000 years ago. But in our context, you guys are really good Mormons. Yeah. Really good. Like the best Mormons ever. But you forgot me. You've stepped out on your spouse. You've left me. You've stepped out. I was saying, turn around, repent, and step back in to right relationship continue to do all the right things, to fight the good fight, to to b again in American context, to do battle for, you know proper cultural perspectives and proper cultural definitions and proper cultural practices. Do all of that. But not at the expense of like leaving me in the back seat. Do it for me, because of me, or you're lost because he's the all-in-all Right? What were the uh first and last letters of the Hebrew alphabet? Of the Greek alphabet? And I was I'm playing a joke on myself because I misspoke the other day. He's the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. He is the whole he is the Mac Daddy. He is the all in all And if we lose sight of that, nothing else matters. So your perseverance and your hard work. Yes, I applaud you for it. I'm cheering you on. I'm in your corner. I want you to do more of that. But not If it means you don't feel like you need me, that you've lost me somewhere in the exchange or left me somewhere in the ex-heaven of South That works. Oh, it it's just such a good provider and and and but uh you don't spend any time with the emotionally unavailable. You don't hold me, you don't read it. usages of the word perseverance, one being persevering in the faith and the other being persevering in good works? Yeah, I think in the in this context, my read on it would be would be that it's talking about persevering within a world that is coming at you with darts and daggers. And you and you're pressing forward anyway with with your with your good works. Um with defending scripture and the word and Yeah. Not I took I took in someone or gave someone a whole bunch of money. Now there are some interpreters, actually a lot of interpreters. I don't know if it's the majority, but i if it's not, it's a significant percentage of of commentators will talk about the first love being about that this is this is a letter about service And that if you've lost your first love, then you're not going to have a loving heart of service towards others. And I'm and I wrestled with it because I was running in because I was doing my I kind of Give you a little insight. I wrestle with the passage on my own as best as I can, and I begin to outline what I think the message uh what the point of the passage is and I begin to outline what the message that you're going to end up hearing is going to be shaped and and and sound like And I have an ill illustration or two popping ahead or some some scripture passages from other parts of the Bible I feel will be good to tie in. And I start to get that fleshed out. And once I kind of have myself pretty settled, I think I know what I'm going to do But I gotta check myself. So then I spend some time reading trusted commentators and people that I think are smarter than me, a lot of famous dead guys. Read a lot of those stuff and I try to see if I'm if if I'm probably on the right track and see if they're agreeing with me and sometimes they're agreeing but they put it a different way. Ooh, I like the way It's the same idea, but they they they had a different slant on it that I really like. I'm gonna alter how I say what I'm gonna say because I like that. I'm gonna steal the uh the idea there a little bit and reshape it and make it my own. So but then there's times when I'm reading and they came to a different conclusion. I'm like, wow, that's surprising. I'm not sure I see that. I don't know, I'll tell the file that away and and and think about it for another day or two. And then I'll read another commentator and sometimes it's the exact same thing. I'm like, wow, two in a row And in this case, I ran into like four or five in a row that were had that idea that it was about service. And I'm like, what? So I finally found some other commentators that weren't saying that, so I felt better that I wasn't like on an island somewhere making up theology. But in this context, talking about he knows your deeds, he knows your labor, he knows your good works How can this be about your first love being about good works? It doesn't make any sense to me. So maybe I'm just dense and I'm missing something, but I think the part that where it's com I think the part that and yeah, this is where I tried to capture, maybe it's such a nuance that I didn't craft it well enough to drive it home. There's an aspect in which that is true. Christ in this letter, I think he is calling his people to good works, even though they're doing good works. But he's calling them to good works out of the right place, out of the relationship with him. Because good works out of another place, they might kind of be good in a worldly sense, but they're not good for our spiritual health. to make sure he's looking good to the community. But you go home and he's like uh in the in the room watching TV and you're in the other room and he has no interest in What you do. Interesting. Yeah, I've heard lots of preachers' kids who have turned totally away from Christianity because that's how the pastor father was in the family. He was very he was when he was out in public he was turned on right and he had the Christian faith and spoke the Christian evil but at home he's just a totally different person. Right. Right. Your first ministry is The reason I want to maybe take uh this is a bit of an excursus, but it might be an important like teaching lesson, an opportunity to teach a point that's uh not directly tied to what the thrust of the message was, but this idea between lost and left. The reason I wanted to make that little correction, our linguistic correction, because the idea that you lost your first love could leave the impression that you initially found him in the first place. And we don't find him. He finds us. He calls us. He he chooses us. Um He calls us into the relationship with him and then We in this case he's saying, Look, I've called you into relationship with me. You're my spouse, and you've stepped out on me. You've left You've you've you've left. And so you haven't lost the relationship. If you're truly in Christ, you're gonna sin, but you're gonna repent. And you're going to demonstrate. Yeah, a good example, how many I don't know if this is a good ex analogy or not, but it struck me when you're talking about I I I know situations I think anybody who's uh live some life, either knows from their own personal experience or knows from the experiences of those who are in their life examples of these horrifying marriages. where the oftentimes it's the husband, sometimes it's the wife, but usually it's the husband, and the husband's a brute A total cad. Sometimes he's beating his wife. He's cheating on his wife. He's I mean he's an absolute jerk. But nobody but the wife knows. because he's excellent at his job. He's involved in the local rotary group and he's involved in charitable organizations and giving And he dresses sharp and he's really kind-hearted to the neighbors and he their front yard is immaculate and and they go to parties together and he's so loving towards his wife And yet all the appearances, all those good things he's doing, because taking care of your yard and doing a good job at work and being kind to the neighbors, those are all good things, and you should do those things, but you don't really have the right r relationship with your spouse, right? You've left the the you've left your love. So again that might be a bit of a stretch because I think we could get into some weird angles on that that aren't what this is talking about. But No, but that was a good I thank you for asking for that clarification, 'cause that's very helpful. Lost and left. To bring us to that point, you know, define that. What does that mean? Because I'm not a deadlock. I actually didn't catch that it says left. Exactly. Huge difference. Yeah. And and emotionally you've left. Right. Right. Right. Well, and today we talk about Joshua Harris last year and some other uh he's relatively famous, so maybe you've heard of him, but there's some other high profile, you know, pastors and and uh authors of very you know best selling Christian books and stuff who have renounced the faith. And sometimes you'll hear people talk about, you know, so and so lost their faith. They didn't lose it. They left the church. But they didn't lose their faith. They never had it. According to 1 John, they never had it. The fact that they left and left and turned their back on it never to return is evidence they were never with us to begin with. So you don't lose your faith. If you're truly saved, you have it, and he's holding you. Again, that was that was an emphasis last week, it's an emphasis this week about that that strong hand Right? That authoritative hand. Christ has authority and he has unimaginable strength. And it's a strength and an authority of mercy. And so he's holding on to his sheep. The good shepherd is holding on. And he's strong enough, and he's got enough authority that his intentions of mercy towards his people will not fail. Right? Jesus says those that the Father gives him, he will not lose one. So yeah, you don't lose your faith. If somebody claims to have lost their faith, I used to be a Christian, but I lost my faith. They never had it. According to the Bible, they never had it. They never had what they claimed at one point to have in their life. So takeaways real quickly, if you're busting your butt and banging your head and doing everything you can in this whacked out world, particularly over the last you know 16 months or whatever it is now I hope you're encouraged that Christ sees it. He knows and he appreciates you for it. And if you have those moments or even those seasons when you You sin and you're not representing Christ, you're not doing the work of advancing the kingdom. That's not game over. Repent. Repent. And if you overcome, if you repent and you return to your first love, you return to Christ in repentance and you're trusting in Him, then you have everlasting life. You eat from the tree of life And you spend eternity with God in heaven. You spend eternity in paradise. The paradise of God. So those are your takeaways So if you're working hard, he sees it. If you failed, he sees that too. So don't think you can trick him. So repent and turn back. And know that you can't lose it because he's holding you. So I hope those are your big takeaways. Anything else you think we need to cover? All right, we went a little bit long today, but this is good conversation. So always appreciate that. I could we could do this for hours far as I'm concerned, but um All right, then I'll uh uh who wants to close us in prayers? Who who didn't have much of a chance to participate that much tonight? We'll give them a chance to close if they want. Anybody want to jump in? I think we've all participated. We've all right. Well who feels led to close us in prayer? I'll do it. Okay. Father, now that we've come to the conclusion of our time together, Father, we ask that you continue to minister this word to each of our hearts And help us to grow in it, grow in our understanding and walk in it. And we thank you for what was shared, what was clarified. During our time together. We are always grateful to you for iron sharpening iron. And we thank you, we ask, Father, that you be with each of us as we go along our way. protecting and shielding us and and um helping us to be lights for you in this world. Bless every ear that That hear this message with the truth, with understanding. We thank you for it. And in the name of Jesus Christ, we bless you and we thank you and ask you for Amen. Well, if you're within driving distance of Frederick and you'd like to join us on a Saturday ever, I would encourage you to do so. Particularly if you're not involved actively in a church right now, you uh you need to. You need to belong to a church. gospel proclaiming, Christ exalting uh church and uh that would describe us. So if you don't have a church like that, you can come here. And if you're too far away and you uh that's fine, you can continue to watch online, that's totally fine as a supplement. But any online church, whether it be this one or anything else, that is not a replacement for actually physically belonging to a body of Christ and coming together as a body uh to encourage one another and uh counsel one another and be involved in each other's lives and and living life together. Okay so If you're not in a church, find one. If you need help finding one, let me know. I'll be do whatever I can, even if you're far away to do some research. The internet can be helpful even to me to help you figure out what a good church for you might be. And like I said, if you're within driving distance of Frederick, you know, reach out to me, send me an email, and we can begin a conversation. Till next week. God bless.