And it's rolling. I'm hoping you can hear me. We're trying our microphone for the second week. I'm gonna use it a little bit differently this week and see if that is even better than what we had last week. We'll find out together as we go So welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ, uh regular Saturday gathering. If you live within the surrounding area of Frederick, within driving distance, I'd encourage you to come visit with us on a Saturday. We usually gather around 5. 30 And we wrap up by about 7. 30. Particularly if you don't belong to a church, reach out to me and email me or something. We can start a dialogue and see. uh what we can do about either getting you involved with this church or find you another church that might be better for your particular situation. We're going to be in Revelation chapter 2, looking at verses 8 through 11 today, a message I've titled Their Past was prologue to our present. But before we get to that though, we're going to be reading from the book of Numbers like we did last week. In Numbers last week we read chapter 22. This week we're going to read Numbers chapter twenty three. So we've got designated readers for that. Um I'm not sure what translations what translation you're reading from. Okay, so and I think yours is NASB? Yeah. Alright, so if you're reading along at home, the first half will be New King James, the last half will be NASV, and if you're reading along on the NIV or ESV or something, they're they're close enough that you'll be able to figure out what's going on. Actually it's a good practice for us to remind ourselves that the English translations, they're the w the same one Bible. There's just some different uh translational decisions that are made, but they're all based on the original language, the the Hebrew and Aramaic of the Old Testament and the Greek in the New Testament. They're all going back to that and making decisions on how to best translate it into contemporary English at the moment. So um before we go any further, I guess we should have a uh a word of prayer. Uh Ray is going to open us with prayer tonight and then we'll have the ladies do our scripture reading. Numbers 23, you have 16 through 30. Dear Lord, we thank you for this day and we thank you for our ability to gather here safely together, and we pray that this message will be beneficial for the edification of your church. and those whom you've called. And we pray that this message be uh informative and will and applicable in our daily lives as we reflect on the churches that you have given word to in Revelations two and we pray that we are able to um uh avoid their pitfalls while also exemplifying their strengths. And Lord, we just pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Numbers chapter 23. Then Balaam said to Balak, Build seven altars for me here, and prepare for me here seven bulls and seven rams. And Balak did just as Balaam had spoken. And Balak and Balaam offered a bull and a ram on each altar. Then Balaam said to Balak, Stand by your burnt offering, and I will go. Perhaps the Lord will come to meet me, and whatever he shows me, I will tell you. So he went to a desolate height. And God met Balaam, and he said to him, I have prepared the seven altars, and I have offered on each altar a bull and a ram. Then the Lord put a word in Balaam's mouth and said, Return to Balak, and thus you shall speak. So he returned to him, and there he was, standing by his burnt offering. he and all the princes of Moab. And he, meaning Balaam, took up his oracle and said, Balak, the king of Moab, has brought from front has brought me from Aram, from the mountains of the east. Come, curse Jacob for me, and come, denounce Israel. How shall I curse whom God has not cursed? And how shall I denounce whom the Lord has not denounced For from the top of the rocks I see him, and from the hills I behold him, there a people dwelling alone, not reckoning itself among the nations. Who can count the dust of Jacob and destroy the remains of the city? Oh, excuse me. I think I skipped a page, sorry. Yes, I skip the page. Who can count the deaths of Jacob or number one fourth of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my end be like his. Then Balach said to Balaam, What have you done to me? I took you to curse my enemies, and look, you have blessed them bountifully. So he answered and said, Must I not take heed to speak what the Lord has put in my mouth? Then Balak said to him, Please come with me to another place, from which you may see them. You shall see only the outer part of them, and shall not see them all. Curse them for me from there. So he brought him to the field of Zotheim, to the top of Piskah, and built seven altars, and offered a bull and a ram on each altar. And he said to Balaam, Stand here by your burnt offering while I meet the Lord over there. Then the Lord met Balaam and put a word in his mouth and said, Return to Balaam. Balak, and thus you shall speak. He came to him, and behold, he was standing beside his burnt offering, and the leaders of Moab with him, and Balak said to him, What has the Lord spoken? Then he took up his discourse and said, Arise, O Balak, and hear. Give ear to me, O son of Zippor. God is not a man that He should lie, nor a son of man that he should repent. Has he said, and will he not do it? Or has he spoken and will Will he not make it good? Behold, I have received a command to bless. When he has blessed, then I cannot revoke it. He has not observed it Misfortune in Jacob, nor has he seen trouble in Israel. The Lord his God is with him, and the shout of a king is among them. Horns of the wild ox, for there is no omen against Jacob, nor is there any divination against Israel. Jacob and to Israel what God has done. Behold, a people rises like a lioness, and as a lion it lifts itself. It will not lie down until it devours the prey and drinks the blood of the slain. Then Balak said to Balam, Do not curse them at all, nor bless them at all. But Balam Balaam replied to Balak, Did I not tell you, whatever the Lord speaks, that I must do. And Balak said to Balaam, Please come, I will take you to another place. Perhaps it will be agreeable with God that you curse them for me from there. So Balaam took Balaam to the top of Peor, which overlooks the wasteland. Balaam said to Balak, Build seven altars for me here, and prepare seven bulls and seven rams for me here. Balak did just as Balaam had said, and offered up a bull and a ram. Thank you. In case you're wondering why we're in Revelation and we're reading from uh numbers, it's because last week the letter to the church and next week the letter to the church mentions Balaam. And I'm not sure if everybody who hears these messages even knows who Balaam is. So I thought it'd be good for us to be come to grips with at least knowing the st the the main story about Balaam in the Old Testament. So next week we're going to read chapter twenty-four, uh, because chapters twenty-two, three, and four uh uh are are significantly about Balaam. So um did anybody double check to make sure our audio is okay? Since we're using the new mic. I mean nobody's probably messaged us yet as far as we know, though we're not checking for that either. So I'm assuming and hoping. And let me also uh add that we Have our website that's a pretty much now exiting the beta testing phase. I would say that by this time next week we'll kind of be in the fully operational part of of uh of our website. We're still working out a couple of bugs for the but I'm I'm mostly feeling like okay the website as it is now is pretty much kind of how it's gonna be So if you haven't visited it yet, I would encourage you to go there and give me some feedback if you would. It's household of faith in Christ. com Household of FaithinChrist. com. I know it's a lot of keystrokes, but it's the name of the church and it figured that would be the best way to try to make the website memorable. So if you would go there and check it out, I'd appreciate it. And Dina disappeared, so I don't have confirmation yet that her audio is working properly. So I I'm hesitant to start the message without knowing for sure that people can hear what I'm talking about. Do we know where she went? Oh, I wonder if she knows where it is. Maybe she can't find her phone. Hmm. All right, well, I'm going to uh I'm going to pray over the message and then hopefully Dean is back by then. And if not, I'm just going to get going and uh and hope that we're hope that we're on course. Father, we ask your blessing upon this gathering, upon this hearing of your word. We thank you for preserving this word for us all of these years. knowing that we can trust it as a word from you. And particularly in this case, uh a word on that's directly from you, as was given to the Apostle John to be shared with the first the church in Smyrna and now the church here in Frederick and those that are gathered via the internet. We ask your blessing upon all who hear this message, whether they be here presently or in further proximity. And that our hearts and minds would be transformed. Those of us who already know Christ would be transformed into more obedient soldiers in the spiritual war that we are endeavoring in, and those who don't know Christ that they would be changed in such a way that they would by your Holy Spirit turn in repentance and trust in the blood of Jesus Christ for their salvation. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. So, audio's working as far as we know? Okay. So today we have the fifth sermon in our series on the book of Revelation, a book that promises eternal life to they who overcome. It's a book where we see that there are two realities. There's the supernatural order, where God blesses his people eternally. And then there's the world of recorded time where God's enemies curse God's people temporally. Revelation is a book containing seven letters to seven churches that are each representative examples to all local congregations and to all Christians everywhere through all time. And this letter to Smyrna that we're reading today, it helps us to more fully appreciate a quote from Martin Luther, who was you know, the great 16th century reformer, he said that we should live as though Christ was crucified yesterday, risen today, and coming tomorrow. Suffering in the or sharing in the suffering of the crucified Christ is uh it's real But sharing in the victory of the resurrected Christ is also real. And therefore anticipating the second advent It brings all of us saints to a place where we have a shared hope that is also very real. As a climax of prophecy, revelation is both prediction and proclamation. Victory through struggle is predicted, and overcoming the struggle through Christ's victory is proclaimed. In this message, we receive both encouragement and exhortation. This book of 22 chapters, it contains more than 60 visions And one of these visions has Jesus giving dictation to be delivered to a number of churches, including this one in Smyrna. Which we read about here in Revelation chapter 2, verses 8 through 11. So if you would open your Bibles and read along. Revelation 8 2, 8 through 11, this is where we find these words. And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write, the first and the last, who was dead and has come to life, says this. I know your tribulation and your poverty, but you are rich. And the slander by those who say that they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan. Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, so that you will be tested, and you will have tribulation for ten days. Be faithful until death, and I will give you the crown of life. The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The one who overcomes will not be hurt by the second death. This is the word of God breathed out by God. It's what we call the inspiration of the word. And because it's inspired of God, it is without error. It is infallible. It is a perfect rule in God for our faith and life practice. This is also true for Numbers chapter 23, which we read earlier. It's true of both the Old Testament and the New Testament. And as this passage says, if he wasn't here to hear, let him hear. Now we have this book Revelation, which is a sort of a letter, and within it we have seven other letters. And this one original copy of this book, this letter, it would have started off on the island of Patmos and it would have headed east. So Asia Minor would have first arrived in Ephesus and then from there it would have headed north along the coastal road to Smyrna and then Pergamum and then it would have taken a turn heading southeast on the Roman road to Sayatira and Sardis and Philadelphia and so forth. And if you look at this route on a map, you see that it kind of makes a circle. And if Ephesus is 9 o'clock on that circle, then Smyrna would be something like 11 o'clock on the circle. And so that's where we are geographically Now literarily, we're still pretty much where we are for the whole book. Revelation is three genres in one. It's epistle, it's prophecy, it's apocalypse And in the seven letters we have epistles, right? They're letters, epistles, epistles within an epistle in this case. And these letters, they also contain prophecy and some apocalyptic imagery. And something that's kind of interesting is that the old apocalypses from a couple thousand years ago, I mentioned these a few weeks ago, I think. They almost always were pseudonymous. This means that they didn't reveal the name of the real author. But in Revelation, John breaks with that tradition, and he names himself as the author along with Jesus Christ in chapter 1, and he identifies Jesus as the author of these letters here in chapters 2 and 3. We see this in verse 8, which says, and to the angel of the church in Smyrna right, the first and the last who was dead and has come to life, says this. Jesus says these words. Jesus, the one who became dead and returned to life, the slain Lamb, who is our King. Now the word lamb does not appear in this verse here, but it is throughout the book as a major motif. In fact, Jesus is called Lamb in the book of Revelation 28 times It is John's favorite expression in the book. And this is where he grounds his hope in the the one who became dead and returned to life, the slain lamb who rose from the dead. And this is where we are to ground our hope. Now, those other old Jewish apocalyptic writers whom I mentioned, in their apocalypses, they always grounded their hope in future events. But John grounds his hope in the past sacrifice of the Lamb, Jesus Christ. And we maintain this hope, but not without challenges. There is conflict facing the church. There is conflict even within the church We see this in chapter 2, verse 9. I know your tribulation and your poverty, but you are rich. And the slander by those who say they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan. Synagogue of Satan. There is a war being waged, and it is a war with a spiritual dimension. Here and throughout the book, Revelation expands our world spatially so that we can see things from a heavenly perspective. And it also expands our world temporally. So that we can see into the eschatological future. And this combination, it opens our minds to divine transcendence. And the church in Smyrna, to whom this letter is written, they have this right. They might be poor as the world sees wealth. But they have a strong, uncompromising faith, and so they have wealth. They are rich as heaven sees wealth. Now, not all churches are faithful when they're pressed by the pressures from the world, but Smyrna is faithful even under pressure. Concerned about how you'll be able to hold up under pressure? Are you uh already feeling as though you're coming apart of the scenes Others in our church history have felt the same way. They have faced the same sorts of pressure. And Jesus has a word of encouragement for his church. That includes you. Verse 10. Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison. So that you will be tested. And you will have tribulation for ten days. Be faithful until death, and I will give you the crown of life. Hang on. Hang in there until the end Knowing how history ends helps us to understand how we are to fit into history now. Keep in view something that we learned from Revelation chapter 1. Do you remember that from just a couple of weeks ago? Christ is glorious. He is in charge. He's our champion. He's the champion. And now, here in chapter 2, we're learning about ourselves. And then in the chapters to come We're going to learn about Christ's glorious future plans for us. And this is a wonder to us. Because we know we don't deserve it. We deserve the exact opposite. But the blessings are promised. And so they will be fulfilled. Now this isn't to say that we have the fullness of it now. We're not promised prosperity necessarily in material matters just yet. Before the gift of blessed eternal gifts, eternal life We must still grapple with the reality of our fleshly bodies, which are molding and mildewing right out from under us. Our mortality reminds us of our dependence upon the one who brings these better days to come. And we are to relish this truth so much that we faithfully proclaim it to others. And this faithful witness, it can sometimes lead us to having our torch snuffed out. Not by disease or decay. Talk about by persecution, by an untimely end. And this seems to be the case, by the way, in verse 13, with an apparent death of a pastor that we're going to get to next week when we look at the letter to the church in Pergamum. But back to the letter for Smyrna. Here we have a good example for us to follow. This is a congregation who collectively lived out what Revelation and the rest of Scripture teaches us. We read God's word and we hear the king's call to courage. And the call to falling down and adoring worship of our Savior Jesus. This is a prophetic word. To this local, in this local church's example to us. Their example gives us a prophetic word. God's heavenly glory and exaltation of our covenant-making Lord. is what dominated and controlled the life of these brothers and sisters in Smyrna, who came before us 2,000 years ago, or almost 2,000 years ago Just as God's heavenly glory and the exaltation of his glory, it dominates and controls the entire prophetic message of the book of Revelation. He reigns. And the church at Smyrna, they lived as though this is true. And we are called to do the same. And by the sustaining hand of our Messiah, we will Remember again, verse 10. Do not fear what you're about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw his fellow you into prison, so that you will be tested, you will have tribulation for ten days Be faithful until death, and I will give you the crown of life. The crown of life is given to the faithful. Excuse me. If you confess your utter dependence on the finished work of Jesus of Nazareth, then you are among the faithful, and you will receive the crown of life. And so listen up, verse 11. The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The one who overcomes will not be hurt by the second death. This should give you a great sense of peace and security. It should give you the motivation and understanding to avoid being like the synagogue of Satan, which was mentioned in verse 9. And we are surrounded by such synagogues these days, it appears. Do you not recognize them Well, here's a paraphrase of a story told by Charles Swindah in his best-selling book, Improving Your Serve. The story goes like this. Let's pretend you work for me. In fact, you are my executive assistant and I'm the CEO. And as the owner of the company, I'm interested in expanding the business. And so to pull this off, I make plans. And my plans are to travel across the sea for six to eight months and establish a new branch And so I leave and I make all the necessary arrangements and I tell you I'm going to communicate with you regularly as to what needs to be done and I'm going to do this by letter. I leave, you stay, and the months pass, and a flow of letters is mailed from Europe and it assaults the office. And in these letters, I spell out all my expectations And then finally, I return and I am absolutely aghast. Grass and weeds are growing up high all around the office. Some of the windows are broken out. I walk into the receptionist's room and the receptionist sitting there filing her nails and chewing gum and listening to her favorite radio station. The trash doesn't look like it's been emptied in forever. It Doesn't look like it's been vacuumed for months. Nobody seems concerned even a little bit about it. Well I ask about your whereabouts because I'd like to have a word with you. And someone yells, yeah, I think he's down the hall. So disturbed, I head in that direction and I bump into you and you'd just come out of the office after having finished playing a game of chess with the sales manager. And I ask you to step into my office, which had been temporarily turned into a place to watch television for the afternoon soaps and game shows and talk shows. And I say Man, what in the world is going on? And you say, What do you mean? Well look at this place. Didn't you receive my letters? Letters Oh yeah, sure. Yeah, we got all of 'em. As a matter of fact, we have a letter study group that meets every Friday night And we've divided the personnel into groups to go over what it is you say in these letters. And you know, there's some great stuff there. In fact, you'll be flattered to know this. Some of us have even memorized our line or two, even a couple of paragraphs of the letters. In fact, there are two people in the office. They've memorized an entire letter from beginning to end It's great stuff. Okay, so you got my letters. You studied my letters. You say you meditated on my letters. You discussed them, you memorized them. What did you do about him? Do? Well, we didn't do anything. Well, somebody's got a problem. Somebody's going to have their walking papers. I mean, right? The facts are the whole thing is professionally absurd. It's diluted. It's professional suicide. You know where this is going. Well, how much less absurd when we have God's word? And we read it and we study it without the slightest inclination to obey it. And this is a sad reality for many so-called churches of Christ. These so-called churches are a mess. Avoid them. Call them out for what they are. Beseech them to repent and don't follow after them and do likewise. Instead, follow after the example of Smyrna. And do likewise. They are a group of believers who understood and applied what the Apostle John has written for us. The book of Revelation is a masterpiece. Remember we talked about this a few weeks ago when we were talking about the authorship and the audience and the setting and things like that. In this examination, we're able to see clearly that this wondrous work of art and word from the Lord is a masterpiece. And the Lord is the Master. And the Master is God the Father, and God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. And throughout Revelation, Jesus testifies of himself and of this monotheistic deity whom we worship. And those of us who worship him, well, we also are his masterpiece. God's people are God's masterpiece. Those who witness to his masterful lordship. Just like what John does in relating his visions to us in the book of Revelation. And so you see what we have here in the book of Revelation, it is much more than just a regular old circular ladder that was making the rounds in Asia Minor. I mean some, those who are kind of dry academics, you know, they can tend to view what we're studying here together and working to apply together. They can See them as mere words on a page, and they'll tell us things like, These seven churches were located in communication centers with each city standing in the middle of seven coastal districts on the west coast of Asia Minor. Therefore they were perfect centralized points for the dissemination of information. And that's true. And that's interesting. And maybe that's even a little bit helpful. But that's not all. This book, these seven letters within the book, they are a call for us to walk in the identity God has given us. Hmm. The identity that Christ is one for us. And if you're not already living the testimony of those who once lived in Smyrna, It's not too late. You can start today. You can start right now. Let me tell you a story When I was in first grade, I attended an elementary school called Johnson Elementary or W. A. Johnson or something like that. And I don't fully remember everything about the school. I remember a number of details, but not everything I don't remember the teacher's name. The only student I remember by name was my then best friend Doug. But I do remember There were approximately, I don't know, twenty kids or so in a rectangular room with hard floors and hard walls and big green or possibly black chalkboards up on the wall and there were col colorful things up on the wall near the ceiling, as I recall. A colorful uh examples of the alphabet and the numbers, things like that. There was a small shelving unit in the corner with some simple books and a a carpet in front of it, kind of a reading area for the kids to sit down. I remember they had one of those old windem and grindem pencil sharpeners in the classroom and it was kind of scary to use as far as I was concerned. I was always afraid that thing was gonna hurt me. And uh that's pretty much it. There's a few other details, remember, but that's pretty much what I remember. Except There was this one kid, a boy, and I don't remember his name, but I still still can sort of see his face, and he had straight black hair and sort of a bowl cut, not too different from Mo of the Three Stooges And this boy had thick Coke bottled glasses with black rims, remember that? And he had a buck-tooth overbite. And he was afraid to ask the teacher to go to the bathroom. He was afraid kind of to speak at all, really. And so he would wet his pants. There were a few times when he did actually ask to go to the bathroom in response to the teacher asking him to read something aloud or to spell something. She'd say, come up to the board and spell a raincoat and he'd say, I have to use the toilet. And then he'd stay in the bathroom for like a half hour. And this worked for him a few times. Until it didn't, when the teacher started saying no to the bathroom. So he started wetting his pants even more because Sometimes I guess he actually did have to go to the bathroom. Well, this is my memory of him. Early in the school year. And then I noticed he started doing a bit better with the reading and the spelling, a bit better with speaking up. In general, particularly when the teacher spoke to him. And he did a whole lot better with keeping his pants dry. And I noticed the teacher She didn't have those exasperated looks on her face every time she turned in his direction like she used to. She began to look at him with a countenance of pride. Not pride in herself, but a pride for him. She was proud for him. And I don't know why the change occurred. I kind of assume he got extra tutoring or his parents became involved, or maybe he got You know, eyeglasses that were the right prescription for him, got them fixed. I don't know. Whatever it was, he gained confidence by the day. And the whole class noticed. I mean they had to have noticed, but how could you not notice? At the start of the year, this boy was by far the worst reader, the worst speller in the class. And by the end of the school year, he was a star pupil. He aced Every word he was asked to spell. He became so good at it that the teacher would ask other students to spell words, and when they failed to spell it correctly, she'd call him up to the board to spell it correctly. And he spelled it right every time. He went from worst to first. And that's us. Believers. Our sin has wrecked us. Our sin has blinded us. And we use various adaptations, but no matter how good our seeing eye goggles, we don't see clearly. And maybe we pee our pants. Maybe we don't. But our mortal, sinful bodies of flesh, they betray us almost every day. And we're afraid to speak up. Even when we actually know the truth. And we settle. We settle for cowering in fear. Until someone helps us and encourages us. And believers, ultimately, this helper and encourager is God Himself. The Holy Spirit. And when he's completed his work in us, with us, we become star pupils. The last shall become first. We can do more than even we likely imagine. Even among the glares of our worldly peers. The mocking, the ridicule, persecution. Even persecution is far worse than mocking and ridicule. It will not deter us. Ultimately, it did not deter that 20th century young first grader. And that was either a work of the Holy Spirit or a work of God's common grace. And ultimately, it didn't deter the believing church members in first century Smyrna. And likewise, ultimately, it won't deter you either, if you're one who has an ear to hear, and therefore overcomes. Overcomes the tribulation of poverty, of slander, even prison. No matter how you view where you are right now, there can be hope. With Christ there is hope. In Christ, there's always hope So don't lose the hope that you have in Christ. That's pride. Father, we thank you that you encourage those who are yours, that you equip us To overcome our own frailties and the slings and arrows of a lost or broken world around us. That you give us all that we need to engage in the spiritual battle. Message would keep this congregation, household of faith in Christ, loyal and faithful to you, that we would never be called the synagogue of Satan. And for those who have lost their way and have turned in that direction, we pray for their repentance and for a great revival Among those who profess to be your people. And even those who. don't know you at all or claim to know you but don't really know you that are completely lost pray for revival there too We ask your blessing upon our coming discussion. That it will be fruitful and edifying to all who participate and all who witness what it is we have to say. We pray that your Spirit would guide our words. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Uh sorry about my dry throat. I coughed there a couple of times. I cut my water down too far away. I didn't want to have to step six feet away from where I was. Probably should have, but rather than cough several times So let me ask Paying attention to the reactions in the room, it felt like there were certain parts of the message that might have struck certain individuals as though, yeah, I can relate to that. So which parts uh of the letter to Smyrna and the message uh about that seem Ready? It went way over there. Anybody? Verse ten is pretty relatable. Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold the uh behold the devil's about to suffer. So you'll be tested and you will have tribulation for ten days. So Interestingly enough, like this is not the most severe tribulation that you know, it's only ten days and it doesn't seem like anyone's gonna be executed I think that's ten prophetic days and not ten literal days. Well isn't this more of the epistle part of the book? Yeah, I think that uh I I think the way I read it, the point and I might actually since I didn't really touch on that today, I might swing back around and touch on it. next week or something. But I think that the the general point there is we don't know precisely what the ten days means, but it's not a hundred days, not a thousand days, you know, it's ten days. It's a relatively, comparatively short amount of time. But it's not one day either. No. No, but it's a literal day. Yeah, I mean but but I think the and even if it was even if it was literal day, the point is it's it's a relatively short amount of time, uh which means that you know God is He's he's he's gonna, you know, rein things in enough for his people that they don't get completely like destroyed to the point where they lose their faith that they are unable to overcome. He's gonna see to it that they that they overcome. Um but the idea, you know I'm a little bit older than you are, uh, but I'll bet you as as young a whippersnapper as you are, that even today you still have heard messages talking about how when it when we talk about persecution in the Bible and it talks about persecution persecution that that Christ's church faces. Like we in America don't know anything about how bad it is, blah blah blah. How many times have you heard a message like that? It's nothing like in China, it's nothing like in North Korea, it's nothing like in Iran. And that's true, I get it But what's beginning to be frustrating to me is that tone and the way that message is conveyed, has been conveyed for almost all of my lifetime. It's exactly the same tone Right now, as though they're oblivious to the fact that something has changed. And there are uh heightened persecutions uh on north on the North American continent for sure and even in America. I mean there are pastors in Canada that were thrown into jail because they they dared to continue to have worship services. Um, you know, John MacArthur, a famous name in American church circles, you know, uh kind of famously now, uh challenged the government in California and they They they spent over a million dollars, like one point three, one point four million dollars fighting the state of California and one. And so now the state of California is going to give them their money that they use to fight them. Well Well, the taxpayers of California are gonna give their money to uh that church in California. But there's a different kind of a persecution and even things like uh Yeah, neighbors being snooty. Can could you imagine can you were you able to imagine A few years ago even. Were you able to imagine a scenario where you would think that in our setting, neighbors you'd have to worry about them possibly turning you into authorities for something? Or did you think And right I wouldn't have thought that, but do you feel like yeah that could actually happen now? You feel that? Easy. Mm-hmm. Easily happen. So we're knocking on the door of that kind of a persecution. Actually, sadly. And so to your point it does feel like there's some fear, right? The persecution is coming, you can identify with yeah, there's a little bit of fear, like, ooh, what kind of persecution are we facing? Is that what you meant? Well, the idea is that it's temporal And you know, this is a very temporal persecution. It's more similar to thirty days you shall have no other god before uh Nebuchadnezzar. So or is this that does that um in Daniel. So it's more likened to that, where it's like it'll ha be intense for short amount of time, whether it's ten physical days or you know, a fortnight or something like that. Y the idea being that like there is a beginning and there will be an end and ten days even metaphorically speaking isn't as long as ten Yeah, and that was earlier in the message. I don't know if that part connected with everybody, but uh you might have picked up on it based on your comment. There's the the kind of the real world, physical world reality that we we face with the in in the in the temporal reign. Like there's two realities that are presented by God, particularly in the Book of Revelation. And there's there there are persecutions that come from the world and there are frailties that we bring to the table ourselves because we live in a broken world and our sin and s uh makes us weak now. But there's the spiritual reality Which was going to be the eternal reality and therefore it's the ultimate reality. Uh all of this is going to feel like a blink of an eye in comparison Um something occurred to me when I was I don't know like five or six years old, I forget exactly how old I was, I was young. And my my mom went on a vacation overseas to uh to Italy and then she went to to to Greece. And she was gone for probably like two weeks. And I remember when I was a little kid, that felt like forever. Forever. It felt like twenty years. Because two weeks out of the life of a five year old is a pretty high percentage of your lifespan at that point. But now two weeks, what does two weeks feel like to you? It's like enough time. Like holy cow, vacation's over already? Oh, it was nothing. So imagine if you live to be a hundred. What's that hundred years gonna feel like a gazillion years from now in eternity? Right? It's g it's gonna feel like nothing. Like a Yeah, or a second or a microsecond or something, right? So I don't know that we're gonna have concept of time once heaven and earth are restored. You know You know what I mean? I don't know that we're gonna have that Yeah. I understand what you mean. I mean I I I think they will understand because there's no night anymore. There's no night anymore. And that's typically how we pass the time. You know, a day. Yeah. So I don't know that there's gonna be that Yeah, but we're left to speculation on something like that because we you know scripture doesn't tell us exactly what our sense of time will be uh after the second coming and the new creation. Um Yeah, I don't know. How we judge time now will not be a good idea. But either way, if you're in this uh uh to to kind of put a different kind of way of saying it, this eternal moment of joy and bliss, like this eternal moment that never ends well you you would never call upon the hundred years you lived. Right. So Yeah, so I think we all are facing to come with the reality of fears that we never were used to having to think about in the past. So I think that's definitely something. I think that Yeah, I I don't know. That probably doesn't work. I think I think ma definitely the other the people who don't fear, you know, who I think they will have a sense of time, but it'll be because you know when you're suffering. Suffering. You always have a sense of time. You know what I mean? Well may maybe the way it works out is they they will, but but it's that's really kind of my thoughts. pertinent to what we're saying here, but you know, it just came to sorry, it just came to mind because um yeah, 'cause the ten days and then we most of the time just I think the true church is the true church is feeling tribul correct. The church that wants to adhere to God's righteousness is feeling tribulation. It's we're feeling I don't think we're feeling too much like the um you know, the Sardish Church or the Laodicean Church or anything like that. But The church thinks everything's hunky dory. Mm-hmm. You know, they're all about the woke thing and they're oh, this is great, we're finally making headway. Right. You know, making changes and this is this. Christians are finally being loving. Exactly. And I'm like, oh my gosh, what is happening? Yeah. You you Not going on last week, you haven't lost your first love, you've left your first love. You know, there's that sense where I feel Yeah. Yes. No. Alright Charlie, why don't you go on the other room bubble, okay? Dominates the microphone. Oh at least it had in the past when it was when the microphone was up there, by the way. Almost forgot. There we go. So there's some encouragement here. I mean There's nothing specific in the letter that says, hey, you guys, you did this particular thing great. But there's no rebuke for them failing to do anything. And so I think we can take some encouragement that in spite of tribulation, in spite of uh the accusations that come from the world and from Satan and their material poverty, despite all the obstacles, uh Christ tells them you are rich. And so Sometimes I feel like we can get so beaten down that oh my gosh, how am I ever gonna overcome? I'm never gonna be overcome. And if we're trying to do it in our own strength, well then we won't. You know, or if we're doing it in Christ's strength by the power of his spirit. I I speculate the rich that that the Lord is referring to is faith. Um because i i they don't have material wealth and and and we can feel like, you know, we are behind the eight ball where society is concerned. But you know, a and and okay, look at who has all the wealth right now. It's the tech giants. It's the people with anti Christ sentiments. That you know, people in in in control of the media. people in control of, you know, industry and we can feel like ants compared to them. We're we're just tiny. We don't have much. So I in that way, yeah, th we are like the Smyrna Church. Um And um but but but how are we rich? Mm-hmm. We're rich in faith. Right. We're rich in in in faith. time right and our dependence on Christ and and our our faith in him to keep us to preserve us to shield us to um give us peace to give us hope to keep it short to keep it short Keep the tribulation time short. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's I I think that's that's the that's what we're that's what he's I think that's what what the Lord is referring to Um in in in this letter to this to the Church of Spurden I I think that's we can relate to that. Uh-huh. Definitely. And I think that's true, and I think but I think also it that that's probably just the tip of the iceberg. And we have this gift of faith from from God, and because of that gift of faith from God He doesn't just give us faith. He gives us co-heirship with Christ. And who's wealthier than the king of the universe? And we share we share in that wealth. Everything that Christ has and that he's won for his bride, he shares with his bride. And so and we're going to see that as Revelation plays out with uh Um you know, the the the throne scenes and the idea that, you know, we're we're we're sitting on the throne and in the throne with Christ as his church. Like there's you know, there's a uh co-rulership almost that's going on there. And so yeah, the the th we're wealthy in faith, but that faith unlocks full access to all of the other wonderful things of Christ in the spiritual realm and the internal uh uh realm or internal idea of things so that I I guess the point I'm trying to make is somebody is down to their last penny and they fe and they're poor but the by anybody's world standards, they're poor. And they're gonna but they're gonna be reminded, oh, but I have faith and so that I'm rich. That's true, but it's more than that. They have more than just a penny. They're inheritors with Christ of of everything. So there's a present spiritual reality in which they have uh that we can't see. Like you know, Jesus uh says I could call down my angels to to to come protect me right now. There's you know there's this there's this realm of reality that we actually belong to. We have possession of in Christ. And we don't appreciate the reality of that enough, and we walk only in the here and now and the material and forget that we're we are More royal priesthood, more royalty. Um better than the uh the UK royalty for sure. More useful. Um I had a question about verse nine, particularly the second half. Uh 'cause that 'cause I kinda read that as a w like a criticism on the church because he knows their property but and then and the blasphemy by those who say they are Jews but are not but are a synagogue of Satan. Is that not a criticism of at least part of that church? Or is that describing people around them? Yeah, I t I I take this as this is this is a separate group from the congregation. Um That this letter is written to. That's how I take it as well. So Smyrna. Um is a group of believers. By this point, um there'd be I'm not exercised I don't know that we know exactly when we could say well by this point there were there was no more overlap between uh Jews and Christians in the first century as far as co-mingling in their worship services and Sabbath gatherings and things like that. Um I I would say that approaching AD 70 and certainly with within a very close amount of time after 8070, so somewhere in the 60s or 70s or of the first century is my guess when there became a clearer separation when the Christians weren't going to the Jewish gatherings anymore. And that the Christians weren't being thought of by surrounding society as a sect of Judaism so much as they were at first. There there becomes uh there there comes a moment in time when that there becomes this clearer differentiation and I'm not sure that it happens simultaneously all across the the the Mediterranean. If it happened at slightly different times in different cities, I I I I don't think that we know. Uh if we do know, I've never seen anything and studied that out. But my sense is certainly by the end of the first century, I think that's happened. So how how close, how deep into the first century, how close to the turn of the century did that happen? Um I don't know, but I I feel like AD 70 plus or minus 10 years is probably the window of time when that happened. So this letter was written probably no earlier than the late 60s and uh no later than the than the 90s So within that window of time, the Jewish synagogue and the Christian gatherings, what would be come to be called the Lord's Day on Sunday, I think they were distinct and separate. So I don't think it's a rebuke. I think it's a I think it's part of the commendation saying, look, I know your tribulations, I know your poverty, I know the slander that's, you know, comes at you from those who say they're Jews. But they're not. They're a synagogue of Satan. And in this case, Jews were talking about those who would be professing to be God's people, but they're not acting anything like God's people. That's exactly what's going on now. I mean that's That's exactly what's going on now. How many times have you had someone who's a brother or sister in Christ and you're like, what are you doing? Wait a minute. You're pro-abortion? What what is that? Like how are you okay with oh well it's their choice? I mean, just because I'm not for it. Like, what is that? You know, and and how can you be so judging Why are you so judgy? You know, they say about us who are that's exactly what's going on now. Uh with many other Yeah, and the abortion issue, that's like you know, that's like a lightning rod, easy example that comes to mind, but there's so many examples. You know, these cynic these contemporary synagogues of Satan that refuse to meet for worship. Uh whether the governors told them not to or because they decided for themselves they just didn't want to meet or whatever. And or they they do gather but they won't sing, or they put extra biblical requirements on people who say, Oh, you can gather but you can have to wear a special kind of clothing over your face. that scripture doesn't prescribe uh for them. They add a requirement that's not theirs. Like so if if an unsaved homeless person walked in, you wouldn't let them worship and hear the gospel? unless they put a cloth over their face. Where is that in scripture? Those are little indicators. Some of them are big issues, some of them are small issues. Some of the issues, the church, the family and the church will be the ones responsible for taking care of the orphans and the widows And yet the Christian families and by extension the Christian churches have decided to abdicate that responsibility and put it off on the civil government. Well, there's there's no example of that in Scripture. So advocating for those kinds of things is going against God's word, and if you're going against God's word, well you're not being a faithful church of Christ. You're being Kind of a synagogue of Satan. You're being a tool for Satan. And I'm not saying that they're Satanists. I'm not saying that they're actively worshiping Satan. No, but they're But if you're if you're not for Jesus, you're against him. And if you're against him, you're you're joining up with the forces of Satan. You might as well be a Satanist. is kind of the the way one could think about that. That's pretty strong language, but you know we don't shy away from strong language here in the house of the faith in Christ. So one of the reasons we do this, by the way, um because I'm talking about persecution and all that sort of thing. I'm not predicting it, but I won't be shocked if we live to see the day when there maybe it's next year, maybe it's next decade, maybe it's in 40 years, I don't know. when we need to have a bit of a underground church movement or something that's not meeting in big buildings with big overhead and and and big dependence on on um needing to defer to the government's dictates in order just to survive. So And sometimes, you know, you don't mean to, but you got a mortgage to pay and uh you've got Yeah, all these different expenses and and taxes that are due or whatever it is. And uh sometimes you'll say something a little safer. You know, there's a little pressure to say, oh, I'm not gonna say anything the Bible doesn't say, but I'm not gonna say everything that the Bible does say because I wanna be safe. And I don't want us to have that kind of pressure here So that's one of the reasons we're doing this whole house church thing and building a network of house uh churches or hoping to build a network of house house churches. We haven't built anything out yet, although we have partnered with a couple of other house churches, and we're going to be doing some things in combination. So I think it's a movement that uh Even if the traditional looking church continues to survive and even thrive into the future, I think there's a place for house churches within the fabric of that. And so that's why we do what we do. Well, any other thoughts or questions? All right. Well next week we'll move on to our next letter. We're um I I just so you kind of have a sense I began to map it out just a little bit. Uh and it's looking like we're not gonna finish up our our look at Revelation until the early part of 2022. It's gonna take that long to work through. It's a big book, 22 chapters. There's a lot going on. So anyway, so hope he could hang in there with us for that. Maybe Jesus will come Twenty-few yeah for twenty twenty-two. Right. Twenty-few chapters for twenty twenty-five. All right. Well I guess we'll uh I guess we'll wrap up. Um Anybody feel led to pray to close us? No? No. No. You wanna pray? I'll pray. Words. Angela. Angela, pray. Father, thank you for another opportunity to learn from your word. We pray, Father. Father, that as we go about our day and our week, that you will by your spirit continue ministering out of this word that was shared to our hearts. hearts. And we pray, Father, that those who see this gathering later on would be ministered to, Lord, and that you would speak to them something that they that they needed clarification on, something that helps to give them direction, uh something, Lord, that um blesses their family. faith. Um because we know that um just as the the the remnant church lord has has that faith lord that is so necessary to keep us Lord, in hope and and not in despair, Lord. We we know that um there are those Lord God who are still trying to hold on to their faith in these times. And so we just pray, Lord, that that this would be one avenue that people will be able to hold on to their faith. So please bring people To see this gathering, that their faith would be blessed through it. And we ask, Lord, for you to keep us in your loving care and your safe protection in these difficult times. Times. We thank you for the hope that we have in you. You are still sovereign, you are still on the throne. And even in times of the testing of our faith. Lord, you give us encouragement. You tell us to not be afraid, just like you told the church of Sand. And we believe you and we receive that. And we thank you and bless you for it. And we ask Ask that all of this be done in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you for joining us. I want to say one last thing really quick about the abortion thing that was brought up. I don't want to give the wrong impression by me bringing up other examples uh to try to minimize that issue. The slaughter of defenseless uh children is the greatest horror in our society today It it is uh pr it has proven over the last fifty years to be the most effective tool and device of the devil. So I'm not diminishing that at all. It is of utmost importance. I was just saying it's not only that It's other things too, but that is a huge problem. Huge, huge, huge problem. Anyway, till next week. God bless.