Looks like it's rolling. Welcome Facebook. If you're watching this later, YouTube. And if you're not sure how to find us on social media and you're trying to find us later, the easiest, simplest way to do that is just go to our website, which is Household of Faith in Christ. com. And there you'll find all sorts of stuff about the church, but also you'll find links to the social media stuff. And I have somebody this week that was a little bit confused of how to find our YouTube channel. They I guess they weren't familiar with what the YouTube icon looks like on a website. So if you see a red box with a yellow or a uh a white arrow in it, like a play button on a video, that's actually the YouTube icon for a link to the YouTube channel. So if you find our website, household of faith in Christ dot com And you click on that link, it'll take your YouTube channel, and you can watch all of the messages we've done over the past year or so. There's, I don't know, 50-ish, maybe 60-ish messages there at this point now waiting for you. And since we're early on in our revelation series, uh you can catch up pretty quickly by going back a month, month and a half, and watching the messages we've done so far to catch up if you're interested. in this subject. Speaking of Revelation, you want to get your Bibles ready, because we're going to be in Revelation chapter 2 today. We'll be looking at verses 12 through 17 for the sermon. We're also going to be reading from the Old Testament here in a moment, from the book of Numbers. We're going to read all of chapter 24. Uh so you want to turn there as well and read along. And um what translation are you usually? Uh I have to do American standard to do that. So NASB over here, right? And you are Oh. So if you happen to have an NASB Bible, it's probably gonna be really easy to read along. If you have a slightly different translation You should be able to follow on pretty well some of the translational decisions and choices there will be a little bit different, but it's the same message, so you should be fine And as it turns out, today's sermon message I'll be reading from the NASB as well. I don't always read from the same translation, but this happens to be NASB this week. Anything else I need to mention or announcements? Okay. So we're going to open with a word of prayer, then we're going to read the book of Numbers, and then we're going to have the sermon. And when the sermon is over. We're going to have time for discussion and you are invited, encouraged to participate in that discussion in the comment section here of the Facebook live feed. And if you're watching this later, you can participate after the fact in the comment section on the YouTube channel All right. Anywhere, um you want to start the prayer? Lord, thank you for this time together. We ask that you would bless not only Troy with the delivery of The message, but also our discussion, that your Holy Spirit would fill this room, fill us individually and collectively. We know that we are one in you. We pray that you Would be glorified, that truth, only truth, would be uh spoken, and that you would be quick to correct us if need be. And that you would be quick to encourage us when needed to be. Thank you. In Jesus' name we pray. So if you would open your Bibles to the book of Numbers. Chapter 24. We're going to start in verse 1 and read through to the end. And I forgot my Bible. You can start reading. But I'm going to go grab my Bible while you start to read. When Balaam saw that it pleased the Lord to bless Israel, he did not go as the as at other times to seek omens, but he set his face toward the wilderness. And Balaam lifted his eyes and saw Israel camping tribe by tribe, and the Spirit of God came upon him. He took up his discourse and said, The oracle of Balaam The son of Björ, the oracle of man whose eye is open, the oracle of him who hears the words of God, who sees the vision of the Almighty, falling down, yet having his eyes uncovered. How fair are your tents, O Jacob, your dwellings, O Israel, like valleys that stretch out like gardens beside the river, like allopes planted by the Lord like cedars beside the waters. Water will flow from his buckets and sea and his seed will be by many waters. And his king shall be higher than Agag, and his kingdom shall be exalted. God brings him out of Egypt, For he is like the horns of a wild ox. He will devour the nations who are his adversaries, and he will crush their bones in pieces and shatter them with his arrows. He couches the lies down he couches, he lies down as a lion, and as a lion who dares rouse him. Blessed is everyone who blesses you. and cursed is everyone who curses you. Then Balak's anger burned against Balaam and he struck his hand together. And Balak said to Balaam, I called you to curse my enemies, but behold you have persisted in blessing them. These are three times. Therefore, flee to your place now. Now, I said I would honor you greatly, but behold, the Lord has held you back from honor. And Balaam said to Balat, Did I not tell your messengers whom you had sent me saying, though Balak were to give me his house full of silver and gold? I cannot do anything contrary to the command of the Lord, either good or bad, of my own accord. What the Lord speaks, that I will speak. And now, behold, I am going to my people. Come, and I will advise you what this people will do to your people in the days to come. He took up his discourse and said, The oracle of Balaam, the son of Beor, and the Oracle of the man whose eye is opened, the oracle of him who hears the words of God and knows the knowledge of the Most High, who sees the vision of the Almighty. Falling down, yet having his eyes uncovered, I see him, but not now. I behold him, but not near. A star shall come forth from Jacob, a scepter shall rise from Israel, and shall crush through the forehead of Moab. And tear down all the sons of Sheff. Edom shall be a possession. Seir, its enemies, also will be a possession, while Israel performs valiantly. One from Jacob shall have dominion, and will destroy the remnant from the city. And he looked at Amalek and took up his dip his discourse and said, Amalek was the first of the nations But his end shall be destruction. And he looked at the Kenite and took up his discourse and said, Your dwelling place is enduring, and your nest is set in the cliff. Nevertheless, Cain will be consumed. How long will Asher keep you captive? Then he took up his discord and said, Alas, who can live except God has ordained it? But ships shall come from the coast of Ketam, and they shall afflict Asher, and will afflict Eber, so they also will come to destruction. Then Balaam arose and departed, and returned Thank you for the reading of God's word. virtually, but we had some time of worship right before we went live here and one of the songs that we sang was The Great I Am. And totally providential. It's interesting how the Holy Spirit will move, but one of the verses in that song is the mountains shake before you, the demons run and flee, the mention of the name King of Majesty, there's no power in hell for anyone who can stand before the power and presence of the great I am, and that verse happens to tie in very nicely with today's message. And so it's interesting to watch how, you know, without us needing to coordinate things, uh, God orchestrates things in a certain way. So we're appro approaching now the 20% mark with regard to the number of sermons we're going to have in the book of Revelation. We're probably not quite at 20%, but we're getting close enough that I think it makes sense for us to recap just a few things to remind ourselves where we've been and where we're going. You've heard the cliche, I'm sure, that a picture is worth a thousand words. Well, in Revelation we find that a word can be worth a thousand pictures. Early on in chapter one, verse twelve John writes that he turned to see the voice, to see, to take in the pictures of the voice, of the word being spoken. It's a highly visual book, Revelation is. It's highly symbolic. And so we read Revelation symbolically as we navigate our understanding of these visions so that we can come to a proper understanding of what they literally mean. We also lean heavily upon our understanding of the Old Testament in this final portion of the New Testament. This is a book that is profoundly rooted in the Hebrew Scriptures. The book of Revelation, it contains nearly 350 allusions to the Old Testament. That is about 16 allusions per chapter on average. It's an astounding number. Of the 404 verses in the book of Revelation, only 126 do not contain an allusion to the Old Testament. So you do the math. That works out to almost 70% of the verses containing an illusion, drawing an illusion from the first 39 books. of our Bible. And yet, rather astonishingly, in light of all this, nowhere does the Book of Revelation directly and explicitly, exactly quote from the Old Testament, which is kind of stunning. Now we see references to the seven candle-holding menorahs that are talked about in Zechariah chapter 4. These are alluded to with the seven lampstands of Revelation. That's one example of an illusion. The Lord's great victory over the nations, which is talked about in the Old Testament, is described in Ezekiel chapter 38 and 39. We see that play out in Revelation chapter 20. When we get there, we'll see that. And we see it elsewhere throughout the book. We see that what was rolled up and sealed until the time of the end. That's what we're told in Daniel chapter 12. Well, we see that now unsealed Unrolled. And hence we have the book of Revelation. The Greek word for revelation is apocalypsis. It means the disclosure, the the unveiling, the revealing. It's as if the prophet Daniel, he was given this great big statue in the park But he had this giant sheet thrown over it, awaiting the dedication ceremony. And then for John, the time had come to pull away that giant sheet. And finally uncover what had been previously hidden from sight. So all of this looking back to the first covenant Connecting with what had come before. It helps us understand what is yet to come. And it even clarifies where we are now. And this is true for today as our present struggles contrast with the final rest that awaits God's people. And uh it's the same thing that was true for the churches of yesterday. Including the one addressed specifically In Revelation chapter 2, verses 12 through 17. So if you don't already have them open, open your Bibles to Revelation chapter 2, and read along with me God's Word, beginning with verse 12 in chapter 2 of Revelation And to the angel of the church in Pergamumright, the one who has a sharp two-edged sword says this. I know where you dwell. Where Satan's throne is. And you hold firmly to my name And did not deny my faith, even in the days of Antipas, my witness, my faithful one, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells. But I have a few things against you, because you have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam who kept teaching Bala to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, to commit sexual immorality. So you too have some who in the same way hold to the teaching of the Nicolaitans. Therefore, repent, or else I am coming to you quickly, and I will wage war against them with the sword of my mouth. The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who overcomes I will give some of the hidden manna, and will give him a white stone and a new name written on the stone, which no one knows except the one who receives it. This is the very Word of God, breathed out by God. Almost you'd better say that it's the expiration of God's word as opposed to the inspiration of God's word. But the doctrine here, the inspiration of God's word, that means because it is God's Word, is infallible, it is inerrant, it is a perfect rule and guide for faith and life practice, just as was Numbers chapter 24, which we read earlier, by the way. So as this passage in Revelation says, those with an ear to hear, let them hear. Now Pergamum, it's the third of the seven churches that receive individual letters within this larger letter that is the book of Revelation. The first two were the letters to Ephesus and to Smyrna. And in each of these seven letters, Christ, he makes reference to some specifically unique aspect of every city and every culture there. For example, Ephesus, you might remember, is warned that Christ will remove your lampstand from its place if Ephesus did not repent. Well, not coincidentally, Ephesus was a city that had been removed multiple times during its history, relocated every time the silting of the Caester River Shift to the location of the shoreline. To Smyrna, Jesus encourages that he will give you a crown of life if you remain faithful. Well, the residents of Smyrna, they prided themselves for their faithfulness to Rome. And also the city's goddess, Sibylle, she was depicted wearing a crown. And this fact, in conjunction with the fact that this was an absolute beautiful city, one of the most beautiful cities of the ancient world. It's part of why Smyrna was called the Crown of Asia. And when thinking of these ancient crowns, we should imagine them as victor's wreaths rather than crowns of royalty, by the way. Now before you go thinking, wow, you know, Crown of Asia, beautiful ancient city, Smyrna, it sounds wonderful. Boy, I wish I could live there. Well, allow me to point out that the name Smyrna, it comes from the word for myrrh, which was used for the anointing of the dead. Lots of spiritual darkness there. In fact, Smyrna in the very next century is the city where the 86-year-old polycarp Famously was martyred. He famously refused to worship Caesar, and so he was burned alive, except the flames didn't do their job, so then they stabbed him to death when the flames failed to consume him That happened in Smyrna. Incidentally, by the way, before moving on from Smyrna, something I should have mentioned perhaps would have done well to mention last week. The believers in Smyrna, they were told that they would be tested for ten days. And this is an illusion. Remember I mentioned all these illusions in the Old Testament. This is an illusion to Daniel chapter 1, where old Danny Boy and his good buddies, Rakshack and Benny. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. They were tested for ten days as they ate veggies and drank lots of water. And this is a rather short testing period. But when you think about it, when you put it in the context of the book of Daniel, yeah, it's short, but it could lead to a fiery furnace. And of course it could even lead to physical death, as the church in Smyrna was reminded. Well, what sort of a situation do we have described for us when it comes to the church in Pergamum? Well, interestingly, there is a bit of a connection to the text that was about Smyrna right before this. The letters of Smyrna, if you might remember from last week. It's filled with paradox, poor and rich, the certainty of the first death and security from the second death, the suffering Savior who is also the victor. And we have religious Jews who were a synagogue of Satan. Well, in Pergamum. As even more dramatic than a synagogue of Satan, if you can believe it. In Pergamum, that's where Satan's throne is. It was home to four major cults of its day. And this helps us to put into context What we read just a moment ago in Revelation chapter 2, verses 13 through 15, to remind you, here's what those verses say. I know where you dwell. Where Satan's throne is. And you hold firmly to my name and did not deny my faith, even in the days of Antipas, my witness, my faithful one, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells. But I have a few things against you because you have some there who hold to the teaching of Balaam, who kept teaching Balaf to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols and to commit sexual immorality, so you too have some who in the same way hold to the teaching of the Nicolaitans. So this passage here is why we've continued our walkthrough the uh 22nd, third, and fourth chapters of the book of Numbers, we can get a better sense of what's going on with this Balak and Balaam illusion. That's why we read chapter 24 of Numbers earlier today. So anyway, I talked about four major cults in Pergamum. They have the goddess of war, Athenae. The uh one of the daughters of Zeus. And they also had the so-called king of the gods, Zeus. And this city, Pergamum, it was home to a huge, throne-shaped altar to Zeus, where Satan's throne is. It's also home to the cult of Dionysus, the god of drunkenness, who was the son of Zeus. And here's a god, ancient mythological god, that you actually know more about than you think you do, a Slepius. Silapius is the god of medicine, and he carried with him, his symbol really, was a snake-entwined staff. You've probably seen that at the pharmacy or medical institutions where there's this pole, the stick with a snake wrapped around it. This snake-entwined staff, that's the symbol of a slepias. So this remains the symbol for medicine even to this day. So these are the four major cults in Pergamon. And this is what it looks like to live, according to this letter to Pergamum anyway, where Satan dwells. Or actually maybe to die where Satan dwells, as was the case for Antipas. He was a faithful witness of Christ. He was killed for his Lord's name. Is she stuck? He along with the other faithful brothers and sisters in Pergamon, they stood against the teachings of Balaam, the teaching of the Nicolaitans. Who had this sort of weird legalistic adherence, if you will, to a licentiousness, the these false beliefs by the pagans. There were false teachers. They were pushing idol worship. They were demanding that the people accept or even commit sexual immorality. That sounds crazy, I know, right? I mean, what sort of culture promotes falsehoods, creates idols? Advocates for sexual deviancy. I wonder what it's like to live during a time like that They must have been really backward and unsophisticated. Well, no, actually, because Pergamum was a center for learning, a center for culture. Pergamum There was such a center for education, they had one of the largest libraries of the ancient world. They had a 200,000-volume library, which was enormous for the time. So yeah, they're a center for education and for culture. You know, the more I talk, the more familiar this all begins to sound, right? I mean we can relate, can't we? It's nearly 2,000 years later, and it's as though nothing at all has changed. Just like our fellow saints of yesteryear, they were surrounded by higher learning and self-manufactured gods and false teachers and wildly sinful sexual perversion. Well just like them, we too are surrounded in the same way, by the very same things. And we have other commonalities with our ancient brothers and sisters too. For instance, America, we we have great military strength, so Nobody wants to mess with America. Well, no one wanted to mess with Pergamum either. It was a city that sat atop a 1,000 foot hill, a small mountain, really. Which created a natural fortress. But this fortress, as we see in this passage here, is no match for the power and the authority of Christ's sword. And this is true for us, in our cities, in our countries, of the here and now. Let's take to heart these words of warning from the one who is the word of God. Look at verse sixteen. Therefore repent Or else I'm coming to you quickly. And I will wage war against them with the sword of my mouth. Are you hearing this? The gates of hell will not prevail The throne of Satan does not prevail. The place which represents in this letter the earthly seat of Satan's power is An apparently high and mighty city. It's impenetrable. I mean no one, no force can overcome it. I mean, does this sound like America in some ways? Or perhaps if your ideology is a little bit different, you might think this is sounds like the Chinese Communist Party or Russia or Europe or factions within the Middle East or something. And we think along those lines, maybe you're tempted to Give up. Lose hope. Cash in your chips. All is lost. We're doomed. We'll never make it. You know, for perhaps you face these sorts of strongholds. Not on an international scale, but on a more of a micro scale. Maybe your friends have turned on you and uh Your family doesn't love you and your neighbors are mean to you and uh your classmates they say hateful things to you And all around you, there's pressure to compromise, to deny the truth of Christ. At some level, maybe you're fearing cultural backlash. If you don't go along with the lies of the devil. I mean, it's it's no fun to be an outcast. And it's demoralizing seeing stumbling blocks tripping up so many of your fellow churchgoers. And you're flattergasted that so many of the teachers you once trusted have gone astray. They've gone the way of holding to the instruction of the post-modern-day Nicolaitans. I mean theological is sociological liberalism has run amok. And so the temptation is to think, you know what, it's game over. Is that sometimes your fear? But the one giving this vision to John and this letter to the church, he is the warrior king of all warrior kings. And he commends those like Antipas, who love Jesus more than life itself. He is a man who was faithful even to death. Just as was his Messiah. And Christ commends those who stand strong even after seeing their beloved Antipas slain for the one true faith. And he calls to repentance those who get Weak in the knees, whose wobbly legs have them stumbling along the path of false gods. He says, Repent. Because the ancient of days is coming and will come quickly. To wage war against his enemies. War with the sword of his mouth The double-edged word of God, which defends the truth and those who love the truth, while also destroying the lies and those who love the lies. Jesus Christ wins. Even where there are imposing fortresses, as with Pergamum, Christ wins. And in this sense, love wins. That's the title of a very controversial book by an author who advocates for the position that God does not ever act with wrath. But the biblical way of understanding a phrase like love wins is that God wins. And God is love. And he wins precisely because Christ overcomes. Christ conquers. And Christ's elect overcome. We conquer. Christ's true church is faithful even to death. And as a result, the church wins in the end. Those in the kingdom win because the one who is the king wins. And how does he win? Evil is judged. And this is love in action. So what an amazing encouragement Now let's look at the next verse 17. The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches, to the one who overcomes. I will give some of the hidden manna. And I will give him a white stone and a new name written on the stone, which no one knows except the one who receives it. What a wonderful hope we have here. Our Lord gives his chosen people hidden manna. The overcomers of Pergamum, they refuse to eat the food offered to idols But they will be sustained by enjoying bread from heaven. Mana was visible, physical bread that was supernaturally provided to the Israelites following their exodus from bondage in Egypt. And now it says here that spiritual bread, not visible to human eyes, is supernaturally provided to those who are free from the bondage. Of sin, because they follow the one true and perfect Israelite, Jesus. And he gives each of us a white stone. In ancient Greece, stones they were sometimes used in jury cases, with a black stone meaning a vote for guilt, and a white stone meaning a vote for innocence. And when an athlete won his sport back during this time, during their athletic competitions, part of his prize was a victor's wreath, a victor's crown. and a white stone that had his name inscribed upon it. And the victor would use this stone as his ticket of admission into the winner's celebration that took place at the conclusion of the competition. And so this visual image about the white stone, it is telling you, fellow co-heirs in Christ, when you overcome, you are declared innocent. And you're granted admission into the greatest winner's celebration of all time. And Christ Himself, the stone whom the filters rejected, he has become the cornerstone, and he is your winning ticket. Christ has won the victory in the competition. And Christ shares his victory with you if you are one of his. And here's something that has fascinated my wife for years. He gives you a new name. On that white stone. A name known only to the Lord and the one who receives it. Well, here we see an illusion. Talk about all these illusions, the Old Testament. Here's another illusion to the Old Testament. The high priest's breastplate. It contained twelve stones. And each of the twelve stones had a name of one of the twelve tribes of Israel inscribed upon it. We learn this from Exodus chapter 28, verse 21. And so as the high priest ministered in the temple, he bore the names of God's people into God's presence. And in similar fashion, the white stone with the believer's new name written on it points to our standing in God's presence. And for the newness of the name. Well, some suggest it's the name of Christ. With a view toward Revelation chapters 3 and 14, which mention that the name of God is written on the foreheads of the saints. And this idea actually has even more weight when we consider that in the Bible names tend To represent the circumstances of a person and the character of a person. For example, we have Abraham in the Old Testament. He is the father of a multitude. And we have Sarah, whose name means the mother of nations. We have Isaac, whose name means laughter, because, well, Sarah laughed at the thought of birthing him. And we have God changing Jacob's name. Jacob meaning supplanter. He changed his name to Israel, which means having power with with God. Even in the New Testament, Jesus changed Simon's name. Simon means God has heard, and his name was changed to Peter for rock, because the faith demonstrated by Peter, that sort of faith, is what would be the foundation for the church moving forward. Well now all saints bear the name of God, indicating that we are adopted by the Father and that Christ has given us new hearts And we are marked by the Holy Spirit's work of conforming those who believe to the holiness of Christ. And so our identity is in Him. As we are indwelt by Christ's Spirit, and we hold firmly to His name. Now when will all this happen? When is all this true? Well recall verse 16. It says, I am coming to you quickly. Well, the Greek word taku, which is translated soon or quickly, it means without unnecessary delay. In Revelation chapter 22, Jesus himself says that he is coming soon. Yes, I am coming soon, he says. And to this, John had the words, Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. Now taku, it doesn't mean immediately in the way that we typically tend to use that word. It's kind of like a friend calls you up and says, I need your help. And you're like, you need my help? I'm there. You're not actually there when you say that. What you mean is I'm on my way. I'll be there soon. I'm coming quickly. I will be there without any necess with no unnecessary delay. You need me? I'm there. I'm coming quickly. I'm coming taku. And that's what Christ is saying here. It means that events have been set in motion and Christ's arrival will be here without any unnecessary Delay. Everything is moving along as it should be, according to God's timetable. And this timetable, as revealed in Scripture, it informs us that there's a sense In which it's already here. I remember our study of 1 John when we were in 1 John chapter 2 a number of months ago. Remember verse 18, God's word says to us, children, it is the last hour. Even now we know that it is the last hour. Acts chapter 2, the Apostle Peter, he quotes the prophet Joel from the Old Testament. He says in verse 17 of Acts chapter 2, And it shall be in the last days, God says, that I will pour out my spirit on all mankind. And this he has done. His spirit has been poured out on Jews and Gentiles alike, on all mankind. And so it's over to hear. But not yet, not in its fullness. The Apostle Peter also reassures us later that God's not dragging his feet concerning prophetic events. God's timing is perfect. In 2 Peter 3, verse 9, the apostle writes these words from God. The Lord's not slow in keeping his promise, as some understand slowness. Instead, he is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance. And so we understand Jesus is coming soon. He is coming quickly. It's coming quickly in that God's plan is advancing and is delayed, if you want to use that word, is delayed only to allow for all who are elect to be saved. It's a sort of necessary postponement. Remember, taku means without any unnecessary delay. But God is saying, well, it's necessary that I would delay, as you think in terms of delay, to accomplish my will in my perfect timing. Now be not fooled by the already not yet tension that I've talked about here. We've talked about this in the past as well. Are you already walking in the hope of the promise of Christ? If so, then you should be encouraged as you wait for what you already have. Because it'll be here before you know it. The Bible teaches that Christ returned to his church for his church. is imminent. It could happen any moment. So therefore, if you're not currently walking in the hope of the promise of Christ, Delay not, because these are the last days, as it teaches, not just in the verses I've already mentioned, but in 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 2 20 and in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 verse 11 and in Hebrews chapter 1 verse 2. And so I urge you please be ready. As it's taught in Luke chapter 12, verse 40, and in Luke chapter 21, verses 34 through 36, and also in Mark chapter 13, verse 33. But no one knows or can predict exactly when the Messiah is coming again, as we account for time. This is a clear teaching from Scripture from Matthew chapter 24, verse 36. So this means that we should live in the expectancy that He may come at any time Moment because in a way he's already here. But not yet. Let me end with this thought. At this very moment, we live in the already, not yet. But in less than the twinkling of an eye, we will enter the already full stop. The already period. The already exclamation point. There will be no more, not yet. Are you ready for that? Are you ready for the already? Exclamation point. If you're not sure, reach out to me, let's talk about it It would be my pleasure and honor to talk to you about a question like that. Let me wrap up with uh prayer and we'll start a discussion. Father, we Thank you for your word, for your gift of salvation, for the presence of your spirit. We thank you for transforming the hearts of your people and guiding them down the path to righteousness as we walk along the way. We pray that we would do a better job of bringing glory to your name, the name which you've now given us to bear. We thank you for the brotherhood and sisterhood that we can have with one another, knowing that we are co-heirs in Christ, bound together by your Holy Spirit Ask your blessing upon our conversation that we're about to have. That it will be fruitful and edifying, that it will be an encouragement to those in need of encouragement, and a rebuke to those in need of a rebuke. All these things we lift up to you in the name of our precious Lord and Savior, our King, Jesus Christ. Amen. Alright, so let me jump over here. Do you have any questions? No? Just smiles? Well that's a good start. Yeah. All right. Uh any initial um reactions or responses before I maybe try to ask a thought-provoking question? One of the things I think Yeah, there's all these good things about this one church, but then it's like, hey, there's people who are worshiping these false gods. And I and I think I think just that first blush with it the awful things that have happened maybe wouldn't have happened if they didn't allow the false teachings to come into the church to begin with. Because I'm assuming they're in leadership, right? No bad things would ever happen after you sin. Well, yes. Right, and so we allow, if you want, we could even s go so far as say we clause all these negative circumstances that happen. in our lives and in our world around us. Um but a different way of thinking about that would be left to our own devices, we're just in like crazy. If if if God removed his sustaining hand of grace as as a general provision of grace for the for the world, I gave us about, I don't know, maybe less than thirty seconds before the entire world would be ki dead. We would all kill each other. The only thing that keeps that from happening is God's sovereign, sustaining hand of grace that allows for the world to continue to function in an environment of sin so that those who are elect can be saved, so that the church can do the work of advancing the cause of the kingdom. And so Yes, I I think well I think I know what you're saying. That yeah they they did some horrible things, allowed some bad things to happen, but it would have been so much worse, but God is intervening in such a way that it ended up not being as bad as it could have been. Yeah, there's a mixture of good and bad. I guess what I'm saying is you can as a warning to the church, you can see how being complacent And not saying hey can do damage to the body. Like big time significant damage, even though some within the body are truly That's the big challenge that they're facing, which is the big challenge we're facing. It's basically synchronized. And that is what's going on with with with uh with Balaam. He's trying to have it both ways. He's trying to be both in the world and of the world, if you will. He's trying to navigate a way where he can be all things, all people. That's the situation we find ourselves in now with the the movement that's really gained momentum over the last year and a half in the Western Church. We're trying to not just meet people where they are, which would be the Apostle Paul's teaching an example, like he's at Mars Hill and he's trying to meet people where they are. Well that's laudable. That's scriptural. That's biblical. But it's more than trying to meet people where they are. It's camping out and living with them where they are. It's like laying a foundation where they are. It's like building a new foundation. It's not based on the foundation of the biblical truth. just hearing them. And so that was the challenge they were facing then. They say you have some who in the same way hold to the teaching of the Nicolaitans. Well that's us today. We have some. Now how are we going to quantify some? My fear is that some means like 85%. I mean it's a runaway freight train right now. Uh but be faithful even if you end up being an Anthropoc Even if you pay the ultimate price of persecution, even if you're killed for the faith, in our context we might be less concerned about that in America. Uh it's more likely we would be imprisoned or we would be canceled by the canceled. culture. We would have a hard time getting jobs and earning an income. Uh and in that sense our lives would be threatened or ended because, you know, why do we call it earning a livelihood? Right? Well somebody's gotta make a living. Well you're making a living to sustain your life. If somebody takes that away from you, they might as well tie you to a to a a you know funeral pyre and light it ablaze. And if that doesn't work, stab you to death like they did Polycarp. Um and by the way, just as a quick aside, it was eighty-six years old. That's kind of old even by today's standards. So back then That's like really all. I mean Pinecarp was probably close to death. And that wasn't enough for them. They had to make it a point to go find him, capture him, tie him up and kill him. He might have been dead within a year anyway. I mean I don't know for sure, but he's 86 back then when people did not live to be in their eighties. They were that motivated to put snuff out his torch by using an evil torch. Right, where the throne of Satan was. So anyway, that's just kind of a little bit of an aside, but well, Second Thessalonians 2, 3 says to to lot that Paul is speaking and he he's saying to let no one in any way decide So, um uh we're seeing the great apostasy in the church as a another sign that, you know, um that that that the um that the Antichrist is about to be revealed on the earth, you know. And um so I mean, we're you know, to your point that, you know, we're just humming a little I mean we're we're um we're on this we're on the schedule that God controls and so um we're seeing a lot of things that are you know grievous but at the same time, you know, this we are encouraged by the scriptures because it it they're doing exactly what Christ said they would do. We're seeing all the end time signs, you know, and and the and the apostasy of the church is one of them. You know, so we're we're gonna see s we're gonna see Balaam and those kinds of people really come out of the wood. I mean they were kinda hidden before now they're being revealed and all of a sudden we're seeing, you know, things that we never thought that we'd see in our lifetimes. But we just had spent some time this afternoon with some Christian brothers and sisters and we were talking about things going on in the world and the challenges facing, you know, uh authentic biblical Christianity and those sorts of things. We can't nobody can know you know the day and we can't know for sure and different generations have had you know similar feelings that we might be having now. Definitely though this is a profound moment in the church's history. Whether this is the moment right before the very, very end, I mean, we'll find out soon enough But it's certainly a rather significant moment in church history. I would say that the last time we had a moment something like this would have been the late 1800s, early 1900s, with the rise of the theological liberalism which helped to set the stage where we are now. But that was a huge challenge to the church. You can go back to the Aryan controversy and uh and some of the the controversy that that led to the need for church councils to deal with some some apostasy of Pelagianism, uh things like that that were a real challenge for the church Uh but I think that let's say this isn't the very, very end, and Christ doesn't return for several hundred more years or a thousand more years, who knows how long it could be. Historians, several hundred years from now, they'll be talking about this moment in church history. This is like one of those eras in the church, like it's on the top ten list of really consequent sequential moments because it's not a question of uh mere obedience or church practice or questions of polity or things that are important but not the whole ball game But we're talking about challenges now that are the whole ballgame. It's the gospel versus another gospel. It's it's it's a challenge it's a challenge for the church at the very foundation of what the church is all about. This is huge ethic. I don't know if I can stress that. I I don't know if everybody else feels it the way that I do. I don't know. I think some of the people in this room maybe do. Ah yeah. Exactly. Exactly. who haven't sold out to the dark side. Yeah, the remnant the the remnant gets it, yeah, the the people who are lukewarm or you know, un you know, wolves in sheep clothing or whatever they are, they No. I know you pay some attention to the the historical arc in church history and you're and you're you're kind of attuned to the particular moment we're in now. What thoughts might you have to share about that topic? I mean yeah, I would definitely say that we're de we're worse off than we were a few years ago and it's definitely more consequential when I'm just watching like specifically all the SBC implosion. SBC is shorthand for Southern Baptist Convention. So yeah, just that's quintessential evangelicalism in American culture. And yeah, it's even the people that are on the good guy side of that, I don't think they're equipped or capable of fixing Yeah, I think one of the challenges they face is the Southern Baptists as a general rule. I mean think about this. If you think uh if you know enough about the different denominations in American church history And I and and and I say, so what what's your impression of the Southern Baptist Church generally speaking in their history? You would uh as a somewhat informed person you'd say, oh yeah, they're they're kinda legalistic, right? It's I don't dance, I don't chew, I don't go with girls who do, right? Like that was They wouldn't watch movies, they wouldn't go to dances, they wouldn't you know that whole the controversy about Elvis Presley and they were breaking all the rock and roll records and stuff, that was driven by Baptists for the the most part. I mean that's you know, it's a it's it has tended in kind of a overly conservative, kind of legalistic mindset over the years. Now they've come out of that, thankfully, uh, in recent decades, but that's kind of their what they've been known for historically. So you take this ultra almost like too conservative, if you will, hyper conservative kind of church. And now they're going woke, which is meaning theologically left. So they've gone they're going from one extreme to another extreme and they've done it in our lifetime. Maybe not your lifetime, you're younger than us. But in the three of us, it's happened in our lifetime. That's stunning. So if a bastion of hyper conservatism can go left Holy cow. And they have come over the last thirty or forty years, they have come to kind of represent and embody the American evangelical movement politically speaking. The Southern Baptist Churches would be the largest voice in that political argument. And they've been the ones that were fighting for the moral majority and, you know, uh all of those those those marches for conservatism. That was driven in a large part by Southern Baptists And now they've gone woke. It's really crazy. So to your point, if if they are lost, and I feel like they are, we'll see, they have a big convention coming up pretty soon and If that doesn't go the way it should, I think we're gonna have to chalk it up as yeah, Southern Baptists are they're after lunch, they're gone. I don't know if they can be rescued. And if you lose that you've lost what we understand to be the evangelical movement in America. Now maybe that's a good thing, maybe that's what the actual, authentic, true Church of Christ needs to have happen so we don't get all of our hopes and dreams wrapped up in cultural issues and political issues that we that we make our main thing the main thing and then the cultural and political things are an offshoot of that. My concern with what's going on in the church in recent decades is that the other things are the main thing and the the gospel proclamation, the commitment to the gospel has been secondary. So maybe this is a net needed corrective, I don't know. Yeah, it just kinda goes like I guess the larger point is like even the those who are on the right side are squishy or incapable. So there's like an ineptitude, like people aren't recognizing the times that we're in, they're not recognizing the threats that um the church is facing And do you agree? I think that part of the challenge with that could be that their history has been they haven't had to deal with that on the inside. They haven't had to fight liberalism within their own ranks ever before. Well no nineteen seventy Yeah, okay, they call that the Baptist resurgence. So they champion a history of being able to feed And now they've rested on their laurels. And that's where the issue is. So that's why you see like the older generations, like Al Maul is one of the most influential people in evangelicalism. He's, you know, top two most influential Baptist in the United States is Al Mueller. And he is he was a he is a he politically navigated from the liberal side to the conservative side back in that conflict. And is kind of a gatekeeper on, you know, we don't need to uh take up this fight within the church now. It's kind of like what happened politically speaking. This might be I want to mention this because I don't want to make this about politics. I think that our politics is informed by our biblical understanding. So I don't want to try to inform our biblical understanding by politics that we have it backwards. But this might be a way for people to get their teeth sunk in. I think part of what's going on is what politically those who are politically conservative and have been staunch Republicans their whole life What's the uh uh criticism of those who have an R behind their name but they're not actually conservative? We call them rhinos. And the Rhinos kind of took over the party to a certain degree, and there's this like deep state mentality, they're part of their establishment Republicans, that sort of idea. I think the Baptists have the same thing. They have like binos, right? Baptist and name only. Like they're not. So you know, being Baptist is more than just dunking and uh believers baptism. Like there's two baptism. That's just what distinguishes Baptists from Presbyterians. And the church polity is different as well. Yeah, so we've got a mess on our hands, but I guess the point I was hoping that would at least at some point be touched on in the message is that, yeah, it's a mess. Uh God's not surprised by the mess. And we shouldn't be surprised by the best too because how oftentimes do we quote from Ecclesiastes, there's nothing new under the sun. And what's true for us right now was true for them two thousand years ago. And yet the church, not only is it still here, but think about it, the church two thousand years ago was infinitesimally small compared to how big the church is now. So the church not only weathered that storm back then, but they overcame it and grew expansively coming out of a situation like that. That sort of rebirth and uh uh reawakening uh within the church can still happen. So we should be praying for that, uh working towards that. Trusting in that and knowing that even if it doesn't happen in our lifetimes in the here and now, ultimately we know as an absolute fact of truth that it does happen in the end because We have the greatest warrior king of all time and he wins. So yeah, uh um I I I personally think it will happen. Um Um and I you know, I try to be careful what prophetic voices I listen to because I realize that there's there's a there's a false version of everything. So there's there are false false prophetic voices, but as you were saying that I thought of a prophetic voice uh of a person who's since passed who who said that um once you see the the the Chiefs win talking about the football team once you see the Chiefs win Revival or not. Now that sounds kinda funny, but God uses what a culture can re can relate to. So, you know, we have this in our culture. very important thing which it which is sports. So that person said that just a few years ago and then for the first time in fifty years the Kansas City Chiefs won the Super Bowl. like a couple a year or so ago. So I and this person is dead now. So I mean um anyway what I'm getting at is when you have a prophetic voice, say something like that. And you have something like that happen and then it's just one indicator. It's not like I'm resting what I believe on just on that one prophecy because you know God confirms. But when you see the state of the world, we see the unprecedented sin that, you know, we didn't think we'd see, when you see America could become an almost a socialist nation, you know, you see and you s you've seen um um sinning on a scale and to a degree that we've never experienced before and you see the a possible see in the church that we've never seen before. Um and when you see the um beginnings of what the mark of the beast could look like. You know, and you're seeing all of these prophetic indicators indicators to include um the the fact that what what is uh different from our our current setting than the ancient church is that we are seeing things on a global scale now. So we are seeing a we are in a condition where somebody could literally be in control of the whole globe because the whole globe is connected now through the internet So we we do have things that the ancient church, every every every generation you know, has has thought maybe we could be it, and there's nothing wrong with that. What I'm saying is the prophetic markers that we are seeing Other other generations didn't see them because they just didn't exist. And so I think we have more reason than any generation ever to believe that Christ really could come back in our lifetimes You know, and um um uh but I also believe that w w we're probably going to see a revival first because this guy you know like I said this prophetic voice came through and he said, Once you see the Chiefs win the Super Bowl, re revival is not and then it happened and and and And a bunch of us were, you know, our mouths fell off like, wow, you know. I mean, I don't even follow football. But when I heard it was the first time in fifty years that this team and he mentioned that team, look how many NFL teams there are Well if he had predicted made his prophecy based upon the Cubs winning the World Series, that would have been more impressive. Yeah, it took 'em one hundred and eight years though. But but you but you know what I'm saying, though it it was one prophetic thing that so I I think that we we probably y to your point, um the church back then saw a bunch of bad stuff and then we bought you know Then they came back and they resurged. I think we will probably see that. I can't put a date on it. I don't know. Uh nobody knows, but I think we probably will, and I think um It's a good chance, and I want to make this very clear, I am not putting a date on it. I just believe that Christ let me put it this way. I don't think it'll be a thousand years before Christ. returns. I seriously doubt that. That's my personal conviction from what I understand. Biblically and the cultural markers, I think it's going to be way sooner than that, like within a hundred years definitely But uh I'm not putting a date on it, so you know I'm not saying uh July 17th, 2037. I'm not saying that. I'm just saying within our lifetimes I think it's probably going to happen. Yeah. Yeah, well well there's all sorts of markers, you know, scripture other parts of scripture we talk about, you know, the wars, rumors of wars, the earthquakes, those sorts of things. things. And there's all these things that can be indicators, although if you keep in mind that Christ then goes on to say, but this is not the end. All those markers aren't markers of the end. These are just things that are going to happen before the end. All that can be interesting and it's fun fodder to talk about and think about. I think that it can be helpful in the sense that it can remind us that Christ's return is imminent And I feel like every generation of the church over the last two thousand years has been expecting the return. And before that, the faithful religious Jews were expecting the arrival of their Messiah uh at any time too. They are so hopeful for his return. So I think anything that can encourage us to have uh uh a fervency and belief that the imminence of his return could happen can be a useful thing. But I think every generation has had that sense and I I don't know. I think my for me, something like that, I'm like, well that's interesting. Now show me. And if they can show me from here, I'm gonna have a lot more motivation to to glom onto that in a hardcore way than I would otherwise. Doesn't mean that they're wrong. I'm just not gonna be as convinced that they necessarily are right. You know, with without that. But the other thing I want to say, and we'll wrap this up because it's been after after seven o'clock All the generations before us that thought Christ was coming in their generation, obviously they were wrong. Christ didn't return yet. Um and maybe we'll be proven to be wrong too. Maybe you and I will will uh go to be with the Lord before he comes to return to his people here and brings heaven to earth kind of thing. But at a certain level, I want to make sure if you're watching this and those in the room I want to make sure you understand this is a key thing. Even if we're wrong, there's an a point at which for the believer From the non-believer too, I guess. That doesn't matter because there's a sense in which he's already present. Christ is in authority now. And he is the judge of the world now. Now he's not executing his full judgment yet, but he is the judge of the world now. And if Christ And let's say that Christ does return on what did you say July seventeenth? Let's say I don't want to I don't want to say a day. I was No, but I'm just saying, let's just say that Christ does return on July seventeenth. What does that probably won't now We planted that date out. But what does that matter to you if you die on July sixteenth? Right. Or fifteenth or fourteenth or today. You're waiting for his coming. Well tomorrow's not even promised to you. Your next breath isn't even promised to you. So you need to live with an expectancy that you're forever hangs in the balance moment by moment. Whether that means Christ is returning now and it's the end or your breath is breathed for the last time and for you it's the end. So you have to live with an expectancy at any moment it's over. Either universally or personally. At any moment it's over. And if you're not living your life that way, if you're putting off investigating what the Bible believes and teaches and what Christ is all about and you're well worried about that next you might not have next week. So uh hopefully that's helpful to you. And like I said, if you're not sure that's you, you don't you're not sure really, uh I kind of believe maybe there's a Jesus, but I'm not sure I'm trusting him. What does that even mean? Or You're not sure that you're ready for the already full stop as opposed to the already not yet. If you're not ready now I would love to be able to have a conversation with you, be a part of you being ready. That would be uh you'd be honoring me beyond measure by reaching out to me. Um anybody feel led to close us in prayer? Dear Lord, we thank you for this day and we just thank you for our gathering here and putting us in the time that you have put us in. Because as was mentioned earlier, you know, this is a more pinnacle moment in church history than most. And Lord, we are glad that we are able to serve you in the midst of of it and we just praise you for being faithful to us in the midst of it and praise you that we are able to be saved in the midst of it. So Lord we just thank you for this fellowship and thank you for this time to grow in your word. And And we pray that we can serve you daily. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. So we'll continue our series on Revelation next week. We'll be live on Facebook. Starting at 6 o'clock as usual. If you joined this in progress, you can watch it later on Facebook or give me a couple of days. It will probably be posted on the YouTube channel as well. You can catch it there. Until then, God bless.