Now maybe you can hear me. Here's hoping you can hear me. Hello Facebook. And if you're watching this later on YouTube, welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ. You're going to want to have your Bibles ready today. We're going to be as we've been in recent weeks, spending some time. uh reading from the Old Testament uh because John as we've mentioned in some of the sermons he is drawing from imagery in the Old Testament throughout Revelation. He is chalkful. I'm I'm pointing a lot of them out in the sermons. I'm not even pointing all of them out. There's so much there, but to give us a better feel for what John might be drawing from, we're spending some time reading. So today we'll be reading from Ezekiel chapter 43. So you want to get your Bibles ready and uh be ready to turn to that here momentarily. The sermon today is in Revelation chapter 2, verses 18 through 29. So you're going to want to I'll have your Bibles ready to turn there here in a little bit too. So last week we learned that the throne of Satan does not prevail Can I get an Amen? Amen. Hallelujah. And this week we are going to ask the question, and maybe answer the question, are you good, bad, good? So that's what we're doing today. So uh we're gonna have an opening prayer and then we're gonna read from Ezekiel, then we'll have the message, and after that we're gonna have a discussion which you are encouraged to participate in via the comment section here on Facebook. And if you're watching this later, you want to participate on the YouTube comment section, that's fine. We can interact with you there as well. So Angela, I guess, would you mind opening us in prayer? Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for another opportunity to come and learn of your words. We invite the Holy Spirit who indwells us us to illuminate illuminate the scriptures to us, to teach us and be the only teacher amongst us. And we loose the plan and the purpose of God in this gathering. To the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ, may the will of God be accomplished in this meeting. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. All right, if you would open your Bibles to the Old Testament. We were in the book of Numbers the last few weeks. Book of Numbers is early, relatively early in the Old Testament. Ezekiel is a little bit deeper into the Old Testament So find Ezekiel chapter 43, and we're going to read the whole chapter. And we're going to have three different readers taking turns to to break up the uh the weight of that. So uh I think you had the first section, right, Landon? All right. Then he led me to the gate, the gate facing east, and behold, the glory of the God of Israel was coming. from the east, and the sound of his coming was like the sound of many waters, and the earth shone with his glory. And the vision I saw was just like the vision that I had had seen when he came to destroy the city, and just like the vision that I vision that I had seen by the Shibalach now. And I fell on my face as the glory of the Lord entered the temple While the man was standing beside me, I heard one speaking to me and And he said to me, Son of man, this is the place of my throne, and the place of the soles of my feet, where I will dwell, in the midst of the people of the Israel forever, and the house of Israel shall no more defile my holy name, neither they nor their kings, by their warring and by the dead bodies of their kings at their high places. By setting their threshold by my threshold and their doorposts beside my door beside my doorposts, with only a wall between me in them. They have defiled my holy name by their abominations that they have committed. So I have consumed them in my holy name Now let them put a put away their whoring and the dead bodies of their kings far from me, and I will dwell in their midst forever. As for you, son of man, describe the temple to the house of Israel that they may be ashamed of their iniquities, and let them measure the If they are ashamed of all that they have done, make known to them the design of the house, its structures, its exits, its entrances, all its designs, all its statutes, all its laws. and write it in their sight so that they may observe its whole design and all that all its statutes and do them. This is the law of the house. Its entire area on top of the mountain, all around, shall be most holy. Behold, this is the law of the house. And these are the measurements of the altar of the by cubits, the cubit being the cubit and a hand breadth The base shall be a cubit and the width a cubit, and its border on the edge round about one span and this shall be the height of the base of the altar. From the base on the ground to the lower ledge shall be two cubits And the width of the cube and the width one cubit, and from the smaller ledge to the larger ledge shall be four cubits, and the width one cubit Then the altar hearth shall be four cubits, and from the altar hearth shall we extend upwards four horns Now the altar hearth shall be twelve cubits long by twelve wide square. in all its four sides. The lead shall be fourteen cubits long by fourteen cubits wide in its four sides. The border around it shall be cut shall be half a cubit, and its base shall be be a cubit round about, and its steps shall face the east. And he said to me, Son of man, that says the of the ledge and on the border round about. Thus you shall cleanse it and make atonement for it. You shall also take the bowl for the sin offering and it shall be Burn in the appointed place of the house outside the sanctuary. On the second day you shall offer a male goat without blemish for a sin offering. And they shall cleanse the altar as they cleansed it with the bowl. When you have finished cleaning it, you shall present a young bull without blemish, and a ram without blemish without blemish from the flock. You shall present them before the Lord, and the priest shall throw salt on them, and they shall offer them up as a burnt offering to to the Lord. For seven days you shall prepare daily a goat for a sin offering, also a young bull and a ram from the flock without blemish shall be prepared And onward, the priest shall offer young burnt offerings on the altar and your peace offerings, and I will accept you, declares the Lord God. Thank you three for the reading. I try to mention this every week, but sometimes I forget. I just want to mention that if you're joining us for We're thrilled to have you. I think it's great. And if you want to share and like and help get the word out to other people who might need to hear what we're talking about in these messages, that's great Um, but if you're doing this as a replacement for church, that's not okay. You need to be involved with a actual church, a Bible-believing, Christ exalting. Church is faithful to the scriptures. And if you aren't going to one 'cause you don't know how to find one that's doing that, reach out to me and I'll do everything I can to try to help you. Even if I'm far away, maybe I can help you in the research of figuring out what my be a good church near where you are. And if you're within driving distance of Frederick, well then maybe this could be your church. And I'll tell you that the the the pickings are slim. uh in the Frederick area for good churches like they are most places these days. But there in most situations there's an opportunity to uh to find something that will be a fit for you and also be faithful to the scriptures. So just want to put that out there. So today we're continuing our tour of the seven churches who receive letters in the book of Revelation, chapters 2 and 3. Our stops at these churches began in the first century metropolis of Asia Minor, Ephesus which at the time had a population probably around a quarter million people, but today it's pretty much just a heap of ruins. It was home of the temple to Artemis. And it's also where Timothy is said to have been martyred, by the way. Other stops so far in our tour through these letters have included Smyrna and Pergamum. In Pergamum there were lots of temples to gods such as Zeus and Apollo and Athenae and Dionysus and Aphrodite and Aslepius and so forth And we talked about the hidden manna last week, which tradition, by the way, says was still inside the Ark of the Covenant when Jeremiah is said to have hidden it. He hid it away until it would be brought out once more during the Messianic kingdom. So if that tradition is true, I guess we'll find out someday. So those are interesting little extra-biblical traditions. But there are also some biblical connections to be found as well when we consider Deuteronomy 8, verse 3, and Matthew chapter 4, verse 4, and in recent weeks we addressed the white stone. It's given to the one who overcomes, seeing here a potential reference to the Urim and Summon, which we talked about in the Old Testament, the Levitical system, since many think that the Urim Might have been a diamond, a white stone, and it possibly had the name of Yahweh written on it. And we've seen Old Testament connections to Numbers chapters 22 and 31 and Joshua 13 with regard to the sword of my mouth. Let's talk about Revelation chapter 2 verse 16 and Considering that we were talking about the Nicolaitans has the root word there, the name of Nicholas, which means conquering the people. And it's talked about within the context of Balaam, that the word means Lord of the people, and thus it harkens us to recall stories like when Balaam was killed by the sword. The point of all of this is there are s Illusions galore, chalk full of Old Testament illusions and imagery in the book of Revelation, and we're just we're just scratching the surface, really. I mean so many nuggets, so little time The Old Testament illusions are dripping from every page. Now the symbolism in the book of Revelation is off the charts. We might wonder, what are we going to find that's fun and interesting about the letter to Thyatira? And more importantly, what will these dozen verses teach us about Jesus? And his gospel. So let's find out. If you haven't already, please open your Bibles to Revelation chapter 2. We are going to together read aloud verses 18 through 29. And to the angel of the church in Thyatira, write: The Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and feet like burnished bronze, says this. I know your deeds, and your love, and faith, and service, and perseverance, and that your deeds of late are greater than at first But I have this against you, that you tolerate the woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess And she teaches and leads my bondservants astray, so that they commit sexual immorality and eat things sacrificed to idols. I gave her time to repent, and she does not want to repent of her sexual immorality Behold, I will throw her on a bed of sickness, and those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation, unless they repent of her deeds. And I will kill her children with plague, and all the churches will know that I am He who searches the minds and hearts, and I will give to each one of you according to your deeds. But I say to you, the rest who are in Thyatira who do not hold this teaching, who have not known the deep things of Satan as they call them, I place no other burden on you. Nevertheless, what you have, hold firmly until I come. The one who overcomes, the one who keeps my deeds until the end, I will give him authority over the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron. as the vessels of the potter are shattered, as I also have received authority from my Father. And I will give him the morning star. The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. This passage, just like the chapter at Ezekiel that we read, It is the word of God, it is inspired of God, and because it is inspired of God, it is inerrant, it is infallible, it is a perfect rule and guide for faith and life practice, so as this passage tells us. The those with an ear to hear, let them hear. So, let's start with verse 18 and go from there. And did the angel of the church in Thyatira write, the Son of God, whose eye is like a flame of fire. And feet like burnished bronze, says this. Now the church of Thyartira, in today's terms, it was located in what we might call a blue-collar town. It uh wasn't a huge metropolis. It wasn't home to huge temples. It wasn't celebrated for being a hub of higher learning and culture. It was a small city In the middle of a long valley, which gave it no natural defenses, and so it was overrun a lot. over the years, over and over again, was destroyed and rebuilt multiple times in its history. Although at this time in their history things had calmed down quite a bit. It remained under Roman rule for more than 250 years. That's a pretty long time. That's longer than there's been a United States of America, for instance. Now originally it was populated by soldiers. Who served the army of Alexander the Great. So it was a military outpost, and it was used to help guard the city of Pergamum, which is about 40 miles away. And at this point when the letter is written, Thayatire was populated by working class people, who belonged to trade guilds, guilds for dyeing clothes and making pottery, metalworking. Now, students of the book of Acts might recall that Sciatira, it's home to Lydia, the Apostle Paul's first convert in Philippi. When she was there on a business trip away from her hometown to sell some purple fabrics that had been made in Sciatari. Read about that in Acts 16, verse 14. And when I think about this city, I sort of think about Pittsburgh a little bit. A hard hat city, a union town. Thai tira is kind of like this in my mind's eye. It's Got hard workers, tradesmen. Now they weren't known for making steel, like in Pittsburgh. They were made for making bronze. And it was a special sort of a bronze, it seems. The Greek word that's used here in this passage for burnished bronze, it is unique. It is found nowhere else in Greek literature before it shows up here in Revelation. This has led some to speculate that it could have been the trade name for the kind of bronze they made in Sayatira, that was unique to Sayatira. Apparently they had a guild in the city that had a secret way of making their particular kind of metal. Secret way. But Christ knows all. There are no secrets kept from God. Now we might lust after secret knowledge. That will be discussed later in this letter, actually. But our pursuits of knowledge, they are out of whack if it's a so-called secret knowledge apart from Christ. And Christ, he sees what you're up to. With his eyes like a flame of fire. And he has the power and the strength to do something about what he sees. As indicated by his feet like burnished bronze. And when verse 18 talks about the Son of God with eyes like a flame of fire and feet like burnished bronze, that's speaking the language of the locals. They knew all about flames of fire. They were using flames of fire and making their bronze. They knew about the intensity of the heat, the awesome danger. of images like this. So with this in mind, I can kind of project myself back in time and imagine what it would have been like to be in the room as these people were sitting in place, hearing this letter read for the first time, and they're thinking Yeah, this letter really is for us. And as the letter continues, they're going to see even more clearly that it is a letter for them. It perfectly captures their circumstances. And you know what? It'll capture the circumstances of other churches that exist throughout the years too, who will feel the same way. And I wonder, do you feel like it captures your situation? This letter follows a good, bad, good pattern Can you relate? Because your life maybe followed a good, bad, good pattern. Well, verse 19 starts things off really good. I know your deeds and your love and faith and service and perseverance. And that your deeds of late are greater than at first. Their deeds of late were greater in number or quality or both. Well, regardless, they were good deeds, and Christ knows. It's just like in the letter to Ephesus, you remember that? Christ, he knew their deeds weren't so good. Well in Fayatira Christ knows that they are loving and faithful and persevering in their service of others. And that is so awesome. If only the letter stopped there. But it doesn't. And as it continues, we will see that it is pretty much the exact opposite of what was going on in Ephesus in their church condition. I mean Ephesus was called to account for their lack of good deeds, but they did fight for the truth. Thyatira, they're commended for their abundance of good deeds. But they surrender to lies. In Ephesus, we learn that it is possible to hate what God hates without loving what God loves. And in Thyatira we learn that it is possible to love what God loves without hating what God hates. Now we're going to talk more about the good in a couple of minutes. But first, let's read four of the most dire verses in the entire Bible. Revelation two, verses twenty through twenty-three. It says, But I have this against you. That you tolerate the woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess, and she teaches and leads my bondservants astray, so that they commit sexual immorality. And eat things sacrificed to idols. I gave her time to repent, and she does not want to repent of her sexual immorality Behold, I will throw her on a bed of sickness. And those Who commit adultery with her into great tribulation unless they repent of her deeds. And I will kill her children with plague. And all the churches will know that I am he who searches the minds and the hearts And I will give to each one of you according to your deeds. Whoa. That's in the Bible. I mean the New Testament I mean everybody knows that that sort of thing might be in the Old Testament. Might have some stuff like this in it there, but The New Testament? Have there been typos, transcription errors here or something? What's going on? Certainly, this isn't what God says, is it? Is it? Well, yeah, yes indeed. It is There is some major bad stuff going on in Zyatira. And God is sounding the warning bell. This is both one if by land and two if by sea. Only it's not the Red Coast coming. It's the sovereign God of the universe. And he's not saying the British are coming. He's saying judgment is coming. So act accordingly. Well, what is it that has God mounting his horse and sounding the alarm like Paul Revere? Oh, verse 20. It says, but I have this against you, that you tolerate the woman Jezebel. Who calls herself a prophetess? And she teaches and leads my bondservants astray, so that they commit sexual immorality and eat things sacrificed to idols. And that is that's clearly not a good report card. I mean they might not be behaving like Jezebel. But they're tolerating Jezebel. This is the infamous queen married to King Ahab. We read about her in 1st and 2nd Kings. She's generally regarded. as the most evil woman to ever live. Now obviously this isn't the exact same person that was alive In the Old Testament times, or she would have been about 900 years old here when this letter was written to the church in Thyatira. This is symbolic shorthand for evil personified. And By the way, this reference anticipates the harlot of Revelation chapter 17. We'll be getting to that in a few months. Just as Balaam, which we've talked about in recent weeks, anticipates the false prophet of Revelation 13, which we'll get to Probably in a couple of months as well. Balaam in the book of Numbers, he convinced Balak to send Moabite women to seduce Israelite men into sexual immorality and idolatry. And it led to a plague from the Lord, killing 24,000. And it's the same sort of thing here in Zyatira. With Jezebel. Now, whoever this Jezebel is, she calls herself a prophetess. She claims that she teaches deep things. Which Jesus will call in the very next verse, the deep things of Satan. This is wickedness. And it needs to be actively assailed on the spiritual battlefield But instead of waging spiritual warfare as messengers of the kingdom, instead of sounding the clarion call to those who had allowed themselves to be united to Jezebel as her children Instead of urging her victims to repent, instead of citing the Word of God as found in Psalm 10 and Ecclesiastes 8 or Romans 2 or 2 Peter 3. Instead of anything like this, the church is die or tira give the resounding They might not even give any encouragement or sympathy to Jezebel. And their acolytes. But neither do they do anything to stop the spiritual disruption They simply leave Jezebel alone, leaving the wickedness of her followers unchecked. And it strikes me as the same quality of sin that we see among the so-called pastors and so-called church leaders who behave as a Jezebel When they get people to eat the food of idols, when they get them to eat and ingest the idolatrous worldview of critical theory and the revoice movement. Today's deep things are woke things. Advocating for these anti-gospel teachings is horrible. But so too is merely accommodating these anti-gospel teachings Allowing these ungodly ideas to flourish It is naive at best. And naivete. That's what the church in Thyratyra is guilty of, at least in part. And God is none too pleased. Is he any more pleased today? The lack of discernment is appalling Those ordained as under-shepherds of Christ's flock, they are going to be held to a special level of accountability. But you're accountable too. We all are. So we need to do better. You know, often we might notice about ourselves that uh we're distracted listeners. You know, the pastor is preaching and we're busy counting. How many people can fit into each pure Other times we might not be distracted so much as we're passive listeners. We just take in whatever the person in front of us is saying. Sounds good to me. And boy, he's such a gifted communicator. And funny. Oh, he is so funny. And personable and smart and clever and humble and okay, yeah, fine. These can all be excellent attributes. But when we're not careful We can let our guard down and we can become lazy. And so We have find ourselves in a situation where the pastor is riding a bicycle up and down the center aisle in the middle of the worship service, or he's telling a 10 or 15-minute amazing story about Star Wars. Or he interacts with text messages in the pulpit during the middle of his sermon, taking texts from people in the congregation when he's supposed to be preaching the Word of God. And you know what? We're amused. And we become passive. And so then the pastor says, Hey, you know. It's possible. None of the miracles that are talked about in the Bible actually happened. And we think, wow, I don't think I knew that. How intelligent and relevant this guy is. And then the pastor says, you know, the differences between men and women described in the pages of the scriptures, nothing more than old-fashioned cultural constructs. And we go and tell our friends, you'll be amazed by what my pastor said today. It was a thrilling insight. And the pastor says, you know, all you white people here in my voice, you need to go find a black person and apologize. Because your skin color and your Eurocentric Western civilization has oppressed them No that I hear And you say, Oh, I am so sorry. No? I didn't know. I'm so glad you told me. I wish I had learned that from the Bible sooner. Problem is, you couldn't have learned it from the Bible sooner. You could never learn any of this garbage from the Bible because the Word of God does not teach it. But when we're passive listeners. We don't think critically. We Simply open our mouths wide and we swallow whatever poison the authority figures want to shovel on in there We need to be active listeners. Test what we hear against what the Bible actually does say. And then actively defend what the Bible actually does say Otherwise, these words apply. I gave her time to repent. She does not want to repent of her sexual immorality. Behold, I will throw her on a bed of sickness, and those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation. Unless they repent of her deeds. And I will kill her children with plague And all the churches will know that I am He who searches the minds and hearts. And I will give to each one of you according to your deeds. What we have here is punishment that fits the crime. The sexual immorality that's talked about here in this passage, it would have been conducted on lavish beds And the food eaten in celebration of those idols, it would have been consumed while reclining on beds of a different sort, essentially sofa beds. And so God He's saying here, okay, you want beds? I'll give you beds. Sick beds. Beds in hell. Where you'll live forever. God is saying, you think these evil practices Will make you strong. Will keep you alive. A plague will sap your strength and will end your life. And then you'll know. In no uncertain terms, you'll know what my people were too timid to tell you. How much do you have to hate someone not to warn them of this? See good works. Not enough The church and Thyatira, they have good works. But they're trying to do the second table of the law, the last half of the Ten Commandments, which command us how to love our neighbors, without doing The first table of the law, the first half of the Ten Commandments, which command us how to love God. And it's the exact opposite problem faced by Ephesus just a couple of letters earlier. But either way, God's judgment is real Have you read Psalm 2, Isaiah 30, Jeremiah 19, 1 Corinthians 6 The final half of the book of Revelation. Rebellion against God. Rebellion against His commands. will be destroyed. And this destruction of the rebellion takes one of two forms, repentance or wrath. Ending in hellfire. And the repentance, it needs to be the kind that brings with it remembering. Your repentance, it's an immediate turning from to, from your sinful ways and attitudes, to Christ and his salvation. And that sort of repentance is a once-and-for-all repentance when it includes remembering. Because remembering is continuous. It's ongoing. Well, that's a ton of bad stuff we just covered. But remember, this letter it has a good, bad, good structure. So it ends with good. Here's that closing good down in verses 24-29. But I say to you, the rest who are in Thyotira, who do not hold this teaching, who have not known the deep things of Satan, as they call them I place no other burden on you. Nevertheless, what you have, hold firmly until I come. The one who overcomes, the one who keeps my deeds until the end. Oh, give him authority over the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron as the vessels of the potter are shattered, as I also have received authority from my Father. And I will give him the morning star. The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. Hold on. Christ's joke is easy, his burden is light. If you overcome by doing his works And by advocating for truth in contrast to Jezebel's works, you'll be given great authority. You will rise up and you will shepherd with a staff of iron, a rod of iron. You will be useful to God in shattering Breaking those strongholds of evil. As you hear me say that, if you're thinking, well That must be a message for someone else, because not me. I'm I'm just an insignificant nobody. Well Be encouraged because you're just like Thyatira. Of the seven churches receiving letters in Revelation, Zyatira is the least important from a worldly perspective. It is the least impressive. It is the least remarkable. Yet, these promises are made to them. And consider Thyatira, they get the longest of the seven letters. And it's the central letter of the seven, being number four in the list. So you still think you're insignificant? You think God can't do through Christ what he says still do through Christ? He is the Son of God. Or did you forget Son of God, as it said at the very start of this letter. It's the only spot in the entire book of Revelation where he calls himself the Son of God. He wanted Thyatira to know this truth. And he wants you to know it. So don't put limits on what God says He can do through you. Keep pressing forward. Just like Thyatira. You might recall that their mirror image sister church in Ephesus They were guilty of going backwards. Remember, they started well and then they forgot their first love. Well, in Thyatira, we're told they're doing better at the end than they were at the start. And you can too. And what's more, in Christ, with the indwelling of his spirit You will. Let's pray. Father, we many of us Might almost feel crushed by this word from you as we recognize the guilt and timidity in our own lives. So we ask that you by your spirit would encourage your people to recognize that there is a great promise in Christ. And that you will accomplish what you say you will accomplish. Through your son. You are a wondrous, magnificent, beautiful God. Now we are too often a rebellious, selfish, lazy people. But we know that you call us to better things, that you equip us for better things. And we ask that you, by the power of your Holy Spirit, would Ignite in us a renewed fervor to live the sort of life you've called us to To stand in victory with our Savior. To announce your truth, the truth, to the world. And to not be distracted from doing the work of the kingdom. We ask your blessing upon the conversation that is to follow here momentarily. I praise you and thank you for the preservation of your word and that we can study it here together. For the moment still freely here in this country. We praise you and thank you for all these things in the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Yeah. I'm not sure if that's your favorite new word, but that's my favorite new word that you have. I will tell you that. Oh yeah? Let me see, what's this one called? My bath bible. Oh. So this one can get wet. Yeah. Do you know how to read any of these words yet? No. We're gonna work on that. Let's see, I'll bet you maybe the word amen is somewhere in here. Is the word amen anywhere in this book? Ugh, I don't think so. Bummer, I was gonna show you the word amen, but it's not there. Okay, so a little more fiery in sections this week than most weeks, but that's because This section in Revelation is rather fiery. So um any initial responses? Anybody whew that's your response? Huh? Huh? She's fiery too. Yeah, it's fiery. I like you. I like you. Oh gosh, Sally. Yeah. Ready? Um anybody feel like they've followed a good, bad, good pattern. Any parts of the letter to Thiaatara feel like it spoke specifically into your Experience the situation? Did it spark any memories or things that you'd be comfortable sharing? Well I think it's interesting, you know, the spirit of Jezebel and how that that witchedness is still hurt, sadly. Well, until Jesus returns Very current. Yes, very, very current. And but you know, a lot of people think, Oh, Jezebel, that was a long time ago and they don't understand it the spirit of that. That too good. Sign you up for the T Ball League. Yeah. Anyway, that's all I Yeah. Notice. Well clearly the spirit of Jezebel is active during this country. I mean we're seeing things in the Right. Exactly. Imagined we would see the rapid the rapidness of it. And there's a lot of stuff if you read commentaries and try to interact with the scholarship on this passage, you know, there's a lot of people that want to uh arm wrestle over you know what Jezebel means. Was there an actual woman who possibly was named Jezebel at that time? I don't think so. But was it an actual woman who was em The embodiment of Jezebel that seems more possible, uh maybe even probable, but that's not the point, because we might fall into the trap and think, well, who's our Jezebel today? We would limit ourselves to Uh a particular woman. We look through our names, right? I don't think it's any one single person. Exactly. Spirit and whoever embraces that spirit is an art developed quality. Right. Yeah, and I think that's a really And I think that's the point. I think that's the point. Yeah, it's an archetype. It's uh it's a symbolic representation of a spirit of the yeah. Well maybe towering the hayman among us. Yeah, because it may be reasonable because it's a spiritual thing. But I I I think it I think it's maybe primarily female. Old Testament imagery, but I think it's specific. referring to like a woman in this case. Or else it would use a different Old Testament imagery that conveys something else like a hand or Alright, who are the other big villains in the Bible? But but do you know what I mean? Either sex could could exhibit those qualities the immortality. The immorality, you know, the like for instance the harlotry of Jezebel. Well men can can exhibit Yeah, they can prostitute themselves and all that kind of stuff. What's that? I'm sorry, I didn't hear it. Dandies? Yeah, I'm more familiar with Panamite, but but you might remember another name that we returned with uh in the earlier letters, you know, the name of Balam. You know, the Nicolaitans were kind of capturing the spirit of Balaam. You know, here we have the church in Thyatira, you know, they're capturing the spirit of Jezebel. So That that's the point. It's not like Balaam was walking the streets you know, hundreds of years after his death. Right. And it's not like that ba Balaam's spirit only affected men. Right. Yeah. Right, right, right. Yeah. 'Cause there's more than just one gender in the congregations. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, but one thing that's clear is that this person has resisted Right, right. They refuse to repent. Yeah, and those that are her children, right? Those who are her followers. You know, and right. And we know that those aren't that aren't children of God are children of the devil. Children of the devil. So Jezebel's children are the devil's children Um and it's marked uh specifically for us in the passage with you know uh particular sins of of sexual immorality and idolatry. And I think I went out of my way to highlight this at a in a moment last week in the message. Doesn't that not sound like today? Yeah, the Bible is about sexual sin. But I mean if you were to try to figure out what are the biggest plagues in our culture today, it's sexual sin and idolatry. Like that is pervasive. It def it defines our era, sadly. In fact, if you speak again, think your later dig it's all of it. But the thing is, what are they and what do they want uh criticized for is power. Well, and the biggest problem with all of it is they have to know foundation for any sort of normal standing here. What's wrong with um a bag of stardust touching another bag of They it actually worked. Well, it's kinda like in the Old Testament where they create the bull calf, the golden calf, like they weren't They were basically trying to create a parallel religion. Like, okay, we're gonna keep everything else, but this is our God now. And that's kind of what they want to do, but a parallel religion will ultimately fall apart. But it it won't stay parallel. And you you definitely see like very a lot of attempts nowadays of parallel um morality standards. Like I think Emmanuel Kant pretty much created a parallel morality standard to Christianity 'cause you know, a lot of the conclusions are the same, but it you know, it slowly starts to fall apart when you flex it out for him. That's what he was trying to do. again? He's a philosopher. So kind of like a response to Yeah, everybody, uh I mean we're we're we're made in God's image. You know, we're that image is marred and broken and scarred and in some cases almost beyond all recognition. But we all still have an aspect of God's image imprinted on us and so we can't help but have a conscience and some sort of a moral moral standard even with their own psychotic moral standard. Somebody's gonna try to create their own moral structure. In fact somebody on social media this past week maybe it was the week before He was going back and forth with me on a question, and he went out of his way to say, these are his words, I'm not a moralist. And then went on to say all sorts of things that were his negative perception of the Christian worldview. The Christian worldview is bad for these reasons. I was like, well, if you're not a moralist, how can you make a moral claim? Clearly you're a moralist. We're all moralists. But there's only one true foolproof moral standard, and that is God's. And any whether it's Immanuel Khan or anybody else, you try to replace the God's moral standard with something of your own, even if it's close to his It's it's yeah, you're uh making an idol of your own thinking and thoughts on that. Um I don't want to go on too long because we're already like at seven, but I do two things I um hope we have time to talk about. One is the central part of the the message, which is the hard-hitting, but scary, dramatic kind of, holy cow, we've got we're dealing with the r uh of the wrath of God here. Uh anybody have uh a thought to share with maybe somebody who's listening who's not initiated into the family of Christ, who's you know, maybe stumbled onto this and like, holy cow, what is that? Anybody have something to say or just a reaction about that part of it? Well the idea that there is a gu a God of wrath and it's it's a god of wrath even in the New Testament, you know, post cross, right? It's not just the old testament. Right. Um yeah, I I guess I have some words to throw down about that. This passage is in red font. At least in my Bible, it's in red, which means Jesus is speaking. And this is the same Jesus that gave the sermon on on the Mount. And a lot of people like to associate the Jesus on the Sermon on the Mount as this nice cool teddy bear like figure. And then you see this whole a lot of messaging around these days is the whole Jesus is And that image actually gets reinforced by a lot of the songs that pass his praise and worship 'Cause it sounds like you're dating the guy. Interesting. Right. But you know, then you contrast that with and their view of Jesus does not square with the Jesus in Revelation where it is he's a conqueror, he's a king, he's here to judge the world, he's issuing warnings to the church and he's praising the church as well. So we're seeing uh a husbandly, a more husbandly Jesus. In Revelation by husband, I I'm in many ways referring to like animal husbandry, where he's talking about calling the herd and you know, protecting the herd. So so that type of image or that kind of meaning of a husband is really emphasized. And it's not the cuddly romantic voice Yeah. I I guess what I would add to that is um Ah going to pastor choice point of of of God being a God of wrath. God is God is low, every everybody knows that. But he's a God of wrath against Sin and he hates sin more passionately than we can really understand. And um God is either wrath is poured out on Jesus on the cross on our behalf so that we would not have to suffer. Suffer the ultimate wrath of God because of sin. If and if we don't receive what He did to save us from our own wrongdoing, we Receive receive that in the form of forsaking and repenting from the wrong that we do and receiving him as savior and it and accepting what he did as a substitute for what we desire If we don't receive that wrath poured out on Jesus on our behalf, then God's going to turn around and pour that wrath out on us And we're going to pay. We're going to get justice instead of mercy. There's really only two things that we can get from God. We can either get mercy and grace or we can get pure, um unfettered, unhindered justice. But the wrath of God against sin is going to it's it's it's going to be poured out one way or the other. Father, either on our behalf through Jesus, or we're going to suffer ourselves because we refuse his mercy and his grace and and receiving that wrath on our behalf So don't believe the lie that God is so loving and so gracious that you can just live a life of sin and without repenting. Don't believe that. That is a great lie. It is a very deep, dark deception that a lot of so-called churches are teaching. God is a God of wrath against sin. You've got to not want that in your life. And it doesn't mean that you will live a life of perfection once to repent, but your heart will be bent towards living for God. You'll want to live for Him. You'll feel bad when you do make a mistake. You'll repent. It's it's kind of an ongoing repenting relationship with Him because we're always messing up, but you will you'll literally feel bad that you've let let God down because of your sin and you'll repent and he and and his love and his acceptance and his grace is there there for you over and over and over again Again. But I would just appeal to anybody who might be struggling with this question, don't believe the lie that God will not judge sin. There's a hell and there's a s a passage, I forget which which book in the Old Testament that says your sin will find you out. If you don't get rid of it, it's gonna come back and it's going to cling to you Um well it it's so it i it it's clinging to you anyway, but you know what I'm saying. I don't want to overspeak, but just don't believe the lies That is pervasive in our culture, which is God is so loving, so gracious, so merciful, you can live any kind of way you want to. You can slap the the the word love as a label on anything you want to and excuse. God is a God of wrath. He loves you enough that he wants to save you, but if If you don't forsake that sin and you don't start, you know, um living for the devil, you're gonna experience a bad yeah. Well, he loves us enough that he doesn't forsake it. I know. That's not love. That's not love either exactly. He's not gonna force he's not gonna f he's not gonna force um you to repent. But if you don't you know, then he's still gotta judge that sin because it's wrong. You know, so um um just don't uh I I I just think a lot of people are confused because The so-called churches, so many so-called churches are teaching a horrible lie that um God is so filled with love that we can just do whatever we want to do and everybody's going to heaven somehow, somehow And come as you are, stay as you are. So what Angela was just sharing is what all believers should be sharing. And uh to Dina's point, you know, Christ isn't forcing anybody, but he has told everybody. And so that should be the Christian practice. We can't force anybody into salvation. That's not up to us anyway. But we're not going to force anybody into the church and believing in Jesus Christ. But we should tell them Should tell them the truth. They're in great peril. And yet not just the It's interesting. It seems like the non-believers might be more attuned to the truth that God is a God of wrath, which is why they have a hard time embracing him. And then the believers seem to be the ones that are more prone to not want to really believe in the fullness of God being a, you know, the idea of God being the God of wrath. It's it's really inside out. So the other thing I want to touch on you know we began and particularly we were ending with a softer note. So let's whoa that could have she's gonna fall right in her nog in there for a second. Uh anybody want to uh take a run at putting a nice, soft, beautiful, delicate flower bow on this message that talks about uh You know, the the beauty of Christ, the beauty of his church, the beauty of the gospel message. Ooh, that that seems still going to be right up your alley. Well, when I was praying this morning um one of the things that was an aha moment for me and it it's it's so simple when we talk about God's unfailing love and And one of the things that resonated with me is the fact that once we are in the family of God, we become a believer. We are born again. His unfailing love is you can't undo that. It's not possible. He doesn't lose one. It's un Failing love. You for the first time in your life have the love of God, the love of Christ indwelling in you. Can't be undone. Ever, ever, ever. Now, if you ever reject it, it's because you never had it to begin with. But that can that's unsailing love. That's the beauty, that's the blessing, that's the grace. That's the mercy. That's the gift. That's love. And he loves us so much that he has to punish evil. Because who wants to be in heaven with a bunch of evildoers? Then it won't be heaven anymore. Exactly. For the rest of eternity. His justice is an expression of his love. Exactly. Yeah, I mean a a loving godness doesn't take the hell. So unfailing. Unfailing. Welcome we welcome you in. Yeah, so the fact of the matter is we have a holy just God and we can't exist in his holy presence. in a sinful uh condition. And he's provided a way through his son so that we can exist with him So the fact of the matter is there is sin and therefore there is wrath, but the good news is we're rescued from the consequences of our And so if you're tempted to be angry at God and angry about the whole Christian message, don't be so angry. He's told you, look, these are the consequences, but you don't have to experience those consequences So embrace the good news if you would. And if you're not really sure exactly what that would look like, reach out to me. Alright. Um maybe one of the gentlemen could close us in prayer. Maybe Ray, are you comfortable closing us in prayer? Dear Lord, we thank you for this day and we thank you for this fellowship and gathering together here And we just thank you for this message on Revelation 2. And Lord, we just we come to you knowing that we relate to this church. And And, you know, your words to their church definitely hit home to us and our nation's church today. And we just, you know, pray that we would not that we would heed your instruction to the church in Revelation and therefore would also persevere and reap the rewards that you have promised. In Jesus' name we pray these things, Anna. Well thank you for joining us. We'll be back next week on Facebook Live. Uh 6 o'clock on Saturday and these videos get posted to the YouTube channel usually on Mondays, so give it a couple of days and you can find this on YouTube if you are interested in finding it there And if you want to find the easiest way to connect with us, all the various ways to connect with us, the hub for that is our website. So you can go to household of faith in Christ dot com and find everything about us there. Till next week. God bless.