It looks like we're rolling. I'm gonna hope and assume that you can hear me. If somebody here could double check that, that'd be good. You want to double check and make sure they can hear me? Until I hear otherwise, I'm gonna assume you can hear me. So welcome Facebook And if you're watching this later, welcome YouTube. Um I guess I'll step here real quick. So today we're going to be in Revelation chapter three. We uh started Chapter 3 in Revelation last week. We're continuing, so we'll pick up where we left off. We're going to be in verses 7 through 13. So if you have your Bibles, you want to grab them so you can follow along, you're encouraged and welcome to do so. Again, Revelation 3 7 through 13. The message today is titled, Fear Not Little Flock. If you've been following along with us in recent weeks So most of our weeks in Revelation, we've taken some time to read some extended passages from the Old Testament because John, in describing his visions for us, he puts so much uh uh emphasis on drawing illusions from the Old Testament, it's good for us. Okay. It's it's good for us to uh But we're not going to be doing that this week. We didn't last week either for a different reason. But I want I'm going to have like a kind of a prelude or a preamble. to the sermon today where I'm going to tie up a few loose lines and point out some things for emphasis and make sure that I properly emphasize some things and make it clear enough for you before we actually get into the the heart of the message. I would encourage you to visit us visit us online, household of faithinchrist. com. Find out what we're all about. And I encourage you if you're not uh going to church anywhere and you're within driving distance of Frederick, that maybe reach out to me and we can see if this might be a fit for you. So That's enough of me for now. We'll have the sermon here and then followed by a discussion afterwards, and you are welcome to participate in the discussion in the comments section here on Facebook Live. And if you're watching this later in the comments section on YouTube, and I can interact with you there if you like Anyway, we'll get going here. Typically we have Angela open us in prayer, so I guess I'll ask Angela to do that again and then we'll get started. Our Father and our God, we thank you for blessing us with a week of safety and a week of provision and for gathering us. Here today, Father, as your body, as a as a bride of Christ, as the church of Christ. And we just ask, Father, that the message that goes forth is straight from the throne room of heaven. Heaven that it Lord that it it accomplishes what you want it to accomplish today in the hearers whom you bring to hear the message. We pray that there will be fruit, Lord that comes forth from the teaching today, fruit that is a blessing to our lives and a blessing to your kingdom. And we do thank you and we ask this in the name Amen. Thank you. So there's something that I've been doing. you know, loosely at least drawing some attention to in these letters to the seven churches. And uh I want to make sure that I've been clear enough on a particular aspect of this. In each of these letters In each one, we find language that draws teachings from the specific context of each city. Like in Thyatira where their chief deity was Apollo, the sun god. I'm gonna, by the way, I got a toy all of a sudden make a noise for no reason why you turn this off. Anyway, um Diatira I mentioned they their chief deity during this time was the was Apollo, the sun god. And that's the church to whom Jesus says he will give them the true morning star. So again, the teaching is playing off of the historical context there. And this morning star, Sun God thing, we can appreciate the importance of this when we read Revelation chapter 22. Look at verse 16 there, or 2 Peter 1, verse 19. And if you want to do your own personal study on this, I would encourage you also to check out Numbers 24, verse 17, and also the Gospel according to Matthew 2, verse 2. And the idea here is that, yes, it is bleak having Apollo as the fraudulent morning star, but just before dawn. Right when the night is darkest and coldest, that's when Christ's morning star appears. And we might feel like pawns in a tug of war when it comes to culture and politics. But then the then is coming. When our Lord's dominion is shared with his people. And then even better than his dominion, we get a deeper joy and treasure. We get God Himself. Now let's recall the church in Smyrna. This is the church whom Christ makes the promise concerning the crown of life. Now it's no accident that this city worshipped Sibylly, and she was pictured on their coins wearing a crown. And her the crown that she wore was figured like a city battlement. And this mirrored the look of Smyrna itself, whose defensive buildings around the city were said to look like a crown. Now the crown, wearing false god and those impress impressive military structures that were made to look kind of like a crown surrounding the city, these were symbols of hope for safety and security, protecting their life. Well, Christ Himself is the ultimate source of protection and safety and security, the true source of life, and he gives his followers the crown of life, eternal life. And this isn't to be confused with temporal matters, right? Because we know, remember Smyrna, they're also the church that was promised affliction. But it would last only 10 days, remember that. Well, consider the 10 days. They could end with a return to some form of earthly freedom. Or it could end with a call to be with the Lord in heaven. It could only be ten days, but it could end either way. It could end with something actually better than a worldly reprieve, right? It could end with martyrdom. We've also visited Pergamum in recent weeks. That's a city where the people had institutionalized the worship of their rulers. Adelus I, he ruled the city a couple hundred years before Christ's first advent. And Adelus, he took for himself the divine title Savior. And his son, Eumenes II, he ruled after his dad. He did the same thing. He in fact called himself not only Savior, but he also called himself God. And the people went along with this. So we can see that, well ethnically descended from Israel's patriarchs, those Jews who might have been living in the air at the time, they were showing themselves to not truly be God's people. The people of today really aren't all that different. We need to be reminded, we need to be called to a spiritual life that comes only through serious repentance Serious obedience. And this is what gives evidence that a person has their name actually in the book of life. And it will never be blotted out, as we were taught in the letter to the church in Saris. Now before we jump into today's text and the official sermon for you know the letter to Philadelphia. Let's talk about the Book of Life for a minute. This book is one of the themes that is found in the movie Schindler's List. I don't know if you ever drew that connection, but maybe you uh you might remember that connection if you did see it, or at least remember the storyline of the movie if you saw it, right? It's based upon the work of Oskar Schindler, a real historical guy, a wealthy businessman. He rescues Polish Jews from the evil intentions of the Nazi socialists during World War II. And in the movie, Schindler, he keeps a list of names, a list of saved people. And he took great risk. He sacrificed much to pay for these people's lives. That's the whole point of the storyline. But at the end of the movie, he breaks down in tears He's sobbing. He knows. He could have done so much more. He could have traded into his wristwatch to save just one more life, for example. And that's just scratching the surface. Now the real-life Oscar Schindler, he was not necessarily always kind or idealistic. He was brave, no doubt, but he was flawed. We're told that he enjoyed his booze, enjoyed his women, enjoyed his money. Enjoyed his money so much that we're we're we're led to believe that uh early in his saving people efforts that he actually did it, it seems. As a profiteer, he did it as a way of making money. So his motives maybe weren't all that pure. So he wasn't a man without sin. Now this is not to condemn him. I'm not a man without sin either. Nobody who's hearing my voice right now is a person without sin. I bring this up because it it's a contrast with the one who absolutely is without sin. Now Oscar, he could have saved more. He could have, and he knew it. But his sin kept him from doing so. There was more price he could have paid. But he didn't. This is not so with Jesus Who paid the full price. And he saves all of his people. All of his sheep are saved. He loses not one. So he is not torn up sobbing somewhere with regret. Oh, if only I had done more. Now Schindler knew that his list was incomplete. Names were missing. Names that should have been there, but they weren't. Because with regard to those missing names, Schindler failed them. Compare this with Christ's list. His book of life. It's totally complete. No names missing and no names ever to be blotted out. So as we face our contemporary forces of Nazi-like socialists, are we tossing our eggs into man-made baskets? I mean even good baskets, those that are named Oscar, they're not the highest of solutions. Instead of this, are we placing our eggs in the perfectly protective basket that's named Messiah? The one who is holy. who is true, who holds the key of David. These are some things to think about as we now read the message to Philadelphia, Revelation chapter 3. Verses seven through thirteen. So if you're not already there, I invite you to turn there. Revelation three, beginning with verse seven, God's word says to us, and to the angel of the church in Philadelphia, write. He who is holy, who is true, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, and who shuts and no one opens says this. I know your deeds. Behold, I have put before you an open door which no one can shut. Because you have little power and have kept my word, and have not denied my name. Behold, I will cause those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and are not but lie. I will make them come and bow down at your feet and make them know that I have loved you. Because you have kept the word of my perseverance, I also will keep you from the hour of testing, that hour which is about to come upon the whole world to test those who dwell on the earth. I am coming quickly. Hold fast what you have, so that no one will take your crown. He who overcomes I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God, and he will not go out from it anymore, and I will write on him In the name of my God, in the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven from my God, and my new name. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. Indeed Those with an ear to hear, let them hear the inspired, infallible, inerrant word of God, which is a fully sufficient rule and guide for faith and life practice. So Philadelphia still exists today. It is presently called the city of Allah Shahir. This means to Muslims the city of God, the city of Allah. It was about 200 years before Revelation was written that it was founded by King Adelus Philadelphus II. He was from Pergamum. And Adelus Philadelphus, we're told, seems to have a rather highly unusual devotion to his brother, and so we have the original etymology for the nickname for this city, the city of brotherly love. And there was a time when this city was renamed Neo Caesarea in honor of Emperor Tiberius. And this new name translated into English means Caesar's New City. Now contrast this with what we just read, the coming of the New Jerusalem. And this city was also known as the Gateway to the East, which connects directly to the ideas of Christ's letter. to the church here, which speaks of opening and closing doors, opening and closing the gates and the keys to the city. Now you might be familiar with the ceremonial practice, right? You've seen this where they give the ceremonial key to the city to someone. Often there's a great big spectacle made, it's a photo opportunity. You know the mayor of some town, he gives the key to some other you know famous person. Key's usually so gigantic that it makes everybody there look like Liliputians, you know Well, these honorary practices, they're simply symbolic of honor, trust that are being bestowed to this someone, this special famous someone. But that enormous fake key doesn't actually open any locks. But with Christ It's different. His key, the key of David, the key to the city of David, the key to the city of Jerusalem, which is the location of the temple, the representative seat of God's power, this key. does lock and unlock. It's not merely honorary. It is in fact Actual Christ can and does open and close whatever doors it is his will to open. and close. And no one can do anything about it. Some of our English translations they have the phrase, an open door which no one closes. Or No one will shut. The better idea, which most translations actually do capture, is the idea of ineptitude in challenging Christ's authority. No one can close what he opens. It's not merely that no one has done it. It's not that no one might do it. No one can shut what the sovereign Lord opens. No one can open what the sovereign Lord shuts. Now if you'd like to do a little more in-depth personal study on the key of David, then you're going to look and see how it connects with Isaiah chapter 22, particularly verses 15 through 24, also 1 Corinthians chapter 16. Especially verses five through nine. Also 2 Corinthians chapter 2, verses 12 and 13, and Colossians 4, verse 3. And what you'll notice in Paul's letters Is the idea of God opening doors for sharing the gospel? And this is part of how we should understand this. At some level It is about the mission of the church. God opens doors and we are called to walk through them. I don't want us to miss the big picture of this magnificent word painting that we've been given here. Don't forget Revelation 1, verse 18, which we covered just a few weeks ago. That's the verse that also mentions keys possessed by Christ. The keys to death and haze. Now the door that is held open to the church in Philadelphia and to all churches, since all of these seven letters are for all churches. It is a door that is held open to the kingdom of God. And because Jesus holds David's keys. Because the king's keys are in the hands of the King of Kings. No one can lock anyone out whom the master says is a citizen of the city sanctuary of God. Our master holds the master key with full authority over the master lock. This master, this king, Jesus, he has given you an open door. Now, a way to think about this is that he has put before you An open door. And when he says that he's giving you something, the NASB, which is a translation I read, it helpfully translates this as he will cause for you something. Now, how comforting is this, right? Think of it. He gives you eternal life. He has put before you eternal life. He will cause you to have eternal life. Because he has the keys of David. He has the keys of death. And Hades, he has authority over not merely the first death, but over the second death as well. Hallelujah. This is a promise. Look at verse 10. God says he will see his people through the hour of trial so that they don't lose faith. And those opponents of the faith, they will be judged. Look at verse nine. Now some of these opponents, they they will ultimately fall down at the feet of believers, thanking them for standing firm, thanking Them for ministering the gospel to them, thanking them for their own conversions. And some of these opponents will fall down at the feet of the worshipers, at the judgment. Acknowledging too late that the one whom these believers worship is the one true God. And the only one who is worthy of worship. How glorious it is to share in the glory of the glorified Christ. Now, what John has recorded for us here is a reversal of what we see happening in the Old Testament. The opponents of Christ's church, they are the religious folks. I mean specifically, verse 9, Jews. In this context, the Jews are representing those who should have the truth. True Jews, like Paul and Peter and Matthew and John and so forth. True Jews follow Jesus. Similarly, today, true Christians like Paul and Peter and Matthew and John and so forth, they follow Jesus They are God's people chosen by him. But scriptures tell us that not all Israel is of Israel Now in the Old Testament period, the role of the nation of Israel was to serve as an example, an evangelist, if you will, to the pagan Gentiles that surrounded them. And now here we have converted formerly pagan Gentiles serving as an example, as an evangelist, if you will, to what had become pagan Jews. Again, we've talked about this before. The true Israel is Christ himself. And by extension It is all of those Jews and Gentiles who are in him. Now the bowing down is pictured here, by the way. This is not a picture where we are worshipped. He is worshipped. We are now worshipped. It's important perhaps to note here when verse 9 says that they will know that I have loved you. Not to pull a pastor's card out of my back pocket here, but if you know how to understand the original Greek and the syntax and the rules of grammar and the sentence structure, the word I Is emphatic here. They will know that I, the creator of the universe, the El Shaddai, the great I am, that I have loved you. The focus of worship is on him. Now very often when listening to a sermon on this portion of the Bible, the emphasis is on church mission. Evangelism, service, things like that. And while it doesn't strike me as the central point of the passage, it is the natural outworking, outworking of what is the central point. Each saint is assured by faith that he and or she is a member of God's temple, and therefore we are expected, nay, even commanded. To live lives in accordance with this assurance. Our mission in the world is complete only when God says it is complete. When God's Son returns. Until then, we are to take full advantage of the mission opportunities that are set before us. Full advantage of those open doors. And we must endure in doing this to the end. We do this by keeping his word of perseverance, his word of endurance. Fill up to that task. Not always quite so much. Well, take courage. And I mean that as an encouragement to you and also a command. I mean feel better about this because you can do all things through him who strengthens you. But also do something about this. You have been given a commission. You recall the letter to the church in Smyrna. They received no criticism. But there was a hint of a problem. In verse 10 of chapter 2, they were told to stop fearing. Are you fearing? Stop. Look to the example of Philadelphia As with Smyrna, the believers in Philadelphia, they receive no criticism, but they have a problem. It says in verse 8, you have little power. Do you have a little power? Now, before we jump too quickly into answering that, let's make sure we rightly understand the phrase. A wooden translation here would be Small power. The church in Philadelphia has small worldly power. They were small in human esteem, but they were not small in spiritual strength. They leaned upon strength directly from God, and so they hear these beautiful words from our Lord, saying, You have kept my word, and you have not denied my name. Go and do likewise. Keep his word. Proclaim his name. Do not deny it I know. I know. Trust me, I know. You're tempted to feel insecure. Even maybe sometimes terrified. But Christ promises security. The open door that He has placed before you, it symbolizes freedom to approach God. himself. And don't you ever forget that, because that is the s source of your strength. And you need it, don't you? Boy, oh boy, do we need it. Trusting in our own strength just will not cut it. Now sometimes it feels as though will, right? There's times we feel like, yeah, through my strength of character, through my willpower, through intestinal fortitude, I can accomplish shocking things. Of course, even that sort of character and that fortitude, those things come from God through His common grace. But as those who are truly committed to walking with the Lord, we know we need much more than this, don't we? Now if you're not maybe a follower of Christ, you're saying, yeah, I'm pretty good on my own. I can handle it. I'm strong. I got this Even those who are, you know, deluding themselves in this way, you have to admit, right? You have to certainly acknowledge that If and when things get rough enough, then you'll need something more, something outside of yourself. Right when things get rough enough, well this moment of rough enough is coming. And in certain respects it has come. It came for the church in Philadelphia. They were told that the hour of testing was coming and that Christ would keep them when it came. The test is coming upon the whole world. As a test for those who dwell on the earth, it says. And the believers in Philadelphia, they were told that they'd face it The Greek word here for world, it's not the word for universe, it's not cosmos. It's the word for the inhabited earth, all who are walking the earth. It's talking about those who live here on earth. Now, as Christians, we have a dual citizenship, right? We are citizens in heaven, but we're also still walking on the earth. In this area of the world, Asia Minor, Certainly no stranger to earthly tests. Mentioned in some of the other letters how they had a series of earthquakes in their region. Well Philadelphia, they are prone to earthquakes. Because they were located south of a valley that was created by a lava flow. And our ancient brothers and sisters in Philadelphia, well, they they're no stranger to additional trials beyond these quakes. I mean, as was mentioned already in the text, they were victims of oppression and tribulation from the Jewish opposition that they faced. So they clearly lived through some stuff Some difficult tests. Trials of all sorts. And so do we, don't we? You haven't forgotten the year 2020 already, have you? It's not everybody. And you haven't forgotten what we learned from church history, where Protestants still to this day actually are said to be anathema, accursed by the Roman Catholic Church. Which accuses us Protestants of being in rebellion. They keep us from their fellowship table. Now I try to give a wide berth to our friends who are dedicated to Rome, because often individuals are not really actually all that fully committed to the official teaching from the papacy. But when they act consistent with the radical lies that come from Rome, well then they are a form of what the biblical uh the the book of Revelation calls synagogue of Satan. Sound harsh? Do you recall the Inquisition? All those burnings at the stake? All those long, horrible, bloody wars even? So way back in Philadelphia? Throughout church history, all the way up to today, God's people face tests. Well then what does it mean for Christ to keep his people from it? Well, help might come from the dictionary. There we find that Keith means to cause to continue in a specified condition, position, course, etc. As in, he keeps his front yard in excellent condition. The storms will come, the drought will come, those seeds for dandelions come. The neighborhood kids come traipsing through. That strayed dog comes that doesn't somehow seem to know it's supposed to carry along with it a plastic bag to pick up after itself. All of this comes, and still, despite the odds, the owner of the house keeps his front yard in excellent condition. The owner of the house, he owns his front yard, he takes care of it. Keeps it in rock and shape to the envy of all the neighbors. And this is how Jesus Christ keeps us. Because keep it also means something about ownership, right? Again in turning the dictionary, keep means to have or retain possession of, to have control over something. Well, with his understanding, we see that Jesus, he owns us, right? We are slaves to Christ. And so he has placed his seal of protection on us. Receiving God's name, that's a seal of protection. It transforms us from those with little power into those with great power Because we have access to his power. Christ writing his name on us. That speaks of him imprinting his character on us, identifying us as belonging to him. And we already know about this, putting s the name on something and the importance of that right. It's why we you know writing our name on something, it's it's it's our claiming possession of that something. When we're in school, you put your name on your paper so the teacher knows that paper belongs to you. That's why lots of moms over the years have sewn their kids' names into the inside of their clothes so that after those clothes tumble through the laundry they can pull them out and say, hmm. Now I can tell who these undies belong to. It's also part of the reason why wives bear the last names of their husbands. You know, she heads out into a public place where men are on the prowl. And it's good for them men on the prowl to know, hey That's my wife. She bears my name. So hands off. That's why Andy wrote his name on the bottom of Woody's foot in Toy Story. And then he also wrote his name on the foot for Buzz Lightyear, too. Because they belong to Andy. And you and I, we, as faithful believers, we belong to Christ. And he will see us through. So hang in there. Hold on. Remember that song from 1966 by Sam and Dave? Way back in 1966. A good year 1966 was. It's the year that Sam and Dave sung for everyone to hold on, I'm coming. As a refresher, these are the opening lyrics to that song. Don't you ever feel sad? Lean on me when times are bad. When the day comes. And you're down in a river of trouble and about to drown? Just hold on I'm coming. Hold on. I'm coming. Now, of course, this is a song about a false Christ, placing one's hope in the security of an earthly lover. But even within the lie, we can still see the truth burst through. Earthly loves, they will fail you, at least in an ultimate sense, they they will fail you. But our heavenly love will never fail you. No one will take from you what he has purchased for you. And he is coming quickly. Some English translations they say he is coming soon. Soon. It's been nearly two thousand years. Four things on that question really quick. First, I want to remind you that to the Lord, a thousand years is his day, and a day is a thousand years. Second, in 2 Peter chapter 3, we're told that the Lord is not slow in keeping his promise, as some understand slowness. Third, I would hope that some of you might remember our recent series on the Epistles of John, where in 1 John we learn that we are now in the last hour. And fourth, the book of Acts, it quotes the prophet Joel in chapter 2, beginning with verse 17, it says In the last days, God says, I will pour out my spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy, your young men will see visions, your old men will dream dreams. Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days, and they will prophesy. I will show wonders in the heavens above and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and billows of smoke. The sun will be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the coming of the great and glorious day of the Lord. And anyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. This was quoted in the context of Pentecost. It was the Apostle Peter's way of proclaiming the fact that these things were now happening, and the last days had begun. And here we are, all these days later, and the last days are continuing. But the last day is coming. And when it does, it comes quickly. But fellow travelers of the way, Jesus invites you to hear something. So hear this. He will make you a pillar in God's temple. You have an important role to play. And you are given the strength to hold up under the weight of these responsibilities. Because he makes you a pillar. Now the people of Philadelphia, due to all of those intense earthquakes that they suffered through their history, they knew the importance of a pillar. And there's an additional interesting backstory to share about this. You know, there was once a grand temple in Philadelphia that was supported by a pillar, and here it is, all these years later. And the pillar, it's still there. If you go there today, you will see it. Despite all the natural disasters and the military conquests and other challenges to its survival, the pillar is still there. And the church in this city, it's still there. Unlike so many of the other cities in the region, the church in Philadelphia survived. At the end of the 14th century, Philadelphia was the last Byzantine city to fall and surrender to the Turks. It held on when the others did not. And because they held fast, they held on, they were in a position to negotiate better terms for themselves than were the other cities. And as a result, To this day, the church is there. And it retains the privilege, believe it or not, of free Christian worship In a Muslim country, one third of its population is said to be Christian today. Now these are just little physical reminders of what we know to be spiritually true. Christ, the bridegroom, is faithful to his bride, the church. So be faithful to him as was the church in Philadelphia. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the encouragement we can draw from this letter to The church in Philadelphia would thank you for preserving it for us all these years and giving us the means and the opportunity to press in and study it, learn from it, and ideally hopefully to apply the lessons from it to our lives. We ask your blessing upon our discussion that we're about to participate in. We ask for a heightened sense of your spirit among us, and that we will be ever faithful. Committed to holding on to the promises of Jesus Christ. It's His name we pray. Amen Well, I think we tested the microphone this time. We'll see how good it did at having the sound be focused on me. I think it in the past it's it's done a pretty good job with that. I think we're gonna be in good shape. So before I ask any sort of targeted questions, any general reactions? This is one of my favorite letters. This this one I connect to the most. Because it's the most hopeful? There's no criticism of the church? No. I think it's because what I aspire to. I aspire to be one Like this church and also the comfort in knowing that in terms of testing, even if I wanted to, I can't Um do anything that would jeopardize my citizenship in heaven. Because if it were To me, I would have lost it a day after I got it. So that brings me great comfort to know that you know there's this Peace, not peace isn't even a strong enough word. Guarantee. Signed, sealed, delivered. Um expectation. that I can rest in is just joyful and I I need to keep that in focus you know, during all this crud from COVID and all that, because it that is a number on me mentally, you know. So that you lose sight of that, and that's actually the enemy's goal, right? To cause us to lose sight of the hope that we have a Christ. So Anyway. Yeah, and I think in follow up to that, I think that, you know, it might have been harder for Christians in America to identify with some aspects of this letter because they're they're a church in the minority, they're a church of little power, right? Little influence in the world. Even in religious circles, I mean they're they're little even compared to the the Jews that were in opposition to them. Uh and yet they're uh highly praised by their Lord and they're it's affirmed that they're gonna make it through, just hold on that c kind of thing. And, you know, a lot of American history, you know, the church has been part of the m the majority culture. Not that the majority of Americans are necessarily Christian. Christians, it's hard to only God knows that. But the majority culture was a Christianized kind of a culture. And we live in kind of a post-Christian uh season of history right now where the true authentic Bible-believing Christians uh have reason to suspect that they're a distinct minority with little power Um but it's a healthy reminder for us that our power isn't drawn from ourselves, right? Our power is drawn from from him. Anybody else have a general reaction? This church got all you think of something else. They got the easy letter. Obviously they earned it, but well the point's not to get the easy letter, it's like wow Well it's clearly it's the most uh uh positive right of all the letters. Two churches don't get rebuked, but this one seems to be Like just at a special kind of a level. You think of the letters in Revelation and the one that's positive, the letter to the Church of Philadelphia is the first ones that comes to mind, I think. So um There's a level of intimacy in this one that I gravitate towards and maybe it's because they're small and they feel like they've got nothing to offer and I can relate to that and then Jesus comes and says, I see you. I you know, I get you. I I it's not going unnoticed and I'm gonna protect you. You know, don't feel like ye of little faith, you know, it's that type of a thing. And that to me, I feel like I For get a glimpse of Christ's heart for his church, for his bride. It's interesting the easiness of the letter actually ties into something Jesus taught us. You know, we read about the gospels that his burden is easy. You know. Your your uh mom says she felt that you were Talking directly to her. Oh yeah? Mm-hmm. That's because nineteen sixty six was a good year. I'm curious to see younger people in this room. You knew that song. Yeah. You knew the song too, right? You heard it before. I don't know. I mean it was like in the decade we were born, so we didn't grow up hearing it. Yeah. No, but And just as a little aside on that, no, I'm you know, some people I've gotten over the years when I do something like that, whether it'd be in a certain I've got some light pushback on occasion. People get uncomfortable uh drawing from a secular source and pointing to a gospel truth. Um I'm to be honest, I'm a big fan of looking for gospel hooks everywhere and anywhere that that we can find them and taking what the enemy intended for evil and figuring out how to spin it and use it for Yeah, because Sam and Dave in that song, you know they they're on to something there. Life is hard, trouble's gonna come, there's sometimes you're gonna feel like you're drowning and you need to hang on to something. Hang on to someone you can believe in. So they got all that right. Where they get it wrong is That someone is me. Right? Trust in me. Make me your idol. Okay, well no, you got that wrong. So you properly as Talk to me never. I I said uh make you said uh make me write all the Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, you can spin these and I've done it you know, you can do it with movies, you can do it with uh with you know Broadway shows, you can do it with music, you can do it with novel There's so many things out there. Um what's the common phrase these days is all truth is God's truth, which is sometimes used as a really weird way to try to allow a bunch of lies to filter into the church. So we have to be on guard against not filtering out the lies. Lies. But if someone strikes upon the truth, okay, yeah. And let's hook on to that truth and then and and show how to jettison the lies. So in case you're one of those who's like, why is he referencing these pop songs Uh that's why. I think we can put all things to the advan to the use of the advancement of the gospel. No. You're not particularly quiet. Okay, I don't know. I feel like I need a How much to add to confit so far. One of the things I mentioned at the very beginning was another pop culture reference when I mentioned Schindler's list. Now I don't know that that's the first thing that most people would notice. They're watching Symbols and think, oh, this is providing a uh in some sort of almost like an allegory or something for Or you know, Christ in his book of life kind of thing. And I'm not a hundred percent sure that that's what's intended in the movie. It's hard to know. I'd have to have an interview with Steven Spielberg and see I doubt it. But I don't think May Mason was up for that. But but whether it was on purpose or by accident, it's there. So if you're looking for connections to scriptural truth, you can see them all over the place. That's a renewed mind in Christ, right? There's a depraved mind and then the renewed mind. So if you're operating on a renewed mind in Christ, you're able to see the gospel played out in life. If you're at a depraved mind, then Everything is perceived as that way, you know, if that's why it's so important that we renew our mind in Christ. So that we can see that. have said this right away, but I I want to swing back. Is there uh is there a tart in the comments on Facebook? I get that. But is there a way to flesh that out a little bit? bit like what part of the message felt like it was speaking directly to? Like the being of little power, feeling the need to hold on, you know, what what was there a particular aspect of the mess that particularly struck a core, because maybe we could talk about whatever that is if you're able to type that up real quick in the comments section. I think uh one of the things that we could point out in these uh in these seven letters, uh the minority of the churches are unrebuked. I so that's a a lesson maybe we could take from this, that the you know, the majority of the churches are in a bad way, uh in some pretty dramatic ways. They kinda get, you know, cupped across the ear a little bit, like, hey. You know, so when we're feeling a little isolated, I uh you know, last week was uh I think it was last week's time slime, I thought it was last Last week when the Southern Baptist Convention went through their rough week, and a lot of Bible-believing, you know, theologically conservative Christians are feeling like, holy cow, we're in the minority, and can we can we win this battle? Uh well, you know, if you're in the minority maybe that's indication you're on the right side. I don't know, but take hope from this. principle to to draw from these seven letters as a whole is that it's um kind of a way to gauge whether or not you are being authentically you know, biblical and and following the Lord is um um are you are you in the minority in in in in in your walk with the Lord, you know? Even within church co I mean the church generally is a my on a minority of the world, but even within Christendom, um you're a minority if you're not compromised. So the stat people need be careful about that though because there are a couple of cultish people out there who would who would probably try to argue this as well. But um the stat uh I think it was last week I talked about Barna. Take his research with a grain of salt, I guess, but Barna research says that six percent of Americans hold a biblical worldview. Six percent. That's probably true. You know, and it's probably high. Because Barna tends to cast a wide net in the way he asks questions, so his percentages always seem to be a bit favorable to uh the the biblical point of view. Like a a very high a very high percentage of people in Barnard Research are said to be Christian. But the way he defines Christian is pretty broad. So I would I wonder how you suspend biblical worldview as well. It might be pretty broad. She says because of the things are going through, it confirms that God is with us through everything good. Yeah. Well, it's that um one scripture when times are good And bad consider God made them both. What is that? Um shoot, where is that? I th I I think it's oh yeah. I know what you're talking about. Isn't it the rich and the poor? God made them both. Actually talking about rich people and poor people when you consider God made them both. Yeah, he made the one as well as the other. That scriptures you're talking about. Yeah, that idea of God gives and God takes away. And we have a tendency sometimes, particularly in our Western American culture culture to think in triumphalistic terms. You know, the the manifest destiny and this conquering spirit and we're gonna defeat everything and this uh What the uh theologians like to call an overrealized eschatology, you know, th taking the future victory and pulling it into the present as though Christ has already come and and uh so we feel like well if if if we're not experiencing you know if we're experiencing anything other than full victory something's wrong um you know and no we're not promised to that until the second coming You're typing something, should I? No, I'm just um trying to find that one. Oh, you're looking for the Yeah, that one that I'm just it's on my head. Um Well while you're looking for that and and and as soon as you find it you can you know Let me know. But one thing I wanted to point out too is uh particularly the preamble to the to the part of the sermon today, drawing attention to the fact that the historical and cultural context of the moment back in the first century in these cities is an important interpretive key to understanding all of the different things that are going on with the images in these letters. So I don't think I have this issue in the room, but I've talked to enough people out there that there might be somebody watching this. That's one of the reasons why not only is it okay, but I argue it's good and helpful to interact with the commentaries and thoughts and ideas from the church as a whole, some great theologians. How in the world would you know to draw some of these connections. How would you know the importance of the crown imagery? How would you know these things unless you had somebody who knew a lot about that stuff that wrote some books and taught some lectures? to help you have that insight. And that doesn't mean that you can't understand, I mean the Bible is totally understandable unto salvation. There's you know uh anybody who can read it or can listen to it with some sort of you know basic comprehension skills, uh th the Bible's perfectly clear. But some of the the nuances and the ins and outs and a pre appreciating the the the fuller depth of what's going on there, that takes some richer study. And we're naive and maybe a little icot e egotistical to think that we don't need to interact with, you know, people from uh uh other traditions than our own within the biblical uh church or interacting even with with uh non-Christian historians who, you know, they they've done their research and they know what things were like two thousand years ago. A good example is Josephus. Yeah, yeah, ancient uh historian uh Josephus Which has a lot, uh quite a bit well, a lot, uh has a number of things to say about Jesus that that are helpful, helps us to validate some of the historic claims of Christianity and so yeah, if we didn't and Josephus wasn't a believer. At least as far as we know, maybe he had a late life conversion experience or something, I don't know, but you have no reason. Yeah. Unless he was on a Sunday. Yeah. So um think about if somebody wrote these letters today to a church where you in the city you live and it referenced something that was a pop culture reference. something that was known about your city and then 2,000 years from now they're trying to connect the dots. They wouldn't know what was important about Uh your city. They couldn't. They I mean too many things would have changed. And so again, for those of the oh the Bible, that's all we don't read anything. I don't need to read, you know, Jonathan Edwards and I don't have to read RC scroll and I don't have to watch online sermons or interact with with uh you know articles and research papers and I'm not saying you have to. Some people are like militantly opposed to No sorry, just no. Yeah, d did you find the passage here? No, don't worry about it. i i y you can use these other sources to deepen your understanding and enriching your understanding if not you know yeah. Yeah, a lot of people that have that mindset uh often will tend to be King James only people as well. Not just it's not that it's just the Bible, but it's just the King James, the the authorized uh uh version. And so you'll you'll you'll notice and I might have mentioned this once or twice, I'm not sure, but you know I purposely make use of different translations in the sermons. You know, I don't get married to any particular one translation. I think I've I've uh quoted passages over the year when I was in giving sermons in this context for the House of the Faith in Christ. I think I've built the sermon around four different English translations so far You know, so I because I want to make the point that you know n no any one of them is the magic bullet. It's Ecclesiastes. So Verse 14. When times are good, be happy, but when times are bad, consider God has made the one as well as the other. Seven thirteen. I knew it and I was like, I think it's Ecclesiastes, but then I was like, Maybe it's not, but yeah. Yeah. God has given one as well as the other. Yeah. Okay, well, it is seven o'clock, so we've been going about an hour. Unless anybody else has any parting, closing thoughts they want to share before we wrap it up, we can Wrap this up. I'm excited for the day that I can ask you, Nadia, if you want to do the closing prayer. I don't think we're quite there Yeah, she does. That was new solid. Yeah, earlier today we were praying and she was sitting there and she was folding her hands and at the end of the prayer she said, Amen. We were singing some some uh praise songs and worship songs and spiritual songs and when we're done singing she was saying yay and clapping and she's into it so that's exciting Does anybody feel like they're particularly like you want to close us in prayer today? No? Do you want to look at this a prayer on it? I I mean I can, certainly. Lord, thank you so much for your word. Thank you so much that you hold us. That you were the one that causes us to have citizenship in heaven and that we cannot lose it. We are thankful for that. We are thankful that As your word says, when times are good, when times are bad, to consider that you've allowed them both to happen and that even through the bad, that you will not ever, ever Ever ever allow us to lose our salvation. And we thank you for that. We thank you for that promise. We thank you for the joy that comes from that. Cause us to be reminded of that That day in and day out, not just for ourselves, but for others to see that they might ask, and we can give them a reason for the hope that we have, for the hope that we have in you. May you be glorified through this week. May you hold us fast. May we truly have opportunity and not shy away from us. opportunity that we not deny you, but that we truly give an explanation for the hope that lies within, for your glory and for your namesake, for the advancement of your kingdom. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Alright, we'll continue our march through the book of Revelation next week. If you haven't been keeping up with your reading, catch up. What are you waiting for? Talk to you next week uh six o'clock on Saturday as usual, Telden Coplas