No, I don't believe. And hello, Facebook. I assume that we're on. We'll find out. Let me turn on a little extra light just in case we need it. All right. Hello. And if you're watching this later, hello YouTube. Welcome to Household of Faith in Christ. We are continuing our series on the book of Revelation. And as we were doing for a number of weeks in a row, we took a break the last couple of weeks reading from other passages of Scripture. We're actually going to do that today, so the people in the room are being surprised now I need somebody here to volunteer to read Numbers chapter 31, the first 16 verses. So who wants to grab that? You're each going to have a reading assignment, so Are they in different books? Uh yeah, so you wanna do numbers? Sure. Okay, numbers thirty-one, first sixteen verses. And then second Peter chapter two. You wanna maybe do that one? Uh 2 Peter 2, 12 through 22, if you can remember that. And then uh Angela, if you could do Jude. Um verses ten through nineteen when we get there. Um we're gonna have a sermon on Revelation chapter 3 verses 14 through 19 as well. So if you're following along at home and you want to read along with the scripture readings, you want to go to Numbers 31, 2 Peter 2, and the Book of Jude, and then also The book of Revelation, chapter three, where we'll be spending most of our time. And I'm gonna give you a little uh spoiler alert, a little uh treat coming your way. We've a number of sermons recently have made references to pop music songs. And there's another one in store for you today. Might be the last one for a while, I don't know, but I'll give you one more. So Uh we have to open oh before I open us with prayer, I just want to encourage you, invite you to check us out online, household of faith in Christ dot com. That is the Best place really to connect with us to find out what we're what we're all about, what we're doing. If you want to connect with our social media and stuff, you can do that through the website. It's probably the best way to do all of that. So anyway, I'm gonna maybe see Evangela would open us with prayer and then we'll get into our scripture readings. Our Father and our God, we bless you. Father, we bless you. Your wonderful name. We bless you because you are good. You are great. You are gracious. And you have gathered us here together again, once again, Father, in peace and in safety to learn of your word. And we just pray, Father, that you would speak to us all through your Holy Spirit and by your Spirit alone that we be taught what you would have us to learn today. We ask that by Him we would also apply it the lessons The principles of your word to our lives and be made stronger in you because of it and be examples to others because of lives lived for you. We ask you to bring to the Lesson who should come and keep away anyone you deem should stay away. Have your will and your will alone in what we do. We ask these things in the name of our Precious Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. All right, if you would open your Bibles. So we're going to do Numbers first. Numbers chapter 31, verses 1 through 16. Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Take full vengeance for the sons of Israel on the Midianites. Afterward you will be gathered to your people. Moses spoke to the people, saying, saying, Arm men from among you for war, that they may go against Midian, that they may go to execute the Lord's vengeance on Midian. A thousand from each tribe of all of the tribes of Israel you shall send to war. So there was a So there were furnished from the thousands of Israel a thousand from each tribe, twelve thousand armed for war. Moses sent them a thousand from each tribe. to war and Phinehas the son of Eli Eliazar, the priest, to war with them. And the holy vessel and the trumpets for the alarm in his hands. So they made war against Midian, just as the Lord had commanded Moses. And they killed every male, and they killed the kings of the Midians along with the rest of their slain. Evi and Recham and Zur and Hur and Rebba, the five kings of Midian. And they they also killed Balaam, the son of Beor, with the sword. The sons of Israel captured the woman of Minnion and their little ones, and all their cattle, and all their flocks, and all their goods they plundered. They then they burned all their cities where they lived, and all their camps with fire. They took the all the spoil and all the prey, both of man and of beast. They brought the captives and the prey and the spoil to Moses and to Eleazar the priest. and to the congregation of the sons of Israel to the camp at the plains of Moab, which are by Jordan opposite Jericho. Moses and Eleazar The priest and all the leaders of the congregation went out to meet them outside the camp. Moses was angry with the officers of the army. the captains of thousands, the captains of hundreds, who had come from service of war. And Moses said to them, Have you been spave you spared all the women? Behold, these cause the sons of Israel through the council of Balaam to trespass against the Lord in the manner in the matter of Pior. So the plague of am the plague was among the congregation of If you weren't here in previous weeks, the reason if we're doing all these readings from the Old Testament, like that one, is John in the book of Revelation. is drawing illusion after illusion after illusion from the Old Testament. And I think that we sometimes as followers of Christ struggle to fully understand what's being said in the book of Revelation. uh because we're not as familiar or not as deeply steeped in some of the Old Testament stories and the names and the images as we might be. So Now we're going to move though from the Old Testament to the New Testament and have 2 Peter chapter 2, beginning with verse 12, going through to verse 22. But these like unreasoning animals born as creatures of instinct to be captured and killed, reviling where they have no knowledge, will in the destruction destruction of those creatures also be destroyed, suffering wrong as the wages of doing wrong. They count it a pleasure to revel in the daytime. They are stained blemishes, reveling in their deceptions as they carouse with you, having eyes full of adultery that never cease from sin, enticing unstable souls, having a heart trained in greed Accursed children, forsaking the right way. Am I reading the right thing? Okay. Forsaking the right way, they have gone astray, having followed the way of Balaam the son of Beor, who loved the wages of unrighteousness, but he received a rebuke for his own transgression, for a mute donkey speaking with a voice of a man, restrained the madness of the prophet These are springs without water, and mist driven by a storm, for whom the black darkness has been reserved. For speaking out arrogance arrogant words of vanity they entice by fleshly desires, by sensuality, those who barely escape from the ones who live in error, promising them freedom while they themselves are slaves of Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them and are overcome. The last state has become worse for them than the first. For it would be better for them not to have known the way of righteousness than having I known it to turn away from the holy commandment handed unto them. It has been it has happened to them according to the true proverb. A dog returns to its own vomit and a sow after washing returns to wallowing in the mire. A couple of things to note about that passage. One is a connection with the previous passage. Uh when you know when Balaam stories come up in the uh Bible it seems like a lot of bad stuff's going on. And we uh had Balaam come up in some of the letters uh in the book of Revelation in chapters two and three. Also, the that vivid imagery about a dog returning to its vomit, that idea about vomit and what that draws to mind actually will connect with something we're going to be talking about in the sermon today. So let's see what uh Jude verses 10 through 19 have to say. Maybe they'll have something nice to say about Balaam. Let's see. But these men revile the things which they do not understand, and the things which they know by instinct, like unreasoning animals, by these things they are destroyed. Woe to them, for they have gone the way of Cain, and for pay they have crushed headlong into the error of Balaam, and perished in the rebellion of Korah. These are the men who are hidden reefs in your love feasts when they feast with you without fear, caring for themselves. clouds without water, carried along by winds, autumn's trees without fruit, doubly dead, uprooted, wild waves of the sea, casting up their own shame like bones wandering stars, for whom the black darkness has been reserved forever. It was also about these men that Enoch and the seventh generation from Adam prophesied, saying Behold, the Lord came with many thousands of his holy ones to execute judgment upon all, and to convict all the ungodly of all their ungodly deeds, which they have done in an ungodly way. and of all the harsh things which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. These are the grumblers finding fault, following after their own lusts. They speak arrogantly, flattering people for the sake of gaining an advantage. But you, beloved, ought to remember the words that were spoken beforehand by the authority. Apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ that they were saying to you, in the last time there will be mockers following after their own ungodly lusts. These are the ones who cause divisions, worldly minded, devoid of the spirit. Hmm. So divisions worldly minded. It's an important distinction to keep in mind in today's day and age where a lot of Christians who are trying to hold other professing Christians to account about what the truth of the Bible is and they're saying, oh, you're being divisive, you're causing division. We are to be divided, you know, the truth from the lie. But worldly divisions, that would be a problem. And then we you know how many times does the word ungodly show up in that passage you just read? So a lot of ungodliness. And so I think it's important for us, not just in the Old Testament, but for the New Testament too to realize, you know, how many times you talk to somebody and they talk about the Old Testament God and He's a God of judgment and wrath. Well of course in the book of Revelation, the answer is different. There's some judgment in the book of Revelation, but the rest of the New Testament, it's all lollipops and sugar plum fairies. And uh as we just read in 2 Peter and in Jude, that is simply not the case. So anybody who says that to you clearly hasn't read their Bible. So let's get into the sermon. So if you would turn to Revelation chapter 3. We'll be looking at verses 14 through 19 today. So you're going to be ready to kind of read along, follow along with the message. Now, I want to begin by telling you something that I've shared. My wife has heard me mention this a few times. I think Angela has. I'm not sure if Ray has ever heard me talk about this, but years ago, a pastor in Frederick He remarked to me that preaching the gospel in Frederick was like plowing pavement. And a few years later, as I was recording an episode of my Faith Debate radio program, Another pastor used the exact same phrase. And then once more, between then and now, a third pastor said the exact same thing. Preaching the gospel in Frederick is like plowing pavement. Three men in the same city. Over the course of about a decade, not even knowing each other, they said the ground was hard. Advancing the kingdom of God, it seemed to them to be darn near impossible. Like plowing pavement. So I've pondered this idea in the years ever since. Why does this seem to be true in Frederick? Is it true elsewhere? And what should we do in light of all this? Well, I've grown to believe that examining the surrounding circumstances of the area within which we live can offer some insights that are helpful to us. You know, in Frederick, the median income is high. And there is a rapidly growing business sector, set on pause by the COVID stuff, but still it's a growing business sector. It's aided by the fact that the community of Frederick is situated In the middle of a crossroads of major highways and interstates, Frederick County is home to a large number of people who are described as belonging to old Frederick. This old Frederick Contingent, they're salt-of-the-earth types with strong families and apparently happy homesteads. They're respected for projecting the attitude that their words are like oak. Their word is like oak. Now maybe if you live in in or near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, or Orlando, Florida, or Chicago, Illinois, or some of the other places where I know people follow us on Facebook, you know, well, you might be able to craft a similar narrative about where it is that you live and the people around you. Now if so then you too might notice something when you read Revelation chapter 3 that is very much like what I noticed. In studying the final third of this chapter, it struck me, I think I live in Laodicea. Here's what God's Word says, Revelation chapter 3, verses 14 through 19. To the angel of the church in Laodicea, write, The Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God, says this. I know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish that you were cold or hot So because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth. Because you say, I am rich and have become wealthy and have need of nothing. And you do not know that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. I advise you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may become rich. And white garments, so that you may clothe yourselves, and that the shame of your nakedness will not be revealed. And I salve to anoint your eyes, so that you may see. Those whom I love, I reprove and discipline. Therefore be zealous and repent Those with an ear to hear, let them hear the inspired, inerrant, infallible Word of God, which is a fully sufficient rule and guide for faith and life practice. Now, this seventh of the seven letters to the seven churches in the book of Revelation is written to a congregation in a well-to-do city. It's located on a crossroads, like Frederick is located on a crossroads. And they were so well off financially that when an earthquake rocked their world in the early 60s of the first century They rebuilt on their own. They told Rome, we don't need your money. We got this. Don't need your stinking money. They were a boom town. Like Frederick is a boom town. Frederick is the fastest growing city in Maryland. And the Laodicean Trade Route Crossroads in Southwest Phrygia was located in a valley. Like Frederick is in a valley. And the people, they seemed to believe that their tithing, their moral virtue, their positive view of themselves that this was all evidence of them possessing something that they did not. Just like the Pharisees of Frederick today. With the problems of complacency, self-satisfaction, self-reliance, with these things obfuscating the need for Christ It feels to me like this letter to the Laodiceans is also a letter to the Frederictonians. And maybe you're beginning to feel that gets written to your hometown too. Let's work through the verses. This letter, like the others, it begins with an address to the angel of the church. Now there are historians who say that for Leodicea, this was a rather wealthy pastor by the name of Arcippus. He's believed by some to have been the very first bishop of Laodicea. And these historians tell us that this might be the same person who was addressed in verse 2 of the Apostle Paul's letter to Philemon. Now this is interesting trivia, but Who knows if it's true? Now speaking of the Apostle Paul, there is a strong connection between his letter to the Colossians and the believers in Laodicea. can see this to be true when we see the closing paragraph of chapter four of that particular letter, the letter to the Colossians. Now verse fourteen of chapter three in Revelation it continues saying the letter is from the Amen The faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God. Well, that should arrest your attention. Amen here is used as a proper noun. The Amen In other words, the true one. This is the only instance in the entire Bible where Amen is used like this as a proper noun. We do find something that's sort of in the same ballpark with the God of Amen. That's found in Isaiah chapter 65, verse 16. Although many of our English translations, they tend to give this to us as the God of truth. as opposed to the God of Amen. But the Hebrew word in Isaiah, it's Amen. Now the translation of Amen as truth, that's fine. Totally okay, because that's what Amen means. Jesus calling himself the Amen is saying that he is the truth. He is the real, the complete. He is the very one. And he's the faithful and true witness. Now in this case, the word faithful, it's used in the passive sense rather than the active sense. What does that mean? Well, it means that when he's saying that he's faithful here, he is not saying that he is full of faith, although he is. To say he is full of faith, that would be the active sense. But in the passive sense, what's meant here is that Christ is the one who is worthy of faith. He's the witness in whom you should trust. What he says is true And when he says that he is the beginning of the creation of God, he is telling us that he is the beginner. He is the author. He is the first mover. He's the source. Now the Greek word that is used here for beginning, it means primacy or source material. It can also mean Lord, dominion. John uses this exact same word in the first sentences of his gospel account and also in his first epistle. And he uses the word in reference to that which was from before time. So we don't want to make the mistake here of the uh Aryan heretics. You remember what the Aryans believe? The Aryans they They believe that Christ was created. They use this as a proof text, actually, that Jesus Christ was a created being. That's not what this is saying at all. If you understand the Greek grammar, it's clear that's not what it's saying at all. We need to always remember the Son is begotten, not made. And he is the beginning of creation. He is the beginning of the church. He is the beginning of the new creation. He is the source. For all these things. Now in the next verse, the one who is Almighty God says, I know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot. You need something, Bubba? Says, I know you're D's, you're neither cold nor hot. I wish that you were cold or hot. Now this is one of the most commonly oversimplified verses in all of Scripture, if you ask me. Often it's taught here that, well, God, he wants us to be on fire for the Lord, and if we're not going to be on fire for him, well then he would rather weave the icy cold toward him. Better to have a stone cold heart than a room temperature heart You know, there is a way, I suppose, with a small and important correction, where this sort of a teaching could be rooted in some wisdom. I mean we might recall the story to uh of Elijah going to Mount Carmel. Read about that in uh 1 Kings chapter 18. Remember that story? 850 false prophets of Baal and Asherah. They're gathered together before the people of Israel. This is the famous story where God, He sends fire from the sky. to burn up the offering that Elijah had prepared after those false prophets had beat their brains out for hours trying to get Baal to do the exact same thing. Well, at the start of that challenge, Elijah exhorts the Israelites with a question. The question he puts before them is this: how long will you limp between two positions? between two opinions. Now some translations they ought to swap out the word limp for hover or waver or halt Or hobble, or stagger, or uh jump back and forth, and so forth. In other words, with this question, he's saying, quit trying to have it both ways. Why are you trying to play it to the middle? Why are you so lukewarm? Now, applying this understanding to Revelation 3, verse 15 is fine, as far as it goes. But it doesn't go nearly far enough. Remember what we've talked about in recent weeks. As with all of the seven letters in Revelation, there is a direct connection to the surrounding culture and geography that helps to drive home the truth. Part of that truth is Christ, he truly and fully knows his people and he knows their circumstances. And he uses those circumstances to teach them the lesson. City of Laodicea, which is known today as the city of Eskehissar, which translates as the old fortress, it was situated along a river called the Lycus River And that river's water was cloudy, so clouded with white mud, it was undrinkable. And so they built an aqueduct system And they piped in water from far away so they'd have some water they could actually use. But even this water Pretty nasty. It was so nasty that visitors to the city would feel nauseous when they drank it. Now compare this with the city of Hieropolis. This is a city that was just miles away. And they had hot springs. Hot springs noteworthy for their medicinal properties. And just miles away from Laodicea in the opposite direction, well, there you find the city of Colasse, where they had Water that came from a cold mountain stream that was exceptionally refreshing. So the neighbors to one side had hot, healing waters, neighbors to the other side had cold, rejuvenating waters. And Laodicea in the middle, well, they had barely drinkable water. And Jesus is pointing the people to the core of their problem. What he's saying is stop vacillating, trying to find some middle ground, trying to think that there's some third way that avoids the way. Instead be hot, bring healing, or Be cold, bring rejuvenation. Christ here is not saying, be hot, believe in me, or be cold, don't believe in me. Being hot and or cold here is believing in him. Being lukewarm wavering, seeking life in the work that you do, like the work those Laodiceans did to build that aqueduct system, to pipe in the water, that putrid water. Well, being stagnant in this way, well, that brings disease, not healing Christ points them. He points us to the cure. He's saying, you better make up your mind. And do something about your condition. Or I will spew you out. Now some translations, like the one I read, say spit But spew is, I think, a better translation, actually. It carries with it the idea of vomiting. Remember that lukewarm water? When the visitors came, it made them want to vomit. And failing to live a hot life? And a cold life? Choosing instead to live a pathetic, lukewarm life? A life of compromise makes Christ sick to his stomach And if you don't change, he will spew you out. You will be spewed out of the land, as we're told in Leviticus chapter 18, and again in Leviticus chapter 20. Now, this sort of language, talking about vomiting, Christ being sick to his stomach, I mean that that almost shocks us. Perhaps it actually does shock us. But it shouldn't. We know even from our own experience that this is how reality works In Christ, he brings living water. Now you reject this hot healing water, you reject this cold healing water, and instead you ingest gross, tepid, disease-riddled water, and what do you get? Well, think of this as an example. Your doctor tells you you have diabetes. And the reason, he says, is because, well, you're fat. You're out of shape. Your diet's one of eating garbage. So he tells you out of love and concern for your well-being, cut back on those carbs, cut back on those calories, right? Get some exercise. Get off the couch. Start ingesting whole grains, healthy proteins, things like that. Well, what do you do? Well, if you're lukewarm, you might try to do some of these things at least for a little while, but you continue to eat those processed chemicals loaded with sugar or corn syrup. If you're lukewarm, you might even double down on being a couch potato. You might commit yourself to a sedentary, unproductive hobby. You might even, out of spite, take up the habit of cigarette smoking. I'll show you, Doctor. Don't you tell me I have to change. I'll be lukewarm if I want to be lukewarm. I can do this my way Until you can't. Until the kidneys fail. Until the cancer takes root. Until the arteries say, hey, you know what? I think I'm good, yeah. I'm just gonna be done now. And before you know it, It's too late. You can't get out of the town of Laodicea It's like that classic rock song by the band Journey. They have a song that's titled Too Late. The lyrics say, See the stoplight turning red? Don't you listen to what it said? All the things you try to hide, they keep you running hard inside. Oh, you gotta leave this town before it's too late. Too late to make the change. Yes, it's time to make the change. Yes, it's time to rearrange. So, my friend, I join the fight for the things you know are right. Oh, you gotta leave this town for it's too late. Too late to make the change. Reminded of a friend of mine who died last year. I worked with him for more than ten years. And from outward appearances, he was in good shape. He played golf, tennis, racquetball. He always dressed sharp. He actually was usually the best dressed man in just about any room he entered. He looked good His life looked good from the outside. And maybe, you know, even within his own heart and mind, his life looked good But then came the fatal blow. He was diagnosed with cancer. For most of his life he was a heavy smoker. And he seemed to be getting away with it. Even the doctor at his annual checkup told him, all's good, looking good, everything's good. A few months later, a few months, a few months later, came the stage four diagnosis. From out of the blue. Within weeks, a handful of weeks, he was dead Changing his smoking habit. Well, it was no longer possible. It was too late. Too late to make the change Does your spiritual life have cancer? If it's lukewarm, it does Might not even look like it, at least from the outside anyway. I mean you might be saying, as it says here in verse 17, hey, I'm rich. I'm wealthy. I have need of nothing. But if you're not refreshingly cold or restoratively hot, then you're not rich. Jesus says you're a wretch. You're miserable You know, when we speak, we might say what we believe, but when Christ speaks, he speaks because he knows And Jesus speaks in terms that we can understand, that people in Laodicea could understand, and that they would have really felt in their gut. The church in Layout I see it was being judged in the moment. We too are being judged. We're being evaluated right now How do we stand before his eyes? Are we any better than Laodicea They were a city of material wealth. They were home, actually, to a sort of central bank. And so they believed themselves to be rich. However, they were depending upon pseudo-riches, the fake riches that are always hawked by the harlot and warned against in the book of Proverbs. And so Christ, he tells them the truth. They are poor and in need of his highly refined gold to truly become rich. You know, Laodicea, they amassed much of their earthly wealth from the wool industry. They were especially well known and highly respected for their high quality black wool. But here Christ is saying, Would you stop being the black sheep of the family? He tells them to purchase from him white garments to cover their nakedness. Now throughout the Bible, there are stories that illustrate Shame through episodes of nakedness. Now hear me, there's nothing shameful about the beautiful human body that God has created. But nakedness does call to mind. feelings and ideas of being exposed for who we really are, for you know, having nowhere to hide Being vulnerable. I mean, this is the idea behind Adam and Eve. Being naked and feeling ashamed after they sinned in the Garden of Eden. This is what made the offense so great in 2 Samuel chapter ten, when David's men were they were ashamed, they were embarrassed when their enemies shaved off their beards and cut off their clothes at the waist. It's why in Isaiah chapter 20 it says that the king of Assyria he would lead away the Egyptians naked and barefoot with their buttocks uncovered to the shame of Egypt. And let's look at the flip side of this. Contrast it with the honor of high-quality raiment, right? In Genesis, Joseph, he's honored by Pharaoh with fine linen to wear. Joseph himself, he honors his brother Benjamin with five changes of clothes. And here in Revelation chapter 3, Jesus says he has for his people white garments for sale. So that we might clothe ourselves and not reveal the shame of our nakedness Laodicea was also very famous for being a medical center. Their ancient god was Menkoru, a god of healing, whom they would later synchronize with the more famous false god, Zeus. And they were particularly known for having developed a salve for treating the eyes. And Jesus, he draws attention to this. And in fact he's saying, don't you put your trust in that. You put your trust in the ISAV that I have. If they procure this salve from Jesus, well, then he will anoint their eyes so that they can truly see. Otherwise, they remain spiritually blind. Now you might have noticed I have several times indirectly highlighted that the passage says that the lukewarm, those professing Christians, the professing church, that's no church at all, that they need to buy what Christ is selling. But how? They have not the means. I mean, Christ Himself tells them they're poor, they're naked, they're blind even. And the point is they can't afford it. They can't buy it in and of themselves, but he can Don't trust in yourself. Trust in him. And he picks up the tab. As it says in Isaiah 5, verse 1, Ho, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters, and you who have no money, come, buy, and eat. Come buy wine and milk without money and without cost. Now, at first blush, the rebukes in this letter, they can come across as rather harsh. But then we see that this is tough love from Jesus. In verse 19, he tells us, those whom I love, I reprove with discipline. Therefore be zealous and repent. I mean he loves you. He wants you to turn. He wants you to repent. He wants you to Follow him. You need to understand judgment, it is inevitable. But just like with the letter to Sardis, for Laodicea, there is hope. There's still hope. Helodicea in history actually seems to have turned things around at least for a little while. It was home to a significant church council that met in the middle of the fourth century. Did you know that? But in the end, the story isn't so good. And there are almost no Christians living there today Could such a wait a fate await our cities? Let's see if this sounds familiar. The problems faced by Laodicea and the other six churches in Revelation, they are Lengthy. They include institutionalized worship of the state, pluralistic relativism, theological conflict. Is this anything like where you live? The problems of the first century churches included pagan polytheism, harassment from pagans, And religious compromise with pagans. This anything like America? The problems described in Revelation chapters 2 and 3 include social ostracism, external adversity, and accommodation. To a devilish culture. Was this anything like the Western Church today? The problems of 2,000 years ago included economic pressures, complacency Lost love. Theologian Dennis Johnson, he uh drives it all home rather nicely in his book titled Triumph of the Lamb. He writes The church under attack needs not only see the splendor of our king, but also to hear his imperial edicts. Not only does Jesus walk among the churches, but also he is coming to the churches in two senses. To some, he threatens a coming that will intrude into their present life in history with severe mercy and loving discipline. If they will not repent, he will come to remove a church's lampstand or to wage war. We will cover the final three verses of this chapter next week when we're also going to recap and review some of the lessons we learned from the letters in chapters two. and three. For now, I just want to leave you with this charge. Choose a side. And make it the right one. Are you with Christ or are you against Christ? If you are with him, then you will live a life that brings the heat. A life that gives new meaning to the phrase, ooh, I'm hot. Or you'll live a life that says, yeah, I'm cool. Because Christ is cool. And I'm following him. But if you're wavering, living a life that depends on the opinions of the neighbors around you Or even maybe depends on the opinions of your own imagination. Well, that is the wrong and deadly choice. And so Do what this passage says. Repent. The kingdom of God is at hand. Let's pray. Father, we praise you and thank you that you are patient with us, that you have a plan for your people Did you carry us through to perseverance in spite of the slings and arrows of the world around us, even those that would claim to be part of the professing church Yes, you would help us by the power of your spirit to be obedient to your call to repentance. That we would seek to bring healing to the world around us to announce the good news of the kingdom of God. That we would be on fire for the Lord. While sitting beside the cool still waters. That we were faithfully committed to you and that we would not be guilty any longer of being lukewarm We ask that you would guide the conversation that here is about to begin as we discuss the lesson here, the truth of your word. We ask that it would be a blessing and be edifying to all who participate. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So I think we've talked about it in recent weeks with some of these messages about whether or not, you know, we're part of this city or that city, but now that we've reached the last of the cities, I do feel like I do feel like we're uh we're best represented by what's going on in Laodicea. I think there's a lot of lukewarmness. in our present culture, particularly the Western Church. I'm not so sure how true that is in other parts of the world. Like uh, you know, those that are in the persecuted church in China, it seems to me they're not lukewarm And from what I hear uh from pastor friends and things I read in the news, it would seem that the church in Africa and parts of the church and portions of South America uh might be uh less lukewarm. Absolutely. But big chunks of South America and uh pretty much all of North America and Europe, um, if you had to pick a word to define us, I would say lukewarm. Does that seem true to you guys? I think any person in church is not lukewarm. I think yeah. I think there can't be. Can't be. Yeah. Yeah, there's a reason for that. Mm-hmm. The world hates you. I mean I think you can go through cycles where you're feeling lukewarm, but ultimately, you know, sacrification will lead you out of that. Right. You won't stay that way. Part of the job of the church is to edify you so you don't stay that way. Right. And that's also the part Like you said, the Holy Spirit. Right, and the Holy Spirit will also do that work as well. Yeah. He can't leave us. But even from our own personal experiences. We get we turn to to the Lord hard and heavy. God help me, help me. You know. So I think that for that reason with church or a chur any church under heavy persecution like the Iranian church and the Chinese church and I think I think those are probably some of the I think it's precisely why. I mean I set the whole thing up by talking about Frederick specifically as kind of a microcosm version of America really. Um after nine eleven happened, you know, twenty years ago, there was a very brief sense of a revival, pe you know the the churches were more full than they had been in, you know, forever. And there seemed to be a a a renewed fervor and commitment to trying to do things in a godly way and that's what it didn't last very long. So but there was a sense that we were under attack and so it it rallied us. But when you're you know as a country, when you're fat and out of shape I mean, yeah, we live in a we our our nation, I don't mean our physical health, although that too perhaps, but I'm talking about if we were to personify America, America has diabetes. Uh America maybe has undiagnosed cancer. You know, at what stage I don't know. I mean my fear is it's stage four, which would require some sort of radical chemo treatment or something to overcome it But uh I I do feel like, you know, uh we're incredibly blessed and because we're so blessed we start to think, oh, I did that. I don't need God. I think for But one of the things that I had learned 'cause I wasn't quite sure how what to make of the hot and the cold. So coming to the knowledge of the truth of the word where both of those are actually good. I didn't I never knew that way. That's brilliant. I think God is so brilliant. I I took the cold to mean like a cold heart towards God. That's how I always read it. Sure. Sure. And you think well wouldn't look be better than at least that, right? Mm-hmm. But no, knowing that both are good 'cause one's healing and one's refreshing. And actually Actually, I think evacillating between those two, depending on where you are in your walk in life, I think there are seasons where the Lord uses me to be more healing in other people's lives. I've I'm listening more. I'm more, you know, more of a counselor. But then there's other points where I find that people say, oh my gosh, I that That that's so refreshing. Thank you for sharing that or thank you for doing that for me or whatever. You're more observing. So I think the walk of a believer is actually both hot and cold, depending on on the season that the Lord has you in. And two points. Like one just to pile on what you said was that um you know name a food that tastes best at room temperature. as opposed to either hot or either cold. Like obviously ice cream is far better cold than hot. But you know, for the most part sandwiches are better hot, I would argue, than cold. Um Um you know, pizzas better hot and cold, burgers better hot than cold. Just the jelly though, not the bread. That's true, I will tell you. I will tell you though, and yeah, but I always put it with the floor. I will say that I do like when I have a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, I like when the jelly is still cold. Mean me too. Exactly. So there's something like that. Unless you're in Europe where they drink like warm Warm beer. Yeah, it's weird, but you either like things hot or cold. Yeah. I think they acquired that taste over years of not having proper refrigeration. In contrast, I wanted to draw the hot cold metaphor and why it's better to be cold back to the passage in 2 Peter that you had us read, where doesn't it talk about, you know, it's better for you to have not known the standard of righteousness. Absolutely. Which is completely cold and would have been lukewarm. You were exposed to it and then you rejected it. And I think there's a harsher judgment. That's like one of the ideas that I've been toying with in my head. Like, you know, there are different levels of judgment that people receive And like, you know, it are people who are more in the know more harshly judged than the person that was isolated may never have actually heard the true doctor and arise of that. That's absolutely true. Taking in the full counsel of all of scripture, uh I would agree absolutely I mean I I think Right. So I'm gonna agree with the Bible's the Bible's teaching that, you know, uh how many times it's talking about it would be better if you had never been born. Absolutely. Right. You know, like you're being held to a higher account because you've you've tasted of, you've partaken of you know, uh the blessings and gifts of the church and the s and the spirit and things. Uh but I I wanna and oftentimes I've heard I don't know how many, I've heard quite a few sermons over the years on this particular passage in Revelation Not hundreds of them, but I've heard my fair share. I thought for years and years I only heard basically two approaches to the passage. One was a punt. The pastor wasn't exactly sure what to do with the hot and cold thing And kind of just skated through it and I was very unsatisfied, like that's like a key question for me, because that's a confusing verse. And it's like, so what does it mean? And you didn't tell me and I would get frustrated. And there are other times when they would kind of make the point that you're making and and apply it here, it'd be better to be cold. But my problem and why I taught it and teach it the way that I have and and did, um Who is this written for? Believers. It's written for the church in Laodice. These aren't people who never heard. These aren't people who had never been born. These people were born, they were professing to have been born again they had heard and so the idea of it would have been better if you had never heard doesn't apply. And so with that in mind, what does the verse mean? And then it's yeah, and then you start looking in and then and that's why that's one of the reasons why I've been emphasizing, you've probably noticed, every letter I go out of my way. Probably for those who don't like all the little nitty-gritty detail, it might have been off putting, go out of my way to show you that these aren't just words on a page. These are words on a page originally written for a people in a particular historical context, in a particular place, with a particular situation, a particular cultural reality, particular geographic markers. And that becomes a key interpretive principle to unlocking what some of these passages, particularly the hard ones. I think that's a hard verse The hot coal is a hard verse to figure out. Well, if you realize that in every single letter there's a direct connection to the life of the people in those particular cities. Oh. Well then you start when you get to this one you start looking for 'em. Okay, what are the realities, particular realities in Laodicea, and how do they apply to what's being taught? And so once you realize that and you realize that, oh, literally, I forget the exact number of miles, I think it's like five four or five miles to the north is Hieropolis, where they have the hot springs And less than ten miles to the south, he had Colasse with the cold stream water. It's not by accident that he's talking about water in the lukewarm water and Laodicea was kind of infamous for having crappy water. You know, and they were jealous kind of, you know, of their neighbors who had the better water. And so that's not an accident that it's there. And so you start looking at that and so I don't think I think the one criticism of somebody who doesn't hasn't heard what I've taught tonight, has never heard it before, and they're like, where'd you get that? I've never heard that before. You're making it up. Um The the the only way that sort of a criticism could hold up is if you would disagree that throughout all the letters there are poignant points made that tie directly to the situation of the people And I don't think you can sustain that argument. It's too frequent. It's too on the nose. It'd be like writing a letter to the city of Chicago and talking about Uh the winds and the Holy Spirit and it's gonna come upon you like a wind. And you're like, oh well the windy city, that makes sense. Or writing a letter to the city in New York and referencing, you know, uh fruit that fell from a tree and hit Newton on the head And you're like, oh okay, you're talking about an apple there and s the city's the big apple. That's not that's not an accident. And you might think it's an accident one time. But it's not an accident, what happened seven times in a row. Well and there's also no risk of hair. with what you're saying. It doesn't undermine the rest of the of the things. No, and actually to be honest, I would argue the other argument Right. Does it lend itself a risk to a heretical view that you're you're better off having a having once claimed to be a believer and then turning your heart into a s back into a heart of stone and being unrepentant that that's somehow better than waffling in the middle. I I don't see how that fits with the full counsel of God. Yeah well what I'm saying is you know you're testing Scripture against scripture and you go, Oh yeah, okay, check. It was that works there. I forget exactly exactly how long ago, but it was a few years ago. It might have been four or five years ago when this understanding of this particular verse hit me. And I wish I could give credit to what I was reading or what I was listening to. Oh my gosh, yeah. It was like that gigantic size light bulb over my head and I was like Finally that nails it. Like that feels like it's really the truth. It makes sense. There's no there's no dangling participles. Like it just bang, there it is. That makes total sense. It always was unsettling to me and when you read the word, because we have Christ, there are parts of the word that are hard, but it's never unsettling, meaning that there's not a sense of right because we have the training up of the Holy Spirit. And whenever I would read that I'd be like, huh, that just doesn't sit right, but I didn't know why. And I was like, okay, well I'll just at some point the Lord will show me. You know? He always does eventually. Yeah, exactly. And I think it has in my opinion been mis preached by a lot of pastors over the years because it's not the kind of thing you're going to glean merely from the pages of Scripture. Yeah, so you have to grab some sort of extra biblical source and see and again I'm not a fan of that as a general practice, I think we start with you know what are the words on the page, what is the literary context, what's going on. But we've got to keep in mind this it's really important to understand the authorial intent. What did the author intend to be be understood. And part of that is understanding what was the situation of the writer, what was the situation of the audience. And so you always want to know the historical setting. You've got to do that. And it's not just the historical setting within a spiritual reality. But it's what is the historical setting within practical reality? for understanding any difficult scripture. If you go back and you understand the context in which that scripture was preached initially. Initially you will understand what the author of the scripture is trying to say. I think that actually applies that very same concept I believe applies to the uh the teaching in First Corinthians about women teaching, about women teachers. I mean some people think women shouldn't teach. and and and and and um or preach and but the context that that that Paul gave that I don't allow a woman to teach scripture was highly specific to that situation. That situation being that I mean there there's a there's a let me let me back up and say there's always a fundamental principle to be applied, always There's always a spiritual reality to be applied. But in that particular, in in anything, I believe there's always a because God is spirit. worship him in spirit and in truth and the spirit is the first reality of it. God is the first reality and so the spiritual foundation is always going, you know spiritual is always the foundation, but going back to that scripture, um, he was telling that to people in in the Corinthian church who came out of a culture in which women would um teach, you know, in the pagan temples, the women would teach and and and men would come under their influence and they were they were harlots, you know, and they were they they were they were muttering and all this other stuff. They were prophesying in an evil way and they were muttering and all this other stuff and and and there were outbursts. And so they you you get a belief a a a an unbeliever, they get saved, they bring them all their bad habits with them until the Lord sanctifies them. So they were coming to church and they were doing that They were speaking out. Paul was like, oh no, no, no, no. I don't allow a woman to teach. He was saying to the Corinthians, don't let these do that. Because you know, uh it you know, they're bringing a bad habit with them, but in in the church there's order. God is a God of order. Not not chaos. He's a God of order, not confusion. So they were coming to the church bringing confusion, bringing bad teaching. It was they would just they they hadn't matured enough for him to but he he but you know for for th for him to allow the women to to to to to take that extremely important responsibility. Teaching is extremely important. If you don't believe that, just look at our schools. Teaching is extremely important responsibility. They weren't ready to do that for the Lord. And so he was he was addressing a specific problem Now, you know, there's always wisdom to use in any situation. You you always want to glorify the Lord. If if if in a particular situation a woman shouldn't be teaching then she shouldn't be teaching for whatever that reason might be. But he he didn't mean that as a universal across the board, you know Anytime you see a woman teaching, it's sin. And you know, I I took the time to figure that one out because the Lord called me to teach. And I'm like, Lord You know, I don't want he where I used to work, he had me lead a Bible study. Right. I I I needed to know the answer to that. I needed to be able to say to somebody who might challenge me on that Why I think I'm being obedient to the Lord. And I it took me finding out about the cultural context with which Paul gave that instruction to the Corinthian church And then that was my light bulb moment like aha because I I I was my particular position was I'm really certain that you called me to teach Lord, but now I need you to help me understand understand why it's okay for me to do that. Because somebody's gonna challenge me and I I I need to have an answer. So but but I understand that I I agree with what you're saying totally and and but you what you just helped me to do today and in addition to giving me a um an understanding of the scriptures that I never had before. You gave me another aha moment that just came to me when you said difficult things and I went, Oh. Every scripture that's difficult Perhaps the way to understand it is to understand the times of which it was for every scripture we should be trying to understand the times. And by the way, we're kind of we're we're dancing on the uh the egalitarian uh complementarian uh debate that that's enraging in different parts of of uh the Western church. particularly right now. I will say this. I yeah, uh I'm gonna make probably everybody mad with what I'm gonna say, so I I tried to uh I I try to find a uh uh an understanding that is consistent with even the parts that are difficult to connect together from the pages of scripture. So um the way you said what you just said, I don't think there's anything that I would disagree with the way you said it, but I want to add a clarification. Paul does say, I do not allow a woman to speak. Like that's actually the the the phrase that I think you were talking about. And in that sense I would say I would agree with you that the context there is the women weren't trained up in learning the Hebrew scripture The women were very much were very often used in the pagan ritualistic services. The women were causing some discord and some problem. They weren't helping the service to be conducted in an orderly way. And so Paul's like, you know what, we're gonna nip that in the butt. I'm not even gonna allow the women to speak. And I think at le I mean you two speak every week we get together. And so obviously we at the Household of Faith in Christ and when Annie's here Annie speaks. You know, people uh so women are allowed to speak. Nadia speaks. And there are examples in scripture, you know, you know, you have the the example where you know Aquila and Priscilla, you know, they they pull somebody to their house and they're both involved in in Teaching and correcting uh Apollo uh on some things. And so there's some teaching that's taking place and the older women are to teach and train up the younger women and so there are plenty of examples of women teaching but because of the distinction I want to draw, there's a there's I would argue a pretty s firm and strong scriptural difference Between those who teach as teachers and those that teach with the responsibility of teaching as leaders. And I it it seems pretty clear to me that the scripture holds up this idea that those who are to be in leadership ultimately responsible for teaching uh the gospel, uh for providing the headship and the oversight and the ultimate responsibility for what's going on within a particular congregation, that that responsibility uh would fall to the men because of the uh there's a variety of reasons, but one of the reasons with and I don't want to get into a long discourse on this, but since it came up and it's a hot topic right now in the church, I figure I should address it. Um If you look at the scriptural requirements for an an elder who is also a like a teaching elder, a pastor, uh Um uh it would call for it to be a man, a very common argument again we could be here all night, but a very common I'll I'll try to hit some Very common argument is people point to the old testament and say, Well, what about Deborah? She was a judge. And so she was in leadership. She wasn't merely teaching, she was leading Well if you read that carefully and you look at the the the text carefully and you understand the cultural context carefully, that's actually she's leading in judgment of God. And she's doing it saying, look, I'm not supposed to if you read it with this in mind and you'll see what I'm talking about. If you read it with this idea in mind, when Deborah's talking, she's basically saying, look, I'm not supposed to be leading here. I'm a woman. It's supposed to be you. And the men are like, uh, I don't know, I don't know. She's like, okay, well I'm gonna do it, but you know what? You're gonna pay the price for it. You're gonna be embarrassed. You're gonna have a woman defeat you You're gonna have a woman or a woman claim the victory for you. You know, it's not it's supposed to be you guys, and you're refusing to do your job and step up in leadership. And I would say, and this will be my practical application for If this were a sermon, I would want to add an application piece. It's one of the huge problems in the church right now. If you go to most churches in America today, I don't know what the stats are. You might know. I don't know Somebody might know. What percentage of regular churchgoers are women? Mu well, a lot more than men. Yeah. It's at least sixty-forty, it might be seventy-thirty. I mean it's probably two-thirds women, one third men. Mm-hmm. Why? Well, because the men are abdicating their responsibility of heading the family in spiritual matters and taking in the church. So you've got that problem. Also, you've got this idea that the church supposed to cater to the women and you've pardon the women, I'm not trying to be offensive here, and I'm gonna try to speak plainly here. We've sissified church so much that most men are uncomfortable going. And then we haven't held men accountable. It's one of the reasons we're doing what we're doing here, by the way, the household of faith in Christ, who knows if God will bless us the way I've envisioned it. But my Hope and aim in this is that we will be useful to the kingdom in training up men to be leaders of house churches across the land. That's the aim here, is to train up and mentor men. But you go to churches that have five hundred people in them, and you're lucky if the senior pastor is qualified to lead those men You're lucky if you have one man who's qualified to lead. We're talking about a house church movement, if we had 500 people, We would need uh how many people would we need? Thirty leaders or whatever it would be? We would we would need way more than one. We would need thirty. We don't have thirty, why Because we're allowing men to get off the hook, we're not holding them up, and so as a result, what has happened is a lot of the denominations can't fill their pulpits They don't have pastors, no let's open it up to women too. And then we have a debtor situation and we're asking God to bless something and it's So to clarify, put a put a button on that. We can have some other people to chime in. I don't need to have a last word on this necessarily. Women are allowed I'm firmly persuaded. Now if somebody has a better argument and you want to persuade me otherwise, I'm all ears because I want to be faithful. But it's my position that being faithful clearly means that women are allowed to speak, because we've got examples of that. Yeah, Paul has a pretty flat statement there, but if you take it in context, it doesn't seem to jive with other things the Bible has going on. So how do I understand that? So I think that women are allowed to speak, and I think women are allowed to teach, but I don't think women I don't think it's God's best. I don't think it's God's blessing on his people to have women who are teaching out of a leadership position. I think that that is a no-go. And if we find ourselves in a situation where that is what we're left with, we're not walking in God's best. And when we're embracing it, like, oh no, that's totally fine. Like if we were to do it kind of like Deborah and begrudgingly, like, okay, well somebody's got to do it. I guess it might as well be me. Okay. I can get on board with that. But if we're going to embrace it and celebrate it and say, no, men and women are exactly the same and celebrate it, I think we're outside of God's will and we have entered into the realm of sin at that point. And that's not to say that women aren't capable. Women are intelligent and they're gifted teachers. They're very learned, many of them more learned than a lot of men. It's not to say that they're not good and great, but they're different. Right. And what happens at the curse in Genesis chapter three. Yeah, I was about to say it's the sin of Adam, just as it's being repeated over and over And I think what God does to your point, I think what he does is he says, like he did in Deborah's situation, he basically said through Deborah Well, I'm gonna do it anyway. Right. You know, if you don't step up to the plate, I'm gonna do it anyway. I'm gonna do it through this woman. Um and so um I I I think that um And more to your point, like the Lord having me lead a Bible study where I used to work, I think because there weren't any man there qualified to do it. Right. You know, so but uh y but I I I was I needed a a and men came to the Bible study and they got blessed. 'Cause I you know, because so I I was supposed to be blessed. To me that is like Apollo being invited over to be taught what the scripture That's not the same as somebody who is the head of the congregation who is speaking out of authority in leadership. Any and all believers should be prepared at every moment to give a reason for the hope that lies within. So if you weren't allowed to share the reason for the hope that lies within, then you couldn't fulfill that command from God. Like that doesn't make any sense to you. But again it's different when somebody is ordained and placed in position. And it's not to be honest, I think we're seeing it play out. Yeah. Men, so the women, they want to rise up into those positions because they're not supposed to. And that's what the anti- The men don't want to take the roles of position because they're supposed to. Right, right, right. Right. And so we've got it all inside out. Mm-hmm. So we're not doing ourselves any favors when we want to give into it. 'Cause the spirit of the age right now is the uh it's the egalitarian idea. The egalitarian is that a woman can be ordained as a pastor just as Same as a man can. There's no difference between men and women. And I'm sorry that this is a child with like nature. Men and women are different Doesn't mean one's better or worse. They're different. They've been called to different things. They've been equipped for different things. They've been tasked with different things. I don't Don't have a uterus, I'm not giving birth any time, so But women don't have any semen going anywhere, so they're not impregnating impregnating anybody any soon. They have different roles that cooperatively are complementary. So the complementiveness is the part we have to keep in mind. Well, if women weren't important, you wouldn't be call you wouldn't be um called or ordered to lay down your life for me. Right. Right. So that but you do have pastors and I'm thinking of one specifically and he's I respect him, but he's harsh about women teaching And I I mean he's he's very against it. Yeah. Women should not be teaching well you know. It depends it it's so W we talked about I don't know if we talked about this during a Facebook Live thing or if we talked about this uh at the dinner table. I think we did it at the dinner table and we did one of our extended gatherings and we had a meal together and I laid out a piece of paper And I said, this piece of paper, everything that's white, represents everything that God allows us and and designed us to do. But everything outside of the white is sin and failure to walk in God's will. And so we're so nervous sometimes that we don't want to fall outside the white that we see this or not. I'll use this. We create a box inside the white, and we only live inside the box. We hedge ourselves in, we fence ourselves in, we're we're we're so we're allowed to go here, but we don't want to risk going here because what if we go too far and step off the edge? So we're gonna so we that becomes legalism. But we don't want to be so expansive and say, well, I don't want to be boxed in, and so then you have no respect for the actual edges, and then you become the other L-word. You're not legalistic, you're licentious. Mm-hmm. And so it's hard. And these hard questions they need to be wrestled through. And right now we're wrestling through I mean, it's coming at us from all angles right now in the in the world. But there's that there's there's a lot of um I guess I don't know Just a lot of judgment and and and a lot of condemnation, I think is a better word, that um I think believers are doing to each other over these over these specific questions because they don't understand the context in which the the command, you know, back to going back to the point you're making, they don't understand the context of Which the command which isn't. Right. And so when you um so anyway, yeah. Oh. I was just gonna say something like But you know, egalitarianism I always write it I always pair it with the it's a three pronged attack because you know egalitarianism offers borrows much from critical theory. So, you know, it's very much in line with critical race theory and it's very much in line with the homosexuality push in the church. So it's a three-pronged attack, and if you fail on one, there's nothing stopping you from fa failing on the other two two, it'll eventually happen. Because the logic ends up being very similar, so if you buy into one logical argument, you can apply that extinct Yeah, same. Yeah, Nicky, that is a beautiful thing. Well yeah. Right. The enemy's like truth. Yeah. Perfect. It all fits. Usually egalitarianism is first and that's what you saw with a lot of the liberal mainline Protestant denominations. They all adopted egalitarianism first and then they adopted everything else. Also afterwards. But also because that movement came prior. That movement was also paired with modernism and stuff like that. Everything is about flipping the natural order of things that God has established on its head. And so man was created for woman, but the world wants to tell us that hey, man can be for man and woman can be for woman, all the same, who cares? But that's not the natural order. of things. A man was established to take a leadership protective role, right? Not just to protect the physical well-being, but the spiritual well-being, the emotional well-being. That's why men are generally speaking, I mean there are exceptions, right? But generally speaking, men Men are larger, they're stronger, their skin is actually tougher. You know, if if if a if a man rushes through a thorn bush, he's gonna get straped up and cut up, but not nearly as bad as a woman will. You know, so m men are hardier because of their protective role and part of what we're to guard, that we've been charged by God to guard, is his truth. And when we abdicate that You know, you've given up so so that natural order is uh is uh turned inside out. And this idea that you know were to be defined by skin tones or it's about oppressor oppressed class Well that's not uh the scriptural teaching where God's people are all one regardless of skin tone or ethnic background or anything like that And we all spring from the same loins. We're all you know we're all uh related through Adam and Eve and actually through uh through Noah and his family. Yes, well, right? We're all we're all part of the same human race, but we want to turn that natural order on our head and say, Oh no, there's there's at least four or five human races. Well if it's a race or who wins who wins the race? Oh yeah, the janitors uh how many are you like? A hundred and something? Two hundred and something? I can't keep up. That's it's it's insanity It's it's absolute insanity. That is absolute insanity. So absolutely insanity. And if somebody bought the first one, you've boxed them in and they're almost compelled to have to agree with the other arguments. Some people think, oh that's a slippery slope argument. No no no. hundred percent like the only exception I could possibly think of is certain Pentecostal denominations maybe haven't gone that far. But maybe they m they might not have gone down the woke train or homosexuality route, but they you know I I can't really say that about Hillsong being a prominent uh Pentecostal church. Yeah. Oh yeah. Definitely. Pro gay as well. Oh. I would say that one. Oh they have such good songs too. Well you can and you can enjoy the the the Christ Center Mentioning hills on I probably shouldn't I feel like a wow pastoral moments and since we're I I might not bring them all up right now, but um you know we have a case occasional viewers on Facebook and I know some people hang on I I know because of the questions and comments I get from some people that they sometimes hang on the things we say. If you're a big fan of Phil's song to Angel's Point, there are some songs that I think are actually pretty decent, pretty, pretty committed to the scriptural truth. Part of me wonders that death by accident Because a lot of their songs actually are pretty problematic. A good worship song focuses on the one who's being worshipped, and too many of the Hillsong uh lyrics are not focused on the one to being worshiped. but they're focused on the so-called worshipper. It becomes a self-worship. It's about me and I and my experience and how much you love me. It's a very me-centered kind of a thing. That makes me very nervous. And then you got some other things that I don't know, maybe somebody smarter than me can explain it to me, but the lyrics are completely vacuous. It's like I don't know what you're trying to trying to tell me in his song. But some of their songs are very good. But I don't know if that's by accident. Well maybe they started out you know how it is. It started out right now to attest to that. Like if you look at their I don't want to say it's not their faith statement, but it was their vision. They're they had a nineteen ninety four vision for their church and it's actually very biblical. You know, like the only thing that's extra is really just an emphasis on television distribution and cities and stuff like that. But then you look at their twenty fourteen, so they did it twenty years later, they had like this new vision. They just scrubbed it. Interesting. It it's very you know, they took out the repentance language and stuff like that. Like the first one was biblical in nineteen ninety four, but the two thousand fourteen The uh the same warnings basically with the same caveats basically for Bethel music, by the way. Hillsong and Bethel are kind of cut from the same cloth as far as I can tell. Yeah, and the one thing um learning as you know the Lord grows me in the sanctification process is Jesus allowed the rich man to go away sad. And I I think we feel the need to convert people. You know, we've got, oh, finally I share the truth one more time. They just need to hear it one more time. Let it go. Let the rich man walk away. Exactly. It is not our job to convert people ever Thank Jesus for that. That's a burden far too heavy to carry. If anybody ever tells you it is your job to uh to convert people, ask them for a proof text. They won't find one. There's no text that commands us to convert people. The Holy Spirit has the conversion. We are called to go and make disciples. But that's different. That's a believer. That's to train someone up in the faith. And we are to be prepared, as I said before, to give the reason for the hope that lies within. We are to be sharing the good news, but we don't do the converting. We are we're not called to uh win souls for Christ. How often you hear that phrase? We don't win souls for Christ. We aren't called to do that. We're called to be faithful ambassadors for the kingdom. That we're called to be. But the results are left to the king. And how Hallelujah, because I remember the that realization came because it was like, you know, you'd be come in contact with someone, maybe it's someone from your childhood or whatever, and you run into them again, and you're like, oh I didn't share the gospel. That's okay. Wait for the Holy Spirit to open the door. Don't get ahead of God because guess what? That person's not gonna receive it anyway if the Lord's not calling them. And you'll know. You'll know. You'll know when it's right. You are always a sermon to choose, as I've heard said before because you can't help but emit Christ because Christ dwells within you. So even though you're not saying the words A, B, C, D, they're seeing the And then allow that to prompt them to ask or reject if that happens too Right. And to be honest, what I even know about my own I think that in our present day that's less what most of us are probably needing to hear and we probably are more needing to hear, look, you need to share the gospel. You know, it's uh it's oftentimes attributed to uh Francis uh of Assisi. I'm not sure if he's actually the one who said it, but it's often attributed to him. Uh preach uh preach the uh preach the gospel always use words use words if necessary. That's my point. And that but first of all, I'm not sure that Francis of the Sisi actually said that, but even if he did, uh how will they know if they have not heard? You know that's scripture. That's not Francis Assisi. God sends out proclaimers of the truth, and those proclaimers then And the people hear the word of God and they their heart is pricked and changed by the Holy Spirit through those means. So I don't want you to walk around guilt ridden feeling like oh my gosh. I I I was being checked out at the grocery store and I had like thirty second opportunity to share the gospel and I didn't. Maybe maybe you should have. I'm not saying you shouldn't have, but I'm not saying you should be And how many times have they heard the gospel from you in words? Not by being a sermon and shit. shoes, but actually a sermon in shoes with a vocal chord. How many times have they heard the gospel from you? And I'd be willing to bet, and I uh and if you're the exception, praise God, hallelujah, tell me how you do it. Because the truth of the matter is most of us, we've worked with somebody for 10 years, they've never heard the gospel from me. I've been living next to somebody for 10 years, they've never heard the gospel from me. I've been visiting the same store, being checked out by the same grocery clerk for 10 years. They've checked me out 700 times by now. And they know I'm married, they know I have kids, they know where I work, they know what kind of car I drive, they know what kind of weather I like, but they don't know Jesus. We need to hear that more. So yeah, don't beat yourself up. Please don't beat yourself up. Don't hear that. But boy, oh boy. You gotta share the gospel with words. Francis of Assisi, who by the way did not write inspired scriptures But even if what he wrote or what is he claimed to have said or wrote is true, if the truth that that saves him, okay fine. I would add an addendum. Preach the gospel always. If necessary, use words. And by the way, words are always necessary. I'm not trying to rebuke, I'm trying to encourage and exhort us to do better. program with the same person. That's what I'm saying. Because then you just end up putting Yeah, no, if you if you go to somebody and you share the truth with them and the and you are clear that they understood what you said and they're just not accepting it I mean yeah you can be done after one time. Right. You don't have to share it with them twenty-five times. Right. This is you know, quite another rabbit trail, but you got like all these people, you know, David Platte with radical which is all about you need to do more, you need to do more. David Platt is a pretty popular, well known pastor in American uh evangelical circles, and he wrote a book called Radical. Right. Yeah. And it it was basically kind of this bad act or legalism of you're not doing enough. Or you could talk or you know a John Piper with that like ten years ago that book came out probably with the uh Christian hedonism idea where you know you basically are in this posi it's like it was kind of designed to solve the problem of okay I'm not having enough joy in my life from a Christian faith But then it's kind of created the solution that if you take it to its logical conclusion, it's like if you're not joyful in every little action according to the Lord, you're not real you're messing up somehow. Yeah, there's a middle ground that's interesting. You know, Platt's idea, I think his motivation was probably what I've been talking about the last five, ten minutes minutes which we we can do more, right? We get we let ourselves we give ourselves a get out of jail free card way too easily. Uh seriously, I would ask you later on when you have in your alone time with God or in your prayer or if you're having your own discussion group, you know, uh in conjunction with what we're doing here, talk about it and be honest and think about the neighbors who live right next door. Or two doors down, or your co-workers that you've gotten to know pretty well. And ask yourself honestly, have they heard The gospel from me. And the gospel means by that here's what I mean. I don't mean, hey, I went to church on Sunday. That's not church, that's not sharing with them the gospel, that's sharing with them some practice in your life, which is fine But the gospel is answering this question. What do you do with your guilt? Do they have an answer to that question? Do they know what the answer to that question is? What do you do with your guilt? Now you don't have to ask them that question, although you could. That'd be a pretty interesting conversation starter. But that's the thing you've got to ask yourself. Does my neighbor know what to do with their guilt? Have they heard from me what they need to do with their guilt? And if the answer to that question is no, you have not shared the gospel. Yeah, the problem is in today's day and age people don't have guilt. There's a there's a lack of of any sort of I you know, there's this you owe me, you've wronged me, it's you that did something, not me. So there's this real sense of not being guilty for anything. Nobody's owning that. I'm feeling like there's that's kind of what's going on in America right now. Now, well, I would say that there's a there's a a a burgeoning uh thinking along those lines. I think if you got to have a relationship with somebody and pressed in though, you would get the to acknowledge that even they are guilty of having done in something against their own standard. So if you press in hard enough It might not be by God's standard, that's fine, but even by their own standard, they're guilty of breaking the rules. Their own rules. So you can get but if they are so stubborn and assistant, no, no, no, no, no, I have broken no standard, then the question has to be to become okay well that who gets to decide the standard? Right. You know? By by what standard are you saying that? And they say, well I'm my own standard I say, well then y I'm my own standard. And your neighbor's the own s their own standard. And so nobody can ever do anything wrong, because they're only doing what they think by their standard. So who Who how who are you? So you have to admit at that point, this is a logical exercise, right? So you would have to admit, Mr. and Mrs. Neighbor, that by your own standard, you have no right to ever be angry with somebody for doing you wrong because they're just doing things by their standard. And yet you're angry with them. So you're violating your own standards that each person is in their own individual standard. So you've violated your own rule there. You're guilty of that. What are you going to do with that guilt? You know, at some point you can now if they're that obstinate and you just can't make any headway, you can just cut the chase and say, look, well here's what I believe. I believe that there is a creator who made us to honor him and bring him glory and to enjoy him for all eternity, and we screwed it up by breaking the rules And because we broke those rules, we can't be with him anymore because his perfect holiness will destroy us. So what's the solution? God's provided the solution in his very own son who paid the sacrifice on the cross, paying the penalty for And because I believe in that, I know I'm going to stand forever with God. That's the truth. And hopefully someday you'll come to believe that. And then they've heard the gospel. I mean you could just cut to the chase if you have to. But I'm telling you, I'm guilty- I'm I'm speaking, I'm preaching to myself right now. I mean I've been talking about this recently. In recent weeks it's really begun to hit me like a ton of bricks. I've been pussy footing around Seriously. There are people I have known for years that I assume they've heard the gospel, but I only can assume because they haven't heard it from me. Well shame on me. So and if you're in in league with me, shame on you too. We can do better. We're called to do better And I think when we don't do better, that's evidence of us being maybe a little lukewarm. Because what did those hot waters and those cool waters do? They brought healing. These people are broken and lost and hurting and damned. Right? And the church, that's a common cliche. The church is a hospital for sick people. Well what makes them sick? What's the medicine? The gospel. But we're not out there distributing the medicine. So we can do better. I think you can do better. If we start to do better, I think we'll notice our world getting better. So wow, we went really long today. Yeah. Anybody else have anybody anything else to say? No. I mean we halc or I. Were there any comments that we need to address? No? Okay Well you're welcome to comment and I will address those later on Facebook in the comments. If you do know how to reach me personally on my phone, you want to talk about any of this, give me a call, that's fine Or you can email me stuff if you want to do it that way. The easiest way to access by email, just go to householdfaith in Christ. com, our website, find my email there. easiest thing to do. Would you mind closing us in prayer? Sure. Dear Lord, we thank you for this day and we thank you for this message. on just not being lukewarm and to just, you know, trusting you and ha and we just pray that you work through our lives to not let us be lukewarm. and you just edify us and build us up in your image to your glorification. And we just, you know, pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, well, thank you if you stuck with us this whole time. I really appreciate that. We'll see you next week and we'll finish up Revelation chapter 3. Until then, God bless.