Hello, I think we're on. Hello, Facebook Live. You're watching this later. YouTube, this is the House of the Faith in Christ. We invite you to listen in on our sermon, our discussion that we'll have afterwards. The whole reason that we're here is to proclaim the good news that Jesus Christ of Nazareth has been raised And he is exalted in heaven right now at the right hand of the Father. He lived a perfect life of obedience that he needed to live because we don't live a perfect life of obedience, and therefore we are condemned to hell without Christ. But the good news is those who trust in him, profess and claim his name, stand on the promises of God's Word, we don't have such a condemnation, and that is good news indeed. You're encouraged to check out our website, household of faith in Christ. com. And uh I guess I'll go ship over here because I'm gonna jump into the sermon pretty quickly. Yeah, you can connect with us on social media, find our YouTube channel where all the messages end up getting stored and all of that sort of good stuff. Um tonight we're going to be in Revelation chapter four. I'm going to have uh ask uh Landon here to read that for us in in a second. So if you want to grab your Bible or whatever device you're using to follow along in the scriptures, I'd encourage you to do that. We're going to walk through each of these first four verses of Revelation chapter four one at a time. And this message is titled The Ideal Church. So if you want to know what the Ideal Church is all about, you're going to find out tonight. So let me open with a word of prayer, and then we'll hear God's word read and we'll get into the sermon. Father in heaven, you are a great and glorious God. Your magnificence is so immense that if we were to try to imagine you, our imaginations would fail us, would fall so short of who you truly are. You have not only made us, but those of us who trust in your son, you have remade us. We have been born twice, and therefore we will not have to die but once, and we will live forever in eternal eternal glory with you, our triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit We thank you for preserving your word for us all these years, for equipping us by the giants who came before us, the shoulders upon which we stand in grappling with the truth of your word, its deeper mysteries. and profundities so that we can apply them to our lives even today. And we would ask that you would help us to do that well, that we would study your word fervently, that we would understand it intimately, and that we would apply it to our lives consistently. We ask your blessing upon the word we preached here today, upon the discussion that will follow, and upon each and every one of the lives that hear this message proclaimed. It is good news indeed, Lord. Forgive us for forgetting. how good it is and how good you are. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. All right, Revelation chapter 4, verses 1 through 4. After this I looked, and behold a door standing open in heaven. And the first voice which I heard speaking to me like a trumpet said, I will show you At once I was in the spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven with one seated on the throne. A throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne, and he who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian, and around the throne was a rainbow that had that had the appearance of an emerald. Round the throne were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders, clothed in white garments, golden, uh golden crowns on their heads. With golden crowns on their heads. Um I'm assuming you're reading the ESV? Yep, yeah. You'll know why I thought so in a second. Where'd I put my water? Did I put it down over here? I had it a second ago. It was right there. That is so strange. What could I do with it? Oh, it's on the kitchen table. Oh, if I need it, I'll run over there and get it. Alright. Alright, so let's uh jump into the message. Which starts with a story. First time that I watched The Wizard of Oz on television, I had no idea at all that the movie opened in black and white. And it had been a lot of years since my mom had seen the movie, and so she forgot that it opened in black and white. And so there we were. We are in the living room. The TV pulled slightly away from the wall. And I'm back behind the set and I'm twisting all those little knobs that our TVs used to have on them. There was one for the vertical hold and the horizontal hold and one I think for the tint and the color and the sharpness and all that. And I was messing with all of them And nothing I did could make that movie show up in color. And I was sad. I got the colors to be uh You know, to show up like where the scene was entirely in red or entirely in blue or entirely in yellow, something like that, but that's not the same thing. And so I was disappointed. I had been looking forward to watching this movie on television ever since I had seen the commercials for it on TV, weeks leading up to this day. And all my friends were talking about it. It was a big deal. And it was a different world back then. The younger people, you're like, what is he talking about? I mean we live in a world of instant treat streaming services. You missed it, you watch it tomorrow, or you watch it ten minutes later. What's the big deal? But back then When we had to walk to school uphill both ways. You missed the show back then. You missed the show for like at least a whole year, maybe forever. And I was missing it. I was missing it in color anyway. And then miraculously the movie shows up in vibrant color. And I couldn't figure out what did I do to make it show up in color. And slowly it kind of dawned on me I didn't do anything. The movie itself had finally transitioned from black and white into Technicolor as the story transitioned from Kansas to Oz. And that's what's happening in the book of Revelation, too. We might not have considered that chapters 1 through 3 were in black and white. But by comparison with what happens, beginning in chapter 4, well chapter 4 is most definitely in Color. Full color. One half expects Dorothy to show up and turn to Toto and say, I don't think we're an Asia Minor anymore. In the seven churches of chapters two and three, and in our own too often dismal and dreary lives, we see the Kansas experience. The dusty pattern of temptation that leads to the commission of sin, which leads to additional temptations, that leads to the commission of more sins. And we leave our first love, and this leads to fear. And then the fear leads to syncretism and then idolatry and false doctrine. And before you know it, you are mired in deadness, faint of heart. You have no desire for or understanding of the gospel. And you run the risk of being lukewarm. No godly relationship with Christ. Instead having separation from the Lord, having been cast out from his presence as if by a midwestern tornado. Now the opening scenes of The Wizard of Oz, with that classic wistful song about life somewhere over a rainbow, it prepares us for our transport with Dorothy Gale. Into a mystical vision. And this is like the first part of the Book of Revelation, with its beautifully magnificent apocalyptic appetizers that prepare us for our transport with Brother John. into a mystical vision to end all mystical visions. By calling out sin By calling us to repentance, by encouraging us to overcome, our Lord has prepared our hearts to receive this next vision in the revelation. So let's begin to read about it in earnest here. Chapter 4, verse 1. After this I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven And the first voice which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet said, Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this. Behold, a door. After last week's message, the first thing we should think about here is Christ. He is the door. The door to paradise, the door to the tree of life, to the book of life, the door to the life-giving manna and other beautiful promises, especially the promise of eternal habitation, ruling with him. In the New Jerusalem. And with this vision, we might also think of what is sometimes called Jacob's ladder or the stairway to heaven in Genesis chapter 28. And we might think of the Apostle Paul when he writes in his letter to the Corinthians, the second letter that we have, that he was caught up into the third heaven. And I think of uh Stephen in Acts chapter 7 when uh he spilled the Holy Spirit as he was being stoned to death And he looked toward heaven and he said, I see heaven open, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand, the right side of God. There is a peering into a reality beyond our earthbound reality. It's an ultimate reality. And from this place, John hears a voice, like a trumpet. There are echoes here that we should see from Chapter 1. Remember the voice like a trumpet in Chapter 1 And also the first voice I heard. This could also be understood as I heard the first voice, as in I heard the Alpha of Alpha and Omega. I heard the first voice as in the first voice. And the last, this is God, summoning John as a prophet. And it draws to our mind, those of us that are steeped in the Old Testament, illusions. To Ezekiel chapter 1 and Amos chapter 3 and Isaiah chapter 6. And we kid ourselves that we don't think that John is purposely drawing these illusions for us. And then in verse 2 we read, At once I was in the Spirit, and behold, the throne stood in heaven, and one seated on the throne. So what we can see from the early part of this chapter is it's the exalted Christ, he is the mediator of this vision that begins in chapter 4, verse 1. And that's a lengthy vision. It's going to go all the way through chapter 8, verse 1. And during this vision, John, he is. Telling us again that he is in the Spirit. This is what he told us at the very start of this book in chapter 1. But there's a different Greek expression here in chapter 4 than in chapter 1. In chapter 1, the meaning is that John was in the Spirit in the sense that he was communing with God. He was in meditation. He was in prayer, he was in worship. This is something all Christians should be. We should be in the spirit in this way. It should be a regular habit and practice and ideal for the Christian life. But here in chapter 4, it's a different experience. The Greek is different. John, he's taken here on a sort of out-of-body experience. This is not normal everyday stuff for us mortal creatures. This is a metaphysical experience that John is having. John is taken to where he can see a throne in heaven. And then verse 3 tells us who it is that's sitting on that throne. And he who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian. And around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald. So it's God who sits upon the throne. And I think it's helpful for us to note something here. John, he helps us to avoid the sin of a second commandment violation. We're not given a specific physical description of God here to tempt us into making some sort of graven image about it. Instead, the one on the throne is like Jasper, like Carnelian. No, VSV, which is what we had read for us earlier. says Carnelian. Some translations they might cite Sardis or Sardine stone or something like that. Both the Carnelian and the Sardius stones were brown, reddish, brown gem stones, kind of the color of blood, if you will. And the difference between these stones, it's so loosely defined by gemologists that the two names apparently they're often just used interchangeably. So If you are looking at one translation in English and another English translation and there's different words for the stones, no need to feel nervous about that. They're just different translational understandings. of how to how to uh label these stones. Same stone, just different words in our English Bibles. Now, also there are uh different stones around the world that go by the name of Jasper. Apparently some are green and some are red and some are yellow. And there are lots of scholars who know a heck of a lot more about these ancient stones than I do, and they they they seem to think that John's Jasper stone might have been white, that it was uh clear as crystal, translucent. And if all this coloring is correct, well then they tell us that well the Nasardius or the Carnelian, depending on translation, uh it represents God's punitive justice, again, the color of blood. And that the clear, translucent Jasper, and that's the point in that whether it's green or yellow or clear or whatever, I think the point is the clarity, the translucency, pointing to God's pure holiness There's a point there. And that the emerald-colored rainbow, this represents God's covenant of peace with creation. We're familiar with the image of the rainbow from the Old Testament. Recall the rainbow of promise given to Noah after the great flood. Well, here we're reminded that God has not forgotten his promise. Despite the dramatic images that we are going to have described for us as we press forward in the book of Revelation. So as we go through these vivid, wild uh uh um disturbing images. We're to be reminded, we should be reminded of what we're reading here in chapter four, that God hasn't forgotten his promise. So in this scene, it shows us God's majesty and his mercy. They're they're meeting together. But the rainbow image, it's interesting, you probably you might have noticed as we read it, it's different than what's described in Genesis, or at least what we typically think about as a rainbow. And it's interesting, the word is different. In the Old Testament, in the Septuagint, which is the ancient Greek translation of the Old Testament, that's the Bible that Jesus and John and the other disciples that they would have known. That Greek translation of the Bible, the word in Genesis for bow, for rainbow is bow, as in bow and arrow. And this has led a lot of people to suggest, and I tend to be one of them who agrees that uh this idea of the bow And it being there's a sign, a covenant of peace from God to his people, is a symbol of God taking his bow from his bow and arrow and setting aside and hanging it up. And even more interesting, he's not just hanging it up, but he's hanging it up pointed away from the earth. Which I think you if you wanted to extend the analogy a little bit, he's pointing it to himself. So the punishment that is due to the people, God's going to pay the punishment through his son. I don't know if we're stretching the image too far, but it's in keeping with the gospel message, so I'm fine sharing that idea with you at the very least. So the word in Revelation It's not the same Greek word that's used for bow. The Greek word here in Revelation is the word iris It's the word for halo, and it means literally circle of light or fiery like ring. It's no wonder that's what we call the colored part of our eye. It surrounds the throne. This is drawing an illusion from Ezekiel's opening vision. of the Lord on his throne in the Old Testament. Again, that's on purpose. John is purposely making that illusion for us. So John here he's telling us a lot, tell us very much, without actually describing any particular features. And again, drawing from Ezekiel. This is what Ezekiel does in his description. And it's similar actually to what Daniel does in the book that bears his name, the seventh chapter of Daniel. Again, it helps us to avoid violating the Second Commandment through the use of simile. God is like this. He's like that But it still tells us important things about God through the symbolism of the the colors and the textures. For example, we've got the Jasper and the Carnelian or the Sardis stone and the emerald. These were three stones on the high priest's breastplate in the Old Testament Levitical system. In fact, they were three prominent stones out of the twelve. We know from Exodus chapter 28 that uh these three were the first, last, and essentially middle stones on the breastplate, the carnelian or the sardius. was the first stone on the breastplate. The emerald is the sixth stone on the breastplate. And the Jasper is the twelfth and final stone on the breastplate. So it's almost like they're bookending in a sense And these three stones, they were especially prized by the ancients. All of the gemstones would have been valuable, but these were particularly prized by the ancients. So these are special. By the way, they all show up again in Revelation chapter 21. As three of the foundation stones for the New Jerusalem. And one more, by the way, do you recall? Just a few weeks ago, we were talking about the breastplates that the high priests wore. We were learning about that, and the breastplate that bears all of these stones, and in this case these three particular stones, they represent the mercy of God in allowing his people to enter into his holy presence. And this connection to the Old Testament and the Levitical pre-system that continues in verse 4 Around the throne were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders, clothed in white garments with golden crowns on their heads. You're gonna get tired of hearing me say this maybe, but there is so much going on in the imagery of this verse. So around the throne of God there are 24 additional thrones. We see here an allusion to the 24 orders of priests, which are listed for us in 1 Chronicles 24. And we see here an allusion to the 24 orders of singers, also listed for us and outlined for us in 1 Chronicles. And we see a foreshadowing of the numerology that still is coming in Revelation 21. And we see a representative picture of the universal church. The twelve patriarchs of the Old Testament, the twelve apostles of the New Testament, the twelve and the twelve added together, making twenty-four. It doesn't just end there. It is it's it's a representative picture only. Now there are some commentators. They they like to draw a direct connection. They like to say that these twenty-four elders that are pictured here In Revelation chapter 4, that they are the leaders of God's people in the two covenants, meaning that one of the 24 is Moses, one of the 24 is Peter, and so forth. And so as such they represent a heavenly Jerusalem, the totality of God's people who sing praises 24-7. And there's an element of absolute truth in that. But I want us to be careful and not jump so fast on that conclusion and just stay merely there, because if we do, we're going to miss out on an even richer understanding of this imagery. What I believe we have pictured for us here is a vision of the divine counsel of God's wisdom. If you were to try to paint a picture, explain a picture of God's divine counsel, of his holy wisdom, how might you describe it? Well, here it is given to us with anthropomorphic language, an anthropomorphic vision of human royalty Anthropomorphic, that's a big fancy word. Let's talk about using human-based language, looking at things from our perspective, putting a human spin on stuff so we can understand it as humans. I mean it's hard to comprehend the spiritual realms. But we do have a better shot at trying to understand and picture what it is to have an earthly king and his court. We can all get a picture in our head of an earthly king and his earthly court. And so this image is given to us as our picture to help us understand. This is the vision our Lord gives John to give to us, because he wants us to understand. Gives us the picture of a king and his entourage. But these are heavenly beings. I don't think we want to miss that. Now they're truly representative of earthly humans. I don't want us to miss that either. But they're heavenly beings nonetheless. I am heavily persuaded this is the case, in spite of some other commentators that might disagree, because if you look in the very next chapter, in chapter 5, verse 10. These heavenly elders, they will speak of the church in a third person, as though they're not part of the church. In chapter 7, one of these elders is going to provide an explanatory message in the function of an angelic heavenly messenger. So these are heavenly beings. Presented to us with anthropomorphic language to draw a connection to a human reality. So they're heavenly beings. What are they called elders? We might wonder, that's a good question. We tend to think of elder as a human title. Well, the Greek word here that gets translated in our Bibles as elder is presbyteros. So we get the English word presbyter. It's the word that the Presbyterian Church uses to get their name for their form of government, or what the fancy people might like to call their ecclesiastical polity. A presbyter or an elder is generally regarded as a human rule. And you know what? It was intended, is intended, I would say, to be just that. Certainly at the start it was And ultimately it will be at the end again. When God created mankind, we were to have dominion. Over the creation. We were to rule it as stewards, co-ruling with God. But then came the fall. Adam and Eve, they committed that faithful sin. And we share in that original sin. And so now the world, it's upside down. We were to rule over the serpent, but we have allowed the serpent to have rule over us. Instead of being in our Maker's divine counsel of his holy wisdom, co-ruling with him in heaven, instead of that, we have allowed ourselves to become children of the devil. But this changes. For followers of Christ, right? We are no longer children of the devil. We are now children of our Heavenly Father And as such, we're co-heirs with Christ. And we will rule with Christ in the new heavens and the new earth as Vickers, as victors, as overcomers, as conquerors. And this view that we're given here of the angelic host that's seated around God's throne that illustrates all of this wonderfully well for us. It is what was to be. It is what will be. And at certainly at the second coming, but there's a sense in which is an aspect of it which is Even now. Now there's nothing at all with calling these heavenly beings elders. Some people can get hung up on that. Elders is a label for human leadership. Why would he ever call angelic heavenly beings elders? Again, the whole book of Revelation is this unpacking of imagery and symbolism that is foisted upon us. So when you think about the symbolism of the word elder, what comes to mind? What does the word elder signify? I think the logical thing, well, if somebody's elder, elderly, they're aged, right? Elderly speaks of age, and age brings with it wisdom. Again, we're talking about God's divine counsel of holy wisdom. Now this isn't to say that what's pictured here, I don't want you to misunderstand me, this isn't to say that what's pictured here is not the body of Christ. Because the body of Christ is pictured here. What I'm trying to say is so much more than that. And it's important that we get this because it has to do with how we apply this message into our lives. This is a call. It's not just a description. This is a call for us to walk in what and who we were meant to be. And this is true for all believers. If you are a follower of Christ, this is what you are called to, this is what you are meant to be, this is what you were made for and remade for. But while it's true for all believers, I want to take some time here. And I want to talk specifically to men. Now, there's only a couple of men here in this room and but we've got dozens of people that watch us online and over time who knows how many dozens more might watch us and I know some of those are men. And it's good for women to hear what their men are called to so that they can hold them to account. But I want to, given the cultural climate of the moment, I want to take some time to talk about men with us men. Too many men are living lives like the main character of Lion King. Remember young Simba? He was born to rule. He was supposed to grow to be the king. The king of the jungle, the king of the pride lands. But what does he do instead? In the early part of the story, if you've seen the movie, remember he behaves foolishly and then he behaves fearfully and then selfishly and then he embraces the adolescent attitude of Hakuna Matada. Swahili for, no worries. Simba takes no responsibility. He would rather float through life carefree, no responsibilities. And as the story progresses, you might have a mental image of the movie if you've seen it in your mind. You can remember those scenes in the middle where they show him growing into a larger lion. Remember that time-lapse photography kind of effect that they do? And it would appear, as we're watching that, that he is growing up. He's getting bigger. He's getting more full uh filled out. But he is maturing only physically. He is completely stunted emotionally and spiritually. He's still acting like a little cub. He's supposed to be on the throne. But instead he's a miserable little drifter. Gentlemen, might this describe you somewhat? At some level it almost certainly does Our sin nature battles against who we were made to be. We were made to be vice regents, vassal kings to the Almighty Suzeraine King. Do you not know that we are to sit in judgment of angels? How much more so the things of this life? That's 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 3. Men, you were made to be fruitful and to multiply. You are to fill the earth and subdue it and have dominion. That's from the very first chapter of the Bible, Genesis chapter 1, verse 28. So what are you doing? What are we waiting for? The fact is, most men actually are not simply just sitting around waiting and doing nothing. We're doing lots. And we're wasting so much energy as we do it. As a man, you can't help, I believe this sincerely, you can't help but show some evidence. of what you were made for and and what you've been called to. You have been commanded to live out God's creation mandate, starting with be fruitful. Be fruitful. It's why you have a sex drive. It's why you like curves and soft skin that's tender to the touch. Yeah, Mary. That's why most men should get married. Have kids. But what do so many men do instead We take what God has given us and we waste it. We spill our seed is one way that Scripture might have us describe it. One third of internet downloads are for porn. One third. Right now, this very second, there are 30,000 Americans watching porn online. Right now. 30,000 Pornography is estimated to negatively affect financial productivity in the workplace by tens of billions of dollars each and every year. Oh, and by the way, I'm highlighting the men, my male viewers here, but you ladies, you don't get off the hook on this. Research shows that one-third of pornographic viewers are women To what end? Well, from studies we know that this particular sin, the sin of pornography, it leads to plenty of other sins, increased unwed teenage pregnancies. Marital infidelity, increased divorce. It robs us robs us of our will to have dominion over creation. Because it causes depression, it confuses one's sexual development, it it makes people slaves to their addiction So there's a word about being fruitful. Let's look at multiply. It's hard to bring kids into the world to multiply when all these porn-related problems are involved. And it's hard to do this too in a pickup tinder culture. It's all about scoring, using, adding notches. As men see women as targets. These are the words they use. A score with a target last night. Gonna add another notch. What a pathetic substitute for what God has made you to do. You multiply in a uh church context, it also has to do with evangelizing, discipling people. But instead of sharing the gospel, Instead of talking about eternal matters, what do so many males do instead? Well, they evangelize. about their favorite baseball team. And they share about a great movie or a great band or a great TV series that they just spent 18 hours in a row binging. Now talking about music and motion pictures and even you know fantasy football, that sort of thing, it's all fine. I don't want you to misunderstand. Hope my tone's not giving you the wrong impression. I think it even when it's placed in their proper priority, these things can be good. But how often do we find ourselves saying something like, well, I'm just too tired? I'm too busy. I'm too overwhelmed to do godly things. I don't have time to pray, read the Bible, go to church. I'm too over it to do these related things to kingdom advancement. And yet somehow we do find the energy and the time and the focus to do these merely mundane things. You are called to fill the earth and subdue it. And yes, again, I am kind of primarily addressing men. in my thinking here because we have a leadership crisis, leadership crisis in the world and in the church And then you are supposed to be getting busy leading as God charges you to lead. But women. I want you paying attention too, because you have a role, critical role in filling the earth of doing it, right, just as well as the men do. Plays out a little bit differently with the women. It might primarily be done through, you know, childbearing and raising your kids to be godly image bearers of the Creator, helping your husbands in conquest. uh serving the neighbors around you, being active in the church, being a prayer warrior and so forth. There's lots of things. Maybe in a future sermon I'll spend most of my time focusing on what the women need to be worrying about. But at least for the very least, at this moment at the very least, I want everybody to understand that everyone needs to be locked in on this. And we know, even intuitively, that we are to fill the earth and subdue it. We know this. We see this in our lives with all the filling and subduing that we do. Do lots of filling. We fill the space in our houses with lots of stuff. And we we fill our heads with lots of clutter from the so-called, you know, items in the news. So-called news, trivial things. And we uh fill our calendars with busy work or sadly too often busy body work. But mostly it's about filling with things, right? With stuff, clutter, collectibles, choskies, whatever Well, having nice things, that's good. It is. So don't again don't misunderstand me. Having lots of nice things, that's good. It can be a blessing from the Lord. When it's prioritized properly, it is good. But not when it's at the expense of filling the earth in ways that are heavenly-minded. And a consumer's mentality, it well brings just this sort of an expense into the equation. Subduing, heavy dominion. We want to build something. Right? Don't we? We want to accomplish something. We want to make a difference. We want for our lives to have meaning and purpose. And not to sound sexist, but this is particularly how men Have been generally wired by God. And the evidence for this, it abounds. Look at all the men who are exercising dominion. Over fictitious universes like online gaming, war games, live action role-playing, things like You know, Dungeons and Dragons or even the actual Dungeons and Dragons game itself, and there's even the good old-fashioned, you know, Xbox games like Madden football, where men spend countless hours building the perfect pretend football team so they can win lots of pretend football games and be the most successful pretend general manager. Look, I'm not chastising anyone for playing these games. Hopefully you're hearing my heart on this. In fact There is much to be said, I'm sure, for the benefits of, I don't know, strategic skill development, uh social interaction that can come from playing these games, the the healthy stress relief that they might provide And other things you could probably share with me about, oh, these are all the good reasons why you should do some of these things. Okay, that's fine. The point though is, men, we have to reel things in. We have to put things in their proper place, their proper perspective. Winning at Madden is wonderful, I have no doubt. And if you've had some success having fun playing the game, okay, good for you. Okay. But What if this fake dominion is keeping you from having actual dominion? What then? Is it? Is the fake dominion keeping you from having actual dominion? Is your marriage in great shape? Well, if not, stop wasting time and energy on a world of make-believe. Are your kids growing up in a way that pleases God? If not, well, then it could be that you need to grow up. Is your vocation progressing in ways that bring increased impact for the Lord? If not, why not? Don't you know who you are? Whose you are If you're a man, you are called to be a leader of the mission. If you're a man or a woman, you're to be in submission to God. And husbands, you are to be on mission. And you are to share this mission with your wife so that she can join you in it if you're married. How can your wife possibly be in sub-mission if there's no mission in your marriage? Now if you're struggling to figure this sort of thing out, ask your mentors for an assist. They'll be glad to help, I'm sure. And don't forget, you can also ask your wife to help. I mean, she is designed to be your helpmeet after all. And fellow believers, you've not only been born for this. You've been reborn for this. As it shows us in Revelation Chapter 4, verse 4. You were made for sitting on the throne. And because of Christ you are dressed in white, wearing golden crowns on your head. You know, and one way of thinking about this is that you have been dressed for success by your Lord. So don't settle for anything less. Than the pursuit of that success, empowered by Christ's Spirit, after having been washed clean by Christ's blood, you will have success. The sweetest sort of a success, the eternal success. Commit to walking in that success. The success that Christ has already won for you. What's pictured in this chapter of Revelation is the ideal church. And you have been called into it. As a follower of Christ, you are part of the ideal church. And the church takes dominion So let's roll. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you have entrusted us to carry out the mission of your ideal church We praise you and thank you that the victory and success of that mission is not dependent on us because it has already been won by Christ, but we have the privilege, the honor of sharing in the work. By your design for us, forgive us for failing so often to walk the life that you've called us to. Help us to eliminate the time wasters, the stress inducers, the royal wastes of time, or the non-royal wastes of time, I guess If we're going to waste our time, help us to do so royally, to recognize that we are your vice regents. We have been called to have dominion, to advance the cause of the kingdom. Help us to stay focused on that mission. And by the power of your Holy Spirit, we know that we will be successful in doing just that. We ask that you would guide and bless the conversation that is to follow. And Lord, I pray your blessing upon all who are hearing my voice as I deliver this message from your word. Your word who is the Son, the eternal word, Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. It's in his name we pray. Amen. I'm gonna sneak off camera for a second and grab my water bottle. So There we go. Any initial uh thought starters? Back to himself because he for our punishment. Why? And the punishment for our sin. That was a new idea which was very interesting. And then the the fact that the twenty four elders were That was also a new nugget. I was like, oh, okay, yeah. It's the it's the church representation, but also The elders are yeah, so that makes sense. So that was an interesting analogy I had not heard of before. That's what I got. Yeah. And and and I I struggle to figure out how the best way to try to explain that because there's so many layers of symbolism. There's like a half a dozen things going on in one verb And you can really get bogged down in the weeds. So one of the and I don't I I am I think that the commentators that I've interacted with and most of the sermons I've heard over the years about this word and they really focus on the twenty-four elders are the church. And they're right. But it feels like it's so much more than that. It'd be like saying, you know, my uh my wife and I were a married couple. Well that's true. It it defines who we are, but it's so much more than that. Right? We're we're heading up a family. We're we're contributing to the community. We're we're helping to drive the economy. We're helping to, you know, lead and guide Christ's church. You know, there's all sorts of different things that are it's it's so much richer than just we're married couples. And so that verse in Revelation, yes, it it it is a picture, a representation of what God's church is called to be. We're called into His divine counsel. We're supposed to be living out lies that demonstrate his divine wisdom. His perfectly holy wisdom. And Ultimately we will do that perfectly with him. Right now we do it imperfectly. So we are called to that. Um but it's so much more than that. And I think John's doing that on purpose. I think it's why or the Lord is doing it on purpose when he gives gives the vision to John. Because the vision he gives John is uh I don't think he's gonna be getting around it, they're not human beings represented on those thrones in the way the vision is described They're heavenly beings that are presented there. But if they're representing the church, why are they heavenly beings? And I think it's because it's it's aspirational for the church This is who we were made to be, it's who we're called to walk in now, it's what we will eventually be. But we're not there yet. And we know we're not there yet because if we were there already, it'd be human beings on those thrones instead of heavenly beings, we're not there yet. Um so I don't know if I did a good enough job on that or not, so I'm expounding a little bit now. So if you hear somebody preach and they say these are the Twenty-four, you know, the twelve patriarchs, the twelve apostles, it's the Christ Church. They're not wrong. That is right. And that is, I think, the main point But there's so much more wrapped up in it and so much beauty in it. And the beautiful part is the part that draws us to the application. Uh if we don't make the connection that I'm trying to get us to make, we merely have a description, a descriptive vision of something that is, but okay, what does that mean for me? But if you can understand more the texture, you're like, oh I know what that means to me. I'm called into this. I'm to have I'm to exercise wisdom in my life, and that wisdom is taking dominion. So that's kind of representing the end game for us and because it's heavenly so but then in the here and now It's the aspiration of the end game. Yeah, and again, I don't want to take everything um too exact and and and try to force this in sort of a a uh too much of a literal play. I don't want to give the impression that we're not in any way right now part of that council because we are co-heirs with Christ now Christ says it is finished. So there's an aspect of which we are ruling with Christ, although very imperfectly. Christ's true church is ruling with him in some sense right now. So in some sense. We are pictured in that 24 thrones. But understand, I've emphasized this before. When Christ comes a second time. And we're in heaven with God. I don't think we should expect to see actually twenty-four literal physical thrones. You know, in the heavenly realm. That's not this isn't describing for us this isn't a painting. Remember we talked about this in the early parts of our walk through Revelation. This is not a this is not a painting. This is a this is this is a dream Right, this is this is a little bit more amorphous than that. So the fact that there's twenty-four is to connect to the twelve patriarchs and the and the twelve, there's no doubt that it's a call for the church to walk in what God's people, to walk in what they were called to walk in. So the twenty-four is there for a reason. But it's more than twenty-four. It's not just Moses who gets to co-roll with Christ. It's not just Peter and Paul and anybody else you want to name that would be among the twenty-four and that'd be an interesting party game. Who do you think the twenty four are? I mean the uh I guess you're gonna have to say it is literally the twelve the patriarchs of the twelve tribes and stuff. Does that mean none of us? It almost starts to sound a little bit Jehovah's Witness where there's a certain select few that have a special kind of a salvation that the rest of the they'll get to participate in. You know, the Jehovah's Witnesses they don't have a P24, for that was 144,000. But still there's 144,000 that really have salvation. As everybody else has some separate level of salvation. I don't want us to make I think that's heretical. So I don't want us to follow the idea that uh that the twelve tribes of of Israel, the the leaders of the twelve tribes, the the progenitors of the twelve tribes and the twelve uh disciples who then became the the apostles, that there's some sort of specially saved group and then there's everybody else. No that's not how the Bible explains it. We're all co-heirs in Christ. And there is no more Jew or Gentile, male, female. There's a union, the unity of Christ. We can't ever forget the importance of that Oh I just don't think that the the patriarchs of the twelve tribes and this aspirational figures in the Bible like you got Reuben and And uh Judah in particular, not the most aspirational figures, whereas the Yeah, lots of works. Lots of works. Yeah. Whereas the you know, New Testament apostles, you know, we don't see the whole picture of, you know, other than like Downey Thomas and get behind me Satan. Um other than those types of moments and we're jumping ahead we like you would easily you could easily go down that Jehovah Right, yeah. So I want to say one of the things that we're going to do. I think that one of the things too is we kinda at least in the in the I think some people that uh like I know you Ray has read certain things and this is going to connect with him better than some other people, but there's a difference between when you sequence things, there can be a chronological sequence or there can be a logical sequence And the logical sequence isn't always the same. Logic doesn't have to play out in time. It's just it plays out as a mental exercise, a logical exercise of okay, what would have to happen first before this next thing could happen logically. If different plays out in time And so I'm not sure, at least logically, if not chronol with uh uh chronologically, uh we could have a problem if if we are literally to understand Revelation chapter four And the twenty four is the ac it's you know it's it's it's Judah and uh uh well I don't want to waste time. If we were to think about there are twelve actual formerly on the earth planet humans who are now in heaven seating on the throne. Christ hasn't come yet. Not even in the narrative within the revelation has Christ's coming happened yet. There hasn't been the the resurrection for everybody Where they have their bodies, their glorified bodies. And so we would have to invent some sort of theology that would allow for those twenty-four individuals to get their glorified bodies put on these thrones in heaven before everybody else did. I mean it creates such a uh a cyclone of potential confus and confusion and uh uh bad teaching, if not in some cases heretical teaching You're looking at me confused. No, I'm thinking that's different than the levels of rewards that we get. Yeah. Like we are all the church and we're all co-heirs. But there but scripture does talk about different levels of rewards. And that's ti entirely separate. Yeah, we're gonna uh we all share the same salvation Right. Um we all s share the same co airship. All that is Christ is all the who are in the body. Now people in the body have different roles and different people have lived lives of different uh Yeah, different measures of obedience. And so that those better measures of obedience are rewarded differently. But it has nothing to do with how soon you're going to get your glorified body with God's timing and planning of things. It's it's not like uh it's not like we're gonna be walking around in heaven or on the new the new earth saying, oh, well you're a Christian too, but not as good as me. Like we're not gonna Right. Right, yeah, no, because there's 'cause then that would be there would be jealousies and strife and how come he has what I don't have and well I did this, you didn't do that. So that's yeah. Absolutely. No, I didn't mean to indicate that. Yeah. What about we only have a little bit of time for we want to before seven o'clock, we want to wrap this up, but what about the cultural stuff that was touched on. Um yeah that that definitely uh resonated 'cause like video game uh obsession is a masculine pursuit. It's just a masculine pursuit in the wrong direction. Whereas in a fantasy world that you're building and taking dominion on, but you're not but when it comes at the expense of doing that in real life, that's when it becomes the issue. When you're not doing that in real life Like if it's just something that you do for fun, that's one thing, but if it's your basically your existence it's another thing and like the p even the people that make money doing it aren't making money because they're playing video games. They're making money because they've marketed themselves. The marketing is where they're making money. Mm-hmm. Like not the actual playing of a video game. And with most sins are usually uh most sins are manifestations of twisted goods. Are there good things that we have twisted and misapplied and misused? So men are designed to get married, have sex with their wives and But instead of doing that which would be a good, they decide to spend time watching online porn. They're supposed to go out there and uh you know, make the world a better place and uh advance the cause of the kingdom by sharing the good news and being productive, providing for the family, that sort of thing have dominion in other words, and instead they want to conquer kingdoms in a in a safe space, right? Online where there's no real threats. There's no real stress. There's no real risk. And if you're not going to take a real risk, well, you're not living like a real man. Because real men take risks You know, we've been called to do that. So uh all of these uh we could probably go down uh down the line on uh probably any sin, even this the collection of stuff. I talked about we we fill our spaces with lots of stuff Having blessings from God is a good thing. Alright? We're we're you know I think we're gonna have riches beyond measure in in heaven. Uh and we have examples of people who they were incredibly Wealthy in a material sense because of God's blessing. We have Job, we have Abraham, we have David, we have Solomon, lots of people who were blessed materially. Uh so that's a good thing. But when we start to think that, oh my stuff is where it's at, in fact I deserve to have so much stuff I'm gonna steal her stuff because I deserve to have more, that's taking a good desire and s and twisting So um I don't know the you might I don't know if anybody happens to know. You might know because you Pay attention to data and stats and stuff, what the current uh percentage of of people that are engaged in regularly consuming pornography. I know that one third of pornography d of of internet downloads are pornography. I mean but does that mean that it's one third of the people doing it, is ninety percent of the people doing it? I mean this is something that transforms by the by the year and how the trends work 'cause now it's more personalized than it used to be. Like it used to be something something that you pay to go go to like a movie theater and something like that be a red light district type of thing, but now it's become more personalized and you have the Yeah, the whole uh e-thought simp relationship to use more vernacular language, uh simp being someone who pays for a personalized experience like they kinda like pretend to be your girlfriend type of thing so it's it it's become more like that rather than simulating rather than watching someone else like You know, like a football. You ever hear that? That's vernacular. But um All the young kids today are talking about it. And then being the guy that pays them for it's like a Patreon account if you're more familiar with that. that's changing the right. Online whores, if you will. Oh so you're interacting with real and real women. You're not interacting with uh cartoons or something, you're interacting with real no I mean traditionally it'd just be something you'd watch, but now it's more like I have a relationship as a paying subscriber to one person or even multiple people. But it's more like there for ten girlfriends. Yes, yeah. It'd be like in the old days, you'd go back to and frequent the same whorehouse to be with the same woman and over time you feel like you've developed a relationship with that woman. She's just playing it because she's got a whole bunch of guys. Right. And like it this is like the electronic virtual version of it. You know for a time it was probably like that. And then it kind of transformed into more of a red light district where you go Or you have to go behind you have to go out of your way into an uncomfortable, hey, I'm actually going to pay for this movie ticket, or I have to go rent. The back room of the blockbuster or whatever equivalent. In case you're allowed, I'm either going to expose myself as not really know what I'm talking about, or I'm going to impress one person by like, wow, how do you know that But I believe that the E thought comes from the you know E has like the electronic universe of things. And thought is is slang like urban language for uh I think it's they misspell it's really more of a W but it's more how you No. No, it's that hoe over there. Yeah, that hoe over there. So T H O T. Yeah, so an electronic version. So I guess before the internet was the big deal. You know men men would be would see some sexy woman walk by and they say to everybody, Hey, look at that thought. It was a really dumb slang, but it kind of evolved into like something Cognitive intelligence with this. That's kind of made a sense. No, for the most part I don't either, but like So the service is called DeFi? No, no, the service is called OnlyFans. Yeah, that that's the platform. Um Um how do you know too much about this? All over the internet. It comes up all over the internet. There's articles on the plane. Praise God I'm not here. And God forbid it. I mean Twitter's probably the number one platform. Wow. I only know the little bit about it that I know because I heard the fra uh Oh it's called afraid. I just heard the term once and I was like, what the heck is that? So I looked it up online to see what it was. But which is a dangerous idea. I think even even I occasionally, you know, you open up uh an email and you realize what it is and you just uh you just stumble into somebody's list. No, they it they're like marketed all over Twitter. Okay. They like to say what percentage they are on OnlyFans or like a top one percentile or see See a lot of like you know news article titles and s headlines and stuff like that that are talking about oh this person gave up her day job and is making this much money on OnlyFans. That's where I know a lot of it is there's actually news articles of people. money. I have seen that too. Well yeah you guys talk about with people making a good amount of money doing this. It's interesting they aren't. You know, the the message uh today was talking about you know failure to take you know, honest to goodness godly dominion because we're lazy, distracted, sinful, whatever. Meanwhile, the enemy is taking dominion. People there are some people making probably millions of dollars doing this. Oh yeah. And they're taking dominion for the devil, for the enemy. Meanwhile we're, you know twiddling our thumbs. And again, I don't want to I will say this, if you felt even a little annoyed by what I said, then you might have a problem to be addressed. Uh but if you don't have a problem, then hopefully you were able to take it in spirit intended. Look, if you watch uh a T V show or you just you need a break, you're totally stressed and you're gonna take uh you know, a bunch of hours one Saturday out of your life and binge watch a show for ten hours. Okay, fine, whatever. I'm not gonna But if you're doing that every day, every week, every month, even every quarter, like you should not be binge watching something on TV for hours on end. You've got better things to be doing. doing. You've got kingdom work to do. Unless it's a research project. You know, you're going to watch it because you're going to put it to use for something. If it's productive, purposeful, that's fine But if you're watching Mindless you know when we were kids I talked about the Wizard of Oz story and all that. What did di uh mostly it was an older generation? What did your grandparents call the TV? Did they have a nickname a kind of a Dismissive name for it. The tube? Boob tube. Boob tube because there were a lot of boobs on it, right? They called it the idiot box too, remember that? The idiot box? Well they call it the boob tube and the idiot box. Why? Because only only fools watch a lot of it and you're going to be turned into an idiot if you can stare continually stare at the box And yet now we've got this entire economy that is driven by the idiot box. It's a wonder we're surrounded by idiots who can't think for themselves. It's crazy. Alright. Any uh parting thoughts before we close in prayer? I think if you have the like you they took issue like it's about moderation And like, you know, if you don't own your responsibilities elsewhere, like I think there is a time for pleasure. Absolutely. You know, or if you are fulfilling your d the dominion mandate in your own life, you are being responsible and have everything in moderation, there's no reason to take any offense to the the suggestion that people take or people are uh consumed by their own video game habit or whatever, binge watching Netflix or whatever Yeah. Well, thanks. So I'm again, he's this is my get out of jail free card. If you were offended, it's your fault. If you if you were offended it means you might I'm you might you might have an itchy some scratch in there, right? So um anybody feel like I've been talking a lot for the last hour. Anybody feel like they want to close us in prayer? You want to close us in prayer? Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Thank you for the message. Pray that it would indeed penetrate us and cause us to do more than you. We pray that you keep us safe. Hello. Yeah, it's a loud joyful noise. So if uh if you're still with us uh at this point this next week we'll pick up with Revelation chapter four verse five. I think we'll be focusing on chapter uh uh verses five and six primarily next week. Till then, God bless