You guys don't sound excited at all. Merry Christmas. I think um Abigail said that we could do it better by standing, right? And and nobody did it. Did you? Merry Christmas? There you go. It's not a usual one, but this is unusual, but it's still good. Amen. Alright. We're going to take communion after we hear God's word together this morning. Alright. And kids, um, I would ask that you are all quiet. If you're quiet, um I'll say something good to you at the close of service. I know if I promise they take my jacket. Yeah they're gonna take me on. But my promise is that if you're quiet, I'll say something good to you How about me praying for all of you for Christmas? Amen. That would be great. Amen. Alright, but um this morning I want to introduce the um uh the partner and the wife of the preacher then she will introduce the husband. Is that okay? Right. Um we have in our mist today a dear friend who um the Lord opened the door for us to meet at some few years back. And um I think our relationship has been growing gradually. And um I am excited that today he's here to share God's Word with us. Amen. Um but I want to introduce um his wife Dina uh first of all, and um she will come and introduce the husband. You you know how good it is when it's your wife giving you good words. You got it? So if if you got good words from your wife, you know, all of a sudden everything you're swagging Everything is in and you're ready to do it. And so I feel like let me just change the tables a little bit today. But their son and your daughter are home are home at the moment because they are not well. Uh Tyler and Danny are not here. But ladies and gentlemen, let's stand together and welcome Dina as he comes to introduce us. Good morning. I just want to say that I am blessed. You're blessed. We are blessed. Amen. This is the day. The Lord is with us. So so s so very thankful. So our story began about twenty five years ago. Uh little bone to my husband, the Lord spoke to me before before I even accepted him. And we were in the newsroom, we work in radio together, and we were having a conversation and I had my whole life planned out. And I said, Well, you know, I have to be married by the time I'm you know twenty-five and he said, Wow, you know, you're like twenty-three, I guess you you know who you're gonna marry. And in my head the Lord said, You And I thought, wow, really? And so our story began. And he denied it and denied it and tried to send me away. And I said, No, you love me. You love It's true. This is a true story. So long story short, he prayed about it and he said, Lord, how could this woman And the Lord said, Nope, this is who I have for you. And so our story began. And truly this man was handpicking. from the Lord because I grew up confused about God. I grew up afraid of God. I grew up wondering that if I could ever talk to God, seeing if I could please Him, if He could ever accept me And the truth is, through Christ we are accepted. Through Christ, all things are possible. And my husband shared this message with me. And I cried and I cried and I said, No, don't you understand I can't accept it, I'm not good enough. And he said, That's the whole point. You're not good enough. And one day I was alone and I prayed after reading, he said, Read the gospel of John, I was afraid to read the Bible because I was taught you don't read the Bible, someone else reads it and then they speak to you about it. So I read the Bible, read the Word of God with fear and trembling, and the The Lord spoke to me and said, You are a sinner. And I bawled even more. And then I said, If you will please, please give me this gift, I will accept it. And from that very moment I began a new life. And it's because this man who said, No no no, this can't be my wife. She's not a believer and God said, No, this is who I have for you. Because he was faithful to what God spoke. I am saved, of course, by the grace of God, but he used this man and he will use this man to speak to you right now. So without further ado, I introduce my wonderful husband, Troy Skinner. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Well before we launch into the message today, I want to uh say that it is an honor, true honor, to be granted the privilege of sharing God's Word with you today on Christmas morning of all days. Um specially as I get to share with you you a personal favorite topic of mine and my family, and it might become one of your favorite topics after you hear what the Lord has for you this morning. Uh many of you are becoming familiar with with me and my family these past several months as we visited a few times. But again, a reminder of who I am. My name is Troy Skinner and I am a sinner A horrible, depraved sinner. Saved by the blood of Jesus Christ. And it is my hope this morning that by the time I am finished you will believe the same thing to be true about yourself. We pray with you. Father, we praise you and glorify your name for who you are. And what you've done, and what you continue to do, and what you will do in the future. We ask that your Holy Spirit open our hearts to receive your truth as you open my mouth to deliver it. I pray that you will keep me faithful to your word and make up for the short Comings that I bring to proclaiming the message of the gospel. And put at rest the distractions that face many of us today. We are here to worship you in fellowship gathered in this place. Help us to do both well. Worship and fellowship. In the name of our one and only hope for salvation, we pray. The name of your eternal Son Jesus Christ. Amen. Daddy, tell me what it was like when you were a kid. Mommy, read me a bedtime story. From the time we are children, we love stories. Tales of long-ago ages, faraway places. But the best stories are the true ones. Especially the ones that still affect us today. This is why when company comes over for dinner, tell me if this isn't true, the children are so eager and enthusiastic and encouraging their parents to tell the story of how they met. Go on, tell us how we met. Stories of their courtship, their mad dash to the hospital when the kids were born? What's your favorite story? At a time like this, you might say, oh, my favorite story is Frosty the Snowman. Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer, maybe. Or perhaps It's a Wonderful Life At one time my son and daughter, they might have said that their favorite story was health. Or The Toy That Saved Christmas by VeggieTales Now these examples are all fictitious, but not all stories are fiction, of course. So maybe your favorite story is that of the Reformation or the French and American revolutions, or maybe a biography by about someone like Mahatma Gandhi, or other historical stories rooted in reality like that Well, what kind of story are we giving regarding Jesus? This morning you are going to hear about the greatest story. ever conceived. And you will hear a personal story that illustrates in an intimate way how this greatest story ever told Is retold in new and wondrous ways, even in the lives of those seated around you this morning After this message, you will know my family quite a bit better than you already do, and by God's grace you will know in the marrow of your bone. What it means to be a part of God's family. It is a powerful, powerful truth. And because it's so powerful, I've been challenged all this week since I learned last week I'd be preaching today to just wait and be patient to share with you this once upon a time. So that you will have your heartbeat stronger for the hope that is happily ever after. If you have your Bibles, you would open them and turn to Luke chapter 2, third book of the New Testament. While you turn there, I'm going to mention a couple other things. passages if you're really quick at turning in your Bible you might want to turn here to Matthew chapter one the very beginning of the New Testament not going to read from Matthew chapter one I just want to point out that in this first chapter of the New Testament we have a genealogy that is broken out into three sets of fourteen generations From Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to Judah, David, and Solomon through Ahaz, Azor, and Joseph, wrapping up with Jesus Jesus himself. And in Luke chapter three, one chapter past the one that we're going to read here in just a moment, we are given another genealogy that works backwards through seventy-seven names including Levi, Omah Amos, and Judah, Boaz, Jacob, Isaac, Abraham, Shem, Noah, all the way back to Seth. And Adam wrapping up with God Himself. And in Luke chapter 2, it begins In those days, Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world. This was the first census. And everyone went to their own town to register. So Joseph, he also went up from the town of Nazareth and Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem, the town of David, because he belonged to the house and line of David. Was expecting a child. While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born, and she gave birth to her first son, firstborn a son. She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger. Because there was no guest room available for them. So, what's one thing that we can gather from the long lists of genealogies that I mentioned, and this little story here in Luke chapter 2 that we have That I've just read. What's just one thing, maybe, that we could gather from these things about Jesus? Jesus is a real life human. This is one of the reasons that the Bible provides us with his genealogy and gives us details about his birth. Like you and I, Jesus has grandparents and parents and great-grandparents and great-great-grandparents and so on. He really, truly existed. These were real people living in real history. Just like Jesus. Just like us. Stories about Jesus are presented in the Bible as historical He really lived in the real world. This isn't some story in a make-believe land once upon a time. It's a story that takes place within historical context. As we just read in Luke chapter 2, it is when Rome ruled the political world. It is when Augustus was Caesar, when Quinerius was governor. This is not some mysterious land far, far away. This is Nazareth in Galilee. This is Bethlehem and Judea. Just like with us, Frederick in Maryland. The Bible gives us the story of real people in real locations taking place in real time. Jesus is real, like you and I are real. He is human He was born a baby. He grew and became strong, filled with wisdom, as it tells us in Luke 2, verse 40. Now we're not told much about his childhood, but we are told enough to know that he had a childhood And we know that he lived as an adult, even from non-biblical sources, like the ancient historian Josephus. And we, of course, know about his adult life in some detail. From the Bible. In the Gospels of the New Testament, we can see that Jesus lived a life that is much like ours. He went to parties, even turning water into wine. He needed rest, even sleeping on a boat during a violent storm. He ate and drank, both before and after his resurrection. He felt stress, coining perhaps the phrase, never let him see a sweat. Blood. He got angry overturning the tables of the money changers in the temple. He cried. More than once And ultimately, he even died. Absolutely. Jesus is a man. This is what the Bible tells us. Most will even grant this point. Perhaps saying that only Jesus was a great prophet, wonderful teacher. That's as far as it goes. But in addition to this, Jesus is the real life-giving God. The writers of the New Testament tell us that Jesus is God by his words, and they show us that Jesus is God by his deeds. Matthew chapter 1 verse 23. We even sung about this today. It tells us that Jesus' name, even Emmanuel, means God with us. And we can see this demonstrated over and over again. Three dozen specific miracles are recorded in the four gospels. We have twenty or so described each in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Not all different miracles. Of course, there is some overlap between what are called Then we have eight additional miracles talked about in the Gospel account from John. Most of his miracle stories are unique to his gospel, but the point is. God authenticates his word throughout Scripture, through supernatural occurrences, through miracles. Like the plagues in Egypt vouched for the truth of what Moses said. Like fire from the sky proved that it was Elijah who served the one true God. Like the great flood, the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, the tumbling down of Jericho's walls, the pregnancies of really old women. Jesus is the word And he is authenticated by his miracles. So what we see throughout the Bible, we see specifically with regards to Jesus. And this should not be a surprise to us because the Bible, we're told, is about Jesus. Jesus Himself tells us this. Bible, of course, is about God and about his relationship with man in this relationship set. Enters on Christ. The whole Bible is about Christ. If you still have your Bibles open to Luke chapter 2, thumb ahead to Luke chapter 24 By the way, if you don't have your Bibles, I know I think that some of these verses are are included in the bulletin and they're probably maybe up on the screen even I'm not sure about that part, but uh lagging to Luke chapter uh two well 24. John chapter 5, verse 39. I want to read this to you. This is Jesus talking in John chapter 5, verse 39. You study the scriptures diligently. Because you think that in them you have eternal life. These are the very scriptures that testify about me, Jesus said. And in Luke chapter 24, we're going to look at verse 27 and also verse 44, where it says, beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he, Jesus. Explain to them what was said in the scriptures concerning himself. He said to them, this is what I told you while I was still with you. Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me. In the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms. Now, the law of Moses, that's a reference to the Pentateuch, the Torah, the first five books of the Bible, and the prophets and the Psalms, that's a shorthand reference. for the rest of what we now call the Old Testament. So by this phrase, Jesus is talking about the entire Old Testament. We still use these sorts of idioms today. Like if we were to say from New York to Chicago to LA, we would be talking about the entire United States of America. And so Jesus with this phrase, the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms, he is talking about what was at that time the entire Bible. So consider, we know the New Testament is about Jesus And Jesus here is telling us the Old Testament is about him too. The whole Bible is about Jesus. Well, what does it say about him? What does he say about him himself? Jesus claims to be God. Nineteen times in the four Gospels, he says that he is the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies, pointing to God saving his people. He says 23 times that he is the Son of Man, which is actually a most powerful claim of deity when it is under understood the context of Daniel chapter 7 with one like a son of man coming in the clouds of heaven. Sixteen times he says he is a son of God. Thirteen times, Messiah, Christ, Savior, only God saves. Twice he says that he has the power to forgive sins, and only God can do that. Three times he calls himself Lord, and dozens of times he says, I am. The covenant name of God revealed to Moses at the burning bush in Exodus chapter 3. Jesus says of himself that he is God. And he backs up what he says about himself with his miracles. And ultimately his resurrection and his ascension. Now, the resurrection, that is often said by some commentators to be God's greatest miracle. I like to think of it as his second greatest miracle, with the greatest being creation. I mean, think about it, he made everything that is out of nothing. Even time and space. Think about that. Not only did he create everything that is, he even created the space within which to put it. And he brought order. Without him there is chaos. Well, the opening of John's Gospel account tells us that the Son of God performed even this, greatest of all miracles. John chapter 1. You want to flip there you can? I'm going to look at verses 1 through 4 and then jump ahead to verses 17 and 18. Beginning with John 1, verse 1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God. And the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Through him all things were made. Without him, nothing was made that has been made. In him was life. In that life was the light of all mankind. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. Jump ahead to verse 17 there. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God but the one and only Son who is Himself. God and is in closest relationship with the Father has made him known. From before the creation, the Son has been God. Amen? Amen. But what I want us to remember in earnest at this moment Is that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King right now Right? No. Back then? Yes. But also right now In the future? Yes. But also right here, right now Jesus is Lord, Jesus is Savior, Jesus is King right now I'm going to share with you a personal story that will help to illustrate that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King today. My son Tyler. was born very sick. One of my earliest memories of him after his birth is that of his breathing. His entire body, it convulsed in and out so violently that his rib cage practically touched his spinal column. I wouldn't have believed that it was possible for a human body to do that if I hadn't seen it with my own eyes He was struggling to force down every breath, and he was failing in that struggle. Because his lungs weren't capable yet of doing their job. I thought for sure that he would die within minutes. He didn't. Over the course of a few days his breathing had steadied, but his skin had a purple dot all over it, and it was yellow. Really yellow. It was caused by elevated bilirubin in his blood. You might know this as having jaundice. Now bilirubin, that's the junk that's in our blood that's supposed to be cleared out. And a normal bilirubin count, I'm told, is something like 00. 0 Now sometimes a baby has a bilirubin count of one or two, or maybe a more dangerous three. or four, and so the doctors they place these lights over them in the hospital and somehow that helps to bring that number down. Well Tyler's number was well over three or four And it kept climbing. Now the liver, that's what cleans all this garbage out of our blood. And Tyler's liver was not working. So it's gone this number. It just kept climbing climate. Now the doctors to assure us they said, you know, let's not worry too much. As long as that number stays in single digits, it doesn't go into double digits, we'll be okay. And it went into double digits. So then they explain, well, there's two parts to Billirubin. There's what's called direct and indirect Billirubin. And as long as the direct stays in single digits, it'll be okay. And the direct went into double digits. And now his skin, it wasn't yellow It was green. Seriously. Green. Sometimes he'd have this scrunched up look on his face and look And I would joke, not easy being green. Billy Rubin went well over twenty. And at that point I said to the doctors, how f How high can this number go? And they said, that's a very good question. They had been researching it themselves and they could find no evidence of any record anywhere with anyone ever having a bilirubin count so high as Tyler's was at that moment. And it was still going up. It went up all the way to thirty point five Tyler had a liver biopsy. He had liver surgery. Consultation was sought from leading medical experts across the nation. Nothing helped. He thought for sure that he would die within weeks. He didn't Tyler was sent home from the NICU after two months, and we are convinced to this day that he was sent home to die. He was seeing eight specialists who needed to see him every week, most of them two, three times a week. week and so we took Tyler to several doctor's appointments per day. He was on twelve different medications We fed him by using a syringe to shoot the food down the back of his throat because he was too weak to suck and swallow. He would be back in the hospital in about a month. He had velaria treasure surgery. and bilateral hernia repair and hypospadia surgery and strabismus surgery and exploratory procedures and gastro uh uh intestinal intervention for reflux and esophagitis and thrush and other issues, both serious and relatively minor. And because of his condition, he needed to eat every two hours. And we would spend an hour getting his food and all his medicines together and then To him with that syringe to get everything he needed into his stomach, only to spend the next hour cleaning up his projectile vomit All day Every day. Tyler was sick. Everyone thought for sure that he would die within months. He didn't And the biggest threat to his life I haven't even mentioned yet. Tyler had hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and pulmonary Which means that his arteries were way too narrow and the muscle for his heart was way too thick. Four times thicker than it should have been He weighed five pounds and his heart muscle was as thick as that of a 40-year-old man. We asked our cardiologists to shoot straight with us for our sanity. We needed an honest prognosis. Doctors don't like answering that question. So he hesitated. But then he said, There was no medical reason why Tyler was still alive at that moment. And it was not likely that he would see his first birthday. And there was just no way he would see a second. He should have died in less than two years. He didn't. Why? Because God had a plan and a purpose for this boy born sick. So let's fast forward a number of years and now we have a ten-year-old boy who still couldn't eat solid foods. Everything had to be put through the blender first. He had recently learned to feed himself with a spoon, so that was good. But we prayed in the name of Jesus Christ with a dedicated circle of prayer warriors. And when Tyler was 13 years old, he was finally able to eat nothing. Blenderized food for the first time. We threw a party. We celebrated this answer to prayer. We invited all of our prayer warrior friends. We had the invitation to the party blown up the poster size and everyone in attendance signed it. It is framed and hanging in the foyer of our home today as one of the first things you will see when you walk in our home as a testimony that God answers prayer. And heals the sick. So the lung problem it went away, resolving itself, so the doctors told us. The liver problem with the impossibly high bilirubin count went away in spite of the failed efforts of the medical community. Many of his physical and developmental issues were successfully addressed, in fairness, by highly trained doctors and therapists. With uh this unreal effort and love and patience from my wife Dina. Sustained by God's grace. And now Tyler could eat real food. Not all foods, but solid food. Amazing answers to prayer. But there was still the Sicking time bomb is heart. The hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and the pulmonic stenosis were not getting back. Esaw specialists in Orlando, New York, Syracuse, Buffalo, Baltimore, DC, the best in the world at what they do. And there was nothing to be done. Every few months at this point he needed to see his local cardiologist, a beautiful Muslim man named Dr. Hassan Abdallah. And every visit, Deena would say, We're praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And he would smile and encourage And then Tyler started having these episodes where he he couldn't get his breath and he'd come into our room late at night, panicked, turning gray. And Dina would hold him and she would rock him and she would pump his arms and legs to try to get some blood flow, take him into the steaming shower, hoping that anything might help. Dr. Abdullah asked us to see Tyler every month now. And every visit, Gina would say, we're praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdullah. Then the doctor saw second and third and fourth opinion sending power to medical facilities throughout the region. And Dr. Abdullah at this point stopped accepting payments for Tyler's business. And we didn't understand why. We found out later. We found out later it is because Tyler was dying. And the doctor could not bring himself to tell us. His heart was breaking for us. As Tyler Hartman, after years of struggle, was ready to call acquaintance This is why you couldn't breathe sometimes. Why you turned gray He was in heart failure. And there was nothing to be done. All the doctors had exhausted all the options that they their training and technology gave them. That Dina kept trudging Tyler to doctor visit after doctor visit And after seeing so many echocardiograms and EKGs, she was becoming expert at reading them. In dozens and dozens of echoes, with the doctors and the technicians always explaining what they were seeing, where the problems were, what a normal echo should look like. It was really sort of fascinating, I think. actually. Then it was time for another visit to Doctor Abdala, and as usual Dina greeted him by saying, Well prayed for a miracle, Doctor Abdallah. And as usual, Dr. Abdallah politely smiled and got to work. And as he performed the echocardiogram, Dina watched as usual, but somehow this time didn't seem as usual. The echo it looks different to Dinah. And Dr. Abdallah, he noticed it too, and he kept looking and he adjusted his view and he double checked where he'd already looked, taking Much longer to keep performing this procedure, way longer than usual. And Dina began to think she understood why. And the doctor turned to Dina and he asked, Do you see that? And Dina said, Yes. It looked to her like the image of Tyler's heart was normal. Doctor Abdell removed his glasses. And wiped the tear from his eyes. And he looked Dina straight in the eyes and asked, Who do you pray to? And as you might imagine at this time, Dina's eyes were flooding with tears, and she answered, Jesus. We pray to Jesus. And Dr. Abella said, Well, your Jesus has healed your son. Kyler's heart was normal. And so Dina and the doctor they embraced and they enjoyed a long cry together. And they rejoiced together at what Jesus had just done. One of them having just been reminded of who Jesus is. The other one having just been introduced to who Jesus is. I know that this story seems utterly fantastic. But it's 100% true. It is true. As documented medical evidence that this really happened I'm going to share with you a portion of Dr. Obdella's medical report to Tyler's primary care physician, which we've had framed. It hangs in Tyler's bedroom. I had the pleasure of evaluating your patient, Tyler Skinner, a 13-year-old young man with Williams syndrome. He had bilateral branch pulmonary artery stenosis and severe hypertrophy of the right ventricle. Since I saw him last time, he's done tremendous progress. He does not have any chest pains, he is more energetic. A 2D echo revealed the presence of normal segmental cardiac anatomy. The systemic venous return was normal. The right atrium was normal. There was no atriose defect. The right ventricle was normal. Both arteries demonstrated normal color and Doppler flow velocities. The left ventricle was normal in size. The aortic valve was normal. The cepriovalvular aortic area was normal. There was no aortic or superarctic valve stenosis. The peak systolic velocity across that area was 1. 2, which is normal. The aortic arch was normal. There was no patent ductus arteriosis, there is no forcardial effusion. Conclusions. I am truly amazed. At the spontaneous resolution of this child's cardiac findings. This is not what we expect to see in a typical patient with Williams syndrome. The natural history for the branch pulmonary arteries in patients with Williams syndrome is progressive worsening. Progressive right ventricle failure and dysfunction. This patient currently does not have any cardiac abnormality. Looking at the other outstanding improvement that happened to this child with no medical intervention at all, just makes me feel miraculously touched that this thing happened This child, as you know, was doomed at birth that he will not live with multiple failures, and his cardiac was severe at one point by more than one pediatric cardiologist including myself. I only thank the God for how good this patient is doing. Recommendations normal treatment for age. Signed Azam of Dalla M D Let me review the basics of Tyler's story. Tyler was born sick Trust in God proved to be the only option. Our efforts, the medical community's knowledge, failed. But God had a plan and a purpose for this boy riddled with sickness. And when God healed Tyler, the Muslim doctor asked who Who do you pray to? Allow me to review the basics of your story. You were born sick. Dead in your sin, in fact. Trust in God, your only option. Your own efforts, even your increase in knowledge, fail to rescue you. But God has a plan and a purpose for you, riddled with sickness. And so now as you reflect on your Personal story of healing, let me ask, who do you pray to? In whom do you trust? Like Tyler, all of us are born sick. A death sentence hanging over us. Nothing anyone but God can do about it. Like Tyler, we must fight to persevere, to overcome, to allow others into our lives around us to minister to us with the talents and gifts that God has given them. We are just like Tyler. All of us, exactly the same scenario, just minor differences in degree. Tyler's heart is healed today because Jesus is Lord today. Your spiritual heart is healed today. Think if you're a Christian Because Jesus is Savior today. Christ's kingdom is advanced dancing today even to the witness of Muslim doctors because Jesus is king today. Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King right now. Don't forget. Don't neglect to proclaim it. That would seem a good ending, wouldn't it? However, what are we to do with the fact that Tyler Stone still has difficulties despite all these miraculous healings. He is still affected by Williams syndrome and autism spectrum disorder. Well, we see a connection even here between Tyler and our condition. In Christ, Tyler is one Hundred percent healed. Right now. We just cannot fully see it yet. As it's written in Hebrews Hebrews chapter ten verse fourteen For by a single offering he has has He has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. It is finished. In heaven we will see Tyler's full healing perfectly. Just like with us. In Christ we are already healed, but cannot yet fully see the fullness of this until we arrive in heaven. So don't be distracted by what your eyes can see through a glass dimly. The truth remains clear to those whom God has given eyes to see. We needed God to come and live on earth as a man to rescue us from being dead in sin. And he did this for us. He limited himself. He condescended to become man. The true God truly became man. This is the point of Christmas. And he is Savior of the world today. He is risen. That is the point of Easter. Trust God. He loves you. He made you. He has offered you the promise of heaven Not because you deserve it. There's nothing you can do to earn. Just love him back. You love him back through repentance and obedience. Just love him back. Once upon a time and happily ever after. And right now, Jesus reigns. Let me close with a word of prayer. Thank you, God For your creation and for the trust that we can have in your never-ending wisdom in ruling over it. We praise you for your plan of salvation revealed to us. In your written word and in the life of Jesus Christ. We celebrate the things you have done throughout the ages, and we yearn eagerly for the consummation of your work in us. At the time of the Second Advent, as we today celebrate the First Advent. Please, Lord, slam open the eyes of our heart. And keep them open to the comforting and courage-inspiring truth that you reign in our lives and in the entire world right now. As Lord Lord, Savior, and King. Praise be to your name. Now and forevermore. In the name of your transcendent and imminent Son, Jesus the Christ. Amen. Amen. Shall we stand together? Ashes, would you please bring the emblems together? We just want to take communion together and close. Right. That's a powerful story. Jesus is Lord, He's Savior. He's king. Did somebody encourage you today? You serve a God who can do anything. He can do what? Anything. He can do anything. He can do anything. I'm trying to keep my emotions in check, but um he can do anything. Stretch your hands all towards me. Father, we pray over these emblems. We ask that you bless them. As we receive and partake of it today. And upon the words that we have heard, the story and the testimony of God of this kind of family. We're thankful the Lord we are a people of purpose. And because of your purpose, you will do anything to bring it to pass. Our hearts rejoice in you. Amen. Ashes, would you please take it around? Musicians, can you help me? Of the hero, angel say glory to the newborn King. Just As you receive it, I need you to just open the map and prepare to get ready upstairs. Kids, I need you to stay still, right? Christ is for angels. Swing the next stanza, too. Next stanza. Guys, are you gonna put an apple now? I guess we don't know the words over. Christ Vagma is have not all Christne of last name. Please with time. Alright, give us the next answer. I can die to all the break. For I receive from the Lord Jesus which also I I delivered unto you that the Lord Jesus in the same night in which he was betrayed took bread, when he had given things, he broke it and said, This take yeah This is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Today, as we come to the table of the Lord, it's Christmas. And even though this seems to be pointing to his death, it is only his birth that made his death necessary I wanted to just raise the emblems in his presence as we ask for his blessing today. Lord, you have just challenged us Today, with a testimony that you are capable In the book of Isaiah 14 you said, I will have my way. My purpose was standing. You came You were born to raise the sons of men. You are our Immanuel. As we come to your table today, Father. May everybody that is sick today be healed Even those who are listening to us over the radio, those who are watching us by the way of the internet, wherever you are, that you are topic to this service, we pray today. Jesus was born to raise the sons of men. May your body be healed. And may your spirit be regenerated. So Father, we ask for your blessed look at this emblems. We thank you. We pray that Lord as we receive into our bodies. May your power rest upon us. Not just for the sake of it, but to change who we are. And to make a zero. Shall we all eat of the bread and drink of the cup? Grab the hand of the person standing next to you. Kids, I need you to grab your hands too and you all be quiet. And I want you to pray for the person that you are holding their hands. And say, Lord, may the spirit of this individual be healed. May they receive the provisions for which you were born. You are born to raise us from sin. You are born to deliver us from the powers of darkness. You were born that those who are sitting in darkness will see a great lie Thank you, Jesus. Bring your prayer to a close. Amen. Alright, one two things really quick. The Ashas will come around and receive the um Ashas, is it all taken already? Make sure that you don't litter around with those caps, please. Just drop it in there. Whilst we're waiting on them to finish that, I just wanted to bring to you all attention that we are down to thirty-seven thousand on this building. Alright. We trust in the Lord that in the coming year we will be able to pay it off. Actually I can pay it off right now, but if I did It means that we will not no no cash. We'll be way too low in cash and I wouldn't want to do that. So we will hang on and believe the Lord. I also want to try um uh remind you that on January 9th to the 29th, uh we are having fasting and prayer. All right? It will not kill you. Right, so you want to believe the Lord. We heard all that story, but there are other things they've not said. The many times they have to weep cry. The many times you have to keep believing the Lord. If you are sleeping and eating and waking up, you won't see what they saw. And so um you need to go the extra mile. And we encourage you that this year you would all be part of it. Amen. New Year's Eve service is Saturday. this Saturday. We are having our celebration from 9 p. m. and we'll will be close about ten minutes right after midnight. All right, because the next morning is the January 1st, we're having service. I am not shutting it down. We are having service. Amen. And we're coming excited. We are coming to believe the Lord. Come because I have a fresh word from the Lord for you. Hallelujah. And uh thankful for what Pastor Troy brings brought us today. It's a powerful story. The advent Of our Lord, our Savior, and our King. Amen. Alright, grab somebody's hands last yes Oh yeah, my wife reminded me of something very important. Please look into your program sheets. There is um a pink sheet in there. Alright, um It's about um health screening. By the way, it's not free, but it's cheaper than if you went to a doctor And these are real doctors. I decided to give the church room to them on that day. We will pack everything out, all the chairs will be out, and this place will be a hospital. So if you want to call and register just to come and have a health screening, it will cost you more if you are in the doctor's office. Right. And then also find out if uh your insurance still covers because I think they they take a lot of insurance things but it's cheaper. So your copay would also be cheaper. And um I decided that we just wanted to help every one of you. Um fortunately for me, without you, they give you gonna give me a free screen. But I asked them, can you give one to my entire family? They said Pastor, no, just you. And um I say good. My wife is very healthy, it's me who is trying to catch up. So it was okay if they did it for me. But please call them and it would not just be us, it's actually done for the entire city. So the earlier you call in, the better it will be for you. The assumption is that if you're part of this church, it does not give you any special privileges. No, it doesn't. All is that we are simply just trying to help the entire city by giving our church building to them. Amen? Alright, so shall we um Grab somebody hands and um look straight into their eyes. Don't don't be spiritual about it and just give them your Christmas message and we'll close. Give her a Christmas message. We're close. Merry Christmas, everybody. I go to get together. I don't have