Hello Facebook. If you're watching this later YouTube, you're invited to join us in our weekly uh proclamation of the truth. Here's a couple of things that are true for you. If you love your neighbor, take off your face shackle And when it comes to uh biological warfare, just say no. So um here's something else that's even more important than all that, I guess. Here's the truth that you should know. You are fearfully and wonderfully made. You bear the image of God, and yet it is a marred image, and because of that marring, we are in need of a rescuer to uh to make us the way we were intended to be. That rescuer is Jesus Christ And we know that he is the one who was our rescuer because not only did he die, but he rose again. And then he ascended into heaven and he is ruling as king over uh his church and king of kings right now. So if you hear nothing else today, I'm doing this early because you might only catch the first few minutes of this video. I want you to hear all of that. So here's some things you need to know about for today. We're going to be having a sermon on Revelation chapter 4, picking up where we left off last week So you want to mark your Bibles there. Revelation 4, we'll be picking up with verse 5. We're also in the sermon going um We're going to be touching on a couple of different uh passages. One of them you might want to read along with is going to be the Gospel of John chapter 10. So if you want to bookmark John chapter 10 as well, so when we get there you can read along. You're encouraged to do that And we're going to have a scripture reading before the sermon starts, Ezekiel, that's in the Old Testament, chapter 1. So Uh we're gonna read the entire chapter. And so we've got f three different people here that are going to take turns reading that to break up the reading here. I would encourage you to read along. The reason that we're doing Ezekiel chapter one as you've already seen been exposed to some of the illusions and imagery that John is putting to use in Revelation from Ezekiel 1 and it will continue to be the case throughout Ezekiel in Revelation. So For us to better have a handle on what John is trying to get us to understand, what uh Jesus who gave John this vision wants us to understand, it helps us to better understand the Old Testament scriptures. So we're spending some time reading that And we're going to do things a little bit out of order. Normally at this point I would say let's open in prayer and then we would read the scripture. But you know what? Sometimes it gets the synapses to fire a little bit differently and more of afresh if you do things a little out of order every once in a while. So we're actually going to do the Old Testament scripture reading first and then have our prayer. So I think you had the first part of the reading, correct? So Ezekiel chapter 1, beginning with verse 1. In the thirteenth year in the fourth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I was among the exiles by the Shabar Canal, the heavens were open, and I saw visions of God. On the fifth day of the month was the fifth year of the exile of King Jehu Jehoyat. Jehoi. Jehoiatin. Uh don't know if I pronounce it. That's right. Jehoiakin. Jehoiatin. Alright. The word of the Lord came to Ezekiel the priest. The son of Buzi in the land of the Shaldeans by the Shabar Canal. And the hand of the Lord was upon him there. As I looked, behold, a stormy wind came out of the north, and a great cloud with brightness around it, and fire flashing forth continually, and in the midst of the fire, as it were And from the midst of the c uh from the midst of it came the likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance. They had a human likeness, but each had four faces, and each of them had four Four sides they had human hands, and the four had their faces and their wings thus. Their wings touched one another. Each one of them went straight forward, without turning as they went. As for the likeness of their faces, each had a human face. The four had the face of a lion on the right side, the four had the face of an ox on the left side, and the four had the face of an eagle Such were their faces, and their wings were spread out above. Each creature had two wings. Did I go over Each creature had two wings, each of which touched the wing of another, while two covered their bodies. And I think you have one more? Oh, do I? Okay. And each went straightforward. Wherever the spirit would go, they went, without turning as they went. In the midst of the living beings there was something that looked like burning coals of fire, like torches darting back and forth among the living. beings. The fire was bright and the lightning was flashing from the fire. And the living beings ran to the ran to and fro like bolts of lightning. And Your Now as I looked at the living beings, behold there was one wheel on the earth besides the living beings. for each of the four of them. And the appearance of the wheels and their workmanship was like sparkling barrel And all four of them had the same form, their appearance and workmanship, being as if one wheel were within another. Whenever they move, they moved in any of their four directions without turning as they moved. As they as their as their rims they were lofty and awesome. And the rims of all four of them, they were full of eyes round about. Whenever the living beings moved, the wheels moved. And whenever the living beings rose from the earth, the wheels rose all also. Wherever the whe the spirit was about to go, they would go in that direction. And the wheels rose beside them for they for the spirit of the living beings was in the wheels. Uh one more verse, I think. Okay. Whenever those went these went and whenever those stood still These stood still, and whenever those rose up from the earth, the wheels rose close beside them, for the spirit of the living being was in the wheels Now over the heads of the living beings there was something like an expanse, like the awesome gleam of crystal spread out over their heads. Under the expanse, their wings were stretched out straight, one toward the other. Each one also had two wings covering its body on the one side. and on the other. a sound of tumult like the sound of an army camp. Whenever they stood still, they dropped their wings. And there came a voice from from above the expanse that was over their heads. Whenever they stood still, they dropped their wings. Now above the expanse that was over their heads, there was something resembling a throne. Like Lapis Lazuli in appearance, and on that which resembled a throne, high up was a figure with the appearance of a man. Then I noticed from the appearance of his loins and upward something like glowing metal that looked like fire all around within it. And from the appearance of his loins and downward, I saw something like fire. And there was a radiance around him. As the appearance of the rainbow in the clouds on a rainy day, so was the appearance of the surrounding radiance. Such was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord And when I saw it, I fell on my face and heard a voice speaking. Out of curiosity. Yeah. And what translation were you reading, Ray? Mm-hmm. 95,000. Okay. Okay. And I was reading along with the NIV. So I have an ASV too. So I'm just knowing that the people might be reading along at home and hearing differently. You can hear with some of this symbolic apocalyptic imagery and stuff, some of the translational decisions for the English translation If you have a good Bible, they have little footnotes and stuff that explain those. But you can tell that the gist of what's being told uh uh in the in the narrative, uh we can have absolute confidence that uh uh nothing that's doctrinal or nothing of crucial importance is gonna be different. And so if you can you were able to glean that yourself as a reader. Just wanted to point that out. So thank you who uh mind praying for us. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the privilege that we have speaking Being able to read your word out loud. We are so thankful for so many places are not able to do that. Lord, we pray that you forbid us ever from being not able to have access to your word Here in this land. We pray that this land would be restored back to you, that we would honor you, that we would worship you alone. Father, bring us back to Our roots back to the basic. So we were founded on your principles. May today's word speak to our hearts. We pray that you invite those to the power of your spirit. to hear the word that you need to call into obedience. Father, keep away anyone who you know is not of you or who never will become of you. Father, we Praise this in the name of Jesus. Amen. Amen. So last week I opened the sermon with a story about me as a little boy watching the Wizard of Oz on television. This week we're going to open with a look at the story of the Wizard of Oz itself. I read Frank L Baum's book many, many years ago, but of course it's the movie version that we all know the best. It's the story of young Dorothy. Dramatically ripped from her home by a twister, landing in the technicolor world of Oz. And as beautiful as Oz is, Dorothy wants to go home. And her newfound friends, they want things too. Smarts for the scarecrow, compassion for the tin man, bravery for the lion. And they seek these things in the Emerald City. From the great and powerful wizard, with his astounding technology and his mystical reputation. And all of that, of course, is counterfeit. Of course, right? The wizard is a fraud. And Baum's story itself, it exposes the fraud. But unfortunately, the story replaces one counterfeit for another. You I'm sure recall the 1939 MGM classic pretty well. But just as a refresher for the uninitiated, in case you're the one person in America who hasn't seen the movie, Scarecrow wants a brain. And it turns out he's already demonstrated he has one. He's the solution to his own problem. The Tin Man he wants a heart. It turns out he's already got heart. He's fixed himself Cowardly lion. Turns out he's not so cowardly after all. He he had what it was he needed within himself. The whole time. And Dorothy, well, if she wishes hard enough, and if she does the magical incantation, well then she can get home on her own. She can save herself. Able to see the theme? This is a story about humanistic individualism The mysterious is explained away. With modern trickery, don't you know? And the need for something outside of ourselves, oh It gives way to needing nothing from no one, not nobody, not know-how, including God. But the Bible it teaches us differently. There are frauds. There are con artists in the world. The Bible does teach us that. And uh there are spiritual deceivers. There are counterfeits. And the Wizard of Oz that creatively illustrates this for us. But the solution to this can't be found another. Why? We need the truth. We can't merely rely on ourselves. We're sinful. We're mortal. We're finite. We have desperate need for somebody who is holy and eternal and infinite. We need someone like that to help us, to rescue us, to save us. And Revelation chapter 4, it shows the truth of who this person is, and does so in apocalyptic technicolor. Last week he talked about the first four verses of Revelation chapter 4. Today we're going to cover the next two verses, but I'm going to read the entire first paragraph here just to make sure we have the fuller context. So if you would, if you haven't already, open your Bibles into the New Testament. Yeah, we were in the Old Testament a moment ago. John, from the Old Testament to the New, this is your first time joining us. Revelation is really easy to find. It's the last book of the Bible. So go to your very end. Look for chapter 4. We're going to read verses 1 through 6. After this I looked, and behold, the door standing open in heaven, and the first voice which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet said, Come up here and I will show you what must take place after this. At once I was in the spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne. And he who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian, and around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald. Around the throne there were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders, clothed in white garments with golden crowns on their heads From the throne came flashes of lightning and rumblings and peals of thunder, and before the throne were burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God. And before the throne, there was, as it were, a sea of glass, like a crystal. This passage from Revelation, the passage we read a few minutes ago from Ezekiel, this is the inerrant, infallible, inspired word of God, and as such it is the fully sufficient guide and rule for faith and life practice. Those with an ear to hear, let them hear. So what we see here in Revelation chapter 4, and all the way through the entirety of the next chapter in Revelation is a vision of God's heavenly glory. with the purpose of demonstrating the enthronement and the exaltation of Christ. Now this week the sermon it picks up with verses I just read them a second ago, but I want us to really focus on what's happening in these two verses. Let me read those again. From the throne came flashes of lightning and rumblings and peals of thunder. And before the throne were burning seven torches of fire, which are of the seven spirits of God. And before the throne there was, as it were, a sea of glass, like crystal. What are the im what do these images mean? Keep in mind It's been a recurring theme throughout our sermon series in Revelation. John employs loads and loads of Old Testament illusions in describing the visions for us here in Revelation. So What comes to mind when you hear about the flashes of lightning and the rumblings like an earthquake and the loud peals of thunder? What comes to mind when you're considering the Old Testament? Well, how about this? On the morning of the third day, there were thunders and lightnings and a thick cloud on the mountain, and a very loud trumpet blast. So that all the people in the camp trembled. That's Exodus 19, verse 16, when Israel was at Mount Sinai. Or how about this? And the foundations of the threshold shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke. And I said, Woe is me, for I am lost. For I'm a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. Well, that's from Isaiah. That's chapter 6, verses 4 and 5, describing a part of Isaiah's vision of the Lord. How about this? As I look, behold, a stormy wind came out of the north, and a great cloud with brightness surround it, and fire flashing forth continually And in the midst of the fire, as it were, gleaming metal. That just sounds familiar. That's Ezekiel chapter 1, verse 4. As he begins to take in the glory of the Lord. This thunder and lightning and this powerful imagery, it is meant to convey to us the majestic creative power. Of God. And the seven torches, we're told they're the seven spirits. This is the Holy Spirit. You might recall the mention of the seven lampstands from earlier in Revelation, back in chapter one, when we were directly told there that those lampstands are the seven churches. Well here we have seven torches, which some translations, depending on which one you're reading, you might call it a lamp, seven lamps. Well, we're directly told that these are the seven spirits. Now, there are a couple of things we're going to want to note about this. Recall what we've already learned in our previous weeks together as we studied the book of Revelation, what we've learned about the number seven. It represents holiness, completeness, perfection as in wholeness. And so in Revelation chapter 1, the seven lampstands, they are the seven churches, which figuratively represent the one true church, the whole church. And here in chapter 4, the seven torches are the seven spirits of God, which figuratively represent the spirit of the God, the Holy Spirit. And note the symbolic connection between the seven lampstands and the seven lamps, or the seven torches. We might miss this in the English if we're not careful, but in the Greek it's it's it's not it's almost impossible to miss the different words in the two different chapters. The word in chapter one in the Greek it means lampstand. Sometimes called a candlestick, although I think uh lampstand is a better translation. And the phrase in chapter 4, it means, more literally, the the torch of burning fire, or the burning lamp of fire. So you're getting this image, lampstand and the burning lamp of fire. The Holy Spirit is the flame And the church is the lampstand, illuminated by the flame. It's indwelt, if you will, by the flame, by the Holy Spirit. Now verse six, it speaks of the throne being next to something like a sea of glass, like crystal. Now, I've said something like this most weeks, and you're getting tired of hearing me say it probably, but I'm telling you, there is so much imagery that is packed into this little phrase. There's so much packed in here. It could be a sermon all by itself. There are at least four different things that I would like us to note about this. First, one way the Bible talks about the creation in terms of uh the the structure of of the world is in terms of upper waters and lower waters and a firmament and pillars that uphold that firmament and so forth. If you're uh deeply steeped in the Old Testament, some of that might ring a bell to you. Talk about those the pillars that uphold the firmament. Does that ring any bells? Well, the symbol of the sea here, that idea, it connects with that firmament. So John is, again, kind of riffing off of the Old Testament. He's drawing an allusion to the Old Testament. A second thing we should note here is that it connects with Exodus chapter 24. as well. That's where Moses and the seventy elders of Israel, they they go up to worship God from afar and were told that they well they saw God in a sense. And under his feet, what they saw was a smooth pavement, like the very heaven for clearness. And third, it reminds us of a recurring theme in Scripture when it comes to understanding the sea. For example, in Psalm 89, verse 9, it says. You rule, you mean God, you rule the raging of the sea when its waves rise, you still them. And in Psalm chapter 65, verse 7, it says, Who stills the roaring of the seas, the roaring of their waves, the tumult of the peoples? Remember the chaos of Genesis chapter 1 and the waters, the Spirit hovers over the waters, waters symbolizing chaos. Without God bringing order, there's nothing but chaos. Do you remember the destructiveness of the waters in Genesis chapter 7? Do you remember Jonah when he's out at sea He's uh running from God in their stormy waters. You remember Paul the apostle, he's out at sea, and uh he's shipwrecked in a storm with his unbelieving jailers. And do you remember the disciples when they were freaking out at sea? Also the sea it's a vast space when you think about it, right? This huge vastness to the sea, which is a reminder of the separation between God and His creation. And it's this concept that makes Revelation chapter 21, verse 1 so powerful. We're not there yet, but let me uh read to you those words right now from John Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. No more sea. No more chaos, no more separation from God. And there's immense power in the waters, in the sea, and that's the fourth item that uh I'd like us to note about this sea of glass symbolism. Sometimes we can feel the power in a more instinctual way. About waters. Have you ever gone to the beach and you just you just tried to absorb the frightening massiveness of what it is you see before you as you stand on the sand. You do your best to tune out the seagulls and to ignore the other beachgoers and you even forget for a time the clouds. And the sun, and the breeze, the odors, and you just stare at the ocean It's huge. There's no end to it, and the waves they just They keep coming, one right after the other, pounding the shoreline. And the roar of the white tops can be deafening. What? And if you venture into the water, you're immediately aware of the strength of the current and the The weight of the salt water and the force of the rip currents and even just the tide itself. You ever get overcome by the enormity of it? Do you ever allow yourself to get lost in the reality of the ocean's magnificence? To the point where You actually get scared. Similar maybe to those times when a gigantic thunderstorm bowls at you across the horizon and you feel small. Very small, fragile, vulnerable. You ever had this experience? You ever have this experience at the ocean? And it's to wonder. It's a reminder that there is someone who's even bigger and stronger and dare I say even more dangerous who created that ocean. I mean the thought of it it can make my heart beat a little bit faster. I can almost feel the adrenaline begin to kick in a little bit. I mean there's immense power in the waters in the sea. And God puts this great power to saving use for his people. Like when he destroyed the enemy of his chosen people, when he destroyed Pharaoh's army in the Red Sea And like he destroys uh another enemy of his chosen people when he washes away the sins of his chosen people in the sacrament of the baptism. Hide there is immense power in the waters, and our creator, he is Lord over the waters. And this imagery, it's going to show up again in Revelation in chapter 15, where it says, And then I saw another sign in heaven. Great and amazing. Seven angels with seven plagues, which are the last. For with them the wrath of God is finished. And I saw what appeared to be a sea of glass, mingled with fire, and also those who had conquered the beast and its image and the number of its name. Standing beside the sea of glass, with harps of God in their hands, and they sing the song of Moses The servant of God and the song of the Lamb saying, Great and amazing are your deeds, O Lord God the Almighty. Just and true are your ways, O King of the nations. Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you alone are holy. All nations will come and worship you, for your righteous acts have been revealed. This is such a great song. Praise God that He brings tranquility over the earth's turmoil. And yet If we're going to be honest, the Earth's turmoil, it has a strange attractiveness, right? It's strangely attractive in a seduction of us, right? Isn't it? We know God brings peace. We know Jesus is the door. We know that the Son is the way to the Father. We know these things. We know that Christ's Spirit changes our stone hearts. Illuminates our dark minds. We know this. And so we we do battle to endure against those seductive temptations of the lostness and brokenness around us. I mean we work out our faith. As evidence that we truly have what we have been given, we do not give up in this war. You do not give up in this. You don't quit. If you quit, it's evidence that you were never numbered among God's elect in the first place. That's what the Apostle John tells us in this first epistle, chapter 2. So always sing the song of Moses, the song of the Lamb Now speaking of songs, while I was working on this sermon, I heard another song. I was listening to the radio, and I heard Katy Perry's Wide Awake. And I gotta tell you, it was as if I was hearing that song for the very first time. I mean the the lyrics somehow they they hit me afresh. I'd been hearing that song for the last ten years And I think that now finally I know what it's really all about. Yeah, I once read an interview with Katy Perry. She's talking about this song and she said that the song was about her failed marriage and Probably so. I mean I'm not gonna say that she was being dishonest in an interview, but that's merely the mundane, natural meaning. There is a super mundane, a supernatural meaning too. I mean clearly, now not everybody knows Katie's story. So in case you're one of those who doesn't know the story, Katy Perry was raised in the church She sang in the choir. Her first record album. It was marketed as contemporary Christian music. But since then Where does she stand now? Well now she has left the church. She has vocally, purposefully rejected the faith. And it seems to me that she's now left the table where she has tasted of the heavenly gift and has landed in the arms of some really spiritually dark stuff. So with this background, somebody who was raised a professing Christian but has utterly rejected Christ, with that in mind, listen to these words. From Wide Awake, her worldwide chop chart-topping smash hit. Yeah, I was in the dark. So this is her speaking in my understanding as these lyrics. As a professing Christian, yeah, I was in the dark. I was falling hard with an open heart. How did I read the stars so wrong? And now it's clear to me that everything you see ain't always what it seems. Yeah, I was dreaming for so long. Not losing any sleep, I picked up every piece and landed on my feet. Need nothing to complete myself. No. Just like the characters in The Wizard of Oz, by the way. Song continues, yeah, I am born again out of the lion's den. I don't have to pretend. The story's over now, the end. I wish I knew then what I know now. Wouldn't dive in, wouldn't bow down. Gravity hurts, you made it so sweet, till I woke up on the concrete, falling from cloud nine Crashing from the high. I'm letting go tonight. Yeah, I'm letting you go. I'm falling from cloud nine. I'm wide awake. Thunder rumbling, castles crumbling I am trying to hold on. God knows that I tried. Seeing the bright side, I'm not blind anymore. I'm wide awake. I'm wide awake I'm wide awake. I'm wide awake. This is what today's woke world thinks. They reject the God of the Bible and they think that they are wide awake. When they are sadly in spiritual darkness, they're spiritually blind, they're spiritually dead. When worshiping the God of Revelation chapter four, that's when you're in the light. That's when you're awake. Do not fall from Cloud Nine! For some so-called God that's nothing but some counterfeit knockoff brand. Except only the real deal, despite the world's efforts to steal you away into their devilish schemes. Now, at the start of this chapter in Revelation chapter 4, Johnny mentions a door. We talked about the door last week and the week before. And it comes up here again today. So let's begin to wrap up today's message by reading a passage from chapter 10 of John's Gospel account. Beginning with verse seven. So I had mentioned this at the start of our time together. So if you want to uh jump to that part of your Bible, John's Gospel, chapter ten, I'm going to pick up with verse seven and I'm going to read through to verse the end of verse fifteen. So Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers. But the sheep did not listen to them. I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. And now verse 11, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he's a hired hand. Cares nothing for the sheep. I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me, just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, so I lay down my life for the sheep. Brothers and sisters in Christ, our good shepherd has laid down his life for us and he has taken it up again. So don't give any heed to the thieves and the robbers. Listen only to the voice of Jesus, not to the voices of the thief. Not even to the voice of the hired hand, those mercenaries doing things only for money. Don't listen to those counterfeits, even if that voice is an amazingly gifted voice. With that of Katy Perry. Beware of the songs of the sirens. You've heard of the siren songs, haven't you? Sirens, they were dangerous creatures in Greek mythology. They're said to be half bird, half woman, and they bewitched their prey with their beautiful, beguiling voices, kind of like Ursula, the voice she stole from Ariel and the Little Mermaid story. I we might suppose I think the siren songs are actually a inspiration for the story Little Mermaid. It seems that way to me. But anyway, the Song of the Siren, it lured the sailors to their death. The beauty of their music, the beauty of their voices, it ended the lives of the people on board those ships because it the sirens, they pulled those shipmates right into a shipwreck. Learn from this negative example. Do not listen to fools who are telling you that they've found the path to being wide awake. Listen only to the voice of the shepherd. He is the one who is known to the Father, and through him you are known to the Father too. That's the truth. Father, we thank you for the truth of your word and that you have preserved it for us all these years, that we can press in and study it and proclaim it. Examine it for the veracity of the claims it makes, and that we can hold up your truth claims and your uh your absolute truth against the supposed truth claims and lies of the world around us. We ask that you would give your people an increasing measure of discernment, that we would have wisdom to uh overcome the uh the desired entrapments of A world that would seem that would love to see nothing more than your people to to stumble and lose their way. We ask that you would guide our discussion, that we would feel uh the strength of your spirit present with us as we look to edify one another as iron sharpening iron. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. So I'm going to start with the uh the cultural re at least part of the cultural references first. Had anybody ever considered that the uh Wizard of Oz was thirteen It was basically preaching humanism at us. No, I've always felt that the Wizard of Oz is more of an allegory in in reference to the Panic of eighteen ninety-one or something like that, one of those years And like it's uh largely an allegory where all the witches of the different directions represent politicians, the wizards of Oz, and Oz represents lawsuits in the deep sea the United States president. Yellow brick road is gold standards and stuff like that. So there's a lot of allegories going on in Wizard of Oz based on the time of which it was written. or which the author lived through. I've never considered it a humanist message though. I've only ever seen the Muppets version once I've never read the book either. I've never read it. Yeah, I don't wanna I don't wanna give the impression that I think that this Katie Perry song either I don't want to give the impression I think that the story of the Wizard of Oz is merely about that, but it's clearly uh it's not a story that is affirming the gospel and need for something outside of oneself So def definitely capturing the spirit of the age. That was kind of the uh the Americana spirit uh of the time was uh personal and uh being personally industrious and you know, if it is to be up to b uh you know if it is to be it's up to me kind of mentality. They didn't have that phrase back then, but that idea rugged individualism and I'm gonna do this myself, I have it within myself uh to do these things. Um so anyway. Obviously you're talking about uh um Oz which is kind of a sort of a take on heaven. And so we have a picture into heaven beginning in Revelation chapter four, and so there's that. You even have the emerald rainbow around the throne of God and the emerald city. So I wonder if uh Frank uh Baum was clever enough to be purposely drawn by or not. But even if he wasn't clever enough, we're clever enough to kind of see because I think that everything in our life gives an opportunity to share the God. Either it's an example of the lostness of the world and the gospel being the answer to that, or it's a direct connection to a gospel teaching. So yeah, the Katy Perry song. I can't believe you never heard that song. You obviously don't listen to pop radio at all. I know very few Katie Perry songs, but if you look at her music, she's gotten a lot more occultic. Like I don't know what song it was. Dark Horse I think is the name of the song, where it's like all this occultic uh imagery in that music video. Oh her videos are a definitely occult. Have you ever seen her videos? Loaded with a cult. So I don't think it's a stretch for me to try to make a leap that she sang the songs about her broken marriage and again I think it is. I think it ha I think yeah, if you read the lyrics it sounds a lot more like a deconstruction of faith. So that's deconstruction of marriage. I think that her marriage is like a metaphor for her faith past. Yeah, yeah, I think that there's an and I don't want to be reading too much into it, but again if you've seen some of her videos, I mean they're clearly uh let's call it what it is, they're clearly satanic. I think the the imagery on is also very interesting in the sense that you know flip look at what Satan does, he takes what God has already done and then taints it and perverts it. So there's us supposed to represent heaven And you know, and the enemy's like, okay, yeah, let's make it look like heaven, but when you look beyond just what you see, you can understand that that's just then a passage for something different which is really hell because when you trust in yourself you end up in Hell not heaven. But it boy it lo does look good, doesn't it? Yeah. Am I the only one who when they first you said you've only seen the Muppets version? Yeah. You've never seen the actual version of the movie? I don't think I have. Okay, we'll have to do movie night watching with the colour. Are you like a foreign st I've seen more of the other movie that came out. I have a feeling the month is version The Wizard of Oz used to I don't think the Muppets version and I'm like, this is all what all the hype about Wizard of Oz Yeah, that's because you got the I'm not even sure if it's version. Have you seen the Mapus version? They did a Christmas Are you sure there is an update? Like anyone could do a Christmas Wizard. Yeah, we're gonna do the Wizard of Oz and we'll watch it with different eyes. Well, okay, this might steal some of the thunder. Um for those of us who have seen the movie. And when we were younger, it was on TV every year. I don't know when they stopped doing that. When they stopped showing it every year. No, nineties. I think it was a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of Nineties. Yeah, very, very early. Did they? Yeah. So anyway. But I remembered it on VHS. So you're gonna have to be fly for a little while again. In fact you should just be quiet to see the movie. It's a principle. That's like uh that's like some uh media folks in uh in the secular media world. That seems like a dude code violation, right? But uh but in the books, uh the Wizard of Oz, he is actually he was he was from a certain Yes. And it also got uh brought up by the tornado and got their kind of a simil in a similar way And I read the book so and you might be able to help me on see if I'm not right on this. I read the book so long ago that I only have the fuzziest and I wasn't uh I didn't process the way I read you know, I don't read then the way I read now But my sense is that the book was way darker. It was it was never yeah. Yeah, I think the book was darker than the the and the booking has some dark moments in it, but I think the book generally speaking felt it felt darker. But anyway, the movie, I remember you tell me if you felt the same way. And I couldn't put my finger on what it was when I was a little kid. But there was something unsatisfying about the ending Did you feel it? Yeah, it was. I mean it was a big time to wrap up. It was a big disappointment to find out the wizard was a total fraud. Is is that's what it was for me. It was kind of antiflamatic And I think it's because of the point. That's why I kind of made the point because I feel like it is a center central theme. Well, but they're on this quest. Right? They're on this quest to to do something, to find something, to to become aware of something. And at the end it's like, yeah, you just wasted your time because you had it within you the whole time. Oh, that's the end? For me it was like long, long, long. I mean I was I really the first time I I I saw the movie, I was so key up to to to meet the wizard. Right. Right. You know, 'cause and they it really goes up on meet the wizard. And then you and then you find out he's just some dork behind the curtain. Right. I mean it's like Yeah, like I said, wrong, wrong. And again, that's I think aimed at uh kind of deconstructing faith because right we have the idea of the mysterious and the master magical if you will to use contemporary kind of language, but the you know the mystical truths of the Bible and it turns in oh that's just trickery. Mm-hmm. That's just like Pharaoh's uh uh magicians. They they can do the same thing. It's so I I do think there's some of that. But the whole point of the movie it is think about it, the premise is a lie Mm-hmm. The whole movie is they've got a problem and they're seeking a solution to that problem. At the very end of the movie, they're like, Problem? There's no problem here You have everything you always you know you thought you'd meet you had this problem you're not smart enough you don't have enough compassion you don't have enough courage you got all those things what's what's your problem? So, but that's kind of the message of the world, isn't it? Sin. There's no sin. You have no problem. But yet we know intuitively we have a problem. And so it's unsatisfying when the world tells us, ah, there's no problem, nothing to see here. Just just you have it within yourself. You have the power within yourself. The spark of the divine within you. Well that's why there's this constant yearning and people then buy more stuff or they're trying to fill something because they're told that they don't have a problem. Oh, okay, well it must be this is the solution. Let me try that. Oh that's not it. Let me sleep with everybody because you know I I have to fill it. Oh that's not it. Oh let me just buy everything. Oh no that's not it. Okay So it must be let me learn as much as I can. If I was smarter, okay, I'm gonna get X million, you know, four degrees now. Oh that's not it. So there's this, you know, and God created us to have that void and to then have the void until he fills it. And until he fills it, there's always gonna be that yearning. Always one one other uh of uh uh fact that that the wizard of uh had that struck me was that the wizard himself was to me his solution to their problem was a con. Well yeah. You know, it was it was like, um uh you think you don't have a brain, well I'm going to give you a piece of paper that's says you you do. Right. And it's like Yeah, here's this plastic heart. Yeah, and here's this clock that that's going to tick tock. And I'm like um That's really not a solution. Um I was just taking the wizards to give them the solution. Right. I was so disappointed. So it it it to for it it it from that angle it's like believing in the false having false hope is is hoping in the wrong God, you know. So the women is a godlike person In in the movie and you know you you have up you build up this hopeful and he just lets you down and and then the so the best he can do is is is you know, um do a little fat fancy footwork and you know I slay a hand and here you go and kind of psych you out, you know. Um give you a that kind of false guy. Yeah. Yeah. And that's the point of of the compare and contrast, the illustration. By the way, you're allowed to speak us here. I was enjoying the whiz is not the same either. And I didn't like the whiz. See, if you if you haven't seen the actual thing, I thought the get on down the road zone was something that is. Right. So but we can see but I think that you know that gives us a good illustration from a Christian biblical context. So the Wizard of Oz is representing all the false Uh the the falsehood, the idols in our life. And so when you peek behind the curtain of the idol, you realize there's nothing there. There's no real substance. It's all a con. It's all fake. It's all trickery. There's nothing real there. And even the platitudes that are meant to feel good feel there's a there's a yeah, there's void. There's nothing there, right? Oh, here's here's a diploma. But I didn't earn the diploma. Like what are you talking about? I don't get it. I Oh that is like today. Exactly. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, and Tin Man basically given a trophy. Everybody gets a trophy. In chapter four We're given through the vision that Jesus gives John that he passes along to us, we're given a peek behind the curtain. And what we find is anything but a fraud. Mm-hmm. Right? We're finding the one who can still the waters. The one who brings order out of chaos. Now I uh I encourage people to try to, you know, refresh their memory and read uh what we're gonna be doing the coming weeks. I don't know if anybody's read Revelation chapter four in the last, you know, week or so or a couple of weeks anyway, but when you I'm assuming a lot of people might have. When you read it recently Um did those images about the the s the the thunder and the lightning and all that, did it draw to mind the connections of the Old Testament? Yeah, because I I I I think if we're reading it well, particularly now if you've heard me say this enough time. If you're reading it well, uh you're gonna start looking for it You know, what's the phrase in today in the movies? They they uh Easter eggs? Mm-hmm. Yeah. There's all these little things they plant in movies that are supposed to be if you're looking for them you notice these interesting insights or allusions to other movies or or what have you John is putting Easter eggs in Revelation at a pace of around, on average, 16 a chapter. I mean it's like every other verse, there's an Easter egg. So if you're on a look for them, you're gonna be, oh this reminds me of Exodus chapter twenty-four. I wonder if he's drawing my attention there. The answer is yes. If you wonder if he's trying to draw your attention there, the answer is yes, he's doing it on purpose and it's brilliant. I mean the uh it's gotta be supernatural. I don't know that the human mind on his own Right? Yeah. I just don't think you could the pace of the illusions, it's just too many. I'm sure John was. Well and John wasn't, you know Barnaby a typical Pharisee would be about right testament. I mean they they have some idea what it said, I'm sure. But um He couldn't possibly do in that detail. Yeah, yeah. I mean yeah, they weren't I will say this, he wasn't a Rube at that point because he spent three years with Jesus and then depending on when you think the dating was He wrote uh Revelation at least thirty years, uh possibly close to sixty years after Jesus' crucifixion. So he had plenty of years to do additional study. So he wasn't a rube. But that said, think of the greatest theologian you can think of throughout all history I don't know who you name one. Yeah, well uh well other than some. Yeah, but some but you know the the the the heroes, you know uh um uh He has Virgin, uh uh uh uh Aquinas, uh Calvin, Luther, Anselm, uh Yeah, and anybody like that. And you tell them, okay, I want you to write something as though it was a vision from God, and I want you to load it up with like I don't know, four hundred allusions to the Old Testament No. I don't think they could do it. No, because pop clearly John was I mean it it's very very quick. He's under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Absolutely. Um Uh he he nobody could do it without uh all the detail that he added, nobody could do it without apart from the Holy Spirit. Yeah, the my experience at the ocean kind of thing. So you had that experience? You're overwhelming. I remember the first the first time I saw the ocean. Yeah. I yeah, I I do remember standing there just looking at it and going Something's pushing in. Endless. Yeah. When we were on the cruise ship, you have that almost the feeling of being being so small. It's like it's it's a fearful thing. Yeah, it's like I could just be swallowed up in a second. No one would even I was three and my mom accidentally scared me half to death, so she No. I have a twin brother and he I was already cautious, he was not. And so she was trying to want him to be careful in the water and the waves because it was free. Right. And so she goes, Don't go don't just run out there. You could um you could get knocked into the w uh under the water and die. And my swim is like, Oh, okay, that makes sense, and I'm just like horrified So now you will never go in the water. No, I will. But three year old me had to be carried by my own house. Oh yeah. Can just start out with uh you'll get stung by a jelly To a three year old you can't tell them, Oh, it's gonna be an auch she's like, Yeah, whatever. Yeah, so for my brother it was a very necessary although extreme warning. For me, I was already, you know Respectful. Right. I don't want to die. Yeah, I get that. Sorry, I'm just making a little notes of myself. Um something else we talked about that's uh in the passage. Um is that doing it? The the various aspects of the ways we can think about and and uh consider the the sea of glass like a crystal. Yeah, I made you know four different points there. Any of those kind of land with you as wow, I never thought of it that way or that's a good reminder of something that I know to be true or the calming effect, the calming of the Storm part really resonated with me. Like you drawing allusions to like all these storms and then God provides a column in the storm. So in the Sea of Glass Kind of like as like a calm sea where you could see for the first time. I saw that as glasses reflective. So then oh I can see. I can see now. I don't have to be afraid. I can see because God is a God of order and He's brought order out of the chaos, I can see that now through the transparency of the glass is kind of how I it was speaking to me. Certainly not visible, but that's what I got out of it. Yeah, I think that the first uh I can't remember exactly when it was, but I me I I remember the moment, I don't remember when the moment was, but connecting the dots on you know, the chaotic power of the sea and then You know, in Revelation with passage one of the passages I read that and there is no more sea. I was like, wow, that that chaoticness is gone, the danger of that is gone. And then maybe making connection, the vastness of the sea representing a distance from God, and that distance is gone. When that hit me, I was like, wow, that is such a powerful image. Actually the the the the missing sea in Revelation Oh I've wondered about that. Because I know that the theme in and of itself I know I know that generally it represents the population, it represents people. But at the beginning God created a sea. So a sea must be a good thing. Um I've always wondered why. He didn't in the new earth he he elected for the sea to not exist anymore. Although there's water, there's water, there's like the the river, but not a sea. Not a sea anymore. Yeah, well not a C in that regard. Remember what we're dealing with here, right? This is apocalyptic uh literature, which is like over the top, like just metaphor and analogy and symbolism on t layered on top of and within and and John is mixing and matching metaphors and ideas from the Old Testament and from the uh Um hi his context milieu and apocalyptic imagery riffing off of some other when I say riffing, I don't mean ripping off riffing with an app riffing off of these other things. And so I don't think that we should expect that we're gonna go to heaven and we're gonna see a throne with like a mirror floor and a and a physical throne in the middle of a room with a mirror floor. like a crystal clear floor. I don't I don't think that that John's telling us that we should expect to physically see a room like that with God the Father seated on a throne. I think he's he he wants us to understand that symbolically what's happening is that God is enthroned, meaning he's in charge. And that there is no more chaos, there is perfect peace forever And there's calm and peace and stillness with God that we will literally be able to finally, for the only time in our existence Up until then, because we fail now to be still and know that he is God. He will make everything be still for us. It's not that there's actually It's not intent this is not historical narrative. This is not you know, this isn't uh some sort of uh biography or something. It's saying Um trying to think of an example. It's the difference between like a Monet and uh and a realist a realism painting where the realist is trying to capture things realistically. The monet is trying to capture the impression. So you saying that the missing seed in the book of Revelation, where the earth is is represented as not having a seed, you think that's symbolism or they're not for what For that I think separation from life. Yeah, and revelation uh yeah. So I mean probably will have an actual C you mean? I think so. Okay. I think so Um I mean I can't I can't say so for sure, but I I I I I yeah, to your point, there's a lot of good with the city, right? It's not like it's a bad thing. God made it the way that it is. Um John would be arguing against himself within the pages of Revelation if we're not careful, because in one place he says there is no more sea, but in several other places he says there is a sea and it's like glass. So which is it? Is there a C like glass or is there no C at all? And so he's I don't he's not trying to tell us give us a physical description there. He's trying to give us a Yeah, the the spiritual truth and the reality of what it will be like. It's like uh Yes. To use our contemporary language, it's like when we say, I'm so hungry to eat a horse. Well I'm not gonna actually literally go eat a horse, but it's a phrase you all understand like, wow, he's really hungry. Yeah. So John is using a lot of these phrases and images and uh can you think of an of an image even a you know, from a movie that tells a story in a content for like a Marvel movie or something? Or I don't know, I can't think of Anything coming to mind that's a contemporary example? It it's a literal true but it's a not a but it's not a physical. I can't think of an exact example, but I know that a lot of books, movies, TV shows and stuff will use things like mirrors Um as like, you know, a reflection of a truth or something like that. Um Usually has very little to do with the mirror itself, but more like what it's reflecting. Well, and that actually might hold true to the sea being like a glass. Mm-hmm. Meaning it's reflecting God. Of of I mean a surf uh a body of water that is like glass is usually considered to be a very smooth surface, no ripples in it. That's when it's best to see a reflection. Right. And then we will we will see him face to face like it's intended to be for the very, very first time. We will see him in all because for the very first time we can look upon him So that's good, Annie. Did we see Frozen Two? We saw Frozen. Did I see Frozen Two? Yeah, but did you see Olaf narrating the entire first movie and like ten seconds because it was great. If you saw that then you saw the second movie. But even in like real life when you look at the at the beat Beaverdam. To Hoover Dam? I mean Hoover Dam, sorry. Beaver threat. Never mind. Those are very impressive but smaller space. Right. According to Transport, Animal Cover up. Cover up for uh Like a base that had an alien artifact on it. Oh wow. Transformers. That's what we can say with Mount Rushmore, so not Rushmore's a cover up So actually National Fover. Ah. Using uh well you actually gave us one earlier, and so we could swing back and then we'll use it maybe as a way to bow tie this Uh you went deeper into some of the uh the symbolism of the Wizard of Oz given the political and economic climate of of the day and stuff and And um so there's an example of the author of The Wizard of Oz, he's talking about the yellow brick road and it means something And so he's not saying that literally there's some land of Oz with an actual brick road made out of gold in it. He's saying there's this place called Oz, which really means this. Uh and there's this brick road that really means this with regards to the the economics of things. Like books and Yeah, because that's what's going on. That's a good phrase. Yeah, meta-allegorical. That's kind of what's going on in Revelation. It's meta-allegorical Okay. Now I can come up with a lot more example. You win the prize. That's exciting. Pretty sure he spent some spare time waiting for a dictionary. Although a lot of them are like feminism or identity politics these days. Well yeah. Yeah A lot of stuff reflects the societal trends or political issues that are current And speaking of the societal trends and the issues, you know, we gotta be careful this is I'll use this as the uh as a like a a five uh my final word maybe that one. Okay, I'll let you tell the story. Don't hang on to it, let me not finish. I want to provide a little bit of a caution here. So we want to be careful to try to understand what the imagery is literally telling us, right? It's not about a physical reality, it's a spiritual truth reality. We want to get that. And we want to understand that he is borrowing ideas and repurposing ideas and purposing our attention to ideas from the Old Testament. Oh, that's true. We gotta make sure that we don't uh over-allegorize and get outside of the confines of what John would truly be saying. And so here's a contemporary example where those of us who follow politics will understand this language. You hear ever hear about dog whistle? in politics. Yeah. You know, somebody says something and what they're really saying is and sometimes maybe it is a dog whistle, maybe it is somebody, some politician is trying to uh speak in code to his followers uh about how you should hate the enemy. But more often than not, those dog whistles are totally fabricated by by the political enemies. So we want to be sensitive to where is John meaning to dog whistle us, to pay attention to the Old Testament? And where are we hearing dog whistles that aren't there? We gotta we have to be disciplined and be and be careful. Oh, I know, John means this. Now, if you can argue it from the pages of scripture. And you can tie it to the gospel and and it's somehow illuminating the importance of the cross and the resurrection of Jesus and all that, well then even if you're wrong, you're on safe ground there. Because you're in line with the whole story of the Bible. So if you start getting off on things is like, okay, is this helping me to appreciate Jesus' perfect life of obedience? all the way on to death and the cross and raising himself from the dead and ascending into heaven. Is it helping me to appreciate that and my need for him? Or is it something else? We're probably inserting a dog whistle that John wasn't intending for us Yeah, no, I was gonna say like Star Trek would probably be one of the finer examples of doing this. Where the Klingons are allegorical of the Soviet Union Union. So when you get to a Star Trek undiscovered country which is about which kind of ties into the fall of the Soviet Union with the collapsing of the Klingon That would probably be Yeah, no that's like that's a very metaal force. Yeah, that's good. Yeah, that's good. I didn't know the clean alphabet I don't know. I used to watch Star Trek, but I didn't know that was a hate. It definitely is mainly like the Private War where they have like proxies that they're establishing on underdeveloped planets. Now I will s I I said it wasn't my last word, but it's interesting. So I think I think you're right. And I think it's fair, like there's some conjecture. I don't unless Gene Rodberry came up and said it somewhere or or something that's overt. But I think even if it's not overt, I think it's fair to make the connection because let's jump forward in time a thousand years and we're looking back on Star Trek as this literature piece because, you know movies and television there it's a different it's a form of a literature, it's a it's a visual literature. Uh and we're trying to analyze it and we would be doing what we're doing in Revelation. Well given the the times Let's consider there were two great powers in the world at the time. There was the United States of America and there was the Soviet Union and they were there was a Cold War and there was, you know, these great weapons of destruction and And there was this polemic in the air and people were breathing it and so I think it's fair to say, given that context, that the writers of of Star Trek are making that connection. And I think that's Fair, you're kind of doing a grammatical historical Yeah, so I think that that so either it was an accident and they got really just some dumb luck and they captured the spirit of the age really well or uh it was purposeful. I think it was purposeful. Well those things that would suck on their face, remember that? What? Those things that get stuck on their face. That's stuck on their face. Yeah. I don't remember Gary's one. I don't know. Star Trek. Yes, Google it. I mean smells it. Star trucks stuck on their face. I'm sure I'll get a lot of I mean, there's a lot of face sucking things in Sunday. I mean it's not remember that one. I don't either. I don't remember that one. I've seen them all at least once. Oh horrible. Most of them have seen four. Stuck on their face. It was too much. The people, I don't know, whoever. Do you know what I mean? I do, but I can't pinpoint it. I feel like there's multiple things that I I can't pinpoint. No, I was never that was never a dead up. seventies. Oh, you talked about the original star. I like the next generation next generation that I've got to do. Yeah, it wouldn't be the allegorical Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Whatever his name is. Spa correct. Captain Court's name. Yeah. When was next generation produced? Yeah. So had the Soviet Union already fallen? Uh not in the middle of the No, but it also takes place a hundred years in the future whether I was saying for as far as I'm trying to make the story connect, I think. Do you know? Who knows the year it came out? Uh it came out probably in nineteen eighty seven or nineteen eighty six. Next generation. Um It was before the Gulf War. It was before the Gulf War, so it was around eighty-eight, eighty-nine, ninety. It was when Bush won was president Okay. Like when it was a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit Yeah. I think it was eighty-nine, but I could be wrong. But either the either they had already collapsed and it was over or they were sweet to freightly. diminished the weekend and so the Soviet Union connection would have made less sense. Well at that time, right? When you know that they were a shell of their former self. like the collapse of it. That's true. And then that's what the sixth movie was made of and then like the later next generation series which Michael Dorne's in the sixth movie, I don't know Okay, it's called Star Trek the Original Series Operation Annihilate. Okay. Stop the plague of amoeba-like creatures from possessing human homes and spreading throughout the galaxy. I'm sure I do. I just yeah. I was never a real big fan of the first gave me nightmares. Nightmares. I was never a real big fan of the first I like I like next gen. And if you go back and try to watch it now, it'll make you laugh. Have we have we officially jumped the rails The original series is still the true Alright. Anybody have any parting shots? I didn't think it was anything. Totally off topic, but I I think I've seen enough science fiction to realize that Utopia is actually Well yeah typically. Yeah. If only because everyone has an idea of perfect. Somebody wanna uh give us a final prayer if we feel So moved. My dad. Do you want to do it? She wants the playback from Daddy. Oh. Yeah. Thank you And a final queen. Thank you for this time of worship and this time of uh hearing your words. uh be prayed that you would and that we would apply it to our lives that you would help us apply it to our lives to allow us to be safe throughout the week I pray that would uh be with everyone and remind them of what's explored and what we've read. Uh I pray that you would allow us to all return home safely. Pray in all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Something I'll let uh I guess Facebook know and I'll share it with with you guys in more detail. But next week we're gonna we're gonna uh Do something a little bit different. We're not going to have a sermon on the book of Revelation next week. We are going to have a um And we can decide as a group if we're going to do this on Facebook or off of Facebook. So this will be important to you on Facebook. If we're not on next week at 6 o'clock, you'll know why. We're going to have a workshop. Where we're going to have, for lack of a better term, a kind of a styled after what a brainstorming session might feel like. And we are gonna uh map out our the fullness of our understanding of what the gospel is. So we're going to talk about all the things we know to be true about the gospel, and then we're going to work on different ways to articulate what the gospel is. And the reason I'm feeling a strong leading to want to do this is I hadn't uh too many things have come together. So I was listening to a podcast where some people talked about uh something being a gospel issue. And I was like it's a biblical worldview issue. So it's not a gospel issue And then I had an exchange of uh of text messages with a pastor going back and forth, and he was making argument about something being a gospel issue. And I had to, in my opinion, as another pastor, I had to correct the pastor and say, that's not a gospel issue, it's a law issue. And the gospel and the law are not the same thing. And the pastor seemed to be confused because he pushed back and argued the point a little before finally kind of just conceding it or giving up. I'm not sure which. And then I've had some conversations with people in one-on-one kind of settings where we've talked about what the gospel is and our ability as God's people to really articulate in a clear uh in a way of clarity and conciseness, what the actual gospel is, it struck me as, wow, what a rebuke on me as a pastor and all of other my fellow pastors and all of us as believers that we haven't done a better job of iron being you know, sharpening iron and equipping people to be able to um very readily and easily give the reason for the hope that lies within. The reason we have hope is because of the gospel. And yet we can't articulate the gospel as well as we should, it seems to me. So I want to take some time next week helping us to workshop that together. So we'll either do that as a group and you'll be able to eavesdrop and participate in the comment section, or we're going to do that as a closed Household of Faith meeting and we won't have Facebook Live next week. So I'm not sure what to expect. We'll see what the group decides later. But anyway, that's what we're doing next week. Until then, God bless