She loved music and instruments. Hey on the little Facebook, we're starting a few minutes late today. Apologize if you've been waiting. If you're watching this later on You too. Well welcome to you as well. We do this on Facebook Live for a couple of reasons. One of those is that we want to give somebody an opportunity to To to sh to kind of join in and share in the conversation. So if there's um something that strikes you that you'd like to add to what we're saying, feel free to put it in the comment section and we will do our darndest to try to incorporate it into what we're talking about today. We were absent from Facebook Live last week because we kind of did an in-house uh workshop about the gospel as the the people who are members of the household of faith in Christ. We had a meal together and and we brainstormed some ideas and and uh and and hopefully I feel like we all came away with a better understanding and and depth of understanding of really what the gospel is and perhaps maybe beginning to understand better even what the gospel is not. That'll be an important part of what I'm going to be talking about today. So there's not a sermon today. We're going to be piggybacking and build on and building upon what we did uh last week that you weren't able to um participate in because this way you can participate if you want. So I'm going to have some thoughts to share here in in a in a minute, but I'm going to walk through what we uh uh what we did last week as well so you get a sense to get a running start on all that so that if and when you join in you'll you'll feel comfortable doing so. But before we go any further maybe I'll see if Angela wants to open us with a word of prayer and uh we'll go from there. Father in heaven, thank you for another gathering and what you brought us together in the name of Jesus Christ for another time of fellowship. And we just Pray, Father, that your will, your plan, your purpose is is done in this gathering. We just want to honor and glorify you, and we ask you to help us to do that and we ask that you would bring to this gathering um those that you know should should should see it uh to take away from it that would just edifying that which is instructive, um, that which helps to guide them in life. And we thank you for it. We ask all this blessing in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So I wasn't months ago planning on doing what we did last week and again this week and actually what I already have some ideas formulating for the next week or two after this. We're taking unscheduled pit stop from our series on the book of Revelation because Um if you're consuming some of the same stuff that I am, meaning not secular news and secular commentary, but a lot of religious and Christian-oriented kind of stuff. uh from uh or at least that which is branded as Christian commentary and news stuff. It's astounding how often you hear people actually well studied, well respected, well placed within the Christian world or high profile voices a lot of time that are talking about certain things being a gospel issue. It feels like everything is a gospel issue You know, the way you tie your shoes in the morning, later, make sure you tie them the right way, because that's a gospel issue. It's it's gotten to the point of insanity where it it got me wondering Do people who claim the banner of Christ who would would identify themselves as followers of Christ even know exactly what the good news is that that that has uh changed their life. And I'm not so sure and I've had a chance to talk with some people, you know, where we've talked about the meaning of the gospel and that sort of thing and I've gotten some uh very scattershot kinds of answers to those questions. And in the course of those answers, generally the gospel is in there somewhere But it's filled with so much filler and I think it's the fault of people like me, people who are in leadership or pastors of churches haven't done a very good job of equipping people to understand what the gospel is and what the gospel is not. Now I do want to say for frame of reference you understand where I'm coming from. I do understand that some people refer to the entire scriptures as the gospel. If you're reading anything from the Bible, you're reading the gospel. There's this very broad umbrella labeling that can be attached. Right. But that's not what I'm talking about, and that's not what I'm hearing most people mean when they're saying it's a gospel. issue. They're meaning it's a Christ at the cross issue. It's it's core and essential to the to the Christian faith, distinct from Judaism or moralism or any other sort of or or uh Christian cult uh view. It's and so the final uh point that made me feel like we needed to do maybe do this, it would be helpful for us to do this, was a thread. I'm not going to mention the name, but it's a pastor. And I had a text exchange, it's to somebody that I know pretty well, and we text back and forth on a variety of issues from time to time And this one uh caught my attention and made me feel like, wow, okay, if the pastors can't get this right, we need to do a better job. And so that that was a just a couple of that was like three weeks ago, I think, when I had this text exchange So, the text came to me with a link to a Tony Evans. He's a very high-profile evangelical, if you will. uh pastor you're speaking at the National Uh Religious Broadcasters Conference uh earlier this year and it was like a twenty minute, thirty minute schwiel that he did. And I was sent a link to that spiel and with the question, what's your take on this one? So there's huh. Alright, let me watch and see what nonsense Tony Evans is up to these days. Let's see what my take is. And so my reaction is to video and We're not going to show that. But I think through the context of what I say, you'll get a sense of some of the things that Tony Evans was talking about. And then after I read through this, I'm going to see how many of us could pick up on some of the problems. related to the gospel. So my response to what my take was is, well, my immediate reaction, the good, the king rules his kingdom. Tony Evans said that God is in charge of government. CRT, critical race theory, is indeed bad. Evangelicalism absolutely is a mess right now. We are to be kingdom people first, and God brings judgment. These are all things that Tony Evans said in his speech that I would agree with. And I said, the bad. God doesn't merely speak through tragedy, which is how Evans frames his thoughts. God creates contradiction. How is Evans defining contradiction? God brings a quote fresh message. God is, quote, doing and showing and looking for something new. And different? Hmm. There's an assumption that people aren't always prone to being too cavalier at ease and comfortable in the way Tony Evans presented things. The Apostle Peter in the Galatians 2 controversy wasn't racist, quote unquote. He was being a cowardly legalist Race, quote unquote, is most definitely not a gospel issue. Tony Evans said that it was. God is looking to be, quote, nice and restorative again, but God stops being loving and bringing restoration And we don't bring unity in the community. Christ has already given his church unity by bringing division from the ungodly ways of the world. And then the confusing. Who are the 1% controlling everything that Tony Evans claims are controlling everything? Did Jim Crow laws and the Southern Baptist Convention's partiality not end already? Is the quote black church too Democrat if the quote white church is too Republican? That was one of the points that Evans made that the white church, quote unquote, was too Republican Does Evans acknowledge the possibility, probability that the crisis of COVID was manufactured and as such would likely be more akin to an attack from the enemy? Is there a hint of deconstructionism in his ideas about dismantling things? Who are all the wrongdoers he's talking about? Any examples, or is everyone consigned to equal levels of responsibility and guilt? That is all, smiley face. And then his response was, Galatians is clearly set up as a Jew versus Gentile legalism that was being imposed. The Judaizers We're pushing not just Old Testament legalism, but the cultural doctrines of men built up around the Old Testament over the years. It was certainly a culturally defined identity the Judaizers were pushing into the Gentile converts in the name of Scripture It was that cultural identity that was contrary to the gospel and true spiritual freedom. Paul does call that a gospel issue, no? Also, Evans seems to use contradiction in a less than precise way when dis discussing the burning bush, the Red Sea, the disciples throwing nets on the wrong side of the boats, etc. , to simply illustrate that what seems contradictory to men is not contradictory to victory to God. He could have used the passage, God's ways are not like our ways. So then I responded, trust me, this is going somewhere, so hang in there with me if you would. Peter used to eat with the Gentiles, but then, as a hypocrite, he stopped when the Jews arrived because, quote, This is from scripture, he was afraid of those who belonged to the circumcision group. End quote. This has nothing to do with quote-unquote race or even ethnic group. Peter was caving to salvation by works, i. e. circumcision. Falsely saying or intimating that salvation is by works is another gospel, as the Apostle Paul would say. And therefore, that is a gospel issue, to which I got the response. So then, if the body of Christ now for any reason allows table fellowship to be ignored, or food distribution to Hellenistic Jews or runaway slaves over politics or race, then would that not also be a gospel issue Whether Jewish believers were rejected in Nazi Germany or black believers in apartheid South Africa or the 2020 Democrat-Republican black-white divides of our day The gospel issue is that God has brought all things together in Christ and destroyed the dividing will of hostility, making one new man. Our identity is now Christ alone and nothing else When anything else asserts itself as a competing identity to divide Christ's body, it is idolatrous and contrary to the gospel. Now before I give my response on the face of it, that actually sounds like it could be pretty good. It's articulate, it's well pointed, he's making a compelling argument, he's using points from history, he's saying it's rooted in an argument from scripture and it's therefore a gospel issue. Sounds pretty compelling. Yes. I responded I reject the quote race category. It's a device of the adversary to upset the natural order which holds to just one natural race. To say God has brought all things together in Christ is an overrealized eschatology. He will bring unity to all things when the time reaches its fulfillment. In the meantime, he has brought unity to his body. Failure to feed someone andor committing the sin of idolatry are issues of obedience to the law. Adding law to the gospel is to trust in another gospel. To which, he said. I always appreciate your rejection of the word race. Divisions between tribes, languages, and tongues are clearly the result of sin. What is the best word for that? I wasn't intending to overrealize my eschatology, my point was less about when and more about what. In this context, I agree it is helpful to not expect unity with or among unbelievers who are yet part of all things currently. In the future they will still be part of all things, albeit in hell. Idolatry is a law issue. Trusting Christ versus another God is clearly a gospel issue. One cannot be saved and still worship false gods. Exclamation point, question mark, exclamation point, question mark. Loving one another is clearly part of the new community, that is the gospel community. We are not saved by those actions, but we are saved to those actions. Feeding the poor is certainly part of the New Testament discipleship, not just Old Testament law. If you're tracking, I don't know if it's easy to track as I'm reading this as you reveal the if you're reading the pages off the word There's some weaselly stuff in the way this is crafted and I'm not picking on this friend of mine. This is the kind of thing that is infecting the church. And I'll walk through exactly why I'm saying so here a little more clearly in a minute. Just one more part for me to read, and this was my final response. I like ethnicity, ethnos, as a biblical substitute for race. It's a biblical word, by the way. We should all start using it. We should stop using the word race as though there are multiple human races. There's one human race But there are multiple human ethnicities, so we should try to train our linguistics on that and get better about it. We're playing on the enemy's battlefield, but I digress. So then, remember he said idolatry is a law issue? Yes, of course idolatry is a law issue. Each of the ten commandments is a law issue. Sadly, all of us Christians worship false gods all the time. For some, the tendency is to make an idol of our family, our work, our status. our skin tone, our checking account, our sexual escapades, our reputation, our lucky rabbit foot, our memory of a dramatic conversion experience. uttering the magic words of a sinner's prayer, etc. Despite these moral failings, followers of Christ do not settle for remaining in these idolatrous sins. but rather wrestle against them by the power of the Holy Spirit in the process of our sanctification. Con conflating law and gospel is pretty much what the Reformation was all about. Certainly we must trust in Christ for our salvation. But trust in him for what? Trust him to help us obey the law well enough that we can be saved? God forbid, we trust that he has fulfilled the law and out of gratitude and submission we work to be obedient to his kingship This obedience is in response to the gospel. It is not the gospel. It is an obedience or law issue, not a grace or gospel issue And I ended, I'm not making a distinction between the Old and New Testament, so I don't understand how your closing paragraph relates to our comments. That was the end of the thread, by the way. I didn't just choose to end there because I want to get the last word. This was weeks ago, and he hasn't responded to that, and so that's kind of where it lays for now. But again, I'm not going to reread the whole thing But the parts I want us to focus on and see if if you're capturing the things that I'm hoping for us to capture here. So he points out that the Apostle Peter, and this is in Galatians 2, Paul is writing about the time when he He outed Paul for his uh diminishing of the gospel and his in confusing the Gentiles and the Jews because he wouldn't eat with the Gentiles. He would only eat with the Jews. And Paul saying, I called him out to his face. Because the gospel is at stake. So that's why people who are woke are going to say, see, these racial, these ethnic, these interpersonal relations things, they're gospel issues. Um where is it? Did I lose it? Anyway, I lost my place there. It doesn't matter. So anyway, so he's saying here that Galatians is clearly set up as Jew versus Gentile legalism that was being imposed. Should have been a stop right there. Are you hearing it? Galatians clearly set up as a Jew versus Gentile legalism. That was being imposed. Legalism. Legal. Law. We're talking about the law. The gospel is about being set free from the bounds of the law. Set free for what? So that you can obey the law You're set free from the law so that you can then willingly obey it out of out of gratitude for Christ. And if you're obeying the law out of anything other than gratitude for Christ and what he's done for you, it's legalism. That's not the gospel. Are we capturing that? Hopefully we are. He says the Judaizers were pushing not just Old Testament legalism. But the cultural doctrines of men built up around the Old Testament over the years. Are you hearing that? There's this false dichotomy. We've got to stop it. If you're guilty of this, I encourage you, please, stop it. If you hear somebody slip into this, find a gentle way to correct them, it's not like the Old Testament is law and the New Testament is grace. That is a false dichotomy. He goes out of his way to mention Old Testament twice in this same sentence, trying to say that the Old Testament legalism. The Old Testament is not about legalism. This is but this is the perspective that th the the the cancerous infection that the leftist ideology has infected even the church has left us with where we have this Big bad meanie Old Testament God who's a legalist versus this grace-filled God in the New Testament and we cannot buy that. That is not the gospel. That is not how to understand the Bible nor the gospel. It was certainly a culturally defined identity the Judaism was pushing into the Gentile converts in the name of Scriptures. It was that culture identity that was contrary to the gospel and true spiritual freedom. Paul does call that a gospel. So you see how sneaky that is, because Paul does say that what he's writing about in Galatians is a gospel issue. But not the way it's framed here. Paul's not saying there was a cultural divide, and that's a and having divides in the culture is a gospel issue. What Paul is saying the way that Peter uh is describing is making it seem like you have to earn your way into being a part of God's people. You have to be circumcised to matter. Paul was indicating that some sort of legal some sort of legal adherence to to the code is what was going to save you. And if you buy into that, well then you're undercutting the gospel. Well, what is the left telling us right now? You need to apologize to your neighbor. Or you not abiding by the Gaos. You have to feel guilty for the shade of skin that you have. Oh, you're not abiding by the gospel. These are being added to these are extra requirements and they undercut what the message of the gospel is, which is about grace. When he wrote, so then if the body of Christ now for any reason allows table fellowship to be ignored. ignored or food distribution to Hellenistic Jews or runaway slaves to be ignored over politics or race, then would that not also be a gospel issue? And he goes on whether Jewish believers were rejected in Nazi Germany or black believers in apartheid South Africa or uh the black-white divides politically today. She's talking about all these cultural realities and sin-based realities. So yeah, there's a problem. We're not taking care of the widows and the orphans and the poor as well as we might But why? The government is. Well yeah, because the government has to have things out of order. But because we're disobedient. Right? We should be doing those things. And we're not. So that's a sin issue. But the gospel issue is that we're set free from the condemnation for that sin, and because we're set free from the condemnation for that sin, we now are inspired to want to do better and have sin not control our lives anymore. Are we seeing there's it's subtle, I get it. I I understand, but if we're s some obvious hills need to be die uh we need to die on, some subtle hills need to be died on too. Even though this is a subtle hill, it it is the hill. If we're not gonna die on the gospel hill, where are we doing this? Are we kidding? We're wasting our time and our energy It makes no sense to me. We've got to defend what the gospel is and understand what the gospel is not. So feeding the poor is not a gospel issue. It's an obedience issue. Behaving nicely to your neighbor, regardless of the skin tone that they happen to have, is not a gospel issue. It's an obedience issue. And don't miss, don't take me out of context and mischaracterize what I'm saying here. I am not saying that, oh, so we have the gospel, we don't need to be obedient. No We don't need to be obedient to be saved, however, if we're not obedient, that's evidence that we don't have what we think we have. But we don't have what we have out of obedience. Our obedience is proof that we have what we have in spite of our disobedience. I understand it's a fine point, but it's on that point that the entire good news message and purpose of the personal work of Jesus Christ, that's the hinge. And if we lose that, we lose everything. So I don't care if it's Tony Evans. I don't care if it's like texting a friend. I don't care if it's the pastor of the church you go to. If they don't get this right, they are preaching another gospel. And another gospel is alive in the pit of hell. And we've got to learn how to recognize these things. And then once we recognize them, we can learn how to articulate them better. Now, this friend of mine His heart's in a good place. He he means well. I have no reason to doubt his his uh salvation. Uh I expect to spend eternity with him in heaven, I truly do. But there's a blind spot here and we've got to take the blinders off and recognize the full orb reality of what the gospel is and then recognize that everything that's not the gospel It is not the gospel. And if it's not the gospel, it's not a gospel issue. It's an obedience issue. It's a righteousness issue. But it's not a gospel issue. So, with that, last week we spent some time brainstorming about things together, the group that you see here. um about what the gospel is. Those are just a you know word association. What I say gospel, you say? And so some of the answers we we got was gospel means good news, means salvation, means Jesus, gift. Unmerited. Exchange, you know, the great exchange. Resurrection. Sin as in the answer to sin. Missionary means going out and proclaiming the good news. It means mercy, grace, and justice all coming together in the person of Christ. It means that we uh those who believe don't die. We have everlasting life. Uh means there's heaven and no hell for those who believe. It's a uh get out of jail free card, pass go, get $200 And we don't have to pay for it ourselves. And in spite of the fact that it's not free, there is a cost, but we didn't pay And it's not that easy to live out the implications of. It's not works-based. And it's not necessarily what we would consider fair. And it's not all smiles and rainbows and love to live it out. And it's exclusive. It's not universalist. Jesus is the only way. And if we understand the truth of the gospel, then we will love God and love neighbor out of obedience. We're not merely acknowledging facts, we're internalizing and expressing and living it out. And then the gospel can be shared by personal testimony, it can shared by living it out, having lived out application in our life, shared by this, you know through the strength of our convictions, uh be shared by people seeing how quick we are to repent. Um again talking about we don't die, we have hope, abundant life. Uh because of the gospel we have purpose and reason for living. Through the gospel we avoid God's wrath, uh, because God is a just God. Uh and the goal of living out uh the implications of the gospel is to glorify God, have restoration, reconciliation, reconnection, rest. and peace with God, to be rendered innocent, and uh regeneration. And I don't think we did that on purpose, but we ended up with a lot of R's there, didn't we? One, two, three, four, five, six hours in a row. That's pretty impressive. Um the gospel part of it is acknowledged uh we we acknowledge that everyone's a sinner and in need of the gospel. And Jesus is the only way to fix things. And the age we're in now, this age will end. And we talked about the importance of uh election and God um choosing and electing uh people unto himself And that uh that adoption happens through the Holy Spirit. Um and that sort and so I think that might be toward the end of the uh of the brainstorming. And so then we started talking about some of the the the pieces like linearly of like how does the gospel progress in someone's life and throughout history and that sort of thing. So we talked about, you know, there's that which was before the foundation of the earth. You know, God elects those from before the foundation of the earth, and he creates us in his image, but then we fall. And uh the fall is connected to a breaking of the law. And but Jesus comes, he fulfills the law, and he pays the penalty that's due for lawbreakers. And then he proves his victory o over all that. He's that he's a sufficient penalty payment uh for his resurrection. Uh we also talked about the garden and fall and sin and separation from God. Uh what are some other things we ended up talking about Those for the most part are the gist of the combination of some of our answers. So we have this idea of uh Of the other thing, I think. Okay. Um we were created, but then and we're creating God's image of good, right? God creates and everything is not just good, but after it creates humankind, it's very good. But then there's the fall, right? We sin. We we're marred now. We're marred image bearers, so we have this problem. Uh we need a rescuer, we need to be redeemed, and so then comes redemption. And once we're redeemed, then there's this process of sanctification and the relationship is is restored and increasingly so as we as our walk draws us closer and closer to Faithfulness with Christ, and then ultimately it all ends in eternity with Christ's second coming, and we're glorified, receiving new glorified bodies and we can then no longer have the capability even to sin anymore. So creation, fall, redemption, restoration, glorification. Those are kind of the pieces express a sharing of the gospel. So all of that said, everybody here, I don't know what time is it by the way? Let me peek at the clock. Yeah, we're good. So we all uh had assignments last week on trying to share uh the gospel with one another. share it with you and the re and I'm going to encourage you to give yourself a I can't check on you. There's no checking of homework here, but I would encourage you to give yourself this assignment between now and you know tomorrow or next week or something Take the time to craft uh a version of sharing the gospel. In fact, I would encourage you to craft multiple versions of sharing the gospel with different starting points. So to help us do that, I'm going to look and see who had which assignment Because now we're going to work through those five elements. So we've got creation, fall, redemption, restoration, glorification. You can start sharing the gospel from any one of those points. It seems most natural in our linear thinking to start with creation and work from there. But you don't have to. You could start with the end with glorification and explain the gospel starting there. And so I think it'll be helpful for us as you watching on Facebook and us in the room as we hear each other walk through the sharing from these different starting points. It'll help us see how that's done. It'll help the gospel and the truth of what the gospel actually is penetrate us more deeply. And it'll equip us as we are talking to friends and neighbors and colleagues and co-workers and family members members and staff about the gospel, we're in a conversation and something, a door is open. It triggers an opportunity to really share the gospel in a fresh new way. that you haven't shared with them before. And it's going to be starting with the glorification idea or the redemption idea and not having to figure out some artificial way, okay, how do I manufacture a context in which I can share the gospel starting with creation. Anyway, so everybody was given a different starting point for this week. And hopefully you guys did some preparation. If not, we'll see how good you are thinking on your feet. And uh I guess we'll go in order uh grace and fall, redemption, restoration, glorification for our purposes here, and um unless everybody objects to that. If that's the case, then Angela will be going first because she she drew the creation straw. And I gotta say, I give credit, last week we had to put it out there and tell everybody, all right Somebody needs to just take a shot here and try to explain what the gospel is, you know, and we're all going to take a turn, but somebody's got to go first And Angela was brave and she went first. So kudos Angela. And now she gets to go first two times in a row. How uh so begin if I were to s share what the gospel is beginning from The creation event, I would say that um um the gospel began in the Garden of Eden After Adam and Eve sin and fell. Sin and fell. Uh what happened was um God provided a way, He provided a promise to them that through um through the seed of the woman there would there would come a Savior. And um and so that was the that was the first promise of salvation. And along with God's promise, He provided a covering for them when he clothed them with animal skins because their sin made them aware of uh of their um naked state and and it made them ashamed. And the the gospel is about um um God providing the promise of salvation and it's about him covering up um our shame with a sacrifice because obviously an an animal had to be sacrificed in order for them to have the skins that covered them. Um and so and there was a a shedding of blood from that animal sacrifice And um the shedding of blood is is always for the forgiveness of sins. It's always an innocent life that um dies on behalf of uh of of a guilty life to save that guilty life. And so the the the garden story is a picture, it's the first picture of uh of of the gospel um both spoken and illustrated um the sin coming in through the serpent and the man and woman bowing to that sin. Um God um providing the sacrifice, uh providing the promise first of all of salvation, providing the sacrifice to cover them. And um And the promise of life that comes from that. Amen. All right. Well the second thing up is uh was Ray. If you were to start with fall. Uh was creation, fall, restoration, reconciliation, glorification. You've got full. Oh slave. You start with fall. Yeah, redemption. Redemption, okay, not restoration. Redemption and restoration. Okay. And just to clarify, I want to uh it's not reconciliation. I probably should share something, because this might be new to somebody who's watching on Facebook. It's not new to people in the room because we talked about this last week, but I probably should have position it this way. It's not uncommon at all to hear uh to read books or to hear people talk about, you know, the gospel, sometimes called a threefold gospel. You know, the the gospel is all about creation, fall, redemption We were created, but then we fell and Christ redeemed us. And as a bare minimum expression, that's okay, but it's a little bit incomplete from my perspective. And others agree with me. And so a lot of people have added what they call a fourth element, they call it a fourfold gospel, and they say creation, fall, redemption, glorification. But and I like that. But I feel like there's this gap that doesn't address what is it that's happening right now in the life of the Christian. So there's redemption that happens at the cross. And there's glorification that happens at a second coming. But where are we now? And where are we now is the restoring, the restoration process. So I feel like And so to be honest, I've coined this. I don't know of anybody else that teaches a five-fold gospel. So if you want to push back and say I'm I'm totally wrong in doing so, I'd be well I'd welcome your But I feel like it's incredibly helpful to think in terms of the five pieces, the five folds to the gospel. Creation, fall, redemption, gather with those traditional pieces we all tend to focus on, followed by restoration and glorification. And so this is all kind of new to most people because like I said I didn't read this somewhere and steal it for myself. Over the years I've kind of developed my own understanding of how to best teach and preach the gospel, and this is where I come out of it. So anyway, with that caveat, we'll go back to Ray, starting with fall, but working through in whatever order he wants all five pieces. So I so happen to be wearing my danger zone t s t-shirt today, which is a coincidence, but what's not a coincidence is that you are also in the danger zone. The danger zone meaning that you have been an affront to a holy and righteous God who has set a standard. He created the world and in creating the world he also created you in his image And yet you are fallen in your own nature, and you have thus a separation from that holy and just and righteous and good God. But in being a holy and righteous and good and just God, he sent his one and only Son that's begotten by him to die on the cross and be. imputed with the sins of those he has chosen to save. Those he has chosen to save are then part you know are part of his elect. They are adopted into the family and co-heirs with Christ the Son. And you know, through the resurrection, and then you know, upon the end of creation, the end of their own lives, they will receive their new and resurrected bodies in a glorified state And that is what we have to look forward to as believers. But in the meantime, um it is the working of the Holy Spirit that saves you. And you need to repent if you are convicted of the Holy S by the Holy Spirit and believe in Christ's resurrection for your sins. You want to tell me what you said last week when we turned in? And I said so Ray, if you're gonna share the gospel with somebody, what would you say? You are and he said it with some gusto, you are totally depraved. Hey, you know, hey, it's a truth. If you're in denial, you're in even worse shape than we've thought. yourself in there for good measurement so am I. Exactly, he didn't follow up with it until my own. Now I can't I know that the next one was restoration, Annie was going to do that, and he she was gonna do it in as though she was explaining the gospel to their daughter Nadia, but I don't Uh are you comfortable doing that in this setting? You want to do it after we uh after we, you know, gather around and do our singing layer? Uh I'll do it afterwards. Um I work mostly with kids and those are to the specifically the audience that I am speaking to. Yeah. Are you up then? So um well redemption was next, which I was going to have Landon do if he was here, but he's not. So I'm gonna I was gonna handle that but I'm I'm wondering if I should uh I'll do that last just so I can give you a quick use restoration as uh because I mentioned how you can if you understand these different aspects of of For starting points of sharing the gospel, how do they apply? So let's use restoration as just a working example really quick. I'm not going to do a full orb thing here, but Let's say you're talking to somebody, uh good you know, a friend or whatever, and uh you know that they were going through a rough time, they were separated from their spouse and you meet up with them and you find out that they're back together and and and uh their marriage is is like doing better than ever. And you're like, wow, I am so excited to hear that you know the the uh the marriage relationship has been restored. That is so exciting. You know what makes me so excited is how uh how that reminds me of the truth of the gospel. That's an important part of the gospel is restoration. Because we are made in God's image. We are made to have relationships, but we we screwed that up through through mistaken ways, through errors, through sin. Like you you know, you and your husband or you and your wife sinned against each other. We sinned against God. And yet There was forgiveness extended and and accepted uh through Christ's offer at the cross and those who choose to follow him. And so there's a restoration and an ongoing restoration in that relationship that then ultimately goes on forever and ever. uh to the heights of glorification. So as wonderful and beautiful as the restoration of your marriage is, that will end because it's until death to us part So at death the restoration ends, the marriage ends at death, but with Christ the relationship never ends. So that makes the gospel even better than the restoration that you see pictured in your in your marriage. So there's just a really quick Sketch, if you will, of how you could use a conversation you're having somebody to spin into a sharing of the gospel And that'd be harder to do if the only way you know to share the gospel is to start with creation. But if you know you can start the gospel with restoration, you've got an end. You can pivot and you can do it as quick I just did it and I don't even know how long that took. Sixty seconds maybe? I don't know. You can do it quick. You can do it at a business card exchange, some sort of business mixer or something. You can do it with your neighbors at a barbecue. It can be a quick little thing and I'll admit I haven't been real good at this over the years, but I've been getting better because I've been more self-conscious. I'm going out of my way to more consistently seek opportunity and if I can't see an obvious one to create an opportunity to share. And there's different ways. So sometimes it's simple, hey you go to church. And some a lot of times the answer is yes and say, oh what one? And then because if somebody goes to church doesn't mean they know the gospel. You get them talking and say, oh so I'm sure this So you you love Jesus because of and you get right into the gospel. You make sure they've heard it. If they're not hearing from their pastor, at least they're going to hear it from you. Or it's sometimes it's uh Um actually we had somebody doing some work at our at our house and I just I said, so what do you know about Jesus? That's pretty out there and flat. Uh and I got kind of a halfway answer about what the Russian of Jesus was. I sh I shared the gospel. So I'm trying to do it. And it's a little awkward at first, I'll be honest. Uh when you start to do it more overtly, but as I've done it a little bit more and more, it becomes less and less uh awkward each time. And so I'd encourage all of us uh to try to figure out how to share the gospel. Preach the gospel to yourself aloud with a different starting point every day, maybe for the next you know five days, and don't and see if that doesn't make you feel more confident that on the sixth day you'll be able to actually share it with somebody. So um I'll swing back around to the redemption because I already kind of did a restoration I just talked a lot. So if you want to maybe do glorification Start with glorification and then I'll go last and do the gospel sharing from the redemption point of view. So what if I told you it'd be possible for you to go in the end of the Your life story right now. What if I told you that? Would that give you hope? Would that maybe allow you to sleep better at night with all the sh stuff that's going on in COVID, are you stressed? Are you like, oh my gosh, are you afraid to die? What if I told you the end of your story is glory? What if I told told you the end of your story means that you get to have everything that the Father, God, and Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit already are. What if I told you that you get to share in that in that goodness in that perfection in that glory. What if that is the end of your story? Would you be in? Would you want to live? Is living then dying? I mean what how how do you wrestle with that? Are you afraid to die? Well, you should be afraid to die if you don't have a relationship with Jesus Christ, if you have not received that gift. Because the end of your story is eternal punishment and that's something to be afraid of. But what I'm saying is that doesn't have to be the end of your story. The end of your story could be glory And how does that happen? Well, let's deal with the fact that you deserve to go to hell. Like I do, because we all do. Because we've all fallen short of the glory of God. Even a simple you know, white lie, even exaggerations, those are lies. That's that's enough to do it. It doesn't have to be the big sins, it doesn't have to be the murder or you know I cheated on my spouse. It doesn't have to be any of that. It can be the littlest, the littlest of things that would separate you. That's enough to send you to hell. But God God loves you so much because you were created in his image. You were created in his image. You are in an image-bearer of him. So So you were intended to be perfect. Of course you can't. You've already broken that. The minute you were born, you had a tendency to to sin, a tendency to do wrong. The moment you screamed because you wanted to eat or you because you had a dirty diaper and you wanted somebody to change you, you were focused on yourself in that sin and that's enough to separate you. So God comes in and he says, I love you so much because you bear my image that I'm gonna provide the way for you to come back to me. I'm gonna set Send my only son and I'm gonna make a way so that we can be reunited, so that our relationship can be restored. And although it's free for you, it's not free for me For him. It cost him his life. And he was willing to do that. From he knew, I knew, we all knew. Father, Son, the Holy Spirit, we knew that you would disappoint. us. But we also knew that through the power of the cross that there would be this wonderful reuniting and celebration. And so it's truly a a gift. You don't have to do anything for it. You just have to say, wait, what? I deserve death, but Jesus decided to die in my place And now I'm gonna get a perfect record because there is judgment. You just said there was judgment, right? So what you're saying is the judgment that I deserved fell on Jesus How do I accept that? It seems too good to be true. But the fact of the matter is it is good and it is true. True. And all you have to do is receive that. And then there's restoration and fun and celebration and and happiness. And so yay. Well you talk so much I got all confused in my head. Oh I I didn't mean to like we're all right. I didn't mean to throw you off. So I'm gonna uh tackle this from the word redemption because we've covered the other four. And I'm gonna, again, I'm trying to figure out ways to apply this in what could be a real life situation of possibility. So for example, there's somebody that I know that uh it does not consider herself to be a Christian but says that her favorite or one of her favorite songs of all time is a song by Big Daddy Weave called Redeemed. Loves that song. And I think it's because that song speaks to something in her life, this idea about being redeemed. And uh if you know that song, you're probably hearing it in your head right now. There's almost no mention of God or Christ in the song until the very, very end when Jesus' name is mentioned one time. But you can get 95-98% of the way through that song, and it's all about this sense of having been redeemed. And that's about it. So if I'm talking to somebody and they say, oh, have you heard that song by Big Daddy Weavery? Oh, I love that song. You have an opportunity to say, yeah, it's a great song. The message of redemption is such a powerful uh message for all of us because we all have this need in our hearts. to be redeemed. And we're not even sure from what sometimes. But we need to be redeemed, but from what? Do you ever stop to think about what that song means? And why it means so much to you? Well it's about, you know, I've made a lot of mistakes, but now everything's gonna be okay. I say, well that's interesting because if you hear at the very end of that song they talk about Jesus and it uh you made a lot of mistakes and you what the Bible calls sins and it is going to be okay in Christ. But you have this need to feel redeemed, this need to be redeemed. Why do you have a sense of that? Why do you have this sense of brokenness that needs healing in your life. Well, it's because you are worthy of being redeemed. Your Maker made you in his image. And you have great inestimable worth in his eyes, and he wants to redeem you from your brokenness that's caused by your unfaithfulness to him, by your your sin, your disobedience to him And so he has made a way to bring you redemption from that so you can have a restored relationship with him. Because let me ask you, the song I Am Redeemed, Redeemed From what? Redeemed by who? Redeemed for what purpose? You are redeemed through Jesus Christ if you accept his sacrifice at the cross. You are redeemed onto a restored relationship with your Maker. And that is what all of us are pining for. That's what's going on. That's what's crying out in your soul. When you hear that song and it resonates That, whether you understand it or not, that is what's resonating. That need to be forgiven and loved and counted as worthy. And treated like a princess, in her case it was a woman, treated like a princess. And that is true in Christ and only in Christ. And not only is it only true in Christ, but it's true forever in Christ. And so even though that song speaks to you, when the song's over, you probably don't feel quite so redeemed anymore as the things of life get in the way. But in Christ, it doesn't go away. But you have to trust him You have to trust that he is your redeemer. That's what that song is about. So anyway, I just walked through the gospel, whether the person's going to respond to the gospel in that moment or not. That's not the point. I was just talking to Angela about this before we uh got started today. Our child is to be faithful and obedient and to share the truth. And if God is is working and the Holy Spirit is involved, He's going to save some. We don't save anybody. We share the gospel because we're told we should share the gospel and because we want to share the gospel because it's such good news. We want to share good news, right? When something good happens, you f a young couple finds out they're pregnant, I mean they want to tell everybody. Right? Some young lady gets engaged, she wants to let the world know I'm engaged. We can't wait to tell the world good news. And that so often we've got the most gloriously good news of all time, and we're not really sharing it. It makes you wonder a little bit, doesn't it? So we should be wanting to share this good news And we should expect that people will receive it as good news because it is. And if they're being worked on by God and the Holy Spirit's moving and God is choosing to do an act uh of salvation through what you're sharing in that moment, you'll have a chance to witness it in the moment. That will be cool. But even if you don't, it might be Weeks, months, years, decades later, you don't know what sorts of seeds are being planted. And I'm going to share this as maybe a uh my final thoughts. I want to hear what other people might have to say as well. And if we have any comments. I was sharing this with Angela earlier too, and it popped back into my head. And I wish I could remember the name and the exact circumstances. But there's a guy, he's a missionary overseas for like decades and decades and decades And he's feeling like a total loser. Like he has no fruit that he can that he can see from his, I don't know, forty years on the mission field. And he feels like he wasted his time. He was a failure for God And turns out that there was one guy who was brought to a saving understanding of the gospel through the work of this missionary. And after the guy died, this other guy went on to have an unbelievable fruitful ministry worth thousands of people. uh came to know Christ, were baptized and became faithful believers and followers of the Lord through that guy. But that guy wouldn't have had the success he had if it wasn't for the first guy who felt like he made no impact. So our job is just be faithful and plant the seeds and then let God move the way God's going to move. So are there any comments we need to incorporate or worry about? Okay. No. Any um Additional thoughts in the room? Well, something I was listening to this week is like we're not called to be effective, we're called to be faithful. And just it was a very powerful message because he was talking about how, you know, he was like very good at sales, extremely good at sales and selling vacuum cleaners. I g which I guess back in the day was more shady than I remember as a kid door to door vacuum salesman. Do you ever happen? I remember that. Do you ever? And it was basically get them to sign the papers and hope they don't uh uh cash in on uh three days of recidivism or whatever it's called. And it's basically high pressure Yeah the biological morse clauses, yeah. Uh high pressure emotional Manipulation that's what it a lot of churches do, but that's not what we're called to do. And we're not called to be highly effective, we're called to be highly faithful. Yeah, and because we get that wrong, think about it. I mean maybe you guys wouldn't know, but when pastors get together at conferences and stuff, I kid you not, if it's not the first, it's the second. If it's not the second, it's definitely the third question. But it's usually the first question. How big's your church? You know how how many you have in your church? It's the first thing they ask. I mean part of it's just because you're making small talk, you don't know what else to ask, and so something you ask, I guess But also it's like a s like a score is being kept. Like like the pastor's got a thousand people compared to the pastor who's got a hundred people, like he's ten times more successful than the other No, not necessarily, right? I mean that the size does not Uh matter in that regard. And the other thing is that sometimes churches that want to get away from the size of the membership they'll get into baptisms. A lot of people will only fund missions uh things that have demonstrated some sort of uh uh effectiveness and you say, oh, because of your funding we are we we baptized, you know, four hundred and seventy eight people last year or our you know, our church baptized twenty-eight people last Sunday. It's still uh it's a matter of scorekeeping. The church didn't do that. The Holy Spirit did that. So, but because we get bogged down in the scorekeeping mentality, the questions we should be asking when pastors come together is so So uh what was the most impactful way you were able to share the gospel of your people this past month? That's a better question. Right? Or f in instead of how many baptisms did your church do, how many people did your how how many people in the in the in the uh neighborhood did your congregation share the gospel with this past year Because we don't have control over the the harvest, the reaping of the harvest, right? We God does the saving, we don't. And if we share the gospel with a million people and none of them Come to Christ, we did our part. And that's all that really matters. So Well It makes me wonder you know, there's a there's a thing in the church these days is called easy believism. You know, uh people they say uh there's some rote prayer and then the uh Yeah, and then they and then the easy baptism comes from that, right? They they they say they're believers, they get baptized and they can check their board. Yeah, we baptized somebody, but were they really actually a believer or not? And e easy church membership too. That's why a lot of churches don't want to do uh discipline. Well. church because that would be smaller and smaller is bad. So we gotta get our our we gotta stop thinking about numbers and thinking about keeping tabs on a scoreboard and get back to the faithfulness. Not that we go out of our way to be ineffective. We want to be wise and clever and and ho and be prayerful that God will use us in a way that we can see effective. But uh yeah, whoever you were listening to, he got that one right, that's for sure. Well yeah, his point was like the way he was taught evangelism was the same way he was taught to sell vacuum cleaners. Shame on us, right? Shame on us. Fire's remorse for uh Christianity as a terrible like fire's remorse on a vacuum cleaner is one thing, but if after After you've heard the gospel, you're like, dude, I was just pressured into that. I I don't think I want it anymore. That's honestly the opposite effect. And it's more dangerous. And we didn't end up really touching on it in any of our answers, at least in a strong way, about that aspect. But the Strengthening of the relationship grows over time, but it's up and down and it's hard. So during that restoration period, is like your relationship is restored and your relationship with other people will be better, generally speaking. However Not necessarily, because the enemy of this world hates God and hates God's people and it's gonna be hard. And so we're telling people that it's all, you know you know, Easter bunnies and rainbows and not talking about the hard aspects of discipleship, uh that's when the remorse kicks in. I thought you said my life would be easy. I'd have my best life now. I had a a good friend in high school who um she went to her boyfriend's church with him. She was I don't want to say she was like specifically not Christian, um and didn't know anything about the gospel or anything, but she certainly had not, you know she was she was kind of thinking about what it meant and stuff like that. You know, she she wasn't safe Yes, she wasn't. But she was interested. And uh she is now safe, by the way. Um but uh her boyfriend took her to his church I don't know what denomination he was, but he like she was it wasn't Catholic, I don't think, but she was basically singled out out because she wasn't saved yet and wasn't baptized and everything. So like um it it was probably like a communion communion thing or something, I'm not entirely sure it's been too long, but you know, basically she had to walk in a certain way. She had to go up with everybody to do communion. But she had to walk in a certain way and like the pastor or something had to like pray over her That's why I specified that it wasn't. Because I do specifically remember that it wasn't college, but it sounded cast. Lutherans can also be Catholic. Or Anglicans. Um, but basically, you know, she had to like walk up and like It was almost a sign that I'm not sure. Right. And they like they almost treated it as if she was half possessed. Well that's not a good thing. But like you know, she walks up and they're like, you know, we pray that you turn from your evil way. Very good and to you as well. Thank you, but she was very put off by that. Like when she was telling the story, she's like, is he is that how you guys she's like, is that how you guys view anybody that doesn't You know, that isn't fake yet? And I'm like, Oh, it's like apparently some people do, but that's not You know, and I'm I'm really glad that um she ended up breaking up with that guy anyway, but you know, found um better examples. of Christians showing her the gospel and showing her the love of Christ as opposed to um just the damnation side of it, you know, the hey y it's okay, we can um Right, exactly. And um but I've seen so many things like that where Christi it's almost like the Bible something, you know, type of thing. And I I I know so many people. I had so many so many friends that uh completely off put by anything related to Christ afterwards because they're like, this isn't law, this is peaceful. You know um because they don't want to be shamed for not yet being where someone thought they should be. Right. Well, again it's only Exactly. There is shame as part of the story. But that's not the same, hey, you've never been shown the gospel before, shame on you, is kind of just like we Yeah. What? Yeah. So Harry, I should be ashamed because nobody taught me what the gospel meant. And that's my fault. And now because of it, I'm gonna have like If you were saved as a kid in church, that's one thing, but if you didn't become saved until you were an adult, you're still saved. There's no like Exactly. That's the point You might need to hear the gospel fifty hund fifty times, five hundred times. At some point, if you are belonging to God with part of God's people, you'll re the response will happen. The the gift you will receive that gift. So you know if you came into contact with someone uh you know when you're five but that wasn't right God's plan you know God you you know the information beginning if you know that it's all get it. Humans are also different. You can't just expect that well by the age of fifteen everybody really should have Sure Yeah. In any event. Yeah. Hell I'm all for some occasional boggle thumping. Uh and hellfire and brimstone can mean different things. And so just as a You know, as a clarification for those who might be eavesdropping on what we're talking about here, um some of the more famous Hellfire and Brimstone oriented sermons are only available s to us now in written form, uh, because we didn't have recording devices back then. And depending on how you read them, the tone of voice and emphasis you give, they can come across different ways. A lot of these preachers back in the day that would preach hellfire and brimstone were very mono monotone disimpassioned in their delivery. It was like they were reading a script kind of and just and they could get away. They could get away with that lecture style back then because people's uh expectations for entertainment value were way lower. Going to church on Sunday was the one outing they had in their life and so they'd they'd tolerate that. Not so much tolerate, they would actually enjoy it probably because somebody was doing something that you know, was speaking to them. So keep that in mind. And there are times when people the more traditional, the Hellfire and Brimstone, you know, those those those old style, you know, Baptists and Pentecostal preachers who really bring it, you know, and and uh If they're bringing it with passion and conviction and emotion, I don't have a problem with that. If they're bringing it as a manipulation. Right. They're trying to manipulate the audience and a in a tool to try to sell a vacuum. Uh you know, that's that's a real problem. And if it's merely a guilt trip And it kind of ends there. That's a problem too. And as far as the the Lord's Supper thing, I mean a lot of churches uh Don't worry at almost at all about fencing the table. But fencing the table is a term that's used for making sure people understand that it's a family meal Christians are supposed to be participating, non-Christians aren't really supposed to be participating. Some people are more hardcore about that than others. My take on that is Uh I'll put out the warning. In our setting it's not uh an issue. In a house church it's not the same issue. But in a larger gathering thing, you put out the warning if somebody comes up who's not a Christian and they partake They were given the warning, and that's between them and God. Like I can't I can't do anything more. I'm not gonna tackle them or guardian of the gate. And I'm not gonna shame someone for not being a believer. Right, we don't want to do that. We do want people to have an appropriate level of shame over the sin in their life. Right. We do this but there's a difference. There's there's there's no shame in not believing the gospel Mm-hmm. There's shame in not being obedient and being a lawbreaker, which is why you need the gospel. So Yeah, good stuff. Anybody else have anything to add? Yeah. We're gonna bring our uh Star Trek uh vocal uh translator So that next week we can translate what Nadia had to say. Most of it was asking for stuff. No. Except for when she was agreeing with what you were saying. Uh when you started to do that. Those were amens? See, yeah, she had some amens in there and she She had some yeah for you when you were uh describing the difference between a law and golf relationship. Oh, see that? Hey, I don't care what they say, you have excellent taste. Excellent taste. Alright. Um you want to close this one for honey? Sure. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time together. Thank you for the good news. Thank you for providing The end of the story for us, which includes resurrection, new life, and being with you forever, for eternity. Great. To share in your glory. We know that you are glorified by that. And we thank you for being our rescuer, for being our everything. We ask that you would allow us to have opportunities to uh be a part of your plan in other people's life. That means might not not only um see the opportunities but actually take the opportunity to share the good news. It's in your name that we pray So do your best to try to figure out how you can share the gospel. I strongly encourage you to take it seriously and give yourself the homeover assignment and do it. You know, try to share the gospel a different way every day to yourself in the mirror or to somebody losing your house and and get better at it. Remember the good news is you have been made in God's image You have been redeemed from the consequences of your sin. You have been restored unto right relationship with God, and you will be forever glorified in Christ forever if you accept Him as your Lord. So um that's what you need to know. And I hope that's what the world around you need to know too. Till next week, God bless.