Well hello Facebook and uh if you're watching this later YouTube. If you're watching this live, your comments today are encouraged. So we're gonna be sharing the gospel through testimonies today. And if you can type really fast, or if something you want to add in the comment section. Or if you want to add it in the comment sections later, or if you want to add it in the comment section on YouTube, if you're watching this on YouTube later, that would be fine as well. Before I get into the testimonies and our formal time that we do online with you, a couple of things I wanted to share. If you go to our website, Household of Faithinchrist. com One of the pages on the site is a list of resources and reference material that has been vetted by us that we feel pretty good about. And one of the sources that is pointed to on our website is Wretched, Todd Friel's ministry. And I just want to mention that I'm going to leave that up for now, but I've got my eye on some stuff that's going on with uh with Todd. Todd Friel is uh He's been around for a lot of years. He's really gifted with evangelism. He's really strong with his theological views on things. Very biblical. You know, his his career has been historically very biblical. And I like the link to his resources because he's got a different kind of a persona and personality, lots of humor and a little bit, you know, borderline irreverence sometimes. Like he used to be a stand up comic and so he brings a lot of that sensibility into what he does. And I feel like he can connect uh the same kinds of things as some of the other resources are bringing, but in a different way that might help others you know just connect with him. That said He's been really good on the CRT, you know, some people call it critical race theory or uh cultural Marxism or ethnic Gnosticism or whatever you might want to call it. He's been pretty good on that issue the past you know, year or two. Recently he's gotten a little bit squishy, which has me a little concerned about if he's been influenced by some other thinkers and people out there. But that's not the main thing that caught my attention. The thing that caught my attention this past week is I saw a video that he posted that was talking about the uh the shots or what some people like to mockingly call the jab or what mainstream media refers to as the vaccines. And he was making an argument that Christians should, if the government mandates uh vaccines, that uh people should get them because, well, Romans 13. And that is You've heard other uh commentary on this, sermons on this uh last summer we were focusing on it primarily Uh that is a grossly inadequate interpretation of Romans thirteen. It is a it is a misapplication and then some. It's a really wrong-headed way to think about Romans thirteen. Uh some people like John MacArthur were advocating that point of view on Romans 13 when the church shutdowns and mass mandates inside of churches first started, and then MacArthur corrected himself. I'm waiting to see if Todd Farrell will have the same kind of correction in the coming weeks or months with regards to his attitude on the vaccine. If he's going to be that wrong on something as important as that issue is right now in our current situation. I'm probably going to remove that as a resource on our website because I don't know that I can trust where he's going. So I just wanted to put that out there as a caveat. If you find anything that Todd has taught up until recently, you know, his older material, there's very little that I would disagree with. have a significant disagreement so I'm always going to quibble on some things everybody is but on the whole he's been very good right now I don't know and so I say this To help set up what we're talking about. But I'll do that and I'll explain to you how it all connects to what we've been doing in recent weeks after we open with a word of prayer. Maybe you want to open us with a word of prayer today, honey? Thank you so much for allowing us to gather in your name. Thank you for your sacrifice that allows us to come directly to the Father's through ask that every Everything that is sent here tonight is for your glory, that you were honored. Pray that you would receive all the praise, all the glory that you would do, for you would do every single ounce and then some Pray that you would encourage those who are watching. Pray that you would keep away anyone who is not meant to see this, but also prompt someone who is meant to see it. In their spirit, that the fellowship of the Holy Spirit is brought to fullness for your glory, your honor, and your praise. In Jesus' name, Amen. Amen. So how does all that connect with what we've been focusing on? Two weeks ago we weren't online with you because we did an in-house workshop, Household of Faith in Christ did. where we talked about the gospel, we did some exercises together, and we we did some brainstorming and and we came and we started to find different ways to articulate what the gospel is so we can get better at sharing it with other people in a variety of contexts. And then last week we shared a portion of, you know, kind of synthesized down a you know sizable portion of what we came together uh came up with together in our workshop with you online last week. And now we're gonna have as an extension of that this week, we're gonna put that into practice. So today's message, which I'll do here shortly, it's gonna be relatively short the message. But uh today's sermon is going to be a sharing of the gospel through my personal testimony. When I say my personal testimony, There are different ways we can use aspects in our life story that can become our testimony to share. So this is what I'm going to share with you in a few minutes is going to be one way to share the gospel through my personal testimony. I can get up next week and share a personal testimony to bring you the gospel and it'll be a very different presentation. There's so many different ways to do this So when I'm done, I'm hoping that others here, you know, could give a one-minute, three-minute, ten-minute, twenty-minute, whatever version of testimony and to clarify, because I've done this before, but I want to clarify again It's my view that the best way to think about, hey, share your testimony isn't tell me your conversion story. That's fine. If you have a dramatic conversion story, and that can be how you drive home a point with your with your with your uh testimony to drive home the reality of the gospel, that's fine. But in our American church cultures, that's mostly what we what we think people are asking. And that's actually what a lot of people mean when they're asking, hey, so what's your testimony? You know, how did you come to Christ? You know, when when did you get saved? Those kinds of questions. And those are fine, but ultimately those are the wrong questions. Better questions are, what's your walk like with Christ? And how did you get where you are now in that walk? That's better. So it can be a narrative as you walk through your life. It can be something that happened to you this week that's a reminder of how your walk plays out in real time that drives home what the truth of the gospel is. And why am I so focused on this? Quick aside, a lot of churches in the summer will take a break from their what their series is. They'll do summer s summertime series. We ended up by accident kind of doing that. That was not the plan for us to take what's going to turn out to be a four-week break in our series on Revelation. because oh it's a summer we're gonna take a break. It was just struck upon me that we need to focus on this because I'm hearing so many Christians, so many high profile Christians that are saying that things are a gospel issue that are not gospel issues. So it's like, do you even know what the gospel is? Like you're a pastor. And you don't know what a gospel is? You're a longtime, lifetime Christian, and you don't know what the gospel is? Well you need to get better at knowing what the gospel is because what you know critical race theory uh is it's another gospel. It's a false gospel. It is a lie. And um I was hearing somebody this week talking about one of the big problems with CRT for short is one of the big problems with it is it brings division. Well that's fine, except it brings the wrong kind of division. The Christian Church should have division, truth separated from error. So if there are lies, we should have division over that The problem is we've got too many people who are trying to bring the lie in and have that supersede the truth and causing that kind of a division. So we've got to get better at knowing what the gospel is, knowing how to articulate it And we need to be seeking opportunities to share it, if not with others, uh as frequently as we might and should With ourselves. Look at yourself in the mirror or whatever. Speak the gospel to yourself out loud every day and try to find different creative ways to do it so that you get better at articulating it Sharing it, understanding it, and understanding what it's not. So that's what all this exercise uh is about and is all connected to the Todd Friel stuff and the critical race theory, quote unquote race theory. There's one human race. And so I don't like to use the language of the enemy and talk about, you know, there's racial discord and there's a race problem and as though there are multiple human races. There's one human race And so I have trained myself not to use the enemy's language. I'm not going to seed the ground. So they they say, Oh, you're a racist. There's no a racist. Yeah, I'm a racist. I'm I I I I believe in in the humanity, the human race. I'm all about that race. If that makes me a racist, then that's the that's the right kind of racist to be. So I'm not going to use their language, I refuse. So anyway, that's why I always do quote unquote So with all that said, does that spark any immediate response I need to address before we get into our discussion later? Alright, so I'm going to, even though it's not preaching from the Bible per se, I'm going to go stand up in the uh in our version of a pulpit. And uh and and treat this like a message to bring some formality back into what we're doing because we were very informal last week and we might be rather informal again next week, and I don't want to be informal too many weeks, super informal too many weeks in a row. So when I was very young, probably about five years old or so I would guess, I remember my grandmother, she had this big old, scary family bible. And she kept it hidden in a drawer of her China cabinet. Now I was very afraid of this Bible But I built up my nerve and I opened it. Now, of course, I was little, so I wasn't able to read and understand very much of what it said. at the time. But I do remember seeing on the first few pages somewhere the family history was written down. You know, things like uh births, marriages, deaths, things like that were recorded in the front part of the Bible. And to be honest, I believe that That's pretty much probably the only thing that that particular Bible has ever really been used for. Just a big, scary, dusty family record. Anyway, my grandmother, she found me reading this Bible when I took it out of her China cabinet, and when she found me, she yelled at me. She said the Bible was a very powerful, special book, and I should never touch it. Now looking back on this, I believe that this might be probably when I began to appreciate the might and the majesty. of God. I mean, if I couldn't even open this book about God, well then God Himself, he must be really pretty awesome. Now a few years later, I can remember my mother, she used to read to me at bedtime, she would read uh stories from a children's Bible. And as I recall, pretty much all these stories only focused on the Old Testament, primarily stories taken from the book of Genesis. And for the longest time, as a little kid, I thought that the Bible was nothing but a collection of these great old stories But this experience of having this children's Bible read to me, it did help to teach me that the Bible is to be read. And it is the truth. The people it talks about are real. They really existed. as historical figures in real time. Now my mother, she wasn't really much of a churchgoer herself at the time. And so she struggled to answer a lot of the questions I had as a little kid, and I think maybe that's probably why she started taking me to church every once in a while. And uh We went to a Roman Catholic church, which I'm not exactly sure why, because she wasn't raised Roman Catholic, but that's where we and we usually we'd go from time to time and we would uh try to find the services that had guitar music, lots of praise songs. you know, post-Vatican II when things were loosening up and uh you know were those were the kind of services that were much less threatening than those uh medieval gothic mass services that uh they used to frighten me as a little kid. And maybe maybe they even still do a little bit, I don't know. But God used this Roman Catholic experience to help me to understand that we are sinners And we should try to live moral lives. Now, going forward a few years, as a teenager, my family started attending the Worldwide Church of God. The leader of this church was a man named Herbert W. Armstrong. And he used to holler. He had a TV and radio ministry, and he used to holler for people to blow the dust off your Bibles. And I could relate to that as I recalled my grandmother's big old scary dusty family Bible. But unfortunately, this church, we come to find out later, had some pretty faulty ideas about a number of things. But it did teach me, through my process of dealing with them and what they were teaching, interacting with all that, I came to find that, you know, well the truth is in the Bible. And the Old Testament and the New Testament, they are intertwined and they support each other. And there is a great reward, eternal reward for believers in Jesus Christ, and it's Christ who made it all possible. However, this church, it was very works-based, very legalistic, had some other uh heretical issues. But God used even this experience to teach me that a person's faith should be taken seriously. And we should learn about what we believe and why we believe it. Because then we're better equipped. to teach it, to defend it. Now my early adulthood coming out of this uh basically Christian cult Uh I went through a bit of a disillusioned time and uh during this disillusioned time I I didn't trust any church. Yeah, I believed in the Bible, I believed in God, and I continued to read the Bible, at least in an on-again, off-again fashion. But In a sense, there's a w way in which you could say that I was kind of lost, kind of wandering through the wilderness a little bit spiritually. Because somehow it all just seemed to be about these rules, this legalistic religion, and not about faith And I wasn't uh wasn't certain at that time what I thought the truth was anymore. And even more profoundly, I wasn't sure that there was any church, at least any church with which I was familiar, that they knew the truth either. So this was a difficult spiritual time in my life. But from this period of time I learned there are no perfect churches, no perfect local congregations. They all have frailties, they all have weaknesses. But you know fellowship is important. Trying to be the Lone Ranger out on your own, that's not the way to go. And regular Bible study, that is very important. And you know, a particular denomination, a particular local gathering, they're not going to be perfect. I mean, in fact, they can't be perfect because, well All church bodies, they're made up of people who are struggling against sin. They're organized by people who wrestle with sin. They have earthly leaders who are still sinning, on occasion at least But it's the message of truth that's important. And the truth is in the Bible. And it is in the story of the person and the work of Jesus Christ. And that's what I found when our family started to attend a Dutch Reformed church in New Jersey at the recommendation of a dear family friend. And at the time I think we might have mostly attended because we wanted our children to go to church. A lot of young families are in that sort of scenario. You know, we we wanted to become part of our regular family life. But all these years later now, we attend and we're involved in leading a church because we yearn for it, not just to be a regular part of our life, but for it to be the central part. of our life. Our New Jersey church experience was provided the vehicle for calling my wife and my family to a uh a a more personal relationship with God, which then provided the vehicle, the context of pulling me into a a deeper, more personal relationship with God. And fast forward all these years, here we now are in Maryland And today I'm pastoring a small church that I believe is part of a much larger movement. And uh Dean and I, we we can we continue to grow, and we've grown through all sorts of uh Very dramatic trials and tribulations. And there have been times when our faith has been shaken. In uh rather dramatic, sometimes painful ways But we have grown through the power of the Holy Spirit as a result. And our marriage now it is stronger than I think either one of us At the beginning thought it would ever be. And we have children who are a thrill and a a blessing to our lives. And And we are learning day by day to communicate and to relate to God every week, every day, every moment Now I still have a long way to go. And I still, too often, I find myself losing sight of God. But he keeps calling me back whenever I begin to drift. He is faithful to his promises. And so here I am. Gathered online with fellow believers, surrounded here in close proximity with brothers and sisters in Christ, finding that I am part of One big beautiful Christian family, and we're all there for each other, and we all have a relationship with one another through Christ. We're in union with Christ and therefore we're in union one with another, and that is so true for my life and our lives right now. I can't put my finger on one single isolated instance that I can point to and say, you know what? That was the time of my conversion. That's when I got saved. When I was hit by some big epiphany. I sometimes call this having the big epiphanal moment. And I don't believe I have one of those. Unless maybe I were to count all the things that I've talked about so far as adding up to comprise the epiphanal moment or all being little micropiphanal moments that taken together uh give me that sort of conversion story to share. But regardless God has used all of the circumstances of my life to bring me to where I am now. He has used everything that I've just mentioned, and even more, to teach me the truth. The truth that God is and has been forever. And he wants us, those who he created in his image, to have a relationship with him. But because of our imperfection, our sinful nature. It isn't possible for us to do this on our own. And so God, He makes it possible for us through the price that was paid by His only begotten Son, Jesus Christ And because of this gift of grace, his people can and do have a relationship. with God Himself, which is all that really matters in the grand scheme of things. And of course, as a result of this wonderful relationship, the Holy Spirit convicts us to want to do things that please God, not because we have to, although we are commanded to repent and obey. But because we want to in our hearts, because God has given us a new heart. So may God continue his work at softening my heart. And may he continue to do the same thing in your life until one day at Christ's second coming, we will join him in heaven in glory. free from the shackles of our sinful nature, being beings with Christ in heaven, with our glorified bodies that are no longer even capable of sinning That's what awaits. And that is good news. If that's not where you are right now in your thinking and belief system, boy, I pray that God does the same thing for you that He has done for me. So I thank you for indulging me in listening to this expression of a personal testimony. I hope that what you really took from this wasn't my story, but the profundity of the gospel. So God bless you as we are about to enter into our discussion. Maybe we'll hear some other uh testimonies. Let me pray. Father, we praise you and thank you that you've had a plan from before the beginning of time. A plan to rescue your people from the consequences of their sin. And to do so in an astounding way by sacrificing your own begotten son to pay the dramatic and heart-wrenching price that's due to us. We praise you and thank you that by the power of your Holy Spirit, that we as your people have come to recognize this truth and to apply this truth to our lives. We ask that you will forgive us for not more consistently sharing this glorious good news with those around us And be more conscientious about living our lives in a way that would express this good news in practice. We ask you to guide and and direct and use this discussion we're about to enter on and I'm boy, I'm so excited to hear what other sorts of of testimonies you might have will help us to understand your good news. The good news of Jesus Christ and the advance of his kingdom. In his name we pray. Amen. So That's my story or a version of my story. If you heard the sermon I preached a number of months ago that was uh another version of my story, although it was really kind of Tyler's testimony. That's another way to share the gospel through life happenings, how there's miraculous healing and all of that. So there are different ways. You have a way, a story in your life that you know, some connection, maybe something I shared at third of thought like, ooh, I remember this one when I was a kid, a teenager, last week. Saturday. Our story is I guess lengthier, or not lengthier, but Hello? Hello Yeah, I can't say that I was super all that curious as a little kid. Maybe I in Intrinsically new things like Noah and Forty Days of Flood and stuff like that. But for the most part I didn't start going to church until I was around ten years old. So sometimes around ten years old I'll go in the shirt. And increasingly that became more of a serious family. So my fa my parents wanted to get us involved in the church and increasingly they got more and more involved And I think I would have been around twelve or thirteen because I don't actually know. Which is great. But that's when there you know, your stereotypical Southern Baptist Vacation Bible school or vacation Bible week, whatever they call it. And you know, it's kinda like the pastors The le the senior pastors appeal to the kids, you know. And the appeal was that, you know, even Satan understands that Jesus Christ rose from the dead But he's not saved. The mere acknowledgement of the chain of events in Scripture as truth is not what saves people. And that you use use the word epiphanal moment. That was the epiphanal moment for me. Because up until that point I I think it was how Jesus describes your accepting faith like a little child. Oh, when he talks about that, like you're accepting it. And blessed are those who accept faith like that. And that's kind of where I was, but that was the epiphanal moment. that this is not just acknowledging something this is not just an intellectual exercise learning experience. This isn't school, this is something realer than that. And then I guess afterwards, you know, I was increasingly also going more becoming more involved with church and stuff like that. that so it became a very serious part of my life. And one thing that's very true about me and my wife is certainly a Like I don't really have middle ground on how devoted I can be to something. No. So I need to like I can either be all in for Jesus or not at all. And You know, certainly the whole after graduating high school part of my life, there was a lot of an increasing amount of dormancy. And you know, certainly when certainly uh getting married and stuff like that renewed a sense of I need to be the spiritual head in the household and I've just started taking everything a lot more seriously than I was a few years prior to that. And so basically going back to the all-or-nothing, and I'm pretty much all in, and that's where I intend to stay. That's pretty much where I am in my faith. And over the last two years a lot of that's involved my writing skills because I can write rather well, I like to think. So that's been a serious part of how I use spiritual gifts that I have uh to teach, to discern, to uh um help believers be equipped with knowledge and stuff like that. Uh lately that's turned in that's also been paired with more of a video component, but for the most part that's I believe what my primary skills in the church for the edification of the church are, and that's kind of what I'm intending to maximize. So that's kind of leads me up to uh I guess for the fact that now uh again being the spiritual head of a household means that now I have to look over and to some degree play a shepherding role for my own house. And And I guess right now it's like safeguarding and trying to create safeguards to protect Nadia. And uh number two. Uh creating it so that's re raised. Number one and number two. Yeah. And basically create an environment where they can be raised to be taught the ways of the Lord rather than to lose them to society early on. But I'm also not the type to shelter or really censor anything. So I think you know, the idea is that they need to be equipped. And And we're increasingly in a Babylonian culture, so there's not exactly an acclamation period for this equipping. That's kind of where I I feel about raising children now. Like there's not really an acclamation period culture or acclamation period to how because you know they want to go after children as young as when they're able to understand and comprehend a teacher TV show so which I guess Nadia is because she loves TV and movies. She loves watching them with you. Oh she likes the movies too. So I I see that as part of my mission as well, to like safeguard her. You talked about that moment when you're like twelve, thirteen and you realize it's not just about the intellectual acknowledgement of the the brute historical facts. But it's something different or more than that. So as you're thinking about what you want to train up Nadia in What is it that was either missing or added to that should have been removed from your understanding when you were el 11 or 12? that was then either there or what shouldn't have been there was taken away by the time you were thirteen or fourteen that you want to help Nadia to understand that hey it's not just enough that you know the Bible stories but you need to understand this too. What is that this too far, do you think Uh the this too is that Jesus needs to be Lord of your life. That's the this too. That's the that was the missing part that I didn't understand, didn't fully understand. And once I understood that, you know, then you go down like the whole getting baptized later on and stuff like that. That process started but you in that whole stereotypical vacation bible school experience they gave out those little cards right there's like check the box if you And the th uh I don't know what the options were. It was kinda like there's the yes, I totally agree with this. And I'm sure most people probably said that whether they There's a little social pressure there to give the right answer. And I'm not I and I just couldn't lie about it. There was something on my mind that wasn't Quite true that it didn't feel like I understood. So I didn't want to lie on the little postcard thing, but apparently they tracked me down like I didn't But you know, I would end up having a conversation with a pastor and like my sister my siblings were around like My sith my older sister and my brother were at the same place in their own faith journeys at the same time as well. Interesting. We are in the exact same basically the exact same place at the exact same time. Right. That's really interesting. So we were all baptized on the same occasion, which is And if I recall, I believe it was Act sixteen that was read at the occasion. It's interesting to me that you remember that. I remember my baptism, but I don't remember the exact counter. I can read the passage, yeah. Why not you? So uh we okay with the actual word of God being read? Are we alright then? So uh Acts sixteen, thirty-one through forty 31 or 40. 31 through 40. They said Okay, so this is the uh jailer, so let me back up a little bit. Uh when the jailer awoke and saw the prison doors open, he drew a sword and was about to kill himself, supposedly Supposing that the prisoners had escaped, the Paul cried out with a loud voice, saying, Do not harm yourself, for we are all here. And he called for lights and rushed in And trembling with fear he fell down before Paul and Silas, and after he brought them out, he said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? They said, believe In the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household. And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and together with all who were in his house, and he took them that very hour of the night and washed their wounds, and immediately he was baptized, he and all his household, and he brought them into his house and set foot and set food before them and rejoiced greatly having believed in God with his whole household. Okay, I think that's all I need to read. That specific part where he was baptized as a household we I believe they made reference to that when three siblings are being baptized at the same time. Mm. And that's that's uh since you go to Southern Baptist Church? 'Cause that's like a classic Presbyterian favorite pastor. Not exactly a proof experience from Baptism, but I understand what they're getting. Acts two as well, what must we do to be saved? Repent and be baptized for you and your household, something like that. Yeah, I'm not a I mean there are some times I guess when I make accession, I'm not a big Proof touch kind of guy, I'm a big meta narrative biblical. The whole of scripture, what does the whole scripture inform us to believe on these things things and uh you know the Presbyterians have that sort of passage in their arsenal as part of building their narrative anyway they it's it's commonly referred to by Presbyterians. That's why I thought it was interesting to sort of Baptist church use. Well. So anyway. What about you, Annie? Uh it's funny to share especially because I mean, I I don't remember a time when my family was wasn't in a church. I say a church because my dad was military, so it was not for very long the same church on any given occasion. Um but I don't really remember a time when We weren't. They they were a part of the church before they got married, you know, and before I was born. They'll be like, I changed your diaper. Cool, who are you? Um But uh was saved pretty young too, but it's interesting because my family kind of approached it in almost the opposite way that raised it. Um you know your your moment of, you know, oh it's not just believing, but having, you know, Christ be of your life and um and everything like that. I kind of I don't want to say learn things the opposite way because that Sounds weird. But like that's what my family focused on. So I grew up knowing a lot less of the action of of like actual material or like Um I mean you know we still read the Bible and and stuff like that, especially if you're in Iwana, then you memorize a lot. Um but yeah Uh my family was very focused on regardless of how much you do and don't know, continue learning more but always make sure that Christ is at the center. of your life and what you're doing and where you're going. So um in that regard that was taught to me very young. I don't even remember exactly when. Um Because it was just pretty much always a part of what I understood about Christianity in general. And um so uh I wouldn't say that there were a whole ton of of big events. Um you know, baptism, things like that. Um But uh I think one of the things was simply watching I had very good role models in my parents. Um One and that they were very clear that, you know uh you know, yes, learn what the Bible says, it's important. It's uh, you know, guidebook for life. and everything, but always make sure that Christ is the key you're following you're centering everything. Um And uh um but just watching my parents actually live. You know, I could watch my parents you know You know, like if I ever got either I got up early and I just see my mom sitting in her chair with her Bible and her coffee in the morning. You know. Um My dad would talk would talk to me about things that and for him this is huge because he he's one of those people I love him dearly, he's gotten way better. But he's one of those people that tend to be very I am right and we're doing things my way. Which to your child is usually fine. But um you know, not one to admit I made I messed up, I made a mistake, I wasn't right. you know, I shouldn't have treated so and so that way, whatever. But I remember him telling me stories of times when he would just be on his knees praying Knowing that i he you know what he was doing, the decisions he was making, if he you know, make because he was making the motivation his own accord weren't leading to where he wanted to be and where he needed to be. Um and to see my dad do that, like knowing who he was and knowing how strong he was and is that he would put that much reverence on God and on Christ was for me really um influential. Um so um I I I guess that's just kind of like how it shaped me as far as like I don't think that I was particularly shaped by any church or event as much as just watching the difference between you know, my parents versus other kids' parents say. I mean in the military you see a lot of Well let's just say not ideal parenting. Sometimes just not paying parenting. You know, I I saw a lot of broken families over a ton You know, a lot of deployed men and women cheating. Um, and That didn't happen to my parents. They struggled a lot, you know, dad's gone half the time. Yeah, that's gonna that's gonna be a problem. But um It was just and they always credit it to, you know, um well, we're putting our faith in Christ. And what God says in the Bible. You know, we're not putting it on a we're strong to get through this. We'll just because the other military couples failed we'll you know, we'll succeed. Um I just kind of I that that's just I just I realized very early on that that's what I wanted my life to be be like. You know, I wanted to know that even like horrible things happen or things are really tough. Um Um you know, my there's obviously something that can keep you going and can give meaning to life even when you think that there isn't any. Um, did you ever have a moment where you sensed the fear of Lord or the converse, the joy the um the uh like smiling down of the Lord of con Kind of. Um Maybe a different way to think about the question because I have a ver I think it's the same question from a different using different language. I noticed in both Ray's uh you know, story about his You know, his walk with the Lord and and the story. You s you both had something very interesting in common. You both uh highlighted the Lordship aspect of Christ. And you know, you hear that all the time about Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. And it's interesting because in today's culture, more often what you hear is talk about Jesus as Savior. Right. And they forget the lordship aspect. And you guys have really emphasized the lordship aspect which is really countercultural, but neither one of you have really hit upon the savior aspect, the joy inducing aspects of the good news. So I is that what you're kind of getting at? Yeah, like you had that moment. That actually happened and the reason is because it actually happened when I was five. Oh wow. And it was my twin brother uh in the backseat of our many van driven poultry church one day. He apparently had understood I guess better than I did or whatever what you know Sunday school teaching or It's also very possible that my dad had talked to him some. Right. Um, I don't know. But he explained, I don't I so long ago, I don't remember if I asked him a question. Or if he tried if he was just like, hey, let me try out the whole evangelical thing. Just targeted a couple. I don't know. Um but um it's not about her own. Oh boy. Um and so I he explained Explained it to me in a way that I understood and a way that made sense. And a way that made Christ feel like an actual being. to me instead of a history story. I I enjoy the stories. Sure. I believe that they happened. But it became more of a real It's it's a person. Right. I I believe it and I can trust it and it's safe. It's not just old stories like I can Right. You know, um apparently my brother didn't realize or didn't remember this until I told him uh a couple of years ago and he's like, Wait, what? I did that? Yeah. Um things. Uh so yeah, and that's why when I talk about my story I tend not to just because I was five, sure and not that that doesn't that makes it not wrong real or not a thing, but if I'm gonna talk about how it's affecting my whole life right that that was a relatively small Um, it's for me the joy of the Lord tends to be more day to day, you know. The promises of um The fact that his love and grace can save everything. Um you know one I don't remember what Yeah. Um the fact that it I don't say it's okay but you know, the you know, come home. It it and and that applies to anyone who's willing to do so. Right. Um one of my favorite I was at a conventional gathering for women. I think it's called It. Anyways, um they asked That was a scary movie, I don't know. Yeah, no. Um it's been going on for longer than the um Yeah, yeah, no. I never even thought that would be like having that mirror. But um they asked what is your favorite promise from the Bible? And um I don't remember what m um other people were saying. A lot of them were the were the were the typical, you know, ask and you shall receive you know um What do you mean, pray? You know, the Lord hears you, stuff like that. And the one that's always been my favorite is um I don't remember the the exact verse, but the that others will come to know Christ by how we love. Um because to me that was to me that was and is such a clear picture of what Christ's heart is for, for the you know, saving us fallen humans and that relationship. That's what he wants for stored is the relationship. Um and yes obviously there's d there's judgment in all of that kind of stuff But um just knowing especially 'cause I have so many friends who are just aren't just not Christian but think Christianity's awful. abuse of relig religious backgrounds rather than actual Christian faith background. Really sad actually. Um but I love that passage just because you know oftentimes I feel like there's not a lot I can do as far as, you know, like I'm not put out to be a pastor or a missionary pastor, you know, who goes, I'm I'm I'm not gonna be the one that talks to ton of people. Um but I'm okay with that because there are other ways. I've always, you know, been the one to I guess I would call it reaching out to the people who've kind of like gone under the radar. Right. You know, um the one who still doesn't believe after a moving sermon, you know, the one who uh is still too hurt to even consider thinking about it. Um, you know So knowing that others can see the truth and the light of Christ by how I love both my fellow Christians and non-Christians. Um it was very um It it it's very meaningful to me and that that's what I tend to focus on. So and I'll be one of the first to admit that I don't have nearly as much revival read and memorized as I probably should. Um that that that has al always been a struggle for me. But Um so I I guess that brings me more of like a daily joy than like a momentous um just bec knowing that there's a way that I can live my life. That might help those that are kingdom. Mm-hmm. Yeah, and and I I don't necessarily have to be the one you know, like again, my husband can write very well and I mean I'm a good writer but not necessarily as a teaching, you know. Um but I don't have to be. And I can just live what my parents lived. Which was just showing. And caring for those who I hope you don't want that back to now become her snot. Maybe I'm gonna have a gwash. I do have tissues now. So that that's I think um it's funny 'cause it does share a core element of rays, but it it manifests and shows itself in in very different aspects. Okay. I just want to make sure that I was not being negligent in in doing that. Um You haven't been here the last couple of weeks, but are you comfortable sharing some aspect or version of your walk with Christ? Yeah. What is what is the condition of man? Is that a question? Yes. Is it rhetorical? Like you setting yourself up for your response to that? Or is it set up for a or is there a punchline? Yeah. And that's what I'm saying. Like you end in like our sensation. We When we think about the gospel, obviously that's one of the the the main the main points of the gospel is that our condition is sin. I mean the only way to get to heaven is Christ. But we we really I think we take that for granted. And and because that really is what it is is is is sin. The reason the world is the way it is, the reason uh for everything Good good no. Yeah, I wanna I'm gonna be careful with how I word this so they could sound roll. Um A lot of things are the result of sin. Then that doesn't mean all of the things are the result of sin are inherently sinful. Uh because otherwise everything we make would be I'm sorry, I'm trying to figure out where I'm I I had a location that I was trying to get to with this. I'm not very good at organizing in between Uh point A and point B. But we forget. I don't know how to put it. I have it I know what I want to say. Just kind of it. Is it something you can cut to the Chase on SharePoint based on the other thing? Everybody's everybody ELORT. Totally depraved. And and and the problem that I wrote into and it always brings me back. is that I know I'm I'm part of that. I know I'm the sinner. And I know that I have an evil heart. And I and unfortunately been around enough evil people evil evil people to think about it a lot. Uh and and kind of realize even in the people that I love the most and hold the dearest, including myself. What what uh is that uh is is that evil in our in in our hearts and you know, I think a certain way and everybody else thinks very similarly. Everybody a lot of people would have a similar reaction to uh certain things. And when and it it's hard to not see in um There are obviously there are things we can look at people and go, uh my gosh, you're crazy, you know. That was never the case. Um but a lot of other times we resort to saying things like that because we know that we ourselves would do that very I'm gonna get to point B and then I'll try to fill in the gaps. Regardless of where you are in your life and regardless of Yeah, thank me. Regardless of your walk with Christ While God has given you a heart of flesh, your heart of stone is under that heart of flesh. And will always be under that heart of flesh until you go to be with him. And so We can't go anywhere We can't go anywhere. Uh because of that, because of that um we're I mean really what it is what we've done is we've we've tried to reverse the um The results of the fall and and have a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit Counce Yeah, we we like to try to save our yeah, save ourselves. Try to reverse the effects of the ball. Fight some of our own. Which is which isn't inherent I I mean I don't see how that's inherently bad. We're trying to make better what we screwed up. But we go beyond that sometimes That's a whole nother rant, sorry. Go down a rabbit hole. I've already gone down a few. But uh yeah. state of man and myself as I am a man uh i is is is a beautiful thing And because they they point to to something much greater than ourselves. And so when I I guess my kind of testimony thing there is is I see I see that evil a lot in myself and everyone else around me. And and it it's humbling. Because it points back to Christ and what Christ did for us. Uh when we kind of spit and words back out, but you really gotta grasp. There's a r there's a reason these words are said. Unfortunately there's they're said a lot and people don't grasp them is is uh we are not deserving of it and we take and that that's what I was kinda saying at the beginning is we take We take that idea that yeah we're sinners and Jesus died for us and completely missed. It's like flip. It's more of a back. Of course that is. Of course that's the way it is. Yeah. But forgetting the actual personal sin part that like No, seriously, you're screwed up. Yeah, and that's what and that's that's what hits me every time I see that evil is oh Yeah, this is where we are and and speak of Christ and and wow. He did that for for us Are you able to have moments of joy where you're able to see the sanctification process working out? It is well i in a sense it is joy. not at all. Because uh the only thing I can do is pray for you. And that sucks. It sucks that that That's the only thing you can do for that person. But it's really not about what you can do. Because you you're right there with 'em. We don't save. Yeah. We we can't. Um so that kinda it it makes it bring and then you get that hit of joy where it's like but that's why Christ died and you know unfortun obviously it's sad when you People won't see that uh people won't see that trace eye for that. Uh but you know. Knowing that that's their like the evil Rangers is is Absolutely. We're living at a point where everyone is in a state of psychosis. One, we've caused it and we don't want to say we're wrong And and two, it really it really is bad. It's really, really bad. It's really Yeah. But there it but that joy in Right. The fact that despite all of that because it's it's really bad. And and I don't uh you can't say it enough. Like it r there is no really with enough L's to explain how bad and that's it. The worse the situation, the better the miracle. Almost as far as like a big thing. Well I don't know if you can measure it that way. I don't know if you can measure it that way though. Well not as a measurement, yeah, but Yeah. I kinda set my point already. I'm just gonna have a bunch of rad holes and we don't have a lot of time. But uh And I know I sound real cynical and oh the world sucks. But that's that's kinda that's that's how it is. It's how it's how it is. People just don't focus on that. Well I think that but but that's the beauty of what's going on here is that we're all able to relate to different aspects of the gospel. It's there's one gospel and how Ray and Annie and you all articulate it is going to be different. But that's such an amaz Amazing. That's that's how beautiful um God is in the sense that he'll use you to speak to someone specifically that I would have no impact with. Because how you have been drawn to him, how he's drawn you to himself is different about than how he's I you to himself. And so That's the beauty of the burden not being on us to save anyone. Right. But what the such joy in that and such blessing in that. All we have to do is be careful too, because I've all I've often found like myself in that situation that I was just explaining where it's like, oh that sucks, but oh there's Christ. Before you reach those two points, you're you're in a place where you're very susceptible to becoming Really judgmental. And uh and I know because I I've been there and thought some pretty horrible things about some so horrible people. Not in the sense that they aren't horrible, but since that they're not as horrible as I was making the message. Yes, but it's a little bit more than a lot of things. Because that it's a reflection of ourselves in a way. Well sure, the whole thing take the the plank of your own eye so you can see the speck in there. Well and it's not saying we shouldn't, you know, call out sin when we see it because we're not going to be able to do that. Exactly. Um but it's we shouldn't It's to restore as opposed to condemn. It's not to make us feel better then. Right. And that's what that's what I mean w is when I say you know, you get that moment of judgment where it's like I'm so glad I'm not like exactly. And then you're like, oh wait, rat. Yeah. Then the Holy Spirit said literally me But yeah. The magnitude of the problem is tends to be what you're framing uh the kind of the truth of the gospel around, identifying look, there's this huge, evil, horrible problem. And you're talking about like the heart of stone and the heart of flesh. And um, you know, I I think you're talking about like there's there's still a battle. We still have a fallen human nature that is still being sanctified. So we're wrestling against sin. I think that's what you're talking about there. And yet because we know the truth and we're increasingly being sanctified and hopefully coming out of our own mire and the morass of our mass, there's some M words for you Um that we then can get a bit of a self-righteousness, almost like the Pharisees. Well I'm glad I'm not like that person, and then you're saying, No, but I actually am And you know, some of us we've had different life experiences, so you're you're framing the center of your focus on trying to understand and And explain what the gospel is is to start with, you don't even understand how evil things are in the world and how evil the human heart is. Because some of us have lived a life where we've seen more profound evil that drives that home for us and others have had a more charmed existence. In in a normal way of kind of growing up and and viewing the world, it's you know, you're you're kinda trapped under the idea that Uh people are gen generally good. You know, there are bad things you're not supposed to do this and you think okay well if your mama and dad uh taught you right uh then you're not gonna do evil things. Yeah, so you learn bad instead of learning Right. When in reality you're already you're already in the bad. You already are the bad and you're already doing the bad. Sorry, it came out human, you're you're kind of and and so we focus So I'm more of so this person's a bad guy and this person's a good guy rather than and saying, you know, it it it it really is it sets you up for a holier than thou. perspective, worldview. You grow up thinking, oh yeah, I'm good. I'm not like you know the people in jail, so I shouldn't have I shouldn't have no questions. Yeah, I shouldn't have I'm not critical Why shouldn't have to question my morality. But in reality, your morality is not God's morality and you're going to fall. Yeah. Whatever goodness we do have is because of God's grace. And God's grace a little. Our good enough isn't perfect in the world. And there's different it's not good at all. Sorry. Yeah Yeah. And and those are the kinds of analogies like if you somebody give you a glass of water after they spit in it, would you drink it? And that kinda misses the point because it's basically if somebody handed you a glass filled with nothing but spit, would you drink it? Because that's really our condition until God moves, right? The evilness of our heart it So there's saving grace and there's common grace. So even those who aren't saved, you know, uh they're not trusting in Jesus Christ for their salvation, they're not living lives as bad as they could because of God's home in grace. uh common grace is sustaining them because if he removed his hand of sustaining common grace, we would all kill each other in a microsecond. Yeah, the human humanity would be over in the blink of an eye. And so because of that though, because of God's common grace, we look at people and they're not living lives as evil as they could, as evil as the proclivities of their own heart would actually have them do if it weren't for God, restraining their evilness And so we start to look at our neighbors around us and say, well, they're pretty good people. And that gives rise to questions like, well, why do bad, horrible things happen to good people? And it's the wrong question because there are no good people. Landon. We're all bad people. And yeah, Landon's s majoring on that point. Do you even understand the magnitude of the problem? So the better question is why do any good things happen to such evil, wretched people such as ourselves? Right, exactly. Yeah, but that's not the question we ask. And then the saving thing, that's really profoundly important for what's still happening in our world. It's not just America. It's at least Western Western civilization and it might just be global civilization right now. The idea of saving ourselves and saving others So absent of dependence on God and the work and person of Jesus Christ, we try to build systems, institutions, government programs, whatever. to be the solution. Because we can we can solve it ourselves. And to your point, sometimes the motivation might even feel right, but it's so wrong headed it's going to end in failure. And so well and not all the time. Ultimately It may end in failure, but if we look at the things going on now we see that sh obviously there's this time before that failure. And even those successes are because God is is Allowing is i is allowing their meager efforts to have way more success than they deserve. Alright, go ahead. Well and some truly good stuff does happen because God has given people gifts and help everything but peacefully the good that we see for his glory. You know, he's like I I want you guys to live a to to live the abundant life. Right, exactly. So he you know, here's my grace, here's things that will help you. Here's a playbook. Here's the playbook, here's how you can you know You know follow this follow me, follow this and there will be some joy in your life. You know, you will have yeah, you're still evil. That's not gonna fit that's not gonna change and until until everything is finished. Completely. You know, still the end. But there can still be good in your life. Yeah, this is what happens. Not even to share her testimony. Her testimony is that we were telling our testimony and not talking to her And I hope you guys will take this in the context and the spirit of what we're talking about, because this is true for all of us, because Nadia is now two and there's all about the terrible twos. Well well and so again I'm not picking uh I'm using this as a represent all of us when we were two. Did we learn to have behavior where the mother would say, My child is being selfish? Mm-hmm. Right? Did you guys train her up to be selfish? It's just an expression of her in a human nature. Interestingly enough, I have a good a decent amount of background in child development and stuff like that. And it actually their brains are not capable of understanding other things. This is when they start to learn If I if I remember and understand what I was being told in her own you know, is that It it's it's not even necessarily a kind of selfish thing, right? Yeah, yeah. They literally don't understand. So like show it someone not because she desires to hurt. But because my my point of view is the only one and it I'm not hurting me, therefore there's no way you can be hurt. it does seek to ascend nature because uh I mean that's literally how the the the the the way that the way that the the secular psychologists explain things is they tend to go straight to the physical and say, Well the brain hasn't developed enough So when which which is which is which is literally true, but the Bible says that by the time Jesus was old enough to eat curds and white, he knew enough to refuse eating evil. And choose that and I don't think it's because necessarily he had a more developed brain. I think it's just because he had a pure spirit. Right. Right. Yeah. You know, and so if if we had a pure spirit, it wouldn't matter how developed our brain was our our spirit man would be clean, our heart our spirit our spiritual hearts would be clean and we would be operating out of a pure being. Right. I think that's the what that's what Jesus did. He just operated out of a pure being. It really is breaking off of instinct in all But his instinct was to do good. Right. Because his his his Spirit was pure. His heart was pure. He was human, but he was pure because his spirit was pure. His heart was pure. He had a sinless human nature. Exactly. He didn't have a sense of human nature and so um spiritually we understand that it's fundamentally a spiritual problem. That's how we Exactly. That's how Adam was created to be. He was in a sense a child. I mean he had never experienced anything before, right? So at at least in that way he was a child and um um but he ne he he didn't until he deliberately disobeyed God, he ne I don't think he ever had a a a a bad thought or a bad yes, but they didn't realize they were Exactly, exactly. They didn't have shame. Exactly. And this is one of the major worldview divides between Between a biblical Christian worldview and the pagan worldview that's you know that takes various forms. And it ties to what Landon was talking about, how we try to we try to save ourselves, we try to save others through government institutions. programs or what have you. And and why do they think they can do that? Because the pagan worldview is what Landon said, they think that people are inherently good and all we need is a better program and they'll be saved. Yeah. Not acknowledging the fact that we are broken fallen, horribly malicious. Right. Exactly. We we didn't have or we haven't tried it enough. Right. Yeah, we haven't gone far enough yet. Exactly. We haven't evolved Right. Yes. In a in in a not good way. Right. Other than that, man. And that's that's why what's It's been seeping into the church with all of this cultural Marxist stuff. It's pagan ideology that's undercutting it's it's not cutting off the uh the faith at the knees I mean it is doing that, but it's not merely doing it. It's cutting off the uh the face the knees plus putting a kill shot to the head and sh shoving a javelin through the heart. Like it's it's attacking the whole structure of what the Christian faith is. You know, like, oh it's medicine. everything. It is a cancel. That's a really bad analogy. It kill it kills everything indiscriminately. Everything is a very important thing. And we're hoping that we're not a we're hoping that the world is not a cases where it kills the cancer before it kills fuck. Exactly. But but this but the you know the cool cure actually destroys everything like Angela says We doesn't even discriminate. It just kills everything. And that's why we need to identify those false features and zap them with radiation to get them that out of there. I would be on guard against even people that have been trustworthy for so long, like Todd Friel who I mentioned at the beginning of our time together, how I still feel like he's probably solid and hopefully somebody will get to him and say, Todd are you sure what you're saying? And I'll and so we'll wrap up here. I'll say this. part yes. When I've when I've had discussion with uh with people, sometimes professing believers and they talk about the inherent goodness of of mankind and they'll center on well we're made in God's image. But that's Genesis chapters one and two. Exactly. You gotta remember Genesis chapter three. Exactly. So we're made in God's image until we get work. Exactly. So we are like computers that are are worth a million dollars because there's a virus in that thing Yeah. You don't want to just burn the whole computer 'cause there's work there. I mean it's got gold and it's got platinum in it. There's work there. So if you don't if you don't believe that 'cause they talk about innocent children and they're b they're born innocent. If you don't if you believe that, then I uh when I've had these discussions with people, so you really believe that? That they're interstate in the process, yeah. You know what? Why don't we wait a few years and tell me if you still agree It depends on the innocent I think. You mean innocent in the sense that they are not yet cognizant enough to knowingly choose evil I mean I I I don't think an infant is capable of knowingly choosing evil because that would No, it's just anything. They're innocent in the sense that they haven't com uh uh overtly committed a crime. Right. They they have they that that's how we're innocent. We haven't overtly committed Well actually at this point most of us don't arrest us a type of jail when we haven't overtly committed. They are not sinless, right. They are innocent in the sense of the legally. world and God. God knows your heart. Right. The the world just because the world doesn't find out that Doesn't mean that you're without we are all we are born sinners. Right. And if you want if you want proof of that, just wait a while and we'll prove just how much Sinners we are. And we can say that with confidence. We've we've got a sinner in your belly right now. We can say that with confidence because God's word tells us that we're conceived in sin. Absolutely. Absolutely. Amen. Which is why it's so heinous to the case. And so we've got a child in your womb that right now is in desperate need of rescue. And so we gotta impress upon you have such great worth and value and I want to see you be rescued. So let me share with you how you're rescued, the truth of who Jesus is and what he's done. Well I think that that's one of the important rules of a parent is well, parent Mm-hmm. Is that because you know, obviously this one can't, but even Nadi I heard she's starting to understand some things. I I don't think I can confidently say she can understand what Christ did for her. No. The the concept. So it's not like no then one of one of the things. School circle. Uh-huh. And we're back to we're back to Ray's testimony. But she can't even baseline understand it, okay? This is actually where the reform people have a helpful doctrine, the doctrine of total depravity. The idea that and but what that means isn't that every person is as evil as they could possibly be. They're totally depraved and evil and They would be if God didn't sustain them, that's true. But God does sustain them, so not everybody's Hitler, not everybody's Stalin, not everybody's Maui, like every you know, not everybody's Jeffrey Dahmer. There you know, there are different ways that the evil expresses. So that so total depravity means that doesn't mean that you're totally as depraved as you shouldn't be. But what it means is every aspect of who you are is marred. So your intellect is marred, and as you develop your intellect, you demonstrate just how true that is. But every other aspect of who we are is also marred. And that's why from the moment of conception We are broken in sin and in need of a redeemer. So it's not like somebody's going to become a sinner. We're conceived as sinner. Right, right. It's not like you reach the point where you know You hurt your mom over us being, well guess now you're a sinner. Right. You know, but and I but what I was saying about the parents is that when the child because Uh as horrible and sad as it is, not everybody lives to be old enough to make that decision for themselves. You know, say, you know you know, the infants that die, the unborn infants that die. Um I believe they go to heaven. Right. Okay. Sinners though they may be inherently I I think that that's one of the places where the grace that God has. Well the Bible the Bible demonstrates then the story of David, whose whose baby was you know right conceived in adultery and the baby died and and and he and he he said to his his his staff, um he he's not with me but I'm willing to go and be with him. Right. He wasn't speaking of hell, you know. He wasn't speaking so so it it's again it's it's a legal innocence. Right. It's a technical innocence. It has more to do with the fact that the Holy Spirit, you know, God chooses who's saved and who's not and can regenerate someone in the womb, just as John the Baptist would be the most famous example. Right. He left for joy inside the womb in the presence of Christ. You were born into sin but it's not legally yours yet. It's kinda like it's kinda like i i i if you put this if you put this if you may not be an an example before the law of the land Mm-hmm. She does certain things at this age or at ten. Mm-hmm. Legally, you're responsible. Right. She isn't. Right. It's it's that same dynamic. She she's not yet accountable. Even though what she technically did in in that case in that in that that example would technically technically be against the law. She's not legally accountable for it. I believe we have that grace with God until we be get to the point where we can become um account now now where is that point? I would actually disagree with the point of the age of accountability because I I just think it God calls us regeneration, therefore it's not about whether it's you're old enough to understand your own sin. It's about whether God saved you prior to you being killed in the first place. So I don't think it really like the age of accountability thing I just think think is too logically flawed. Well I mean you can't put your button because that's the thing. Just to add like another nuance, like I know Wayne Groom argues that God make no promises to save the un the to save the children who of unbelievers. Because all the instances like David in the Bible, you know, believer. And like So I know that we can have confidence in a believer's child if a tragic event like that were to happen. Does that extend to completely pagan Does that extend to the pagans as well? But see, I don't think being born to a pagan, first of all, is your fault. And like I realize that your fault is I was just bringing up an argument that I read that technically is founded in Scripture because there are no examples It doesn't. If there is no age of accountability Even if we can't put a finger on it. If if if if if if that doesn't exist at all, then um why are we ever responsible for what we do? Because if God has j if God is a good thing. We all have to get to the point where we can do it. So if only some babies are saved because God chose them in advance, why do adults have to Exactly. Why does God have to favor his babies in the first place? It's this is an act of mercy and grace. Why does God have to save us in the first place? Well, you're kind of asking why doesn't God save even more people. No, no, that's not that's not exactly what I'm saying. What I'm saying is what I'm saying is if we have to get to the point where we can read the Repent where we can confess our sin and we can believe with our heart. You know, like the Bible says in Romans uh I forget that it says be addressed. Then we have to make a choice. We're making a choice and we can only make a choice if we know that we're guilty. We're capable of making a choice. Exactly. But if you don't even know it In the interest of time, because I can see on my um uh recording device. No no that my bat my low battery we're gonna cut out here for such in a moment and we're like at an hour and a half, so maybe we should Let's say some more thoughts. This was a really good discussion. Maybe we can try to capture some of the magic and bring it up again next week. I do want to say because we were talking about something related to this, Dangela and I were earlier today. So to put kind of a finishing touch on this before the battery completely dies. God knows those who are his. And we're talking about the context of a funeral. And so often you hear in a funeral where it's just it's rote now for for preachers to get up there and talk about they're in a better place, they're in heaven now, they're one of They're saying things like h horrible things like God got his newest angel in heaven, which is really bad theology. But anyway. There's there's this presumption there's a presumption that they're dead, therefore they're with God. We can't presume any of that. Even somebody who like Billy Graham We can't know for sure, we can't know for sure that Billy Graham is saved. Now we can see the fruit when we have reason to suspect that he probably is. But we use Joshua Harris as an example. Joshua Harris, three years ago, if he had been hit by a Mac truck, we would have said, Oh, Joshua Harris, he's probably in heaven. But now Joshua Harris two years ago publicly renounced the faith and said he deconstructed his faith and rejects everything about Christ. So He was a high profile uh pastor, wrote some best selling books that the that evangelical circles were buying up. He had the the dating stuff. So he was perceived as like he's the real deal and if he had died three years ago we would have under the impression that he's the real deal, but he's proven now that he never was the real deal. Well if he had died three years ago, he would have finished a race And persevered through it in theory. We would have had in theory. Exactly. In theory, but we can't know. Only God knows for sure those that are his. situation like Robbie Zacharias where you know God made known what whether or not he was made known his deeds. Even after his death, like when he died, everyone assumed that this guy was saved and then God made known that this guy was a serial w whoremonger Right. Up until the day he died almost. Right. Well, but he could have repented on his deathbed though. Right. So one of the things that you're doing. Like God's like he did, then he found the cross. Okay, look at No, no. That that's a little different. That guy knew he was guilty than everyone else and was never pretending at any point to be a good human being probably in his entire life. But Robbie Zacharias was this is closer to like Belchar and Master. I want to quickly save this one. So my sister-in-law and mother-in-law are watching, which is a miracle in and of itself and a huge testimony to the Lord. Um not everybody knows this, but my mother-in-law, both of them Oh great, we just got our video banned. So in any event, um so my mother in law was feeling very vulnerable at one hearing and uh was was saying things like, you know, when I it you know, anyway. So I encouraged my sister-in-law to go in and and she And they prayed and I and I joined along and prayed and I just have to say that praise Jesus Jesus there is victory at the cross. There is victory over sin and death. And if it's not your time, you need to to To to call out the spirit of death and tell it to leave. Because it is after believers. I'm just telling you right now, it is no joke, it is after believers. But there is authority in Christ and authority at the cross. So praise Jesus for the shed blood. I just want to I don't know how much how many minutes we have to go out and I do want to put a bow on this. Let me just say this. We can have conjecture all we want about who may or may not be saved, whether it be Billy Graham or somebody who's still born. I mean, right, we can have those conjunctions. Our mind is not God's mind. His ways are not our ways. But we do know this from the truth of his word. God is good. And whatever judgment he makes on an individual person-by-person basis is the right one. It is the perfect execution of his perfect will. And we can trust that. So if somebody in your family dies, you're like, oh I don't know, are they in heaven? You know what? I could give you what I think the answer is, but I could be wrong. God's never wrong. He knows and he's a perfectly good God and whatever the answer is, it's the right one for the right reason. So if we can have confidence in That. So at the very least, maybe we can end there, we'll pick this up. We'll we'll uh I'm gonna I'm gonna bring my ding ding ding bell next week and we'll put on some boxing rolls. I'll read the Bark of the Queensberry rules before we get going and uh I have the way to close it up with Tommy Holmes Um well I had uh Dina open us and pray. Angela, you wanna you feel like you wanna close this and for her? Father, we thank you for this time together. And we thank you, Father, that you are good and that every person that has ever lived has been met with your perfect judgment. judgment concerning your life. And that every everybody will wind up being where either grace has allowed them to be or or just the perfect pure justice of God uh has said they they must be. And it's all because of your goodness. It's all because you always do the right thing. You n you know everything and you always do what is right and you are too strong to do wrong. And so we can we rest in that, we agree on that, Lord. Um these these discussions are are are interesting. The spirited iron sharpens iron. But even if we never come together in total agreement, we do agree on your perfect goodness. Amen. And and and and we are grateful for that and we thank you that we have made made the decision to make Jesus Jesus our Lord and Savior and we haven't sh sh shirked away from that decision. And so we can also take joy in this that we have eternal life in accordance with the scriptures. So thank you, Father. Um send us on a our on our way in your loving care, surrounded by your angels. Give us uh good rest and we bless you and ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well if you've been with us this whole time I think this is a new record. This is I think easily our longest live stream. So if you're still with us, praise God, thank you. And you might have noticed as long as we went we still didn't get to a couple of the testimonies in the room. So God willing will do that next Next week. And if in the meantime, uh since we're gonna pick up with testimonies next week, if you want to share your testimony, you can you can uh text it or private message me or whatever or put it in the comment section and we'll try to read that incorporate that into next week. So until then, again, God willing. See you next week. God bless. Bye.