Yeah, so well welcome Facebook and if you're watching this later YouTube to the Household of Faith in Christ, you can find us online at household of faith in Christ dot com. Today we're kind of wrapping up what turned into an accidental uh midsummer break from our routine. Uh this is our fourth and uh final week talking of uh about uh expressing the gospel, sharing testimonies, learning how to do it in different contexts, that sort of thing. Uh last week there were four people. Well if you count uh Nadia and her testimony, we had five people share their testimony last week, but we have Two beautiful ladies that didn't have a chance to do that last week, so they're gonna do that this week. Um and if you're I've talked to some people recently If you are at a church that or at a church if you count yourself as belonging to a church that isn't meeting right now, you're no longer belonging to a church. I mean it's been over a year. If your church is still not meeting, they have ceased to function as a church, I'm not saying you gotta come here. But you gotta find a church, an actual church. And we're gonna talk about uh touching upon why I'm saying that so firmly. If they won't handle this level of challenge well Well, Lord help y'all when the real, real challenges really hit. So with that in mind, a c a couple of things. Before we um Get going. I'm going to uh well I guess we can open with a word of prayer and then I'm going to share some things I saw on social media. I know not very uh saintly of me to go to social media And then we're going to have some uh some testimony sharing, and I'm going to close with a rather profound letter that's almost 50 years old. And uh it it it'll get you in the field, I think. got me in the fields when I first read it. So anyway, uh Ray, would you mind opening us with a word of prayer? Lord, um we thank you for this gathering. We pray that this gathering will uh bolster our understanding of the gospel, bolster our fellowship together, and just really just contribute to our sanctification process. And we just pray for this church body and this church gathering. And we pray that you your will and your protection be upon it. And that your guidance would be with it in as we conduct our daily affairs. And we pray that this message will be for your glorification. And glorification. And we just pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. All right, so just a couple of things because uh I don't want to seem tone deaf and not have anything to say about what's going on in the world right now that is having dramatic effect in a variety of ways and uh no more dramatic than in the lives of Christians overseas, in case you've been living under a rock. Um there's there's some really tough stuff going on in Afghanistan. And here's some stuff that I've seen on social media that I think is um Oh She's not happy at the moment. Here's something that uh Owen uh Stran, I think is how Owen pronounces his last name right. Owen Stran posted. We often hear today What's happening in the public square isn't a big deal. The church is what matters, and it's not dependent on the state. But Afghanistan reminds us if civilization collapses, if freedoms evaporate The church is affected. Civilization matters. And a gentleman named Josh Dawes uh put on social media Where are all the evangelical leaders calling on Afghanistan Christians to happily submit to the Taliban? Romans 13, right? I thought it was selfish to be concerned about your rights. Where are all the essays telling them the church thrives in persecution? Obviously a note of sarcasm uh there Um Hannah Askell, who I'm assuming is uh related to Tom Askel in some way, shape, or form, a daughter, a wife, a daughter-in-law. Tom Askel is a pretty big name in the Southern Baptist circles. Anyway, she wrote There will be Afghan Christians who will die this week because they have chosen faithfulness over safety. There will be American Christians who will skip church this week because they have chosen safety over faithfulness Christine Cain writes, At the moment we are praying desperately for friends on the ground in the House Church movement in Afghanistan, where the Taliban are coming after all Christians. Their courage is immense. Most expect to meet Jesus face to face in the next two weeks. It is a powerful reminder right now of what matters and making every opportunity count for eternity. And uh I've seen a number of posts like that, people who know what's going on on the ground, and and in a number of cases anyway, maybe it's not all Christians, but a number of Christians showing great boldness and confidence in Jesus during a horribly intense time. And this one's a little bit longer and we'll get into our testimonies. This is uh written by Tabitha Alloway. I have no idea who that is, but why do I encourage people to be aware of what's going on and to take action? Ultimately, this comes down to questions about God's sovereignty and human responsibility. It comes back to theology. What is my responsibility in this world? What is God's Christianity is not a fatalistic religion, nor does it teach us to seek or embrace suffering for suffering's own sake. Christianity teaches us what justice and injustice look like. Christians should exert a restraining influence on evil and injustice in society. When I talk about resistance, I'm not discussing violence I'm talking about taking a peaceful principled stance against evil and injustice. This is something we should do, regardless of what the particular issue at hand may be, for injustice takes many forms in this world. If people would do evil to others, the Christian ought to be the first to stand in the way as a hindrance to that mischief and destruction. We should be the ones standing between bullies and their victims. While many people tailor their approach to the Christian life based on their eschatology, our obedience to all of the principles of Scripture, including those which show us that believers act as a restraining influence on evil in society, should not be predicated merely on how soon we think Christ is coming back. Since we don't know that day or hour, we don't assume the game is up and just sit tight waiting for everything to end. Every Christian should live with the hope of Christ's imminent return, but work as if he wasn't returning for another 10,000 years, and civilization must carry on. I am so thankful for the testimony of believers in Afghanistan. They are facing death at the hands of the Taliban, but rejoicing in God. The gates of hell will not prevail against Christ's church But it is an error to think that persecution and the collapse of a civilization only spells good for the church. God will cause all things to work together for good in the midst of evil, but there are some obvious hindrances to the gospel itself that will come through this. As Owen Strand said, in regard to the church being affected by what's happening in Afghanistan, civilization matters. The church will endure, no matter what, but it would be a mistake to treat the fall of the society lightly or pretend it really doesn't make any difference to the church We don't want society to completely collapse. God would take care of his body if it did, but such a collapse should not come partly because Christians were ignoring what was going on around them. This was certainly not the case with the Christians in Afghanistan. The situation was entirely outside their control. In our present situation, here in the U. S. , As the government tries to destroy business, capitalism, violate bodily autonomy and promote perversion of every sort, The situation might look daunting, but unlike the situation in Afghanistan, we still have a say and an influence in the direction things take here. We should be using it. It's not preach the gospel or be interested in what's happening around us and oppose evil in society. That's a false dichotomy. We have two millennia of examples of Christians doing both. Flee functional Gnosticism. I despise the adage, preach the gospel, use words if necessary. Words are necessary. How shall they hear without a preacher? By the same token, I dislike the idea that Christian action in the living out and promotion of ethics in society in the public arena is unnecessary and a mere distraction. Both of these ideas are errors. Our Christianity should overflow into and manifest itself in every aspect of life. Note this is no argument for theonomy or for social gospel. In the end We may change nothing. Society is descending into hell, and we might not be able to change its trajectory even temporarily. But to assume we know how this will end, and to give up and ignore it all now, would be presumptuous. We are not God. We don't know. So it's our responsibility to do what is right and leave results to God. The well-known words of this prayer come to mind. God grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change. courage to change the things I can and wisdom to know the difference. In the end, things like petitioning our legislators against going along with evil may work. But may not work. We should still do it. We will have done what we could do. God is sovereign and will ultimately direct the outcome. So I thought those uh of all the different things I saw, those were some of the better things that I saw. I thought in case you didn't see them, I would share them with you. What's going on in Afghanistan right now is not just in Afghanistan, it's all across the world things like that are going on, and it feels like it's getting closer and closer to perhaps coming in those kind of dramatic ways here. So, but it's not there yet, so we have time maybe to try to do something in the meantime. That's what the point of all that is. So time for us to share the gospel through personal testimony. Which one of you two might want to go first? All right. So my story obviously begins before time. I feel like Beauty and the Beast tail is tell all time. Um I grew up definitely with a fear of God But at the same breath I would say I definitely grew up with the fear of the devil. And I had uh absolute vivid memories of um spiritual attacks as early on as, you know, seven, eight, where I would just have these awful, awful, awful nightmares where I would just cry out to God to You know, please help me. I d and so my understanding of faith as a little girl was, you have to be good, you have to be good. You know, it was always, you know, I think it was a generational thing. You know, be a good girl, you have to be good. I remember, you know, as opposed to now when we were plane up our kids, we say, you know, make good choices. Or and instead it was be a good person. be a you know do more good than bad and so I my thing was I had these weights and as long as my good scale was better than my bad scale I was good to go to heaven But I was never quite sure if my, you know, assimilation of good was God's assimilation of good. in my life. Of course, fast forward to me being then a young adult and I worked my butt off at trying to be I mean I volunteered. I did all sorts of charitable events and I had a platform that allowed me to do that working in radio and TV and so I used all that for good and I always felt like it wasn't good enough. And I couldn't and I had this undergirding fear of going to hell. And I wasn't quite sure what to do with that. And so one day Tori and I were having a discussion and um and he said to me You should read the Bible. And I must have looked at him like, why why would you even dare recommend I do that? I'll die. Like I had such a fear and reverence of God that I would not touch a Bible. It was Something that our family had. It was the Big Family Bible. It was on display and it was open to the picture of Jesus on the cross and it terrified me. You know, there was like this awful picture because it was him hanging there and just terrible. But of course that's the beauty of it, but I didn't understand that as a little kid, but I always had that unapproachableness and so when Troy recommended I read the Bible I was like and I I think I might even have said oh no I I you know I don't want to die and he was like What are you talking about? Die. Yeah, and I said, No, that's what the priests read, and then they tell you what's in it. And he was like, No, you can read it and I was I'm I'm not it was a legitimate fear. And I remember thinking, Please don't kill me, God for opening up your word. Seriously, it was a an absolute fear. And that's how much I feared God and had such a reverence for him that I was actually thinking of him as being unapproachable. In that respect, because the priest was my go-between. You know, we we went to the priest to confess our sins. We that's how I grew up, that was my tradition. And And you know, that's why you did that. And you were given, you know, your prayers that you re you would recite in order to have forgiveness of your sins. So but there was always something within me that said that wasn't good enough. Because it's not. It's not there you can't pray your way into heaven. You have to receive the gift in order to get to heaven. So anyway, long story short Troy had said to me, Read, you know, read the Bible and I was like and he said, Don't start in the beginning, read the Gospel of John. And I thought, well, okay. I'll give it a go. And I remember reading it, and as I read it, I was overwhelmed by my sinfulness. overcome and distraught over my sinfulness. It was like, oh my gosh, I am awful. I am horrible and I don't even know what to do with this awfulness. And so I I remember having a conversation with Troy and I shared, you know, I am a sinner and he's like, Yes, you are and he was all like excited about it and I thought I feel like I've just gotten the worst news ever And here he is all excited about it. And so he proceeded to share the gospel, even though I had read it in in the scriptures. Obviously I read the entire gospel of John, but somehow I missed the good news. I was too focused on my sin and he said, Well, you know, there's this gift, you know, Jesus' righteousness and his goodness is for you and he's gonna take and he's taken your sin and your awfulness and given you his righteousness and his goodness and his perfect record. There's literally a switch And all you have to do is say, okay, I accept that. It's a gift. You can't do anything. You're right. There's there's nothing you can do to earn that. And I struggled and I tell ya, I struggled with that because I couldn't even receive it. I wasn't good enough. to receive even a gift. And so I remember we lived in our house in Syracuse and Troy was, I think, at work and the kids were little And I was sitting on our stairs. We had a foyer, a front door and stairs that kinda went up, and I was sitting on the stairs and it was this tile floor, and I was praying and I said, God I want this. I want this so bad, but I can't receive it. I can't, you know me. You know how awful I am. You know I am such a sinner. I can't but if you'll force it on me I'll receive it. And I tell you what, as soon as I said that, and I the Lord is my witness from the bottom of my toes All the way up through my body, this sensation happened through the top of my head, and all of a sudden I said, I'm forgiven. And I was like, oh it's gone. Okay. And it wa it was the most unexplainable thing that I have ever ever ever happened in my entire life to the point where I remember looking around going, oh, I see colors that I've never seen before. I hear things that I've never heard before. And I remember it was that day I took the kids to the park and we were walking and it was like the birds were singing to me. It was like I k I am not kidding you. I know it sounds crazy. But it was like the birds were rejoicing and they knew that I had I had receiven this gift and now I was going to be eternally with God forever. And that I mean as dramatic as that sounds, and the other thing that popped in my head was called Donna Which is a family friend of ours. Now I used to babysit her kids, her son, her one son. And she used to take she used to have me be the helper at vacation bible school. Every summer with her son. And I remember thinking they sang all these songs that I had never heard before growing up in the Catholic Church, and they sang Jesus Love Me, and I was like, Okay. You said, well. And I remember, you know, not knowing it and then learning it. Anyway, so God put on my and I remember literally getting the thought, called Donna, and I was like, I haven't talked to her in years. So I called on and like, hi, Mrs. H, this is Tina. And she's like, hi, how are you? And I was like Hey, so I wanted to share with you and I told her and I shared my testimony. She's like, I've been praying for you since you were a little girl. And I thought, well, I'll be darned that's God wanted her to receive the fruit that you know, that of her labor of praying for me, of of taking it upon herself to pray for me, which I thought was pretty cool. And just some other, just I mean it was like this down and I remember God also putting on my heart it's not going to be easy. And I thought, well I'm not sure But I remember getting this sense of it's not gonna be easy. And boy did I come under attack. Do you remember? It was like one thing after another it was Awful. I mean, but God's faithfulness through that and I just remember th God showing up in such So the one testimony and then I'll stop so that you can share, but this was literally so we moved right after that into my dad's house. We sold our house, didn't have a place to go, and so God said to me, Don't take anything. And I was like, Clearly Dodd doesn't mean don't take anything We'll just tear down. We had all of our stuff and it was stored in my dad's garage. He had a three car garage that was detached because my dad's house is very old. It was one of those very old like eighteen hundred houses, so the garage was separate Well don't you know that darn thing flooded. We lost everything All our taxes. Oh oh yeah. All our furniture. The only thing we had was like the clothes, obviously that was in the main part of the Everything was ruined and I remember God saying, I remember hearing in my head, I told you not to do that. Because what God said to me was, don't you understand? You're new. I've made all things new and that and I mean everything. And obviously God speaks to people in different ways. So I'm sure it's that's not the same for other but for me, God was showing me how new things were gonna be. Mm-hmm. And it was just it was very, very, very dramatic. I mean it was like a absolute and the other thing was, so I went, you know, and had the doctor and so talk about attacks. I go to the doctor and they're like, well, you have a lot of cysts all over your ovaries, and so they did some other tests and they're like, you have cancer. And I thought, oh my gosh. Okay. And I remember praying and God was like, yeah, no, it's good. Just keep praying, just keep praying. And so I went back so I went back again for another checkup and I remember um the person doing the whatever, the procedure. Yeah, I said, I've been pr Praying a lot. And she said, Oh I I pray too. I said, No, I've been praying a lot. So she does the ultrasound, she looks at me and she said, It's gone. It's all gone. I can't even find the I can't even find The tedious of assist, it's completely gone. She said, Well, it worked, you're healed, and I was like, okay. Yeah. I mean that dramatic. That dramatic. So um anyway, yeah, that's I mean there were so many there was another time, um I I know I thought I'd be short, but this other one is actually funny. So I was living here. Troy was still living in New Jersey and my dad's because he was working in New York City. And then he would come here on the weekends because we knew that we were supposed to be in Maryland. So Troy gets followed home by the police. This is how much the enemy was after me. They were coming to arrest me. Arrest me? Because they said I had a license in more than one state. Like they were literally going to arrest me for that. And I remember so the cop follows Troy into my dad's driveway and Troy gets out of the car and the guy's like, You're not Dina and he's like No. Not really. So the M the MVA or DM whatever had goofed up. I had said that I had moved and turned and they didn't have any record of it. They were a while they were gonna throw me in jail. How crazy is that? So anyway, so um anyway Troy was like, yeah, well good luck finding her. She's in Maryland. Warrant out for my arrest. How nutty is that? Like seriously? I drive a minivan What could I possibly do? Anyway, but there I mean it was it was literally like one thing after another. But um yeah, so I'm going to heaven. Praise the Lord. Oh. Yeah, the the the long arm of the law, you know, behaving away is a really win. I guess. Very appropriate. Goofy. People could just ask me what happened and I'd tell you honestly, no need to throw me behind bars. Yeah, really. Yeah. Anyway. Alright. Yeah, and there's so many other personal testimonies of how God has worked, but as far as how you came to Christ and some of the immediate things on that. Um even this house, we were praying about a house to, you know, where we should be. And we had looked at a gazillion houses And I s and I remember saying, Lord, whatever house it is, as soon as I know it, you better make him know it too. So don't you know we walked into this house and I and I heard this voice say, This is the one and he turns to me, he goes, This is the one I'm like But we had no way to afford it. We could not afford this house. And I was like, Well Lord, I'm pretty sure this is a house but um we don't have enough money for a down payment. My grandfather called the next day and he's like Do you want to do that? So I I feel like I should give you some money. I'm like What on earth? Exact it was crazy. It was crazy. He literally gave us the money for the down payment for this house. Yeah, well he was looking for a house and stuff. Right. It wasn't like just this random I'm gonna give you. It was our third house. It's not like he had ever done it before. No no no. But But he had the house in his mind as to why he was giving up the money. Oh, it was a god then. It wasn't just a random No, the Lord used him though. I forgot years ago I stuffed a bunch of money in a Yeah, why not? Alright, so are you ready to share yours? Yes. So um I'm not sure if I need to move this, but just to be sure to move it. So I'll set it down over here. So my initial conversion story is pretty boring. Um I was just going to a church and I as a kid and I decided to Say yes. It doesn't really get dramatic um until after I got saved because what happened after I got saved is that um I I wasn't discipled And I wasn't disciple either in the church or at home. And I encountered a lot of hypocrisy within the church, unfortunately. Just people that, you know, showed up and and got emotional during the service, but um after church was over, being just like the world. And so I fell away because that's what happens if you're not disciple, because you don't know how to live it out. It's not practical to you, it's not really real. It's just a s bunch of stories in the pages of the Bible and in fact I was so not discipled I didn't know I was supposed to read the Bible. So, um I fell away. And I just kinda did my own thing, you know, I I I joined the military and I was, you know, I was like a decently pretty decently behaved person, but I was doing my own thing, you know. And um what happened was I did that until literally nine eleven is what brought me back to the Lord because um When I was working in the Washington DC area, I could s I I I I um was standing around watching this television sets in in my federal government building when when the second plane hit I could see smoke rising from the Pentagon from the location that I was at and just the fear that was in the it was just it was it was so thick you could you could cut it with a knife Um, I remember driving home that day and turning I I the first thing I did was turn on my television when I got to my house and by that time people were jumping out of the Twin Towers. Right. And so I was just stunned. Um and I just I remember thinking, if there's not a God uh this is how backslitten I was, I wasn't really sure if God existed anymore. So I remember thinking, if there's not a God, then I should really just go get a gun and shoot myself in the head, because then at least I could control how I die. Mm. I don't wanna die like that. You know, the choice between jumping out of a hundred and ten story building or being burnt to death. I don't wanna die like that. So, um, it was at that moment that I just just All of a sudden from within, just this from the depth of my being, I just cried out and I just said, Oh God, please be there. Please help us. I was just all of a sudden I was so desperate for God to be there. And I just um I just I and so um after after doing that, you know, I um I remember um um going to to to sleep and um so that would have been Tuesday a a Tuesday, I remember waking up the next day and I remember that I I I I need to go I need to get to a church as soon as I can And I and I and the Lord had me do that that following weekend. But after I repented in that church, I just remembered um coming home And and you know, after church service, I remember later on going to bed and waking up and it felt as if the best way I can describe this, it felt as if Someone took some Listerine and refreshed my inside. You know how your mouth feels after you clean it with Listerine? I felt like that on the inside. I felt Teemly clean. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Minty fresh. I felt minty fresh. My hair was minty fresh. And um I just remember being like You know, I was just so amazed at and and I I knew that I had a supernatural experience. Um and then but the testing came. Very similar to your story and I think this is probably every Christian story that's had had a truth conversion experience, the enemy comes along and tries to undo that. Oh and I remember once I was praying You know, just uh uh uh uh by my bed was my my my my my um morning prayer and I there was this jug that I kept in my bathroom. I had the door closed And uh but there was a jug in there that I kept and I used it to rinse my tub out after I washed my tub and somebody was in the bathroom. I heard the I heard the jug going back and forth across the floor And I thought it was my dog maybe and they're messing around and I went to the edge of my bed, I kinda scooched to the edge of my bed and there's my dog and I still hear the sound, the scraping going on. And I went In the name of Jesus, stop. And it stopped. So I would have things like that happening. I remember once a Bible I was I was just reading, sitting on my bed reading, and the Bible on my dresser drawers. Flew off and flew to the ground. I remember hearing no I I would hear noises, like a cacophony of noises. And I put my ear to the wall and it wasn't my neighbors. Are you okay? And yet I I heard it was like a thousand voices In the name of Jesus, stop it. Just you know, just little pestering um things meant to I uh meant to freak me out, agitate, scare me. I would pick up the phone, I would hear the same voices. You know, if the phone rings, I pick up the phone, it's just a cacophony of voices. Just just and and being messed with in my sleep. You know, and um And so, but through those through those experiences, the Lord taught me to fight back. He taught me to You know, to be uh to to to be an Esther, you know, to be a David, you know, to take my authority over that and and so he was building me up. to um not be afraid of that but to confront it, to be like David confronting Goliath. Right, right. You know. And so there was a purpose to it. There were there were also health scares with me. Mm-hmm. Had to go through that. So there was just a lot like it very v it's just like your experience. It was one thing after another after another. It's and a and it at one point you do go, really? Yeah. And and and you actually get I don't know about you, but I actually got angry at one point. It was like I am so you I Yeah, exactly. Exactly. One time the Lord went 'cause I was like I was like, you mother you I mean, 'cause you get so frustrated. 'Cause you're being uh Is she Jesus? Amen. Nadia go. That's right, Nadia. 'Cause you're being um picked on. You know, you're being bullied is what you are. But um that's kind of the gist of it, yeah, for for me. Oh yeah. Oh, remember that. Ooh, you go feature. Dang it. Hello. But there on the same time, I don't know if you ever had this. There were times like when I had just come to Christ and um yeah, I was just thirsty for the word and I was just reading it and reading it many books as I could and I remember my mother in law watching it. I remember she said, Well I can send you some books and at that point I wasn't I I didn't feel like I was strong enough to read anything other than the Bible. You know, like even stories that were, you know, Christian like and I was like, oh I I just need to stick with the Bible for right now. I don't trust that I have the discernment just yet. I hear you. But there was one point where um I was up in my room and can I I I did not know the Bible, I didn't read it up until that point. And I heard in my spirit read Ephesians and I was like What's in Ephesians? And I thought, well, must be in there. And they go, Well, that's a weird word. I did, I was like, what's in Ephesians And I remember re I read the entire chapter or the entire book of Ephesians and I just bawled and I and God spoke to my spirit and said, This is you Because the easy talks about how you are a new creation in Christ. The old is gone. The old is gone. And and it It was just profound to me. Profound. So yeah. And there was another time where the Bible was open on my bed. I was like, I didn't open the Bible. And it was right where I needed to be. I was like all the darn. Those initial experiences are so precious. I have to remember them Sometimes I want to go back and relive them. Exactly. They are so precious. They're just so fresh and new and and and rebirth I guess, you know. Absolutely. And and the Lord seems to really speak to you in a more direct you know personal like personal way. Yeah. And he still speaks to me, but that was just something just so initially tender and and it's like it's like a parent holding a brand new baby. You know, it's just a tender of your eye. Yeah. Yeah. You know and then they There's those seasons of wilderness, I've gone through those too, where I'm like, I I must not be saved anymore. You know, just complete you read they're words on a page in the Bible. It's just words on a page. Mm-hmm. And it's just, you know, again, those are the seasons and that's just part of anyway. Um having heard both of the stories, you know, some some things we can knit together for the uninitiated who might be watching this So we we talked about uh either being backslidden or not feeling worthy, can't do enough good to outweigh the bad, that sense of inadequacy and brokenness. Um you know, God made us good and yet we sin. And so the image of you know in that one Bible of Christ on the cross, you know, that vivid, dramatic, uh artistic rendition there. you know, pointing to the payment uh of of of uh by Christ uh to cover that sin And then walking through like the the ups and downs of the overall positive trajectory of the sanctification process of trying to grow in your knowledge of God's word and your obedience to his commands and those sorts of things and um And dealing with some s you know, slings and arrows from the world or even spiritual attack. Um and that's something that again the uninitiated are like, okay, there are some spiritual kinds of dynamics that were shared in the testimonies. And even Christians sometimes get a little squeamish. Well, I want to remind those of us who might get a little squeamish that our ultimate hope is glorification forever uh with a renewed heavens and earth. with living with God forever. That is a reality that is beyond the reality as we understand it now. So if we don't believe in something supernatural, what are we hoping for? And if we don't believe in the supernatural, then how would it be possible that Jesus would rise from the dead? How would it be possible that they would cast out demons if there are no demons? to be cast out. But a lot of Christians you might not have the same kinds of stories. And they're like, well, I haven't had that experience, so how can but I wonder sometimes and this is not me pulling something from the Word of God and teaching. This is just, you know, me kind of just sharing spontaneously some things I've wondered. If some of the things and the way that God blesses and leads us and also some of the ways that we're challenged uh by by the enemy of God's people, uh kind of mirrors wh who we are, our personality, our life experiences. So if somebody's very relational that they might find spiritual attack if you want to use that kind of frame framework, kind of language, you know, in your relationships. You know, if you're uh highly emotive, then it it might be uh with lots of uh stresses to to bring uh negative emotions into your life. If you if if if if What really impacts your understanding of who you are and what your life is is about the experience you live, to have a lot of negative experiences be what attacks you. Yeah, or if you're highly intellectual and you're a thinker and you know, well then it's gonna be the the seed of doubt intellectually, like this logically doesn't make sense. How could there be a guy? How could it be a supernatural? I feel like It's possible that who we kinda are and how we're wired is where the enemy might try to So somebody who's highly emotive and um and emotional and relational and experiential and they're and they're like I've never had an intellectual doubt about God. Like, if you have an intellectual doubt about God, like are you even a Christian? Like how could you intellectually doubt God? And yet the intellectual in the realm is like, are you kidding me? I wrestle against intellectual doubts all the freaking time. What do you mean you don't have those? So I just wonder, so very true. I I do too. Because yeah, whatever you are, yeah. Make their attacks. Exactly. They know me better than that. Why would they attack me the same way they'd attack him? I'd just be like, No, whatever. Right. Absolutely. And all of that said, I do want to add the ki just a bit of a counterbalance. Just because you're struggling intellectually doesn't mean it's a satanic attack. Right Just because you felt bad one day doesn't mean you're having an emotional attack from the from the devil. Just because you've had a bad experience doesn't mean that experience is And actually I'm gonna transition now into more global context. There's a sense in which um What we're going through as a culture right now could be an attack from the devil. Right? Could be. It could also be God's judgment. Right? The devil's not the one doing it. We're under judgment of God. So I want to just you know be careful how we might try to spiritually understand or hyper You know? Yeah. Like did Nade get knocked down right now because of attacking the devil? I don't know. Nah, she made judgment. Probably not. That was human. So there's this interesting thing I think we want to be on guard against hyper spiritualizing. But we also don't want to under spiritualize either. What's that? Hypo-spiritualize. Hypo, yeah, you don't want to hyper or hypo spiritualize. is uh can happen. What's within the realm of possibility? We know there's a supernatural, we know it. As believers in Christ, we know it Uh, but we also know that not everything bad that happens was necessarily an attack from the devil. Okay. You know, um or I mean sometimes this kind of life happens in the brokenness. Sometimes the attack is from the world. Sometimes the attack is from our own flesh. Our own simple desires is what gets us in trouble. So let's Yeah, be yeah, because we're frail, broken, sinful, you know, sin riddled creatures as I sometimes like to say. You know. So let's keep all of that in in the in the full scope of all that and try to exercise some wisdom in discerning like what's happening in our life and why. Yeah, yeah, don't forsake the gathering of the saints because uh you're gonna be out there on your own being tossed to and fro by the waves of the world if you're not careful. So So anyway, we're gonna wrap up with what I read earlier. With a I read some things earlier. This is the lengthiest of the things I'm gonna read. This is really powerful stuff. It's almost 50 years old now, to be exact, 47 years ago. And it was written approximately 30 years after her time Um as a prisoner during World War Two. Okay. So do you guys know already who Corey Tenboom is? Oh yeah. No, not by the name. Tori uh Tori Tenboom uh was was a very big deal at e evangelical circles back in like the seventies and maybe even to into the eighties, I'm not sure when she died, but she she was a big deal. She was a big deal because she was a Dutch survivor of a Nazi uh concentration camp. Uh she and her family hid Jews from the Germans during the occupation of Holland and uh they end up they got found out for hiding the Jews and so they were captured, they were imprisoned, they were sent to the concentration camps themselves and out of her entire family Corey was the only survivor in her entire family. That's a fantastic book if you ever get a chance to with it. And I think it was was it turning into a bo a movie? It was turning into a movie too, I think. Is she changed? No, she's long dead now. I think it was a movie as well if I remember correctly. It might have been one base off. Okay. So anyway, Corey, and this is something that you know Dean and I have actually gotten in some trouble with family who don't want to hear this, and I'm not we're not trying to dismiss the horribleness of the Jewish flight during World War II I mean as a percentage, the number of Jews as a percentage of the Jewish population that were wiped out is unfathomable And yet there were more uh Christ people that were identified as Christian who were in the concentration camps, actually, than there were Jews, believe it or not. or not. And Corey was one of the millions of Christians who were in or uh most of those who are identified as Christians might not have been true real deal Christians, but she is one of the the few or one of the millions of Christians who were sent to the concentration camps And uh she lived and so she was able to testify to the world. She went on the the speaking tour and wrote the book and and all that sort of stuff uh because ca God was able to keep her in through and out of her time of uh what she calls a tribulation period. in her life. So she wrote a letter in nineteen seventy four. But in the context of what's going on Particularly in the context of Afghanistan, but even what feels like an emerging storm in Western civilization. I'm going to read this and one caveat, I gotta share this. There are some um doctrinal assumptions in Corey's letter that some of us may or may not fully embrace and agree with her. Don't let that be distracted by the main thrust of what is she's trying to communicate Okay, she she's I'm I'm positive that she's gonna have a slightly different take on some secondary issues in the Christian faith that some people would want to pick apart. That's not the point of this. So here's how Corey starts her letter. The world is deathly ill. It is dying. The great physician has already signed a death certificate. Yet there is still a great work for Christians to do. They are to be streams of living water, channels of mercy to those who are still in the world. It is possible for them to do this because they are overcomers. Christians are ambassadors for Christ. They are representatives from heaven to this dying world. And because of our presence here, things will change. My sister Betsy and I were in the Nazi concentration camp at Ravensbrook because we committed the crime of loving Jews. Seven hundred of us from Holland, France, Russia, Poland, and Belgium were herded into a room built for 200. As far as I knew, Betsy and I were the only two representatives of heaven in that room We may have been the Lord's only representatives in that place of hatred, yet because of our presence there, things changed Jesus said, In the world you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. We too are to be overcomers, bringing the light of Jesus into a world filled with darkness and hate. Sometimes I get frightened as I read the Bible and as I look in this world and see all the tribulation and persecution promised by the Bible coming true. Now I can tell you though, if you are, if you too are afraid, then I have just read the last pages. I can now come to shouting, Hallelujah, hallelujah, for I have found where it is written that Jesus said, He that overcometh shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. This is the future and hope of this world. Not that the world will survive, but that we shall be overcomers in the midst of a dying world. Betsy and I in the concentration camp prayed that God will heal Betsy, who was so weak and sick. Yes, the Lord will heal me, Betsy said with confidence. She died the next day. Wasn't expecting to get emotional. See, now the next day. And I could not understand it. They laid her thin body on the concrete floor, along with all the other corpses of the women who died that day. It was hard for me to understand, to believe that God had a purpose for all that. Yet because of Betsy's death, today I am traveling all over the world telling people about Jesus. There are some among us teaching there will be no tribulation, that the Christians will be able to escape all this. These are the false teachers that Jesus was warning us to expect in the latter days Most of them have little knowledge of what is already going on across the world. I have been in countries where the saints are already suffering terrible persecution In China, the Christians were told, don't worry, before the tribulation comes, you will be translated, raptured. Then came a terrible persecution. Millions of Christians were tortured to death. Later, I heard a bishop from China say, sadly, we have failed. We should have made the people strong for persecution, rather than telling them Jesus would come first. Tell the people how to be strong in times of persecution, how to stand when the tribulation comes, to stand and not faint. I feel I have a divine mandate to go and tell the people of this world that it is possible to be strong in the Lord Jesus Christ. We are in training for the tribulation. But more than 60% of the body of Christ across the world has already entered into the tribulation. There is no way to escape it. We are next. Since they have already gone through prison for Jesus' sake, and since I met the bishop in China now, every time I read a good Bible text, I think, hey I can use that in the time of tribulation. And then I write it down and I learn it by heart. When I was in the concentration camp, a camp where only 20% of the women came out alive. We tried to cheer each other up by saying, nothing could be any worse than today. But we would find the next day was even worse. During this time, a Bible verse that I had committed to memory gave me great hope and joy. If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye. For the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you. On their part evil is spoken of, but on your part he is glorified. That's 1 Peter 3, verse 14. I found myself saying, hallelujah, because I am suffering, Jesus is glorified. In America, the churches sing, let the congregation escape tribulation. But in China and Africa, the tribulation has already arrived. This last year alone, more than 200,000 Christians were martyred in Africa. Now, things like that never get into the newspapers because they cause bad political relations. But I know. I have been there. We need to think about that when we sit down in our nice houses with our nice clothes to eat our steak dinners. Many, many members of the body of Christ. She got stuck. Sorry. Many, many members of the body of Christ are being tortured to death at this very moment. Yet we continue right on as though we are all going to escape the tribulation. Several years ago I was in Africa in a nation where a new government had come into power. The first night I was there, some of the Christians were commanded to come to the police station to register. When they arrived, they were arrested, and that same night they were executed. The next day the same thing happened with other Christians. The third day it was the same. All the Christians in the district were being systematically murdered. The fourth day I was to speak in a little church. The people came, but they were filled with fear and tension. All during the service they were looking at each other with their eyes asking, Will this one I am sitting beside be the next one killed? Will I be the next one? The room was hot and stuffy with insects that came through the screenless windows and swirled around the naked bulbs. Over the barren wooden benches, I told them a story out of my childhood. When I was a little girl, I said I went to my father and said, Daddy, I am afraid that I will never be strong enough to be a martyr for Jesus Christ. Tell me, said Father, when you take a train trip to Amsterdam, when do I give you the money for the ticket? Three weeks before? No, Daddy, you give me the money for the ticket just before we get on the train. That is right, my father said. And so it is with God's strength. Our Father in heaven knows when you will need the strength to be a martyr for Jesus Christ. He will supply all you need just in time. My African friends were nodding and smiling. Suddenly a spirit of joy descended upon that church, and the people began singing, In the sweet by and by, we shall meet on that beautiful shore. Later that week, half the congregation of that church was executed. I heard later the other half was killed some months ago. But I must tell you something, I was so happy. The Lord used me to encourage these people For unlike many of their leaders, I had the Word of God. I had been to the Bible and discovered that Jesus said he had not only overcome the world, but to all those who remained faithful to the end, he would give a crown of life. How can we get ready for the persecution? First, we need to feed on the Word of God. Digest it. Make it a part of our being. This will mean disciplined Bible study each day, as we not only memorize long passages of scripture, but put the principles to work in our lives. Next, we need to develop a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, not just the Jesus of yesterday, the Jesus of history, but the life-changing Jesus of today who is still alive and sitting at the right hand of God. We must be filled with the Holy Spirit. There is no optional command here in the Bible. It is absolutely necessary. Those earthly disciples could never have stood up under the persecution of the Jews and the Romans had they not waited for Pentecost. Each of us needs our own personal Pentecost, the baptism of the Holy Spirit. We will never be able to stand in the tribulation without it. In the coming persecution, we must be ready to help each other and encourage each other. But we must not wait until the tribulation comes before starting. The fruit of the Spirit should be the dominant force of every Christian's life. Many are fearful of a coming tribulation. They want to run. I too am a little bit afraid when I think that after all of my 80 years, including the horrible Nazi concentration camp, that I might have to go through the tribulation also. But then I read the Bible and I am glad. When I am weak, then I shall be strong, the Bible says. Betsy and I were prisoners for the Lord. We were so weak, but we got power because the Holy Spirit was on us. That mighty inner strengthening of the Holy Spirit helped us through. No, you will not be strong in yourself when the tribulation comes. Rather, you will be strong in the power of him who will not forsake you. For seventy-six years I have known the Lord Jesus, and not once has he ever left me or let me down. Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. That's Job 13, 15. For I know that to all who overcome, he shall give the crown of life. Hallelujah. Anyways, Cory Tenboom from 1974. To be honest, I think what kind of caught me, I got a little emotional, is I couldn't help but position this in terms of what's happening um with so many in Afghanistan right now and I was just kind of picturing what they're going through not just theoretically or hypothetically or what they might go through tomorrow or next week, what so many of them are likely going through even right now. as I read that letter uh from so many years ago. So uh our heart and prayers need to be with them, but not just Afghanistan. There is persecution of Christians all across the world. And as Clory says in her letter, it's not regularly reported in regular news outlets, but there are outlets that report on this sort of stuff If you can find them online and it it's horrible. To be honest, I'm guilty of not paying as much attention to that the plight of our brothers and sisters uh as we might. Now in fairness, in our context we need to be thinking about how we can improve situations here on the ground where we are. But spiritually speaking, we should be in prayer for all Oh remember what does martyr mean? It's about being a witness. We are to be martyrs for Christ in that sense. We were doing witnessing. And if it means we pay the ultimate price for that witness, we should be willing to do so. So in that book, um Charlie That is called the hiding place. The hiding place, that's right. That's right. Yeah, and that was me the movie. I'm I'm like I feel like I'm almost positive I saw it. Really? I either saw a movie that's basically like her life story or I saw it. I'm a I'm like I feel like I'm positive I saw it. Sure. Yeah. So if if if you Yeah. Yeah, I would read the book and watch the movie, you know. Anyway. Alright, so we're just past seven o'clock, time for us to wrap up here. We're gonna be doing the Lord's Supper here. Uh and if you live in within driving distance of Frederick and you're not participating in a church, you can participate in this church and you'd be doing the Lord's Supper with us if you were here. So um Does anybody feel like they're they're I can close the prayer, but does somebody feel like they're led to want to pray uh as we wrap up our time with social media? No. Okay. Well then I will handle those honors. Father, we thank you for bringing us together to edify one another through the experiences of our life that have drawn us closer to you, to recognize our need, our our our our sinful selves and our need for uh that transfer that Gina talked about during her time of testimony, that transfer that takes place where Christ took upon himself our sin and gave us so that we can have his perfect record and have your Holy Spirit dwell within us. We asked for an increased boldness that we would seek opportunities to uh to share the truth of the gospel, to actually use words, as one of the social media posts that I shared earlier today. emphasized. Your truth is needed each and every day in each and every life. Help us to be good ambassadors, sharing that truth and to be in your word uh and on our knees in prayer so that we're rooted in the truth so that we are equipped to give a defense when we're asked for the reason for the hope that lies within We ask that you would bless the the rest of our time here together and that you would bless all of those who uh have uh witnessed what we've had to share and who have uh shared with us in the comment section. We praise you and thank you and trust you. Help us to praise you and thank you and trust you more consistently and more impactfully. in our lives. Not just with our words, as important as those are, but also with the actions in our lives. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Alright, so until next week we're gonna be getting back on course with our uh study of revelation. We'll pick up In Revelation chapter 4 is where we left off, so that's what we're picking up next week. So hopefully you can be with us for that. Until then, God bless