I think we're live. Hello Facebook and if you're watching us later YouTube, welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ. It's a pleasure to have you Join us as we now pick back up with our look at the book of Revelation. You're going to want to get your Bibles ready so you can follow along. We're in Revelation chapter 4. We're looking at The last half of verse 6 and chapter 4 through to the end of the chapter in verse 11. It's a message that's titled, Heaven's Throne Room and What It Means. Let me grab something real quick. I've asked Yeah, I've asked uh Angela to open us in prayer, and then we're gonna read from Amos uh chapter three and uh I might do an additional reading as well. They're trying to come to grips in terms with all the imagery that John is making use of in Revelation that he is Riffing off not ripping off, riffing off of and uh borrowing and alluding to in the Old Testament. The better we understand the Old Testament, the better we can understand the book of Revelation. But before we go any further, Evangeline, if you open us with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for bringing us here safely together to learn of your word, to be edified by your word, to be instructed by your word, to be cleansed. By your word, to be sanctified unto you by your word. We invite the presence of the Holy Spirit to speak. Help us with this teaching. To draw to this teaching those who would be blessed by it, whether they join live or later. the recording. And we thank you for this time together. We have expectations for good things to happen because you're here. And we thank you and bless you for it in Jesus' name. Jesus' name, Amen. Amen. Hear this word which the Lord has spoken against you, sons of Israel, against the entire family which he brought up from the land of Egypt. Therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities. Do two men walk together unless they have made an appointment? Does a lion roar in the forest when he has no prey Does a young lion growl from his dead unless he has captured something? Does a bird fall into a trap on the ground when there is no bait in it? Does a trap spring up from the earth when it captures nothing at all? If a trumpet is blown in a city, will not the People tremble? If a calamity occurs in a city, has not the Lord done it? Surely the Lord has done surely the Lord Does nothing unless he reveals his secret counsel to his servants, the prophets. A lion has roared, Who will not fear? The Lord God has spoken. Who can but prophet? But prophesy. Proclaim on the citadels in Ashdod and on the citadels in the land of Egypt and say, Assemble yourselves on the mountains. But they do not know how to do what is right, declares the Lord. Who hoard up violence and devastation in their citadels. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, an enemy even one surrounding the land will pull down your strength from your From you and loot and your citadels will be looted. And thus says the Lord, just as a shepherd snatches from the lion's mouth a couple of legs or pieces of an ear, so will the sons of Israel dwelling in Samaria be snatched away with a corner of a bed and a cover of a couch Hear and testify against the house of Jacob, declares the Lord God, the God of hosts, for on the day that I punish Israel's transgressions, I will also punish the altars of Bethel. The horns of the altar will be cut off, and they will fall to the ground. I will also smite the The winter house together with the summer house, the houses of ivory will also perish, and the great houses will come to an end, declares the Lord. Thank you for the reading. Um next week we're gonna do the the psalm reading that I was thinking we'd do this week. There's something else I want to mention real because I forgot I wanted to mention this. Uh the last couple of days I've been exposed to a couple of things via the internet and social media that I just feel like I I've got to say something. If you were going to a church that is playing this sort of game with you. You need to confront your leadership and ask them if they truly mean it and I'll tell you how you'll know if they truly mean it. There are a lot of churches, including one that I actually used to be very heavily involved with. that are now open for business. They shut down because the governor told them to, but now they're open for business and they're pleading with people to come back to church. We shouldn't forsake the gathering of believers. You know, the assembly of the of the followers of Christ is so important. So come back to church, come back to church. We shouldn't forsake it. It's so important that we worship together, that we gather together. Because I think his P Research did a study that shows that not too many years ago, 49% of church attenders were regular attenders. Apparently now 17% of church attenders are regular attenders. Seventeen percent. So the pastors are freaking out. Well the pastors we collectively have nothing, nobody and nothing else to blame but ourselves. This was predictable and predicted. So you need to, if your church is now saying, hey, we need to not forsake the gathering of believers, good. Good on them. That's what they should have been saying for the last year and a half. So you need to go to your pastor, your church leadership, and congratulate them for arriving at that conclusion. But then you need to ask them if they are going to publicly repent For the sin of not gathering for months at a time because the governor told them so. And if they refuse to repent or don't understand what you even are talking about, what do you mean repent? We were just obeying obedient to the governor, but they were doing it in disobedience to Jesus Christ their Lord. So if they won't repent, you are not going to a Christ-honoring, Christ-exalting church. You need to find a new one So, uh, I would listen to somebody that's uh if you look at his resume, it would blow my resume away But the credentials the pastors have don't matter because this highly credentialed pastor, I heard him online this week say that Jesus broke the law What in the world is going on? If you've got a pastor that even hints at that, flee, run. You're better off not gathering with a church like that. Seriously, you might as well go to the synagogue of Satan and worship there because basically that's what you are. Anybody that's going to say that Jesus broke the law Doesn't understand who Jesus is or what the gospel is or the importance of the person and work and the uniqueness of Jesus Christ. If he's a lawbreaker, we have no Savior. So just felt like I had to get that off my chest. And there are still churches, I so called churches, that are not needing. Or they're meeting under great restrictions, or they're forcing masks on people, you know, face shackles, as I like to call them, on people's uh nogins. Or there are some churches, uh so-called churches, are uh requiring uh shots, these so-called vaccines. And there are others that they might not be requiring, but they're segregating their congregation based on the the vaccinated and the unvaccinated. I'm telling you, if you're putting up with that, you're putting up with something that's not biblical And and uh your church should be doing better by you. So just not saying you gotta come be with us, but you gotta be somewhere that actually teaches the Bible. So anyway. That said, let's jump into or look at Revelation, pick back up on our book of Revelation. We're in chapter 4. So if you want to open your Bibles, if you were reading along in Amos, you're going to flip ahead to the end of the New Testament. And find the last book of the Bible, Revelation, chapter 4. It's been uh about a month, a little over a month now actually, since we were preaching uh on this uh wonderful book of the Bible. Wait for everybody to get there so when we get there you can just jump in and start reading along. So you open your eyes. And you are disoriented. You are sleeping, and then you awake, and your eyes are too close to the surface to focus. You're groping around in the dark, suddenly the lights come on and you're inches away from the wall, right in front of you. And so you're suddenly just a tad bit out of it, a little dizzy, trying to get your bearings. You've uh You can't uh seem to get a lock on the floor. Your feet are touching, but feels like the floor is twenty feet away and then suddenly maybe it's like a foot away from your face. You ever have a disconnected sensation like any of these? You ever have an experience where It's a 3D world, but suddenly you're, at least for a moment, living in a 2D reality, or maybe even a four D reality. Something like that ever happened to you? Looking closely at something on the wall, you're getting up close to see it and It's right in front of you and all of a sudden unless it vertigo kicks in and you you can't get your bearings your eyes, you refuse to register the right depth of what's right there in front of you. Your eyes just will not focus. And then finally, thankfully, your eyes triangulate the space within which you are and you you get a toehold on the proper perspective. And everything once more begins to make sense in your brain. It's a weird feeling though, when you have any of these kinds of feelings. Have you ever had them? A little unsettling feeling, a nervous feeling? You're glad it's behind you when it's over. You're so grateful that you can again see things as they are. The world, once again, it makes sense. Well, this is what chapter 4 of the Book of Revelation is doing for us. John uses earthbound language about heaven to give us some perspective that we can lock on to. 'Cause when we get disconnected from reality, well strange things can happen. That's why baseball players, they sometimes play a fly ball in the outfield. They're they're out of step with the truth of the situation They so they misjudge the angle, the depth of that brown that round projectile that's hurtling at them through space. Their eyes play tricks on them. Their brain is playing mind games with them It's uncomfortable. It's baffling even. I mean, why didn't my eyes, my mind, my perspective lock in Why'd I misjudge that flyball? Well the fact is that those things maybe did lock in Your brain and your eyes, but they were maybe not locking in on the central thing, not on the thing most important. We can get locked in on the wrong thing And so the right thing then begins to appear to us as if it were warped. Kind of like in the movies and the TV shows. They try to illustrate for us what it's like to have taken LSD and be on an acid trip, you know? Our life sometimes can be like that. We don't always lock in on the one thing that can give us our proper bearings. So feel like we're tripping, man. Really tripping. Well, this is where chapter 4 of the book of Revelation comes in to help us. And this is what it's doing. It's placing our focus where it needs to be, our focus on the throne of God. The throne is the center point around which everything else is related. You lock in on that. And all those feelings of dizziness, queasiness, ambiguity, they go away. Or even better Lock in on the one who is on the throne and then everything in the world, all of history, including my narrow personal life. It makes sense. Now after spending some time in chapters one through three, which diagnose for us the way things are. We're now in the middle of a chapter that begins to show us what it is that comes next And during the past couple of weeks that we are in the book of Revelation, going back a little over a month ago, we were examining the first five and a half verses of Revelation, chapter four, and so now we're going to examine the final half of Verse six through the end of the chapter, verse eleven, which reads And around the throne, on each side of the throne, are four living creatures, full of eyes in front and behind. The first living creature like a lion, the second living creature like an ox, the third living creature with the face of a man, the fourth living creature like an eagle in flight. And the four living creatures, each of them with six wings, full of eyes all around and within. And day and night they never cease to say, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty who was and is and is to come. And whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who is seated on the throne, he who lives forever and ever, the twenty-four elders fall down before him who is seated on the throne. and worship him who lives forever and ever. They cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power. For you created all things, and by your will they existed and were created. This, along with Amos chapter 3, which we read earlier, is the inerrant, infallible, inspired word of God. And so it is a fully sufficient rule and guide for faith and life practice. Those with an ear to hear, let them hear. Now it's been a long time since we were in the book of Revelation, and so it might be difficult to bridge where we were a little over a month ago with where we are now. So just to put us in the right frame of context, to understand where we are in God's Word, to refresh our memories. Here's what the first half of chapter 4 of the book of Revelation says. After this I looked and behold the door standing open in heaven. And the first voice, which I had heard, speaking to me like a trumpet, said, Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this. At once I was in the spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven with one seated on the throne. And he who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian, and around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald. Around the throne were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones are twenty-four elders, clothed in white garments with golden crowns on their heads. From the throne came flashes of lightning and rumblings and peals of thunder, and before the throne were burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God. And before the throne there was, as it were, A sea of glass, like crystal. So this is what we talked about. The past couple of weeks we were together talking about the book of Revelation. In this chapter, we're given a picture of the throne of God. And then picking up with where we're focusing today, it says, and around the throne, on each side of the throne, are four living creatures full of eyes in front and behind. And so we see in our mind's eye, based on this description, a throne and four unusual beings around it. I want us to remember, I've talked about this before. John, he is using earthbound language so that we can understand. God, of course, is spirit. Heaven is not confined by the bounds of the created universe. This extra-dimensional reality, it is not physical like the world that we inhabit, is physical. So, John, he's given a vision that provides symbols and illusions that are couched in terms of the physical universe so that we can at least begin to understand. So we don't want to hyper-realize this. John is not pointing his iPhone camera up into heaven and snapping a photograph. Instead, he is describing the mystical vision that he received from Christ and using words that we can get our heads around And it says that the four beings are on each side of the throne. Now, by this, we're to understand that they are all around the throne. Above, behind, next to, underneath, or to the right, to the left, over, under, whatever combination of words you want to use here, they are surrounding the throne. God's throne is at the center. of it all. They're standing before the seated king with him as the center of focus. And they stand there ready to serve. Well, who are they? Or perhaps a better way to ask the question, who and or what do they represent? Let me start by expressing some mild dissatisfaction with some of the English translations that we have, including the English Standard Version, which is the one that I read from this evening. A number of our English Bibles, they call these four beings the four living creatures. And that's okay. There's nothing wrong with that. I mean, they are not God And so therefore they are created beings, and hence they are four living creatures. If you're created, you're a creature. It means it's certainly better than some of the other translations we have in our English Bibles that call them the four beasts. There's nothing necessarily technically wrong with that, but Calling them beasts, boy, that simply tosses a bucket full of confusion into the study of Revelation because of the beasts that we will encounter later in this letter. A really good translation here might be something like the four attending spirits. Or maybe even the four heavenly figures. That would be okay. But what are these four? Angels? As in messengers? Well, I don't know. Let's walk through some of the best possibilities and see what we can find out. Some experts they suggest that each of these four represents one of the four Gospels. Now, if this is true, it creates a curiosity for us when we Read verse 7: The first living creature like a lion, the second living creature like an ox, the third living creature with the face of a man, the fourth living creature like an eagle in flight. So Which of these, which gospel account is represented by which animal figure? How do we figure that out? Well, some scholars say that Matthew is the man. And Mark is the lion and Luke is the ox and John he's the eagle. Others, they say, well Kind of like uh uh early church father Irenaeus uh had this belief. He he kind of liked this formulation, but he flipped a couple of them. He made Mark the eagle and John the lion. But it doesn't end there. I mean, lots of really smart men of God, they say, Luke isn't the ox. Luke is the lion. With Mark being the ox. And then, of course, we still have Matthew as the man and John as the eagle. Now mixing the variations here, this could go on for hours. I don't know what the mathematical possibilities are, but there's a lot of them And I'm not sure I'm persuaded by any of it, to be honest with you. So what other options are on the table? Well, some throughout church history have claimed that the four figures they're meant to represent the four elements. The ox for earth, the man for air, the lion for fire, and the eagle for water. Of course, others say, no, no, no. That's not it at all. They represent the four stages of Christ. It's life, don't you see? His birth is pictured in this man in uh in the man, his death is pictured in the ox, and his resurrection is pictured in the lion, his ascension pictured in the eagle. But still others, they respond to this by saying, What are you crazy? It's clearly the four directions, north, south, east, and west. And others say, no, it's not. It's the four quarters of the world. Well, I gotta tell you, I'm not a big fan of most of these. I like better in this context, this aspect of this kind of literature and scripture, concepts that are rooted maybe in biblical numerology, because the numerology plays such an important part. for the author of Revelation for John. And how does biblical numerology tend to use the number four? Because again, there's four of these heavenly figures, these attending figures. Well, Four, remember from a number of weeks ago we were talking about some of this numerology, what the number seven means, number four means. Number four is a number of creation. Well, thinking of these terms, we might see that the man is representative of the human race within creation. The lion's representative of the wild animal kingdom, the ox representative of the domesticated animals, and that the eagle represents the birds of the air. Now it does leave out the fish and stuff, so it's not ideal, but it's not bad. And remember, these four figures, they stand before God in service to him. So if we do make this numerical connection to creation, Well then we have all of creation with God at the center. The whole of creation worships God before his throne. And I kind of like that. It's not perfectly satisfying, but it does at least bring emphasis to verse 8, which says Day and night they never cease to say, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is, and is to come. Now the one in the midst of their unending worship, it says here is the Lord God Almighty. It's curios atheas is the phrase there, who's on the throne. If we were to follow the lead of the Septuagint, we could translate this Kuriosa as Yahweh the God Or even better, Yahweh the only God. That's who's on the throne. And the Greek that's used here in verse 8 for the word Almighty, it's not the expected word that we typically see the word for all powerful. Instead It's the word for all-ruler. Not that God's not all-powerful, but it's his rulership that's being emphasized here. He rules all of creation. And all of this here is pictured by the four attending figures. The attending figures of creation. We're part of creation. How attending are we? Are we attentive attentive to worshiping God as we should? Do we even know what that means? I mean, how do we attend to proper worship? Well, one way we might consider this is in the context of what some call the fourfold ministry that's given by Christ to his church. mentioned in the book of Ephesians in chapter four, verses eleven and twelve. And this formulation it will work if one combines pastors and teachers into one group. And I think the way that the The verse is structured. The verse reads, So Christ himself gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists. the pastors and teachers, to equip his people for works of service so that the body of Christ may be built up. So some within the body of Christ, they look at these as offices within the church. Others see them as roles within the church. Some see them as the various aspects of the roles of the offices of the church I say that's a different sermon. Let's not get bogged down in all of that just now. But let's work to apply the scriptures to ourselves personally. If we are active in kingdom ministry, and if we're a follower of Christ, we are to be active in kingdom ministry. So if we're active in kingdom ministry, what's demanded of us? And how might these things be pictured by the four attending heavenly figures? Well One way might be to consider the symbolic attributes of these creatures, these creaturely aspects in the vision. So we're given a lion. Well, what do you think of when you think of a lion? Courage? Strength? Power, maybe? Well, these are good things for you to use in your ministry And it calls to mind Christ's royal office. What do you think of when you think of an ox? Hmm, patient perseverance and toil, perhaps? Humble service. Maybe. Well, that's a good thing for your walk with Jesus. It calls to mind Christ's priestly office. How about the face of a man? What do you think of? Intelligence, maybe, sympathy, rationality? These are all excellent attributes. They point to the human nature of Christ Lastly, there's the eagle in flight. What does that conjure up in your mind? Maybe a soaring aspiration, possibly? You know, being heavenly-minded. Swift service. Irenaeus saw here the gift of Christ's Spirit Hopefully as we've gone through all this you can see what an incredibly beautiful tapestry of representations and ideas, concepts, metaphors, similes that we have here, all directing our thoughts to ultimate reality, directing our attitudes to glorious worship of our King. Because that is the point here. And this is not the first time that God's Word makes use of these combinations of images. Because I mean we're talking about all of creation here, of course. And so these images, they show up in the Garden of Eden Has these sorts of images, including even the heavenly image, right? The cherubim place where sinful man could not go. The Ark of the Covenant, which points us back to Eden, it uh it incorporates these same sorts of images, also prominently featuring winged creatures, seraphim or cherubim. representing their role as servants, as ministers of God. The Old Testament temple also pointing us back to Eden and also pointing us forward to the renewed Eden to come of a future. It also has this imagery built right into its design. Right into its decor. And the four living ones, they're guardians of God's holy residence. And this was clear in Eden. It's clear atop the Ark of the Covenant. It was clear in the temples, Holy of Holies, and it is clear now here in this chamber of divine counsel that's revealed to us in the book of Revelation. This very detailed vision of God's throne room that we find here in this particular book of the Bible It's one of four extended descriptive visions of our Lord's enthroned heavenly glory. The other three, if you want to look them up later and have your own personal study, you're going to want to turn to Ezekiel 1, Isaiah 6, and Daniel 7. And we're also given short glimpses of God's heavenly throne room and his glory in heaven in 1 Kings 22 and Acts chapter 7. And there are a few other references too, like in Job chapters 1 and 2, Isaiah 37, even a few of the Psalms, specifically Psalms 29, 47, and 99. And John, he's drawing from all of this. And he's also drawing heavily from what we find in Ezekiel 10, when he is describing for us what Jesus has revealed to him. Now now not each and every specific detail is exactly the same, and this can drive some people crazy and bad. It can actually shake their confidence in the scriptures. So I want to take a second to talk about that because I want us to keep in mind that These are descriptions of mystical visions. I've already kind of said something about this. These are not photos. These are not video recordings. So don't expect the vision from Ezekiel, for example, and the vision from John to be precisely exactly the same in every little nuanced detail. But if that bothers you, just let me give you something to think about here. You know, some of the differences could simply be a matter of perspective. I'm not saying that's the case. Uh I don't think we need to go this far. But in case you're one of those who's wrestling with this, like, oh, it seems like there's a contradiction in the Bible In the Old Testament, we see heavenly beings, and they each have four faces. Four faces each, but John describes each as having only one face. Is that a contradiction? Well, what if maybe from his vantage point, John was able to see just one side of each creature? So maybe there were four faces, but he only saw one of them. The others were hidden from his view. It's possible, right? Don't you have to have your confidence in Scripture shaken One prophet records that he saw four wings on each creature, but John says he saw six. Well, maybe, perhaps with regard to the wings, John was the one who had the better vantage point, and so he was able to see from his perspective all of the wings whereas the other could only see four. Let's let's not get so focused on the brush strokes here that we lose sight of the big picture Don't look for excuses not to trust your Bibles. John wants us to think of Ezekiel. He's doing this on purpose. It's not a mistake. He wants us to think of Ezekiel. He wants us to think of the other prophetic visions in the Old Testament, those Hebrew scriptures with which he would have been so familiar. He is pointing our attention to them on purpose without copying them word for word. And so there are going to be obvious and purposeful commonalities between the visions. John does it on purpose. But there are also going to be obvious and purposeful differences. That John does on purpose. Now, one difference of note is in Ezekiel's vision, it describes creatures who have wheels, and John's vision doesn't have any wheels. I mean, could there be an interpretive reason for this? Well, I think maybe. I wonder. Maybe the wheels in Ezekiel's vision, they're there to represent the the concept, the ideal that they they travel with God's people. They move. uh when and where God does with his people as the Spirit wills. But in Revelation they don't need any wheels Because now they can be at static rest over the entire earth. Why is that? Because all nations are now part of God's people. They're not moving around, wandering over the planet. Seems reasonable and possible. Look, my motivation in saying all of this isn't to nail you down to a particular interpretation on some of these questions. It's to reinforce your confidence in Scripture. These are various ways of describing the visions. They are not contradictions. Instead, they are complementary to one another. Now let's wrap up our time with this sermon by considering the image of the crowns that are cast before the throne. I've already kind of gotten bogged down in some details, and I don't want to get too much further bogged down in too many details, but one thing I noticed here in verses 9 and 10. is that the number of the uh tenses, the verb tenses here, a number of them could be future. It seems possible that the idea here anyway leaves room for the possibility that the 24 elders That they will fall down in worship in a way that they're not already falling down in worship, that they they will cast down their crowns in a way that they're not currently doing. It leaves open There's some wiggle room there in the grammar. Seems a bit just a tad ambiguous with these words. Now I point this out. Because, in contrast, there are other words in this sentence that are completely unambiguous. And these are the verbs that are associated with God. The verbs associated with God, they are about a current and forever reality. God is Seated. God is living. And in verse 11, God is worthy. He is worthy of all glory, power, and honor. He is So those whom he created acknowledge this by casting their crowns before him. Now these aren't to be understood as merely earthly crowns. I mean earthly wreaths, because these ancient crowns would have been wreaths, they wither and die. These are crowns of life They don't wither and die. These are crowns of victory. And they're not necessarily kingly crowns. That's what we automatically tend to think is about kings. Or it's not necessarily only kingly crowns that are pictured here. This image, it might be a reference to priestly crowns Because God's people, they are a kingdom of priests, after all. We told this in Exodus 19, verse 6, and also in 2 Peter, or 1 Peter, rather, chapter 2, verse 9. However, this exalted status, this co-heirship with Christ, it's not our doing. It's our Lord's doing. And this is why the crowns are cast at the feet of the enthroned Creator. The creator of every one and everything. And this gesture, it highlights the truth that all authority, it comes from him. All authority belongs to him. All authority returns to him. It's being symbolized, tossing the crowns to him. Now compare this with the attitude of the world, where everyone wants to seat themselves on the throne. Make themselves their own God. Everyone outside the body of Christ is their own little Napoleon. You recall from high school history class what Napoleon did when he ascended to the position of emperor in France. How well do we remember our high school history lessons? Assuming we might need a little help, let me refresh your memory. The longstanding practice of the time was for kings and emperors to be coronated during a very elaborate religious ceremony that was headed by an archbishop of the Roman Catholic Church. Now Napoleon, he didn't invite just any archbishop. He invited the Pope himself to officiate his coronation ceremony. And then he persuaded the pontiff to alter the ceremony. Adding a number of brand new secular elements into the ceremony. And it was brilliant politically. And the capper to this brilliant political propaganda, it climaxed when in the presence of the Pope Again, the Pope is officiating this ceremony. Napoleon turns, he removes his laurel wreath from his own head before he then crowns himself. Normally the Pope would have placed the crown on his head. Napoleon does it himself. And he goes even further. He crowns the Empress Josephine as well. He takes her smaller crown. places it on his own head first, and then places it on her head, signifying that her power and authority enthronement comes from him. It has been explained ever since by many experts that Napoleon was symbolizing that he had become emperor on his own. based on his own merits. He is quoted as having said, I don't want to descend from anyone He didn't want to be beholden to anyone else. Not the French people. Not the Pope. Not God. But 150 years earlier, Oliver Cromwell refused to take a crown at all. People of England, they wanted to make Cromwell the king, and he said no. Now, this could have been a political maneuver to hold on to the power he already had, didn't want to disrupt that. It might have been a way to appease the army, because the army did not want him to ascend to the throne. Or it might have been some sort of a false modesty. Now, there are historians who believe that Cromwell turned down the crown because he feared that God would frown on him if he took it. That accepting the crown, it would show ambition and pride, which would offend God. And these two men, interestingly, made the same mistake Even though it played out very differently. Napoleon said, by taking this crown I show that I did this. I earned this crown. I am my own authority. And Cromwell said, if I take this crown, I will show that I believe I did this. I earned this crown, that I am my own authority. Well, the truth for the bride of Christ is that we are given the crown of Jesus. He did this. He earned it. He is the authority We're not so wonderful that we take it for ourselves. And we're not so deceived as to think That when we accept God's crown of life, we are signaling that we wear it based upon our own merit. It's only on the merit and the authority of the one seated on the eternal throne that we are crowned. And this is why the crowns are cast back to him. Indicating that we recognize this truth. Don't diminish God's lordship, glory, honor, and power as did Napoleon. But also, don't do as Cromwell did. Don't diminish the worth and the purpose that your Maker has bestowed upon you He has created all things God has, including you. And it's by His will that you exist, that you were created. So don't put yourself above God saying you don't need him, like Napoleon. But don't put yourself above God by disagreeing agreeing with him that you have been made for and by his will for a specific purpose and calling on your life. As Cromwell did. Behave like either of these men, and you are sure to at some point become disoriented and dizzy and disconnected like I was mentioning at the start of today's message. You're gonna have focus. You're gonna get your bearings. You'll have the proper perspective when you call to mind what chapter 4 of book of the Book of Revelation is doing here. You need to see who is at the center of life's meaning and lock in on that, on the throne of God. Lock in on the one who is seated on the throne. And then everything begins to make sense. Everything, including your own individual personal life, will make better sense. What? It's the life that your Maker created you to live, that your eternal to your eternal life that you're to have with and in Christ. And that is a main thing that we are to take away from Revelation chapter four. Let's pray Father, we thank you for your lordship, your kingship, and your plan. Your plan from before ages. Your plan that we can't even comprehend, so we need to have it, your truth mediated to us in earthly terms, words that we can just begin to get our arms around But we thank you that we're able to know enough by the illumination of your Holy Spirit to recognize that you are our Maker, that you are the ruler, and that you Share the victory of Christ with your people. Help us not to be so arrogant to think that we can do things without you. But help us who are your people not to be so arrogant to think that we can reject what you've given us. Okay, go We know that you love us. We ask and pray that you would help us to love you back more consistently, more thoroughly. We ask you to guide and direct the conversation that we're about to have, that you would bring blessing into the lives of those who hear the truth of your word. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. They teach Napoleon. Huh? You didn't learn about Napoleon in high school? No, I learned more about Napoleon from you two. I mean European history is kind of its own thing from world history, I think. World history? Well there's too much world history to cover I mean we had rolled in three years. Grammar school two. Yeah, I remembered it coming in phases. I I I don't remember exactly, but like freshman year you were focusing on like ancient history, I think, right? And then You didn't have any seven and eighth grades? No, yeah, well there's uh you're copying history explaining it's like one is ancient, then you go medieval but you never get that far and then you go early American history but you don't make it past the Civil War usually or certainly not Reconstruction. So if we could fill it. There are entire gaps that you would not want to do that. Yeah, so in my history being like major gap. Yeah, we learned about uh I remember at least my memory is that we learned about the uh The the the events leading up to and then of course the actual American Revolution. But when uh kind of next to that we're also learning about the French Revolution. And we learned about you know eighteenth uh uh the eighteen hundreds, the uh uh nineteenth century history in America, but also in Europe, which Napoleon was victory. part of that so they were kind of taught in tandem. Yeah the comparison between the American and French Revolutions and then the Atlantic Revolution. I I took AP history classes. So I I can assure you like a Napoleon wasn't like And then then they taught us the uh twentieth century uh history but we only really got up to like maybe nineteen fifty and they ran out of time They never really covered Vietnam. They they do a really quick run through on the civil rights stuff from the sixties, but that was it was kind of it was rushed through I remember a lot of time focused on World War One Yeah, it's faster than what they do nowadays. It's like if you get up to the twenty first or twentieth century, you are ahead of s Everyone else. The rules are different now. So although I do remember inner regnum being covered The publicly funded schools are pagan schools now. So if you're uh you know my wife is rolling her eyes, it's just a fact. It is a fact. You know, I live in Frederick County, I call it Frederick County Pagan Schools. Oh words. So FCPS, Verde County Pagan Schools. You should not be sending your kids to pagan schools. Marxist factories. You should not be doing it. Anyway, uh other than educational uh memories from high school, um any thoughts, immediate reactions to uh Revelation chapter four? I've never heard of any of those scenarios about the beasts or creatures. Okay, I've heard of the animals being associated with the gospel, but never that came from Revelation. Although, wouldn't Luke be the man because he was a doctor? Like that's the logic I've heard. And obviously the eagle is marked because his book It is subjective. I don't know why, you know, there's there's this need sometimes is to try to understand and if we're not careful, particularly in a book like Revelation, one of two things can happen. You can become guilty of hyperliteralizing it, which is what I've been emphasizing. Look, it's not a photograph. Right? It's a description of a mystical vision. Okay, so we gotta be careful with not hyper-literalizing it. But we also don't want to allegorize it either. We don't want to hyper-allegorize, because if you do that, you can make anything be anything you want If you're smart enough, if you're clever enough necessarily, if you're just if you're clever enough. If you're clever enough, you can make anything be anything in in a world of allegory. You've got to be very careful not to do that. And so but I mean I mentioned like early church fathers were having these arguments. Irenaeus is is you know one of the greats in the early church history and he was playing around with it. That's a distraction I think from the enemy. Titus that says to not focus on uh Genealogies and sometimes I think also uh yeah it it I I agree with you. It's now But what when I come across a passage like this, I go, it's there for a reason. Or, you know, everything is so purposeful about the word. I think people just get just get really caught up over rationalizing or over reasoning. And I you know, I maybe a simple way to look at it is that it just represents every kind of creature Creature that can worship God. You know, y uh lion is a wild creature. Um a calf is a domesticated creature And then of course the one with a face like a man would represent humankind. And then the force would represent creatures that fly. I mean Does it have to be deeper than that? I don't know I mean I think we we can just, you know, probably complicate things sometimes when we But yeah, you can I I understand the allegorizing of the gospel. That always that made sense to me because I'd heard that without the association of the verse, so it's like, okay. I I see where they got that from and I kind of can do the math because it's not too much of a stretch. Like I don't think it's that much of a reach when you look at, you know, who these folks kind of specialize in being in the target audience. But why would it wh why would it represent the gospels? What what would be the purpose of that? I don't know. I understand that was like my familiarity with the whole gospels being associated with an animal Yeah, I just I just don't understand. I just you know uh to be I I I'm not you know obviously I'm not attacking your position, but I just I don't understand why it would they would the creatures would need to represent I'm wondering if there was some motivation earlier. the focus of my uh of my work. I don't know. I wonder if in early church history they didn't uh they hadn't fully locked in on receiving the canon There was a lot of debate over uh not a lot. There w there was still some ongoing debate over which books of the Bible are God's word and which ones aren't. And there's a lot of uh false gospels out there. I think the Gospel of Thomas and Revelation tells us. I wonder if that was part of the motivation. Maybe so their heart would be in the right place but that's really a specious kind of an argument. I I I wouldn't um I can understand maybe that could be part of the motivation. But the point though We've got to be careful. We're doing it here actually. It's fine. We're having discussion. But the main point of chapter four is not the creatures. Right. Right. Right. What's the main point? This is the throne room of God. You know how many times the word throne shows up in this chapter? It's like every other word is the word throne. This is about the one seated on the throne. This is about the enthroned God. Absolutely. And it's about the creatures worshiping the whatever God. And so a and because the the word says every knee will bow and tongue can feather it makes sense to me that the creatures represent all the creatures Right. Worshiping whatever those creatures represent, whether it be the gospel or all creation or whatever, they're all centered on circling around, focused on the one on the throne. That's the point. Yeah, that's why it makes sense. Yeah, both can work, sure. It becomes white noise. Seriously, all the other if I was sitting under that teaching where somebody would day in and day out being like, Oh, and this is this, I'd be like, Okay And and that's and for me, that's like my the Holy Spirit in me saying, Yeah, you don't need that. You don't you that's not focusing on the person of Christ And so that you know what I mean? Like there's a point where it becomes lunacy. Divisive. I think it's the denominations form it. over this. Exactly. What you don't believe they represent the four gospels? Yeah, exactly. So that's when you're like, what is going on This is why it's important, you know, I think it's a seminary word, but you know, there it's really emphasized, or at least was for me with my professors, when you're preaching it's really centrally important to to figure out your pericophy And a pericope is just a, uh, in layman's terms, it's a standalone passage of Scripture that you can preach The gospel. You identify the beginning and end of this is a this is a section of scripture to use you know passes Pastor Lingo, that'll preach. You're trying to find the section that will actually preach the way God would intend you to preach it. So you've got to figure out where's your beginning. So I mentioned this because if you don't have the discipline to figure out, okay, what's a section that can actually who preach the gospel where it's about Christ, because Christ Himself tells us the whole Bible is about Him. So if you haven't figured out, you know, okay, what section is going to help me talk about Christ, you haven't figured it out. So you can pick a particular verse or a particular image. You can say, hey, there's these four beasts, as some of our English translations call them. And you start focusing on that word beast, and before you know it, you're connecting it with the beasts that show up later in Revelation. You're confusing the two. And because you're you're you're too narrow. You have a proverb. TV do that. And it really confused me because I was like, what? You haven't properly understood how to divide the scripture into its standalone pericopes. And once you do that, then it's like, okay What does this tell me about Christ? Because I promise you there's no pericope in Scripture that's about beasts. Ultimately about beasts. Sure, sure about the ultimately about Christ and our need for him. That's what they're about. So we get hung up on these words. Yeah, and I I don't know if I've heard that particular story, but I've heard so many Right, you have too. I'm sure we all have heard these still in the and Revelation actually is these horrible sermons from Revelation. Yeah, it was that horrible older guy he The older guy who's dead. Um, no Are you talking about the the Shepherd's Chapel? He yeah, and I was like Murray, Arnold Murray, I think is out of his quax. Yeah I think his name's Arnold Murray. Wack doodle doo like his ministry is called Shepherd's Chapel, and I'm gonna tell you right now Heretical. Christian cult, heretical, not biblical, stay away. Stay away, stay away, stay away. Well it Calvary Chapel sort of thing. Never mind. Yeah I was chapel. That's what he it was like, uh no. Yeah he He died quite a while ago. He's got his really faithful pocket of followers. He's still on TV now. He's got his own entire channel on cable Anyway, it's twenty-four-seven, his false teachings. Anyway. Alright, so that was that was good. Any other things that jumped out? How about uh anything that might as It felt like it applied to you personally. I don't know that I made the connection of you know, receiving the crown and And being careful not to receive that as a false sense of humility, as if you're not worthy of the crown, because that's something that I always always struggled with as part of my walk. So I could see me falling into that, so then just having the knowledge of, oh no, you are to receive the crown and then you're laying it down before his teeth. Oh, because it comes full circle. He gave you the crown and the crown goes back to him. he's worthy of the crown. But you're worthy to receive the crown because of what he did to give you the crown. And it's like, ah. So that that was helpful. That's one of the reasons I emphasize criticize like the the the Cromwell story and stuff is because sometimes it's misunderstood of what's going on with those crowns being tossed back. Like, oh I'm not supposed to have this crown Only God's worthy of the crown. What's true? He's only innately worthy, but he has declared us worthy in Christ. And so we're acknowledging that we are declared worthy in Christ, and so we're giving back to him what he's given us, trusting fully that we're going to still be co heirs with Christ. You know, we're not Again, this is symbolic. Don't read too exact a meaning into some of these things. So what's being pictured there is we're returning to God an acknowledgement that this authority he's given us comes from him. That's what's being pictured there. We only have the authority because it comes from you, and so the visual representation of that is the symbol of the authority, the crown is going back to you. It's not like we're throwing it away like, oh, we can't have it. That's not what John is doing here. The way that that scripture speaks to me the Lord's been speaking to me in this in this way lately. Um you know he all call he calls everybody to greatness however that looks for them. Right. First. And the thing that the Lord has been speaking to me is um y you remember how when he called Moses to his assignment, at one point he actually got angry with him if he was like okay you know he got frustrated with Moses and what what that uh what that speaks to me is that God calls us all to do something great. He created He create we're the only creatures created in His image. He called us to greatness and it's actually it it can be annoying to him when we have that false humility that you spoke of. offense to him. Like like it was with Moses. And and i i it in other words you know, get over yourself. And to accept what he wants you to have because he's called you to it. It's not about you ultimately, no. But he called you to do something great And that's the that's what makes that's part of what makes him great. He calls us, we're supposed to reflect his image. And he's great. Well how can we reflect his image How can we reflect the image of a great God if we aren't raised to something great? So th there is that false humility that's actually Ironically dishonoring to us. Yeah, yeah, I think. Because if it's if it's false humility. Yeah, it's prize. The weird prize. It's the weirdest price. If we get back to our prize, like how Um how someone uses like a verse like uh love your neighbor as yourself to you know to reduce God's law but then to expand God's law where it did doesn't actually cover like it's a backdoor legalism. Right. Like we create these backdoors that don't seem like it doesn't seem like it's pride, but it actually is pride. Well, and even the the people who take vows of poverty. Oh look at me, I have nothing. Oh, I'm so good, I have nothing. I'm like, uh that God didn't call you to that. Mm-hmm. If you're not providing for your family, that's Yeah, we mentioned a uh a heretic is a dead guy, an old dead guy. Let's mention somebody who's not a heretic who's uh one of the heroes uh of the faith as Robert as I'm concerned, who's a dead guy uh old guy who's now dead, R. C. Sproul. R. C. Sprohl used to tell this uh this great story about this woman that comes into his office and she's just beside herself. She feels like she's You know, she's so basculated and she's done so many things wrong that she can't be counted as a Christian anymore. And RC says, Well you know, what do you mean? Like what'd you do? And so you see She ex unloads on him her sin and he said, All right, well what you need to do is you need to go to God in prayer and you need to ask him for forgiveness. And she says, Well I already have, so what should I do? And he said Okay, so you need to you need to go to God in prayer and ask for forgiveness. He says, you're not hearing me. I just said that that's what I've done. I've gone to God and I've asked for forgiveness. And R and R C says to her, yeah, but you're you're saying that you don't you're you don't feel forgiven, that you're not forgiven She says, right. Okay, so what you need to do is you need to go to God in prayer and ask for forgiveness. And she's really frustrated. And she said, I've already asked him to forgive me for, and she blurts out whatever her sin was, you know And he says, oh no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm not asking you to go to God and ask him to forgive you for that sin. I'm telling you to get on your knees before God and ask him to forgive you for your arrogance. And she says, arrogance? What do you mean arrogance? I mean I'm broken up by my sin. I I mean I can't even forgive myself Much less accept g forgiveness from God. How am I being arrogant? He says, God's word tells you that you're forgiven in Christ And you're refusing to believe it, which means you know better than God. How much more arrogant can a person be? So that false humility. Absolutely. Is actually arrogant. Oh absolutely. It's a really twisted I mean we we can we can see in some really twisted ways. Well that's a that's a like a that's a a a Sociopaths typically is that personality type that it's it's all about them to the point where they have false humility. That that type of a a personality treat. Right. I I I am the one person who has committed the Unforgivable sin. Right. So terrible. That's the thing. Yeah. Yeah, the person you say, man, I'm such a sinner, and their and their response is, oh, you know what happened with me. Let me tell you my story. Right? Like we gotta one up each other with our friends. Here's another one. I have pain That is so deep. You cannot begin to minister to me because you don't understand. I've gone through too much. You don't get it. And and don't even try to talk to me. and tell me uh don't say anything just shut up because uh only I could t I could talk talk about this and yeah. Well I one of the things and talk about um one of the scriptures that comes to mind is Anyway. When the woman or the man I guess it's the guy who's by the pools and he's waiting for the you know the Angels will go in and for the waters and for the healing waters and Jesus w and he's oh Jesus comes up. You know, Jesus Do you want to be well, oh every time I say that I can't get that and Jesus says, pick up your mat and walk. I think that was a rebuke. I don't think it was like, oh, you should pick up your mat and walk. I'm here now. I think Jesus was like, for the love of Pete, take up your mat and read. I gotta be honest, the first time that Dina shared with me her understanding of that passage And to date, to be honest, he's the only one that I've heard shared that particular standing. But over the years now, when I read that passage That's how I read it. Absolutely. Well that's true for a lot of people. They don't really want to be healed. That's the reason why that they're not healed. Absolutely. I mean Jesus didn't walk up and heal people just willy-nilly, right? He just asked them, What do you want? Do you want to be healed? And he did not respond with yes. He responded with excuses, and that's when the Holy Spirit spoke to Because how many times in scripture he would go to someone and say, Do you want to be well? And they would say yes. And they say your face has healed you. Or they they find him out and go, or how about the man that says, Jesus? Right, exactly. And that to me when the whole The Holy Spirit spoke to me and I was like, lightful revelation moment. I was like, wow, because he isn't gonna force himself on himself Anyone. So you think victim mentality is new? I mean that's story. Victim mentality. Exactly. And victim mentality isn't just on the left I'm seeing it on the right right now. How many people friends of yours that might agree with a conservative worldview that you might have? If you're watching this, you're probably, you know, conservative, you wouldn't be watching us probably talk about this otherwise. Not at this stage. How how many people have you heard or post on social media how outraged they are that the schools are forcing their children to wear masks The parents and their children are victims of the system. Are you kidding me? Who's sending those kids to school? You you can do something about that Ow. You know, like what's going on in Afghanistan, those are true victims, right? I mean they're being uh rustled out of their homes, they're being uh stories are the the children are being uh crucified upside down and And the people are being beheaded and women are being ravaged and uh I mean it's disgusting it is disgusting those people are victims because I mean they're doing the best they can and things way out of their control uh they're victims. But if you're participating in your victim status, you're not a victim other than your own stupidity, your own weak willedness, your own lack of faith, your own whatever your issues are. Yeah, victim status is nothing to Anyway, I digress. Yeah. Sorry. No, well, you know, we did defend force a while. Anything any last words before we uh No, but Ang to Angela's point, we are called to excellence because we serve an excellent God who has made us worthy of excellence because of us being created And and and part of a part of that excellence is being healed. We don't want to give glory to the devil. Amen. And you know, we give glory to the devil when we walk in a victim mentality. Right. Hope that people don't don't misunderstand our heart. It's not that we don't have a heart for people pain but we can be proud proud prideful even of our pain if we're not careful. We can say I'm the one person who cannot Thank you very much. And my suffering is so great that you could never ever. I may not understand your suffering But the but the Lord does. He was tested in every way. So let's dive into scripture and pray together. And here's the one here's the other thing too. The word says that there's no suffering that's been done that's not common to man somebody somewhere understands your suffering. So you're not unique in in that pain. Somebody somewhere attra understands that pain, even if it does not happen to be me. So yeah. There's different commonalities we can connect to, you know, like if somebody's suffering from uh cancer and you haven't had cancer, well you might not know precisely what it's like to have cancer, but maybe you know what it's like to be sick and feel horrible and so you have some way of connecting and having some empathy in the situation. I mentioned this in my last little pastoral lesson, but I was at a place a couple months ago. Uh bunch of Christian people and it was a good thing. But somebody just kinda offhandedly, I think it was actually in the context of might have been a prayer or it might have been a lesson. I don't know which. But anyway, the the phrase was they're talking about God and how God is wholly other. And afterwards I went up and found that person and I said, you know, we've got to be careful If we say that God is whole not wholly like H-O-L-Y, right? Holy, W-H-O-L-L-Y, right? Holy, completely, right? Completely other. If God is completely other, we have no point of contact. How could God communicate with us? So we're he's not wholly other. It also deny the uh the doctrine of us being image-bearers. We're made in God's image. So we have a speaking God. We speak. His ways are higher than our ways. We can't comprehend the fullness of all of his ways. But there's enough of a touch point that we can actually have a relationship. Well that's true for us as individuals too. Some everybody's story is different, everybody's pain is different. But I'm telling you, if you know somebody you work with, a neighbor or whatever, and you think, oh man, they got it going, they don't have any problems in their life, that just tells me you don't know them well. enough because everybody's got pain in their life. Everybody. So all right. We'll wrap up. Maybe we'll uh you you haven't got a chance to talk as much as the rest of us. So how about if you close us with a word of prayer? Dear Lord, we thank you for this day and we just thank you for this gathering and we just uh praise you for everything and you're doing. We praise you for your word, and we just want to make sure that you remain the center of your word and that we focus on you while we read it. And we just see how you are the message of scripture. You are the hero of the story and not us. We're not other uh pigmentations And we just praise you and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, so we're gonna pick up with uh Revelation chapter five next week. So we're gonna keep pressing through for many, many months. Who knows?