And we can uh join our voices in singing our available. We'll sing our twice this morning, acapella. And remain standing for our first praise song, uh Leaning on the Everlasting Arms at number uh two hundred and ninety-two And we'll be doing all three verses in your handles. What else do you want to join me in only everlasting? What a lesson, what a beauty life, be on the everlasting life, freaking. Oh, how sweet and walk here still waiting on the everlasting heart. Oh no I perhaps will strongly on the everlasting life and secure No, me no he llegado. Why hell is it good? Why hell are you fear? We mean while we have a life thing, I The rose of the wall Take the cure from the whole leaving everyone. This morning's meditation comes from a little book I have called Morning Search Two List It says a thousand may fall at your side and ten thousand at your right hand, but it shall not come near you. Psalm ninety one seven You turn on the TV and the commercials suggest that you may need to be treated for an ailment. Open a magazine and see that you need this pill if you're over 40, or find out you have one in a thousand chance of succeeding at something. Negativity is all around us, making us wonder if our outcome will be any different from those who don't trust Jesus. Personally, this is when I must rehearse out loud that I am chosen and appointed to bear lasting fruit. John 15, 16 despite what is happening to the other 10,000, especially when it comes to health. The previous verses of Psalm 91 talk about sickness, disease, and sudden destruction. But we can have confidence that if we have made Jesus our refuge, these things shall not consume us. Do you believe that? One simple way I practice this. This is standing resistance against things said about health that are contrary to the word. When average of season comes around I speak to my body and tell it to block unnecessary histamines, no matter the outcome. Like Elizabeth and Sarah in the Bible, I believe in Jesus For the strength to conceive a baby, even though I'm middle-age. The world is filled with a tremendous amount of messages saying no, but I believe the word gives me good reason to say yes. The amazing stories of Elizabeth and Sarah are in Luke 1 and Genesis 18 to 20, respectively. To stand out from the crowd, I have to train my mind to believe what the Word says. Alright, so I'm sure many of you know this next one. If you do, you can feel free to sing along. It is not things hold Holy Comfort cannot hold. Right me alone to face temptation so I come to the home when I go. For the laying up brand to take me in the Wait, could I go to the Life here with prince of so be comfortable, I guess. From God knowing one I think that she And unlearned To the law Way could I go all where could I Yeah. Amen. If you're able, can you stand for false worship that will be in news in this morning? Print it in your uh bulletin. He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will rest in the shadow of the Almighty. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress. My God, in whom I trust. Surely he will save you from the fowler's snare and from the deadly pestilence. He will cover you with his feathers, and under his wings you will find refuge. His faithfulness will be your shield and ramp art. Tell your name. Father, we thank you for this day. We thank you for this full house. We thank you that we are surrounded by these lovely flowers in memory of Thoris, our sweet sister who just died. past. And Father, we just uh we we take uh a heart that we we know where Doris is, uh just such a sweet person and we know she's there with you, Lord Jesus. Jesus. And Father, we just uh there's a lot going on in our world right now. And Father, the events of the past several weeks here I know uh when we watch the news and we see what's going on and we can have that anger build up inside us And Father, we just uh we ask that you come into our hearts and take that anger away. Take that anger that we have for everything that's going on around us That we can be in the world and not of the world. And give us uh and while it's heart, you know, in our human mind and our human body Give us the grace and the compassion that we need right now with so many things going on around us. Father, we just ask that You know, you keep those parents and families of those soldiers who were killed this week. And uh five of which were only twenty years old. One was getting ready to be a new father. And their lives have been cut short now, Father. And we just ask that you just wrap your loving arms around those families Father, we ask that you also just wrap your loving arms around those who served in Afghanistan and know what it's like there. and how the Afghan people helped and and uh you know it's hard for us to wrap our heads and our minds around all of that But Father, we we still we need to have that compassion. You know, you you tell us to love ourselves as we love our neighbors. Well, our neighbors are further reaching than the people that live and live next door to us. They're the ones that live around the world too. And Father, we're, you know, like I said, we just we can't wrap our heads around it, but but Father, just give us the comfort and the peace to um just not be so angry. And Father, we would be amiss if we didn't pray for our leaders in this situation. You know, I know every one of us in here, you know, we we have our own opinions, but we still we need to pray for our leaders. Scripture tells us that we need to pray for our leaders. And I just ask that everyone find it in their heart to do so. And Father, the past couple of weeks there have been young children that have been, lives have been taken by their own parents. And Father, we know that those children are sitting up there at your right hand, but you know, it's hard for us to comprehend how this can happen in our world. And we know it's prophesied that it's going to get worse. But help us to take the you take the anger away from us. And I can't just repeat that enough because we have gotten to be an angry people. And Father, I just ask that you just pull that out of us right now. Father, I know that uh there are people in this congregation That are mourning right now, but they are also rejoicing, rejoicing that their loved ones are there with you, out of pain, out of this world. Father, we know that sixteen years ago today, Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans. And Father, there's a catapult storm hitting there right now. Father, they were told to go to higher ground, but some people couldn't get to higher ground. But Father, we thank you that we can get to higher ground with you. Through the blood of Jesus Christ, your Son, that you sacrificed for us so many years ago, that we could have eternal peace with you. Eternal glory with you. And we thank you and love you for it. In Jesus' name. Amen. Our next hymn is number three hundred and ten. My hope is built of nothing less of solid rock. Whenever it decides to start the line as well return. But All right, well let's do an al capella, how about that? I don't know what it's decided to do, but My hope is on nothing less than Jesus Christ, my righteousness. I did not trust the sweetest ring, but holy lean on Jesus' name. All the Christ is all in progress and all other ground is sinking stand, all other ground is sinking stand. When darkness fails his worldly face, I rest on him his unchanging grace. In every high instrument, my anchor holds within the fail. All the Christ is all in rock, right, stand, all other ground is sinking fair, all other ground is sinking fair. And his voice is called his blood, so for me is overwhelming blood. When all around my soldiers way, even it's all my birthday. On Christ was strolling rock by stand. All of the ground is sinking sand. All other ground is sinking sand. When he shall come with trumpets sound, oh maybe sound. Yes, in his righteousness, always to stand before the throne Oh, in Christ's soul in Robert and all other crowns, drinking chin. Oh, other crown is thinking friendly I see that I got real caught up in my prayer. So can we uh join our hearts and our voices with that perfect prayer? Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy Same come. Thy will be done in our as it is in heaven. Give us this day of our daily prayer and forgive us our debts as we forgive ourselves and be respond to temptation. But deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen. Well this morning, well actually on Tuesday, I came up to spend some time Tuesday afternoon with with Jillian. And we just kinda hung out. And I said, Julianne, you know, having hard time figuring out what I'm gonna save for offering. And don't you know the next day she sent me a race bed new devotional that says Cheerful Giver. So here we are. From the fields around the towns they were to bring into the storerooms the portions required by the law for the priests and the Levites, for Judah was pleased with the ministering priests and Levites. And that's from Nehemiah 12, 45. four. Those offerings and contributions were given with pleasure. The Scripture carefully informs us that offerings mean nothing if they are not given cheerfully If you are not giving with pleasure, God does not want your gift. He does not care how big or small it is. If all you are after is to make an impression on others by the size of your gift, God is not interested in that. Jesus told of a widow who put two tiny pieces of money into the treasury Saying that she had given more than all that the rich people had cast in that day. God would pick up that insignificant amount and use it more mightily than he would the larger gifts of the wealthy. What God looks for always is a note of pleasure, of delight, of cheerfully returning funds to Him out of a thankful heart. Dr. H. A. Armside used to tell the story of an old Scotsman who inadvertently dropped a gold sovereign in the collection bag at a church service. In Scotland, when the ushers take up the offering, they use a long pole with a bag on the end of it, which they pass among the pews. This old strikesman put in a gold sovereign by mistake when he meant to put in only a shilling. As soon as he realized his mistake, he tried to receive his sovereign. Can you imagine that? Running around trying to find the sovereign and the bag on a long pole in the middle of church. But the usher pulled the bag back and said, Nah, once in, always in. The old man said, Ah, well, I'll get credit for it in glory. The usher replied, Nah, you'll get credit for the shilling. That is all the old man intends to give. So we are to give as God has given, freely and gladly. The closing sentence of this paragraph says: they also set aside the portion for the other Levites. They were careful to take care of the others who were not able to be there, or who were busy performing and therefore did not have opportunity to share in the offer. This is a beautiful picture of the oneness of the nation of Israel. God is constantly seeking to teach these people that they belong to each other. They were not individualists doing their own thing, but they were workers together with God. I do not know any truth that is more important in the body of Christ than to recognize That God uses people different from us. We must recognize that our way of serving God is not the only way, but that we belong to and need one another. And at this time, we'll have uh we'll invite you to bring your tithes and offerings to the front of the church as you contemplate additional ways to support and participate in church events and programs. The time of the time bring out the news of another day. Someone does that. What someone is Who may have gone for every courage to renew. It is so be press what God What is that for us Would you like to put it on the phone? It is not what There is no night, for in his life you never walk alone. Always feel at all wherever you may b There is no power to come to God on your side. He met his problem It is no decimal. What if I forget we would be glory we don't know? It no speaking what God can do. See the doctor. Brace him up on the heavenly ghost, praise fathers on the ghost Father, we thank you for the blessings of money. As we watch the devastation in our world, help us to have the wisdom, the knowledge, and the guidance from you as to which efforts to support. Bless the gift and the giver, just like the woman who gave her last two. wings. In Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, our next hymn is precious Lord, take my hand number two forty nine. Alright, this one's a little bit weird. You guys only have two verses in your hymnals. I have a third verse as well, and then we go back to the first one. So if you happen to know the third verse by heart, feel free to sing along. If not, you can just pause until we get back to the first verse. Leave me all healthy band. I am weak. I am walk. Through the stone, through the light, bring me all to the light. Take my hand. Precious leave me home when my way proves clear. Precious Lord lingered near when my life is hold. Нет Hear my call, hear my fall, hold my head, let thy fall, take my hand, let it fall. And the nine draws near and the day Is passing all the reasons guide my team. Hold my hand, take my hand. Precious Lord, leave me hold Precious Lord, take me. Need my head, leave me all helping I try. I am we I am through the story through the night. Leave me all to the line, take my hand, precious law, leave me all. Same for his precious law leave me. You guys really sound beautiful from up here. Well we're giving Jessica a real workout here today, I'll tell you. She has uh Decided to also give us some special music this morning. It's uh Dem Historic Reality in the Mail. Don't so challenge, what is going on she said, so it's fear. Everything I think you throw You're too close along turn don't I You reach for faith to hold on to tell me. We can't take it any longer. God till there's no dog to get your age is stronger. Don't start, my name let you go Don't let me write me love you enjoying that Just Everything I think You're too. Won't she remember when in the middle of a range wind? Eating the cattle for me walk. But he got scared to look away and I'm gone. And he thought Don't touch out there. Love him knowledge you could fear on the house. Everything will change a flow won't you fill the monster Don't start down God's for God name Someth we can hear the prayer Don't start again, don't ever want you to death Don't let fear when we run you the sun Just the count for you everything else What an excuse song in all that people said. Amen. Amen. All right, it comes a time of caring and sharing. Do we have any uh anyone that has not been here before? Should we do? All right. Two jars of honey. All right, George. It's tradition. It's tradition here at Vermont Church of the And it's from Psalm 119. 102. three. And uh and we welcome you this morning. Welcome Joy. This is Marvin's niece. I know she's been here before, but it's been a long time. And she's done so many things for Marvin today. And uh if we did well work for even though we don't see her very often, so here you are. Thank you. All right. Are there any others? Okay, um at this time I'm gonna go ahead and introduce our speaker of the morning, um, Choice Dinner. He comes to us from Frederick. All right. So after our joys and concerns, I'm going to turn the service over to him and please give him your unbivided So do we have anyone who has some way God worked in their life this week? I've already mentioned one that I got the devotional from Joanne, and that just That was from God. I mean, you know, to be on Tuesday and not knowing what I was I that nothing was coming to me And then when I read that I was like, oh my goodness, but I had already done the prayer for it. I just hadn't done the beginning part. So I had already mentioned the two coins, but that was what was in the rain segment. So, you know, God knew I mean So uh anyone else? Some I had a real choice. Um my cousin who is um has COVID and he's in York, um, Monday evening I was had the opportunity and thank God for you know new things that are out there it's called Zoom, I was able to see him Um, he responded so well he wasn't able to wake up or anything like that, but he responded so well that they said that on Tuesday night we get to do it again. So we and when he heard that we were gonna come back on as the family He opened up his eyes and we told him how much we loved him. He he can't talk because he's got this track thing in his throat. Um but he melt, I love you And and what a joy and this fever has totally broken. Um they did find an infection that was in this trap. Um and and it keeps caught and said they gotta keep things today because we don't 'Cause it's it's hurting him. But he's down now to thirty percent of using your oxygen and to keep these lungs involved. So we just thank you for the prayer the prayers. Um But what a joy it was to be able to see him. And I've known Andy for almost fifty years. And I found out last year by calling Marvin. He said, No, somebody who wants to talk to you. We're going to hold this lady gets home there. She goes, You don't know me? And I said, No. But she's doing my family. She goes, Well who might that be? And I said, Well, Andy Wilson, but I know that she was not it is me. But I know her. I worked with her and what a pleasure it was to be able to work with her for But I've known her for a very long time. But what a joy is to have her here today. Praise the Lord for physical healing and and renewed relationships from a long time ago. Sometimes we have those relationships where, you know, we have a friend but we haven't seen 'em in ten years and And you can pick up that friend and pick up just like you never left it off. That's the kind of friend it has. Anyone else? Update on Barbara. She's home. She called me yesterday and she says, I'm home. And then she says, Oh by the way, we have to go to breakfast Tuesday morning. So did she did someone bring her home or did she call an Uber to bring her home? Um since she wanted to get home for that. I know Her daughter in law Kathy got her home. And then Patty, her daughter from Ohio came in yesterday, so Patty's with her. Anyone else? Anyone else? Okay, Troy, I'm gonna turn it over to you for prayer this morning then. Well good morning. I bring to you this morning greetings from the Household of Faith in Christ, a small house church gathering that meets here in Ferdinand County. And it's uh just an honor and privilege to be invited to share God's Word with you. It's uh always exciting to share God's word, but it's for some reason it's particularly more exciting when you're sharing with somebody that you haven't ever shared it with before. So thank you for the privilege of doing so. So uh we're gonna bring our prayers before the Lord, uh the prayers of the people, a pastoral prayer here. So if you would all uh bow your heads Father, we come together today to magnify your name, acknowledging who you are and who you've made us to be. We ask that you would help us to be obedient, that we'd be busy about the work of the kingdom, busy about making things on earth the way they They are in heaven. We were reminded this morning what a joy divine, what a fellowship that we have, leaning on the everlasting arm. Lord, we ask that you would help us to maintain a proper uh God honoring attitude toward health concerns, an attitude that is biblical in its focus. We Ask the question as we sing today, where could we go but to you, Lord, with these sorts of concerns? Help us to stay focused on the one who is on the throne the eternal throne. It's under your wings that we find refuge. Lord, our hope is indeed built on nothing less than Jesus' blood. righteousness. So even when we are tired and weak and worn with illness or concerns about the world around us, we thank you and trust you as you take our hand. Hand, precious Lord, and leave us home. Despite what we see around us in the world, things that can cause us grave concern and consternation, whether it be Afghanistan. Or China, or Australia, Canada, Britain, even the United States Don't let us fear. Don't let us have worry rob us of the joy and contentment we can find in you. Keep us from doubting now. We praise you, Lord, for wonderful announcements of rejoicing today We are so happy to acknowledge your hand in Donna's cousins uh ongoing recovery from COVID and the encouragement that he apparently received from uh the technology that allows us to have zoom calls in such situations. Uh in your perfect timing in a time such as this, you have intended for Zoom to come into existence and to be useful to that particular family at this particular time for this particular disease that is dominating news reports. of late. We praise her with thank you for Andy and renewed relationships and the important role she plays to members of this congregation. And uh we rejoice with Barbara that she is now home. We also rejoice with all of those unspoken blessings and mercies that you bestow upon your people that are resounding in our hearts. And we ask for a measure of grace and Extra measure of grace as we are concerned about the way of the world around us. Help us to stay focused on the reasons that we have to rejoice. That we are able to do so because of the empowerment of your indwelling Holy Spirit, that we have because of the sacrifice of your Son Jesus Christ. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. So this morning we are going to be spending time in First John chapter one verses one through four. So if you want to grab a Bible and read along, you'll follow along with the message that if you do that, invite it and encourage to do so. 1 John, not to be confused with the Gospel of John. So the first epistle of John. A little deeper into your New Testament is where you're turning. And we'll be looking at the first four verses. 1 John chapter 1, verses 1 through 4, which say That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked at, and our hands have touched This we proclaim concerning the word of life. The life appeared. We have seen it And testify to it. Let me proclaim to you the eternal life which was with the Father and has appeared to us. To proclaim to you what we have seen and heard, so that you also may have fellowship with us. And our fellowship is with the Father. And with his Son Jesus Christ. We write this to make our joy complete. This is the infallible inerrance because it is the inspired Word of God and therefore is a fully sufficient rule and guide for faith and let practice those within your hearer. Let them hear. So unlike what we're used to hearing, I'm gonna slide this chair back just a little bit if you don't mind. Well, unlike what we're used to hearing in most of the other books in the New Testament, this first epistle from John does not open with a friendly greeting and a formal declaration of authorship. Instead, we find that we are hit square in the jaw with the gospel message. This is a letter about Jesus And John wastes no time telling us what we need to know about Jesus. The very first sentence says so much. Now I doubt that I've ever said so much in a single sentence in my entire existence. In just one sentence, John tells us that Jesus is both God and man, that we can trust that it's true because there are witnesses and there are very life. Depends on believing it. I doubt it ever said so much in a single paragraph uttered in my entire existence. The first phrase in the sentence is that which was from the beginning. This reminds us that the Son of God has been around from the beginning. Think of the implications. Think about what you remember from your scripture memory verses over the years. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. That of course is the famous first sentence of the entire Bible. Genesis verse 1. So in this very first phrase from 1 John, he is telling us something incredibly incre Jesus is God. Tell me something, I don't know. You might be saying to yourself, of course Jesus is God, you're thinking, right? Well many today they take the claim of Jesus' divinity for granted However, there must be a reason that John is reminding us of this truth. And so let's ponder it for a moment. Remember, this letter was written to the church. The intended audience was a group of people who already professed to believe. Throughout the epistle, John uses words like: my children, friends. He uses the corporate word we when he's talking about the fellowship of believers. Many in John's original audience, perhaps. Many who are in this audience here today, they might have even come to be believers because of so many other things that John has said and written. Such as what we find earlier in the New Testament. Things like, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. That of course is the Familiar refrain from John's gospel account, chapter one, verse one. By the way, verse two says he was with God. In the beginning. There's that word beginning again in both verses. Reminds you of Jesus in Revelation, also written by John Where he says that he is the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning, and the end. So this is familiar Turf for John. And yet he doesn't spend much time lacking eloquent here in 1 John chapter 1. It seems that there must have been some professing Christians. In John's day, who denied the deity of Christ. We have professing Christians today who do the very same thing. John tackles this issue, head on. And he does not give bogged down in argumentative style points. He wastes no time reaffirming the truth. It is an absolutely important truth. It is the absolute important truth. And we must never forget it This is why it's John's lead, his headline. You know, the newspaper business, the editors, they try to gain the reader's attention with some, you know, they catch the most important point of a story. With a bold headline. Electronic news media, they do the same thing, it's accomplished by using a strong opening statement that That captures the thrust, the central aspect of the news story. This is called the lead. One of the worst technical mistakes a newswriter can make is failure to have a strong lead. To altogether miss the point of the story in the opening sentence. This is called burying the lead. John does not bury the lead Not in the least. Right off the bat, he is sure to announce the fact that Jesus is God. Some might have their doubts, but John have none of Acts. As I mentioned a moment ago, Johnny tells us that Jesus It was from the beginning. Again, this means that he is God. And then John says, I heard what he had to say. I Saw him with my very own eyes. He said, I touched him with my very own hand. This is exactly what John is saying in the middle part of verse one. Well, almost exactly. John doesn't say, I saw, touched, and heard Jesus. John says, we saw, touched, and heard Jesus. You and I, we don't have to simply take God John's word for it. A bunch of other witnesses who echo what it is that John here has to say. Perhaps you've heard of them. You can almost imagine John saying as we read between the lines of the apostles. These apostles, they didn't simply glean a passing glance of their Lord, but they saw him. Heard him. Touched Yeah. Experienced. This is much more than the And this is what John is saying to us in the middle third of his first sentence. And yeah, he is saying so much more. John, he isn't saying that there are a bunch of trustworthy witnesses proclaiming the truth of what they experienced. That's not all he's saying, although let's not forget. I mean, Jesus himself said in Matthew chapter 18 how important it is for every man to be established by the testimony of two or three witnesses. But the fact that these witnesses experience Jesus in such a personal way, this tells us something else, of monumental importance. Jesus is a man. Boy, John can almost appear and just get the break Right after John tells us Jesus is God, he tells us that Jesus is man. Wow, is God but a mere man to be seen and touched? God told Moses in Exodus chapter 33 that no one may see his face and live. And yet, here, John says. God was not only seen, but touch too. And not just one. But over the entire course of Christ's life and ministry, how can this be? Can only be if Jesus is not only fully God, but also fully man. Which of course he is. Colossus chapter 2, verse 9 tells us in Christ, all the fullness of D lives in bodily The Apostle Paul repeatedly tells us that one man, Jesus Christ, is the key to our salvation. In fact, Paul uses the exact words, one man Jesus Christ, twice in almost the same breath in Romans chapter 5. So, John, he's not telling us something here. We're not hearing from the other witnesses of Christ. But this does not make it any less fantastic. The final third of this first sentence it ends with Jesus identified as the Word of Life. Once again, it reminds of John's gospel account. Jesus is the word of life. The word is God Powerful. God speaks things. Happen. Let there be light. Bingo. It's better than those old clappers. Remember those? I don't think the clapper ever said, let's make man in our image. God reveals himself through his word. God reveals Himself through the personal work of Jesus Christ. The works good. The works perfect. Words God. John doesn't really say here in verse 1 that Jesus is the Word, and leave it at that. He said that Jesus is the Word of life. There is life in the Word. We're again reminded in the book of Genesis and the Tree of Life. We've reminded in Revelation and the Book of Life We may also be reminded of the flip side of this equation. The opposite of life is death. Life is found in the Word. Death is found In sin. See the last half of Romans chapter 5, for example. So not only is this important stuff, John here, he's telling us literally this is an issue of life. And death. Romans chapter six, verse twenty-three. All the rights the wages of sin You ever sinned? It's a rhetorical question. Well, if you sit. Then I'm paying it. You go to collect your check, what you will receive, your wages will be Death. That's both before and after taxes. That's what you've earned. Or Paul, he goes along in the last half of verse 23 to say these blessed words, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. And hey, you know what? That's exactly what John here is saying to us in 1 John. We have eternal life if we are in Christ Jesus. Because Christ Jesus is the word of life. In Jesus we have eternal Life. Now that might not sound like any great shakes, eternal life. To someone who's depressed. Stress, disillusioned over the things of this life. But what if you could have ongoing eternal life and never have to worry about paying those taxes? Never struggle with mowing along, shoveling the driveway. Never uh grow weary, get sick, never get weak with issues of aging. any concerns about loved ones? Well then, I mean, eternal life takes on a whole new dimension. In Revelation 21, we're giving a small glimpse of the Christian's eternal life. What it's like. Here's what it says. Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or mourning. For crying, for pain. That's living See, John doesn't tell us that Jesus is the word of mere eternal existence. He is the word of life. In Christ we have in the fullest, most complete, and perfect sense of the word, eternal life. John packed all of this into just one sentence What has taken me more than a thousand words to say, John says, in just one verse? And then in verse 2, he tells the same thing all over again for emphasis, but in a slightly different order. In verse 2, John tells us as readers basically that Jesus, who is the Word of Life, appeared We witnessed this appearance, and now we're telling you about it. And what we're telling you about this appearance is critical because it has eternal life and death. implications because what we're talking about here is God, and oh by the way, that I mentioned, he's appeared to us So after Johnny tells us what he has to say, and then he provides the reason we can have confidence in believing it, and then he reiterates his points for emphasis. He then gives us the why. Why is John? Why are the other witnesses sharing what it is they have to say? Sharing what it is you need to hear. Well John says in verse 3 has to do with fellowship He wants us to have fellowship with him and with the others who are sharing the Christian testimony. Well, they're nice. Perhaps who invite us over for coffee in a Danish in chapter two. I'm being facetious, but can that we usually have come to mind when we think about fellowship? Coffee and donuts. They hang out together, and maybe we share something of ourselves, maybe we don't. Simply, a couple of fellows happen to be riding along in the same ship. So we get the word fellow ship. Sounds like a right to you, right? Well the word fellowship it actually has a much richer meaning than this. Webster's College Dictionary could be helpful here. It says that fellowship is the condition or relation of belonging to the same class or group. The root word, of course, is fellow. West Russe is probably fellow as a person belonging to the same rank or class. Equal, peer. Well, we see the full sense of this fellowship demonstrated for us in the book of Acts In chapter 2. Peter had just finished speaking to the crowds. 3,000 people are converted and baptized. Follows is this amazing scene of fellowship. It's complete with breaking of bread and teaching and miracles, and then we get to verses 44 through 43. Where we read, all the believers were together and had everything in common. Selling their possessions and goods they gave to anyone as he had need. Every day they continued to meet together in a temple. Courts. They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts. What a beautiful picture! Biblical example of Christian fellowship And did you notice anything particular? Oh, verse 44. Says all the believers were together and had ever Everything in common. Sounds like the Webster's definition of fellowship, doesn't it? The people are equal. Your peers are of the same class or group. They have everything in common. This is fellowship in its fullness, and this is what John has in view in first John chapter 1, verse 3. He wants us to have this sort of fellowship with him and with the other Christians who are preaching the truth about Jesus. Well, like I said before, that nice with John. We should all aim to be so kind and warm in our letters to others as John is here in his letter to us. However, as nice as this is of John, there is even more. In the first half of verse 3, it might merely say that John and the others who testified about Christ. They want us to have fellowship with them. But the last half of verse 3, mm, that packs a whopper. Number, if we're in fellowship, this means that we are the same class We're peers and belong to a common group. People who are in fellowship are equal in some important way. But keep this idea in mind as we now look at the last half, well, this verse, verse 3, again. John says that his fellowship is with the Father and with his Son, Jesus Christ. John wants us to share in his fellowship with God This is the sort of thing that if you are standing up, it makes you need to sit down. If you're sitting down, makes you want to jump up. I don't know about you, but man, this is exciting stuff to me. John wants us to share in what he and the others who testify of Christ already have, and what they already have is fellowship with God. John wants us to share in Christ. Have you ever read this verse and truly thought about the connotations? Do you really appreciate what it means to share in Christ? He said unity with Christ. The believer's union with Christ is at the center of the Christian salvation. That's why the phrases in Christ, in him, in the Lord, they're found in the New Testament more than 150 times. Everything that Christ has, believers have. Jesus Himself teaches us this. John's Gospel, chapter 14, verse 20, where he says, On that day you will realize that I am in my Father, you are in me, and I am in you. Paul writes to chapter 15 of 1 Corinthians that Christ has now in fact been resurrected And Christ is the first fruit. The believers are the harvest to come. Due to the believers' union with Christ, They will not, we will not merely be raised in the future, but we are also now raised with Christ in some sense. Look at Colossians chapter 2 verses 12 and 13 later. If you want to study that a little bit, also Galatians chapter 2, verses 19 and 20. Also, Romans chapter 6, verses 2 through 13. In being raised with Christ, Christians share in the justification and sanctification of Christ In the legal aspect of justification, Christ is for us. And in the vital sense of sanctification, Christ is in us. Us. This fellowship with the person of Christ that brings with it all Christ's blessings, such as favor, mercy, love. Again, these benefits, they also include justification and sanctification. These are just safe, but they're inseparable. They're both tied to our union with Christ. I mean, Paul eloquently Expresses this in Philippians chapter 3, verses 8 through 11. What is more, I consider everything a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them rubbish, that I may gain Christ and be found in Him. Not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ. The righteousness that comes from God is by faith I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings. Becoming like him in his death, and so somehow to attain to the resurrection, resurrection from the dead. Christ's justification is the believer's justification. Christ's sanctification is the believer's sanctification. Christ's suffering, victory, resurrection, and eternal life are also the believers' suffering Victory, resurrection, and guarantee of eternal life. By one man Adam, all are condemned and inclined to sin. Sin, but so too by one man we're all justified and sanctified. Believers are no longer in bondage to sin, but rather we have freedom in Christ Believers are no longer dead in sin, but are made alive in Christ. Believers are no longer under the curse of the fall, but we are blessed in Christ. Amen. Hallelujah. It is hard to imagine that it's possible that John was able to pack all of this. into just one verse. Chapter 1, verse 3. And then we remember well all things are possible with God. Verse 4 of 1 John chapter 1, which is the last verse we're now going to look at in detail. John says, we write this to make our joy complete. Well I'll say if this doesn't make your joy complete, I dare say nothing will. A word complete, that's one I think most of us understand pretty well, hmm? When something is complete, it has nothing missing, it's finished, it's whole, nothing more is needed, right? Nothing at all. It's perfect. Well, this is a sort of joy that John says he has by writing this letter to us. Again, remember, if we're in fellowship with him, then we too share this sort of joy. Now I mentioned we all likely have a pretty good understanding of the word complete. However, I wonder if this is true for the word joy. We could spend hours studying what the Bible has to tell us about a godly understanding of joy. We don't have time to dialet as it's a full-fledged study on that right now. However, I do want to touch on a general idea of joy as it's found in the Bible. Think about the passages that speak of joy. Shouting for joy, leaping for joy, singing for joy. Skipping for joy, even rejoicing with joy. Can you get a mental picture of this? Dear friend of mine once shared with me his understanding of joy, and it's still likely one of the better analogies I've ever heard of. This particular subject, so I'm gonna share it with you. Imagine for a baseball game. And it's the biggest game of the year, and the stands are Back to the rafters. And there's been a tension energy hanging heavy in the air since before the first And you are surrounded by a multitude of like-minded die horror fans and the home team. That's it's been your favorite team since childhood. And they have done nothing but This appointment. Year after year after gutter engine year. But there's still your team. And this year, things seem different. However, here it is. It is the most important make or break game in franchise history. And your team has been losing the whole game by more than a few runs. Are you imagining yourself there? Upgorn peanuts, maybe red hot beer, ice cold beer. Well now imagine it's the late eggs. Everyone's getting restless on the inside, but remaining almost motionless on the outside You're afraid to even hope that your team might come back and win. And then the opposing pitcher he blocks the first pattern. Then a ground ball dribbles between an infielder's legs. A fly ball to absolutely certainly have it swaps. And then it's followed by a bass hit and then a smash. It drives in several runs in the stadium crowd, it erupts. The noise we're shouting, it can't even be Describe everyone jumping up and down, the fight song layers from the public address system. Everybody singing along. You turn around and you'll ha the perfect stranger Did you know with the absolute certainty of hope that your team will win this game This is joy. This is what John says he has because He has shared the gospel message with us. You and I, as believers in Christ, we can share in this complete joy. Share the gospel as John has Make your joy complete. Let's recap real quickly for a moment. First four verses of 1 John may establish, among other things, that the author of this epistle and advice were eyewitnesses to God incarnate. They saw and touched Jesus Christ, the Son of God. This is not fantasy, but rather reality. Jesus is both God and man. Again, in addition to seeing and touching, John says that he had the others Heard Jesus and what they heard, they now testify, proclaim, declare, write about. And why is this message from Jesus and about Jesus shared with us? That we may have a sharing in the fellowship with Jesus Christ. By sharing the truth of this fellowship with others, by sharing the gospel message, we make our joy complete. And John doesn't go on the rest of 1 John chapter 1 and beyond to say that this fellowship with Jesus is important because in this fellowship that we are cleansed of our sin. Forgiveness for sin, that's the end result, praise the Lord. What does this fellowship with Christ look like? How do we know if we're really in fellowship with Jesus? Jesus. Well John says we can recognize our forgiveness for sin by our freedom from sin. Well this is the issue that John says we begin to tackle with the rest of chapter one, but at last that is a subject for Next time. Let's pray. Father, we are blown away by your awesomeness. From before the foundations of the world, you had a plan to have a people to call your own. And to rescue your people from the consequences that due to them for their sin by having their son take that penalty upon himself. We are such a blessed people. Help us, Lord. Give us more courage, more confidence in your word, more belief and trust in what you've done, who you've made us to be, that we Gleefully, unabashedly, unashamedly, purposefully share the good news. They lost and wanting and hurting a world that's desperate for truth Help us, Lord, to be ambassadors of your truth to the broken neighbors who are all around us. Help us to be useful to you in calling others into the fellowship that we share in Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Looks like we have a hymn. How great thou art? Him number thirty four. And this one will be versions one, two, and four. Oh When I also was given I sleep I eat it Maybe I so I think you love you. How great, how great And change my soul night to me. When you have wonder and deal. It is really when I From all the boundary frame and feel and feel the gentleman. In single night to me how great thou Coming home with nice childhood. In alternation and How great thou walk in things like soul mind Compree coming. If you've been around in your Bibles during the sermon, you would have obviously been in 1 John chapter 1 if you went forward just to hear you at the very end of 2. Peter chapter three, and that's from whence we're bringing the benediction to you from today. Therefore, dear friends, since you already know this Be on your guard so that you may not be carried away by the error of lawless men and fall from your secure position, but grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus. Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and forever. Amen. May God bless you as men and the mission feel around us. Alright, this uh last one is a newer song for me. Um I'm actually trying it out on you guys, but it's one that has really uh tugged at my heart and I hope that it blesses you the way that it blesses me. I'll never feel the need of the world with carry that cross on my back. Nothing I do could ever replace. All that you did on that day. You turned my place the barrier. You pay. You die for me and I'll live for you Lord that's for me. I can do the game on my brother. I don't know. Your beauty. Oh that I could. I hung only I know you give me over ahead. Why would I not give it back? You should must be all the trees. You didn't have to walk down the road You didn't have to rest with my soul lay down on my job I should be taking a step. It should be bad. She just won't be good. You do not pay the tree. You pay the price to the life.