Well welcome to Household of Faith in Christ, a weekly gathering. Well, almost always weekly. We weren't with here last week. I was a bit under the weather. I guess I'll try putting this here and see how that does. Um par pardon our absent last week, but I was uh battling one of the worst stomach flus I've ever had. I lost about ten pounds in the last two weeks. So a little bit uh on uh in an ebb of I'll sit up here for half a second, I guess. I don't know if I can on camera or not. I think I am. A little bit of an ebb in energy, but to be honest, I feel like it's gonna match the tone uh that we're all feeling these days. We've got Americans left behind uh to die in foreign countries We've got uh a new emperor in charge of running the empire that used to be a republic. Um we've we've got uh Suicides I just found out are up uh twenty-five percent. Um it's and of course we're commemorating uh a day we all said twenty years ago we would never forget and yet the evidence is we've all too clearly forgotten. So there's a lot of need to be reminded of what's truly most important in these uh profound times within which we live, and as God's timing would have it, we find ourselves in maybe the perfect chapter of Scripture for the moment. So couldn't have orchestrated it any better if I had tried. But before we get into any of that, we're going to be reading from Psalm chapter 18. So if you want to get your Bibles ready so you can read along on that. We're going to read the entire Psalm. This is one of the longer ones, so it's going to take us a couple minutes to read through it. And then the message that we have today will be on Revelation chapter 5, so you want to bookmark that in your Bible as well as you can follow along during the message But before we get into any of the Bible reading and the message and the discussion that will follow the message, let's open with a word of prayer. So I think if I remember correctly who volunteered for what, I think Dina said that she would open us in prayer. You need me to do me to buy you some more time? I will say this a little Teaser, we have uh our website is now fully functional and operational, and so I'm beginning to actually use the blog section So if you go to the website with regularity, I'm not sure how often I'll do it. In a perfect world, I will have a blog thought every day, but it's an imperfect world. So It might not be every day, but I would expect at least once, if not two or three times a week, maybe on average, uh you'll find some stuff there. So if you want to see uh you know, thoughts from the pastor that it'll be uh updated regularly. So and if there's something you would like me to blog on or think or or talk about or teach on on the website or or in this context Let me know I can try to incorporate that. So did you find your first uh and especially today where there is a somberness that's come over the land, rightfully so, because of of paying tribute and honoring those who have fought so hard for our country and you know um you know all the firefighters and everyone who was a part of 9-11 not just The victims, but so many people who died in their uh call to action, just remembering them. This is from Jeremiah. But God, a most fierce warrior is at my side, those who are after me will be sent sprawling, slapstick buffoons falling all over themselves, a spectacle of humiliation. No one will ever forget. Oh God of the angel armies, no one fools you. You see through everyone everything. I want to see you pay them back for what they Done. I rest my case with you. Sing to God all praise to God. He saves the weak from the grip of the wicked. Lord, yes. Yeah, you can sit there and have it. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It's so it's true and it's timeless. Timeless, and we thank you. We thank you for the ability to gather in your name. May we always acknowledge and recognize the gift that we have being able to do that at least for now. We pray against the enemy who's trying To thwart your will. We know that overall your will will be done, and we are thankful for that. But in the time being, we are as your remnant Struggling. So I pray that you would encourage us even tonight, Lord, strengthen us by the might, by the power of your spirit. Pour over us the blood, the saving Jesus' blood right now over each one of us that we might be bold to stand firm, to give witness to what you have done and what you will be doing for your name's sake and for your glory. Lord, I pray that those who need to see this that you would hearken them to turn to Facebook right now. But in the same I ask that you keep away evildoers. We ask this in your name, Jesus. Amen. Amen. Alright, if you uh haven't already, you want to grab your Bible and open it up to Psalm 18. We're going to read the whole thing through. And if you're joining us a little bit late, just a reminder, particularly on a day like today, a moment such as this In history, we need to be reminded of who Christ is, who God is, and we need to sing his praises. And reading through Psalm 18, uh is one of the ways we're doing that today. So get us started? Sure. The choir master is on the service To address the words of his of this song to the Lord from the day when the Lord delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. He said, I love you, O Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock in whom I take refuge, my shield and the horn of my salvation, my My stronghold. I call upon the Lord who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies. The cords of death encompassed me, the torrents of destruction assailed me, the cords of Sheol entangled me. The snares of death confronted me. In my distress I called upon the Lord, my God, I cried for help. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ears. Then the earth reeled and rocked. The foundations also of the mountains trembled and quaked because he was angry. Smoke went up from his nostrils, and devouring fire from his mouth, glowing coals flamed forth from him. He bowed but he bowed the heavens and came down. Thick darkness was under thick darkness was under his feet. He rode on the cherub and flew. He came swiftly on the wings of the wind He made darkness his covering, his canopy around him, thick clouds dark with water. Out of the brightness before him, hailstones and coals of fire broke through the through his clouds. The Lord also thundered in the heavens, and the Most High uttered with his voice hailstones and coals of fire. And he sent out his arrows and scattered them. He flashed forth lightning and routed them. Then the channels of the sea were seen, and the foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke, O Lord, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils. He sent from on high. He took me. He drew me out of many waters. He delivered me from my strong enemy, from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me. They confronted me in the day of my calamity. But the Lord was my stay. He brought me forth also into a broad place. He rescued me because he delighted in me The Lord has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to my cleanness of my hands. He has recompensed me for I have kept the ways of the Lord and have not wickedly departed from my God. For all his ordinances were before me, and I I did not put away his statutes from me, I was also blameless with him, and I kept myself from my iniquity. Therefore the Lord has recompensed me, according to my righteousness, according to my the cleanliness of my hands and his eyes. With the kind you show yourself kind, with the blameless you show yourself blameless. With the pure you show yourself pure, and with the crooked you show yourself astute. For you saved and afflicted people, but haughty eyes you abased. For you light my lamp, for Lord my God, illuminate my darkness. For you I can run upon a troop, and by my God I can leap over a wall. And as for his way, his bl blameless and the the word of the Lord is tried. He is a shield to all who take refuge in him. For who is God but the Lord? And who is a rock except our God? The God who girds me with strength and makes me He trains my hands for battle, so that my arms And then a bow of bronze. You have also given me the shield of your salvation, and your right hand upholds me, and your gentleness Makes me great. I shattered them, so that they were not able to rise. They fell under my feet. For you have girded me with strength for battle. You have subdued under me those who rose up against me You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, and I destroyed those who hated me. They cried for help, but there was none to save, even to the Lord, but he did not answer them. Then I beat them fine as the dust before the wind. I emptied them out as As the mire of the streets. You have delivered me from the contentions of the people. You have placed me as head of the nations, a people whom I have not Known serve me. As soon as they hear, they obey me. Foreigners submit to me. Foreigners fade away and come trembling out of their fortresses. The Lord live, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of my salvation, the God who executes vengeance for me and subdues peoples under me. He delivers me from my enemies. Surely you lift me above those who rise up against me. You rescue me from the violent man. Therefore, I will give thanks to you among the nations, O Lord. Lord, and I will sing praises to your name. He gives great deliverance to his king and shows loving kindness to his anointed, to David, and his descendants forever. And uh thank you guys for reading. Much appreciated. I'm gonna transition over here. It's gonna be a little bit awkward. No, no, no. This is the uh the fullest our house has been. So we'll see how how this goes. It's a blessing. Good problem to have. You're right over your shoulder. Hope you're okay, my family. So you're gonna want to uh jump towards the back of your Bible now and go to Revelation chapter five. That's where we're gonna be spending our time in the message today. And where did I put that? Microphone. God's Word says to us in Revelation chapter five. And I saw on the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within, and on the backside sealed with seven seals. And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals thereof? And no man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to open and read the book, neither to look thereon. And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals thereof And I beheld, and lo, in the midst of the throne, and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders stood a lamb as it had been slain having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent forth into all the earth. And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne. And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and the four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of saints And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain. And has redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation, and has made us unto our God kings and priests. and we shall reign on the earth. And I beheld and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beasts and the elders. And the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the lamb that was slain. to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them heard I saying, Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb forever and ever And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth forever and ever. This is the infallible, inerrant, inspired word of God, as is Psalm 18. God's Word is a fully sufficient rule and guide for faith and life practice. So those with an ear to hear, let them hear. As I read this passage of God's Word, I'm reminded of something that I had a chance to do almost 30 years ago. The World Cup came to the United States in 1992. Orlando was one of the host cities, and I happened to live in Orlando at the time, and so I secured a ticket And I entered the old Citrus Bowl Stadium. And what I experienced must be something like what a foreign exchange student experiences. I've met a lot of American sporting events, concerts in my life, but attending a World Cup soccer match, it was bordering on culture shock. The enthusiasm of the fans. The singing, the chanting, the unbridled joy of being there The loudness never subsided. The flag waving never subsided. The action on the field often looked to me as if nothing exciting or productive was happening. My fuzzy memory thinks that the final score was one to nothing One goal the entire time. Lots of passing the ball around aimlessly as far as I could discern, almost always in the middle of the field. People in this country complain about baseball, say it's too slow paced, not enough action. Well I gotta tell you, baseball is a fireworks display compared to what I could process before me on the pitch as two foreign nations played what most of the world calls football. But the fans of the game Fans of those teams, they knew what was happening better than I did. So they were excited. by the progress toward the goal that was basically indiscernible progress to me And it's like that with God. He knows the whole game. In fact, the outcome of the game is known. God wins. In our life of kicking things back and forth, never entirely sure that we're making any sort of real progress in this world, God sees what's happening. And he knows what's what. And the audience in heaven has a perspective that lets them see just how very true this is. And so they praise the Creator. And the Redeemer with unyielding devotion. Now we are not in heaven ourselves right now, but we have been given a glimpse of it. And we've been made citizens of it if we follow Christ. So let's join the chorus. And let's invite others to join the chorus. An invitation that begins with repentance. This heavenly perspective of who God is, and how we are therefore to respond to Him. is what these 14 verses are most essentially all about. So let's get back to today's passage of scripture reading, Revelation chapter 5. It'll make our King James only friends happy that I've read from the old King James today. In reading this chapter, we realize that it is an interesting placement within the book of Revelation where we find ourselves today. It is tempting, but hard. To say that this chapter is a bridge chapter. It's hard because of the swirling structure of the 22 chapters in Revelation, with the imagery and the visions swinging back around. again and again. But it actually is a bridge chapter of sorts. For instance, what we just read about five minutes ago has shown us the direction And conclusion of the prophetic message of the remaining chapters, chapters 6 through to the end. And it tells us there's a problem. And no one can solve it. Uh but there is one And the Lamb has solved it. He has solved it forever and ever with blessing and honor and glory and power and riches and wisdom and strength and all things good bestowed upon him and coming through him As God seats enthroned on his eternal throne However, this chapter is not merely a bridge to the remainder of Revelation. For one, it records for us The second half of one lengthy vision within this collection of visions in the Book of Revelation, chapters four and five together begin or introduce what some call the second act of the book of Revelation. And this introduction to the second act, it takes us from a focus in chapter 4 on creation right on into a focus on redemption and recreation in chapter 5. We see the two chapters being intimately intertwined with the presence of five songs, each thanking God for being who he is. And what's interesting as we read, we can note the building of momentum A gathering storm of praise with higher velocity winds and increasingly loud booms of thunder. So I want us to take a moment now to be sure we don't miss the beauty of this progression. So Revelation chapter 4, verse 8. John writes for us. And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him, and they were full of eyes within, and they rest not day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. Which was and is, and is to come. And so there are four for claiming this praise. Then a few verses later, we read about twenty-four doing the same and falling down before God as they do so. Revelation 4, verses 10 and 11 God's word tells us the four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne and worshiped him that liveth forever and ever, and cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord To receive glory and honor and power. For thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. So now let's look again at what we read about ten minutes ago, Revelation chapter five, verses eight through ten. Where it says And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of saints. And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof For thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. And has made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. So you see, the four beasts are still there. And the 24 elders, they're still there now with harps and the prayers of the saints. And then what comes next? Thousands upon thousands of angels joined the singing of the new song. Here are verses 11 and 12, and I beheld and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beasts and the elders. And the number of them was ten thousands times ten thousand. Thousands of thousands saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the lamb that was slain. To receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. And now things reach a full intergalactic crescendo. The beasts and the elders within God's High Court of Wisdom. The angels, the followers of Christ, and in the end the whole of creation, every Creature, every one, those on earth, those under the earth, those in the sea, those in the heavens, all of them they proclaim for all to hear that the lamb who was slain is worthy. He is worthy, he alone is worthy. Verse 13. And every creature which is in heaven and on the earth And under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them heard I say, Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb for ever and ever If you're not inspired with a rising up within you of adoration and devotion If you're not kinda goose pimply with the fire of the Holy Spirit burning in your bosom. If you're not presently enraptured by the magnificence of Christ. the Son of God, the Lamb of God, then I have failed you as your preacher. Or you are spiritually dead and in need of a new birth. I truly hope it's the former. This is a portion of Scripture that really emphasizes the majestic kingship of God. In chapters four and five, the word throne is used well over a dozen times, nearly a dozen and a half times. Chapter 4, verse 2. Behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne. Next verse. And there was a rainbow round about the throne. Next verse, and round about the throne were four and twenty seats. Next verse, and out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings and voices, and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne. Next verse. And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal. And in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne were four beasts full of eyes Verse 9, those beasts give glory and honor and thanks to him that sat on the throne. Next verse. The four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne. Cast their crowns before the throne. Chapter 5, verse 1. And I saw on the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book. Verse 6, and I beheld, and lo, in the midst of the throne stood a lamb. Verse 7, and he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne. Verse 11, and I beheld and heard the voice of many angels round about the throne. Verse 13: Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne. In Revelation four and five, the five songs or sometimes they're called the five expressions or the five doxologies, whatever you want to call them. These declare the praises of our Trinitarian God, our triune God. Note how in verse 1 and 7 of chapter 5 there's a reference to the Father. On the throne. And then verse six and seven refer to the Son of God who is the Lamb. Then we see God the Holy Spirit in verse six with the description of the horns and the eyes, which is an echo of the imagery we saw way back in chapter one, verse four. That's no accident. that there are seven qualities described in this passage, seven being the number of holy completion, holy perfection. The first four power, riches, wisdom, might These speak to God's resources. And the other three, honor, glory, blessing, these speak to the right response to these excellencies of God. And the bookends of these five doxologies, numbers one and five, they each member the divine mention the divine eternity of God and his rule. He rules forever. In between we see the emphasis of praise on the enthroned one, which in this context is the Father in verses 1 and 2. But in the next two verses, verses 3 and 4, they are the place of emphasis of praise. is on the Lamb. The Lamb receives this level of praise, a level reserved for only God Himself. Because the Lamb of God is not merely truly human, but he is also truly God. To both the Father and the Son, there is ascribed glory, honor, and power. And note that to the Son Because of what he did in the person and work of Christ, there is ascribed also wealth, strength, wisdom, and blessing. In Latin, this stuff is called the Great Te Diem. Shorthand for the Great Te Diem Adama. That means, O God, we praise you. Given the repetitive nature of the Book of Revelation, it is no surprise that we will find more wondrous hymns of praise as we move forward through the text in the coming months. For example, in addition to chapters four and five, chapters seven, eleven, fifteen, sixteen, and nineteen Are also home to other hymns of heaven. And did you happen to count the number of chapters? There are, not surprising to me, seven chapters that contain these hymns of heaven. I call this heavenly Todium the hymns of heaven because what we find in chapters 4 and 5 of Revelation is the view of things from heaven's perspective. Contrast this with Acts chapter 1, verses 6 through 11. Do you recall that portion of the New Testament? The Apostle Luke wrote for us about things from a earthly vantage point. When they therefore were come together, they asked him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom of Israel? And he said to them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power. But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you And ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the utmost part of the earth. And when he has spoken these things, while they beheld he was taken up And a cloud received him out of their sight, and while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, which also said, Ye men of Galilee, Why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus which is taken up from you into heaven shall come, so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. On earth right now we see but dimly as through the bottom of a glass. But in heaven it's perfectly clear. God's in charge. And so he is greatly to be praised. Most worthy of praise. And so it is right and good that all of the heavenly host praises God. And we are to join in, as we see elsewhere throughout Scripture, including the Old Testament. Like Psalm 18, for example. Even though we don't see the absolute fullness of this right now and the the here and now on earth we should rejoice all the same. You know, someone who knows a thing or two about agriculture certainly a heck of a lot more than I know about it One shared the attitude of a farmer. When the ground is tilled and the seeds are planted and the fertilizer and the irrigation, that's all done the right way. The ground that can still, even after all that for a while, look rather fruitless. But when the corn is harvested, when that full ear of corn is in the farmer's hands at the feast, the farmer rejoices. Now this illustration already makes sense as far as it goes when we consider that heaven awaits believers. It's a great feast that awaits. But this illustration, it goes even further. And it applies to our situation right now. Because when even a single blade of the corn is visible, begins to emerge from the earth in the midst of the growing season, as the farmer is still wiping the dust and dirt from his brow. The farmer rejoices then too. Because he knows things from the perspective of a farmer. He knows. Rejoice, the harvest's on the way, it's underway, that's gonna be big and glorious. We should be singing and shouting praises to our Maker and Savior. At least. as loudly and proudly as so many do for other things like World Cup soccer matches. You ever watch those big political conventions on TV every four years? People making absolute fools of themselves, wearing goofy hats. Will you wear a goofy hat for Jesus? Will you allow yourself to be thought of by the watching world as a fool for Christ? Today I'm Ladomas. Oh God, we praise you. For the kingdom of God is at hand. And because of this, we can, as it's written in Isaiah chapter 42, sing unto the Lord a new song. And his praise from the end of the earth, ye that go down to the sea and all that is therein, the isles and the inhabitants thereof, let the wilderness and the cities thereof Lift up their voice, the villages that Kedar doth inhabit, let the inhabitants of the rocks sing, let them shout from the top of the mountains Let them give glory unto the Lord and declare his praise in the islands. The Lord shall go forth as a mighty man, and he shall stir up jealousy like a man of war, and he shall cry, yea, roar He shall prevail against his enemies. I have long time holding my peace. I have been still and refrained myself. Now I will cry like a travailing woman. I will destroy and devour At once I will make waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their herbs, and I will make the rivers islands, and I will dry up the pools. And I will bring the blind by the way they knew not I will lead them in paths that they have not known. I will make darkness light before them. And crooked things straight. These things will I do unto them and not forsake them. They shall be turned back. They shall be greatly ashamed that trust in graven images. That say to the molten images, ye are our gods. And we can join in with Psalm 96. Oh, sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Sing unto the Lord. Bless his name. Show forth his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people. For the Lord is great. And greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. Maltby Babcock wrote 120 years ago in 1901 a more contemporary hymn of phrase called, This is my father's world. And I will end today's message with a couple of stanzas. This is my father's world. Oh, let me never forget that though the wrong seems off so strong, God is the ruler yet. This is my father's world. The battle is not done. Jesus, who died, shall be satisfied. And earth and heaven be one. Let's pray. Father, we praise you. We praise you that you are love. You embody perfect justice, and you have found a way to maintain your righteous standard while exhibiting grace and mercy to your people through the blood of Christ. What do we ask for? The confidence that can only be derived from your Holy Spirit to be bold among our neighbors, bold in this world that is so lost in confusion and lies, to proclaim the truth. You are the truth. Forgive us for failing so regularly at this. Help us be recommitted now to sharing the gospel truth. The lost and hurting world that doesn't even realize perhaps that they need it. We can get discouraged. Certainly we know it's okay to be sad. But don't allow us to become disillusioned and lose focus on where our eyes need to be set Help us to keep our mind, our heart, our attitudes, everything about us yearning and striving toward what awaits us in heaven. Because therein lies our treasure. This is your world, Father. And we know the battle is not done and you have work for us to do. Strengthen us to do that work. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. I'll come sit over here, I guess, now. So I've mentioned to some people in the past, you know, I tend to work at least a few weeks in advance on sermon, perhaps sometimes as much as two months in advance on you know, what I'm gonna be preaching on. Uh but I gotta tell you, if I had sat down a week ago and thought, hmm, what am I gonna preach next week? I might have worked on preparing a message from this passage. Because uh things are Seeming dire. You know, from an earthly perspective, things are dire. We've been reminded of just how much we need, the heavenly promises. So um so hopefully this is an encouragement to us. We have a magnificent God. He is creator and sustainer. Uh he works all things together for the good of those who are his people. And so Maybe this is exactly the kind of reminder we've needed in recent times when maybe, you know, the the uh in in the Western world and in the American church we've grown a little bit kind of fat, dumb and lazy. Uh when it comes to biblical things for sure. So uh if you're not in in the Word, if you're not reading the Bible for encouragement and illumination and uh and guidance, if you're not doing that every day. Boy, you're gonna lose a hold. You're gonna lose hold of the tethers that that keep you sane. I don't know how those who don't have Christ are navigating things right now. I mean those that are completely lost to the way of the world, they're reveling in it. They're celebrating the evil and they're and so they're not uh they're not reaping the the emotional consequences of that in this exact moment, but they will Um but those who aren't uh in lack step with what's going on in the world around us But they're not in locksteps for reasons other than having a biblical worldview and trusting in Christ. They just happen to have a conservative mindset. They happen to be politically oriented a certain way. Boy, I don't know what gets them through moment to moment, day to day, because you know, where's the hope? So anyway, enough of me. Any thoughts from the folks gathered around here? I did not realize that there were seven of the what did you call it, dying or something? And that there were seven chapters that focused on the the Songs of praise. Now that and I will say that's a little bit artificial because there are more than seven songs because some of the chapters have more than one song. And the chapters are not inspired per se, but nothing happens by accident. So I just find it interesting and not surprising that as the versification of the chapter divisions came about over time that we happen to have these heavenly songs, these t these tedaums in in seven chapters. You know, so God orchestrates even the even the uninspired parts of uh the pr preservation of his word. I think he orchestrates it. I just find it's interesting. There are lots of lots of examples of that happening of of even the the the the verses. There's you see God's fingerprint on on on the verse divisions. Um I I I was and and and and uh even the numbers of the birthday are significant because um I was was catching up a a cast of a broadcast by uh a messianic Jew and he explained uh That um the five thousand seven hundred and eighth verse of scripture um I wish I could remember It talks about Israel being reborn, I believe, is the one. Forgive me if I'm not remembering exactly. But um that five yeah, Israel being reborn, the five thousand seven hundred and eighth verse of scripture. Um, well, and Um it just so happens that 1948, the Hebrew year for that is five thousand seven hundred and eight when Israel was reborn. Stuff like that. You know, um you just see God's fingerprints all over his word, just things lining up in a just so way that I mean nobody Nobody when they were doing the scripture division, nobody made nobody n calculated to make a a and knew that in nineteen forty-eight there would be heat years five thousand seven hundred and eight and and Israel would be reborn. You know, just all kinds of miraculous little things like that. Um that uh let you know that this this book is not just any other It's a personal book. It's a personal book, but it's a miraculous hundred percent. And yet we spend so little time with it or in it And we need to more than just read it, although start there. If you're not reading it, start there. But don't just read it, read it Meditate. Study it. Concentrate it. Meditate upon it. Talk about it with other words. Believe it. Yeah, you know, as you read something and it strikes you, bring it up in conversation later to have it be more sticky. That's I think for me, and maybe it's because um I'm relatable that way, that is so important in my walk being able to say, Oh my gosh, you know, with Angela or with Annette, I read this and it really spoke to me and then somebody oh I happen to be and it spoke to me And it it really helps solidify one spirit, the Holy Spirit, and how we are so connected Through that part. How would I know what Annette's reading or what Angela's reading? And yet we get together and we're like, oh my gosh. And it it's so powerful. And with song being such an important part of this section of scripture, I feel almost compelled to add something You know, the Bible talks about gathering together and they sang uh psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. And so this is nothing against spiritual songs. But I want to tell you some pastoral counsel here, the caution. Make sure that those songs are spiritual songs of the right spirit. There are a lot of songs today that pass as contemporary Christian songs. That aren't particularly very Christian. They're not biblical in in their point of view even in some cases. They're it's it's uh it it's the kind of song that somebody who's a big fan of that was a big thing like ten years ago, the the the best selling book, The Secret. There's about the power of I think of words, right? And it's the kind of songs that those people would sing, and yet we just market it as a contemporary Christian song. I mean I listened to uh some of the Christian radio stations around us and more than half the songs are Not helpful. Let me just put it that way. So be discerning. So if you know, read the Psalms, uh sing some of the old traditional hymns. and be discerning about the contem we just sang a contemporary song uh about an hour ago uh by a contemporary artist that is solidly biblical. So they exist. Just be Be discerning about it. Be careful that you're choosing songs that actually are supporting that are uh magnifying Christ and highlighting our need for Christ. Song is so powerful. Music is so powerful. And um I remember years ago, um I used to have this obsession with music. I get my car and had to turn the radio line. It wasn't radio. And one time God So it was so clear and says, You gotta turn that radio off, it's making you impressed. And oh I mean it was so clear. But what he started to show me is that, you know, and I was thinking the same thing about Christian Christian radio. Just because it says Christian is not necessarily Christian. And he said, You know, Annette, it's the when the songs speak to your heart, those are the anointed songs. Anyone can get up and sing any Christian song. I mean I can't even sing like and say something, you know. And and call it a Christian song. But if it's not coming from my heart and if it's not you know it's not speaking to someone else's heart, then it's just mere words. I mean I can listen I listen to a lot of of um non Christian songs and I praise God through them because I love the word. And so I just change it to um to to worship my God. I do that too. I do all the time. Because it it touches my heart. Right, not my mind. mind, you know, speaks right to my heart. And it just melts me, you know, and I just so anyway because I mean they can be good words and songs, um, but if they don't speak to my heart Yeah, because we don't want to be following our heart We wanna inform we wanna inform our heart, have it be changed uh by God and and then lead our heart through God's word. And so that's really the the litmus test and you're listening. Square 'em up with biblical teaching and say, is that really what the Bible teaches? And I gotta tell you, I was reminded of an old cliche phrase, I've heard it a million times, I just heard it again this week listening to your podcast. Um you know discernment isn't knowing the difference between right and wrong. I think Spurgeon is the one who said discernment is knowing the difference between right and almost right. And there are a lot of songs out there that are almost right and they're sneaky. Well that's the deception from the enemy. I mean that's his MO, right? He takes the tr truth and perverts it. But just a little bit. Exactly. So then there is some truth to it. That's why it's so effective. Unless you're grounded in in the word. Yeah. I mean it's a weird bell of the the weird worship. So worship is so yeah it's such a I I don't know, we sh you have to be really careful. Absolutely. I must have somebody say, you know, um He the the one that fell, he was the first worship leader. He knows how powerful music is. You think he's not gonna be in music and all over music and and I mean music is very important to us. Yeah. And so when you when you move it from that angle you you do look at songs differently and I What what we're saying about the the the sound being kind of yeah, I just one that's ringing in my soul, right? I I was listening to it and I was just like I do not Not well I don't mean to be disrespectful, but I really don't like it was just it was I I I was thinking cotton candy. It was kinda sweet, but it was it it was empty. It was just it was just fluff One of the challenges we have is if you go back you know let's just use our context in America for a minute. If you go back in American history They they they could recite scripture. Yeah. They weren't even Christians. Yeah, well it was like the reader, it's how they learn how to read, is reading the Bible and stuff. So they knew the Bible even if they you know didn't weren't sure Transformed by the gospel. And now we live in a world where people claim to be gospel believing Christians. They don't know the Bible. And so we're it's so easy to trick us. And the sad thing is maybe they are actually Christians and they don't. Yeah. And all the people back then. Right, and then the people back then were catechized but not really believers. Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. We started out by me saying I think this message is going to be important given the t tenor of the times. So I don't want us to go too long necessarily, although we can go long and haunt. But you know you gotta be too transparent and vulnerable. We are on Facebook, I guess, but um how is everybody doing? I'm doing great. Me too. I mean I have my moments when, you know, I have to kind of repent because of uh uh I I have a thought about certain people that I know I need I need not be thinking because it makes me angry. But overall I you know, I have a lot of peace. I you know if you can go to go to sleep at night then you have peace. I can do that. You know, because I know that uh just just like that song, although the wrong seems also strong, God is the rule here, I know who's in control, I know who's in control of my destiny. Um and I just you know, I I just feel like uh have you you remember cartoon characters like the Bugs Money characters that blow up the hole in Several a and and the little character would be standing on a little piece of dirt. So that's how I feel. Like if the whole world blew up, I'm gonna be standing on one piece of dirt. Circle circling the sun. I just feel that to mind. That's how we know. I just feel so taken care of. You know. Um I think I need to be more mindful of that because obviously I know my destiny. My biggest struggle is the suffering. Yeah. And because I'm such an empathetic person that when I hear a report, like for instance, the in Afghanistan I was just weeping uh weeping, literally weeping and praying because my heart was so broken for them, knowing that they were so vulnerable they were basically sitting ducks waiting to be picked off one by one and just the terror of that and just And so, you know, m and I kept praying for them. Cause them to be like Stephen Lord, where they were being pelted and then they would just be able to smile and pray for the enemy and the s and the glory of the Lord would shine upon them and protect them and and just it because that's my struggle is that. And so I get I do, I I sometimes get depressed and I get very sad and just very I don't even know how to explain it you know, where I I'll I'll say to try can't I can't do it anymore. I just can't and I'm because of what I do for a living, I can't not be and we're called to not be completely oblivious to the world. We're called to be in the world so that we can pray for believe in But it's hard for me. It is because of how I'm wired. Man, I said more crying this past week and the and since Afghanistan because of just just feeling it. It was just like I felt it was almost like Not that I have the got the the heart of God, but we're called to have the mind of God. And it's not as if God doesn't see the suffering. He is overcome, which is why judgment is Happening. Whether or not you believe it or not, it's happening. He will avenge the blood of of the saints. Goodness. But that's frightening. And I'm on the right side. You know? So Well most of the uh conversations come from my left side. Anybody on my on the right side Either either a playoff of something in the message or something from the conversation or something like how you're doing lately, any of the things that have been on the table. Sometimes You need the confrontation being forced upon or anything? Yeah. Does that concern you at all? I mean you guys are a different generation. Yeah. children in this type of a like have you thought about that? Has that dawned on you? Is is it something yeah? I I just think of things like, you know, uh this past week and OSHA abuse and stuff like that. I'm like that could you know, I felt that. I'm not gonna feel it yet because I you know, there'll there'll be time before anyone acts Right. So you know, and again, nothing's started yet. As far as I know, they're radio silent on. Companies are radio silent on enforcing that. So I don't know anyone whose company has actually started that process. And of course other comedies have to fight, but the confrontation of comics. Right. that concern you or you're just like aware of it? There is some concern. Absolutely. Yeah. And you haven't even started a family yet of your own. So I mine is left. But if you look forward like fast forward in time like ten years, you know, what you imagine for yourself ten years from now, does it look different than what you imagined for yourself twelve years ago, two years ago. You know what I'm saying? When you're in your mid couple years ago, you're thinking, When I'm in my mid twenties and I'm married, have a couple of kids, have this kind of job, whatever maybe I'm just putting an a an idea out there. And now here two years later, has has whatever your thoughts were a couple years ago Your plans for the future. Yeah, has that changed or is you know I'm gonna just keep doing what I was gonna do and trust God? Well I can't make uh I can't make it an informed decision obviously Well uh there there are things that that come before that That you gotta figure out. No At least in my situation there are other things that have preoccupied that that space Do you feel any pressure from the world? Um do you feel vulnerable from the pressure of the world to do XYZ No, and I'll fight against it as hard as I can. Gotcha. Uh that that's one of one of the things that I struggle with the most is knowing how influential we are. Mm. And knowing that humans influence humans. So you're around people that that aren't godly and Why? Yeah, it's a um right. We need to think about being more dedicated to the idea of being people of action. It's so frustrating to me to see people or hear people complaining about how the school system's forcing their kids to wear a mask and I'm like, well who sent their kid to school? Uh-huh. So who's ultimately really responsible for that mask on? Like, you have some control in that situation you know, or you know, some other forced thing. But really nothing easy. I'm not saying the solutions are easy, but looking at From a Christian perspective, like the world is so lost and nobody's reading the Bible, nobody understands the gospel. But how active are we in sharing God's truth with people? Are we seeking out opportunities to talk about the need for Christ And the gospel truth of things. I would venture to say that for the overwhelming majority of us that profess Christ, that that's not the case. And yet we complain about how, you know, the world's lost, it's going to hell in a handbasket, but we're not doing anything about it. We need to start doing something about it Yeah, I'm an old marketer, an old advertising guy. You know, branding is important. We need to expand the the kingdom brands here. We need to you know Marketing is really simple. Right message, right people, right number of times. Well the right people are sinners, that's all of us. The right message, you don't get any more right than the gospel message. And the right number of times, that's just repetition. It's repetition. It's repetition. So if you shared the gospel with your neighbor ten years ago and that was it Wait, that's one. That's enough times. You know? And that silly thing that gets attributed to St. Francis of Assisi. You know, preach the gospel at all times and if necessary, use words. It's the word of God. We are to proclaim the message. Okay, fine. Let's just add an addendum. Proclaim the method at all times and if necessary use words. Dot dot dot. And words are always necessary. Yeah. You gotta tell people. You gotta tell people. You gotta put the goofy hat on your head and say, I'm from Arkansas, Sue Like they do with those they do with those political conventions. I remember when I was a kid growing up and I thought what what knucklehead you people were. These were grown adults. They looked like absolute fools. But they were like sold out for their political party and for their candidate of choice. They they didn't care what the they in fact they wanted to be looked at as outlandish. The more outlandish, the more evident that was that they were really on board. Yeah, yeah, more attention. So you know steal a line from my own sermon. Will you wear a goofy hat for Jesus? The thing that I always worried about in the past was turned away from Christians because of the people that spoke. Mm. And I was so appalled by the things they said and did because um it seemed to me that the ones that knew God intimately less were the most vocal because they knew they knew, they were good at memorizing, but they didn't really know God, you know, that the uh intimate way. They were more keen on being right. Yeah, Paddues and Sadducees, so they were cruel, cruel, cruel, cruel. So they dragged me into a church and you know, I ran through the church as fast as I could. And so my thing now is that I will and and I'm Thankful that God's given me the boldness. I will not speak anything if it's if I'm angry inside about it or if I'm I but I have been so bold lately in just speaking the truth You know, someone says something about, oh, anything goes and I'll say, Absolutely not. No it doesn't. We had this transition. That was a retirement anything goes. Right. Oh, okay. Yeah. But no, we were had this discussion about uh the whole mess with the the trans in this and he and they don't want to be referred to as he, she, they just want to be it's come on. So I said, I'm sorry, absolutely. I will never agree with that. You know, I'm gonna love the person, but I will never, ever, ever agree with that sin because it's not of God Period. And I said, I won't bend on that. And I said, But the person, I love the person, I feel sorry for the person. Absolutely. And so, you know, but I'm glad I can say that now, I'm not in anger. I'm never angry Well and you have to be very careful when you present it to people as well because especially more and more now they people don't believe you. And that's not uh fault, but you know, um I have quite a number of friends. um in in in the gay community and m vast majority of them do not believe me when I say I love you and I think that what you're doing is wrong. No, that means you hate me. No. No. Don't jump up off that cliff, you're gonna die. Right. Yeah, and it's um and I think part of it is because it's such a sensitive topic. Um if it w anytime you're talking about something that is sensitive to somebody it' is um a big issue for them. They're more much more likely to get defensive, to get upset. And um especially Especially if it's something that maybe deep down inside something's telling them this isn't quite right. They're gonna be super quick, but no no no no it becomes something that when uh increasingly sensitive anyway, let me put it that way, when we surrender the ground, when we seed the ground. And so when I was growing up, if somebody you know you But you're in fifth grade and somebody's you know way overweight and you call them fat so. It was mean and if you you know and if you weren't careful about it, you'd be bullying and all that sort of stuff. But there was no denying the fat cell was called fat so because they were fat. That was me, by the way. But now we're not allowed to say that anybody's fat. We shouldn't be calling people fat cells. Yeah, they're curvy. But we can't yeah. And now there's this whole I mean. It was a Swimsport edition, wasn't it, this year in Sports Illustrated it was a bunch of unhealthy women. And this and this is a BMI. Right? It's about athletics, and then there's these women that are like double the weight they should be Right, they should they should probably weigh 130 and they weigh two hundred and sixty. I'm sorry, that's not healthy. Right, and they may be and they were actually beautiful Beautiful women right. And they'd be beautiful at the right healthy weight or not the right healthy weight. Has nothing to do with that. It's it's what's healthy and what's not healthy. And if you're portraying this as this is our healthy species, you know, this is why because this is a sports magazine or whatever, it's like Yeah, suddenly heart attacks are gonna be the normal way to go. Right, exactly. Because they're there's stuff in a mindset that reality is subjective. Right. Why should they do that? That's my truth, not your truth. Right. Yeah. Disagree. Right. So for your hating. But they'll tell you that and then still say that you're a horrible person because but if reality is subjective to his morality. And if my morality is different than yours, then you can't tell me that I'm not being moral. Right. But no, it's everything is um shaming these days. And anytime you disagree with anything or say I I y you know, it's it's fat shaming, it's slut shaming, it's Yeah. Um and it's interesting because if if it's because of a sin, there should be shame. Yeah. Right? So like we get angry and when we're shame we there's no sense of shame in this where sins are celebrated. It wasn't that long ago. It was in our lifetime for sure. home and you'd be a doctor. I hate going to the doctor, he always tells me I gotta lose fifteen pounds. Now it's less than that more. Can you believe the nerve of my doctor telling me I gotta lose fifteen pounds? The doctor's fat shaming me. Well I actually said that because my doctor is a community. I have the same problem every time I go to the doctor. Oh you're being And we've done it with the with the uh with the what do you think I'm trying to do? Yeah with the uh child murder uh Roe v. Wade stuff we've seen so much ground on that that that's a Sensitive subject. You can't really talk about that question. I'm sorry, murdering a child is evil. There's nothing sensitive about that. It's just a fact. Murdering a child is evil Well, I'm pro-choice. Okay, a woman choosing to murder her child is evil. Call it what you will. Yet men are who murder their wives or beat their wives. That's not acceptable. Because and so they're shipped off. But why is that not acceptable? The woman who's stronger than that little baby can kill it. Right. So the most thing doesn't make sense. Men aren't allowed to have a say, so like even if it was his child, he can't try to save it. What's wrong with service touching service What? I said what's wrong with Stardust touching Stardust. If if all they are is Stardust, if that's what they believe. If I woke up to somebody and I'm stardust Who's cared? It does it doesn't matter until there's an auto. Exactly. That's right. But if there is no God, then they have no value. In which case what do you care? Yeah. Mor uh moral subjectivity ends at the receiving end of a left hook, right? Suddenly Well not India maybe? But with the whole, you know, abortion issue since that is so much in the you know, the a lot of what you'll get is oh, but you don't know my circumstances I do the baby a favor because I'll do you a favor. Because the because the you know the baby would have been born into a situation where the father does drugs or all the children that are currently in those situations Well no but I'm not sure. But at least there's one left. I mean that is the argument and I just and how and you can't reason But they but they but they say that their mindset is one of I di I I did the right thing because I spared them a life of misery. How do you even know that? Right. How do you know that? Yeah. So anyway Tell Dr. Ben Carson that Or any of the other women or men who've survived attempted abortions or whatever. Or terrible childhood. Or terrible childhood. Like how many people We know it came from perfect childhood. Nobody. Oh, I shouldn't have been born. I shouldn't have been 'cause my parents uh failed me or whatever. Or the parents I it just doesn't make sense. No, it just but it is a failure. I think one of the things that bothers me the most is that people who are pro-choice, they're like, oh well I personally could never do it. Right. But I wouldn't tell another woman what to do with her body. I'm like, okay, but why wouldn't you do it What makes what is what makes it so hard for you to do it but isn't strong enough to say that other people shouldn't also do it. Or they think that they're superior. Oh they're okay with lower people doing something wrong. Oh I see, yeah. I hope not at somebody else's point if anyone's got to be a good thing. That's what we're talking about. These are hired hits. These are hired hits on a defenseless child in the womb. These are hired hits. That's what's calling what they're up. It is do you remember the book that we read that that um our our daughter read, I can't remember, the abortion book I m meeting Oh, like a scientific view of It was Demester Souza's uh daughter horrific. Yeah. What is actually done. Yeah. It there's more than one way to do Oh yeah, this is a horrifying one in which literally the baby burns to death. Right. That's actually they burned them to death. Well no, some of Ripland from Lynn a lot is true. But actually some and some of the technicians that do it have testified that like the baby cries. Oh they're they're moving away from it. Oh well the morning after Mommy Oh yeah. So if you've already ovulated then You know, the the the only change you've got of it causing a miscarriage is just because it's a bunch of hormones. But for the most part, the morning after Yeah, you remember. Yeah, it it's it's very similar to the But um but it's supposed to prevent obviously that kind of Right. It's the the the cellular growth. Once the egg and the sperm united. Yeah. Yeah, the morning after the phone three. I knew you. Yep, exactly. And I had dreams about all my children. All of them. Even the one I I didn't lose one. Uh even the one I lost. Dreams about them all. Knew their names? Saw them. Really? Saw my grandchildren. I saw my two grandchildren Before they were born? Wow. Before they were born. So God had a plan. I saw it clearly. Um and so so question So how many Facebook community standards do you think we violated today? Well hate speech for sure. We said that so Right. Right. Fat Albert, and we all uh he was Alright. Before we wrap up, uh Joe Calzi's not I don't know. Well now yeah, we he needs some clubby needs some uh yeah you said they Well they only were able to p convict them based on illegal action. That means they can't go through with it. Well those that have been with us for the last uh couple of months know that we're here at the House of the Faith in Christ spent uh a month, you know, sharpening our skills that understanding what the gospel is and being able to articulate it. So if we don't keep our practice up we will grow flabby in this area. So I think every week We're gonna kinda take turns. Everybody's gonna have a chance at some point to share the docs. So if somebody wants to volunteer and take a few seconds and share the gospel for somebody. I feel like everybody in the room here is uh as a believer, but we don't know who might will be watching this video now or later, uh either on Facebook or on YouTube. Oh. So so they can't see you. Yeah. I thought they can't really see me during the pregnancy. Anybody want to take a stab at Walking somebody through a real brief presentation. Um the sixty second No, no, no time limit as long as it's long as it takes. No, no pressure on time. Essentially, we're all dead in sin. The the fall of man happened Yeah. Uh we're lost in fall. We're born in sin. Actually. Um and because of this we're all deserving of death that happened. And then that's where w we would all go if God hadn't done the most merciful thing in the world and sent his only son to be ca hung on the cross and killed for our sins so that he would be the scapegoat instead of us. So that means forget Essentially, sort of. We have to repent and accept Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior and uh Um, with by his blood we are saved. Again, excuse. Yeah. Um we're saved through through grace in Christ the Lord. By his blood. Because we're sinners. If we choose to believe it. If we choose to believe it. If we choose to believe it. Right. Not every yeah, obviously. Yeah. So um somebody else gets to go next week, so we'll be thinking about this as we uh as we do it. And I think we're gonna get better and better and better and more and more comfortable uh doing this. Uh when I have time to prepare. As we do it. You know, so no, hey great bravery stepping up being the first one. I applaud that all day long. He wasn't even here when we practiced. Not yeah, you weren't even here with the practice week. We missed that. We had a week of practice. We spent like an hour and a half practicing. Yeah, when you were So we are uh we're gonna wrap this up. We're gonna finish uh well well finish. No we're not. It's gonna take us two more weeks in Revelation five. Even though we covered Revelation five There's so many misunderstandings about the different imagery and the things in Revelation, so we're slowing down and taking time to walk through what the different images do and don't mean. Because I did a broad message on the chapter today, we didn't get into the nitty-gritty, so we're going to take begin to take a look at the nitty-gritty of chapter 5 next week and then finish up our look at chapter 5 the week after that before moving on to chapter six. So anyway, continue your uh Bible reading and share the gospel, would you already? Till next week. God bless.