And it looks like we're rowing, and I think we're like exactly on time for the first time in a little while, so don't get used to it. Welcome to the uh household of faith in Christ. Sermon and discussion time of our gathering, our weekly gathering. A couple of notes here. You're going to want to have your Bibles ready. We're going to be spending time in Revelation. We're continuing our series there. We'll be in Revelation chapter 5 But we're also going to be in a moment here reading from the Old Testament, Jeremiah, chapter 32. So you want to find Jeremiah 32, starting with verse 6. And the other place you might want to bookmark because we're going to have an extended passage during the sermon from one of the Gospels in Luke chapter 15. So if you want to Make a mark in your Bible now to find that so that when we get to that part, you can just get to it real quickly. That might be a good idea. Today's message, Revelation chapter 5, verses 1 through 8. I've titled it A Title Deed, Only the Lamb Can Open. And so that's why we're actually reading from Jeremiah chapter 32 because there's an extensive passage here that talks about helps to frame the context of what the whole title deed thing was like way back when. So this passage is talking about somebody going through uh a s a scenario where they have to do a title deed and it's gonna help us to connect what's going on in Revelation chapter five. So uh that's enough of me chatting for now. We're gonna have our opening prayer. Ray's gonna handle that and then um our our readers, our designated readers, we'll go go from there. All right. Dear Lord, we thank you for this day. We thank you for this gathering, this fellowship we've been able to enjoy beforehand, and we just pray that this message has come and be Uh just beneficial for the edification of the church. And we just pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, so I think Angela has the first part. So it's Jeremiah chapter 32. We're beginning with verse six, and we're going to go through to verse 27 collectively. And I'm I'll be reading out of the Amplified Bible. And it begins, and Jeremiah said, The word of the Lord came to me saying Behold, Hanamel, son of Shalom, your uncle, shall come to you and say, Buy my field that is an Anethope, for the right of redemption is yours to buy it. So Hanamel, my uncle's son, came to me in the court of the guard, in accordance with the word of the Lord, and he said to me, I pray you, find my field that is in Anatomy. which is in the land of Benjamin, for the right of inheritance is yours, and the redemption is yours. Buy it for yourself. Then I knew that this was the word of the Lord. And I bought the field that was in Anethel from Hennemel, my uncle's son, and weighed out for him the money. Seventeen shekels of silver And I signed the deed and sealed it, called witnesses, and weighed out for him the money on the scales. So I took the deed of the purchase. Both that which was sealed, containing the terms and conditions, and the copy which was unsealed. And I gave the purchase deed to Baruch, son of Nariah, the son of Messiah. Probably not Maessiah. Mafia. Mafia. In the sight of Hanamel, my uncle's son, and the witnesses who signed the purchase deed, and the presence of all the Jews who were sitting in the court of the guard. And I charge Baruch before them saying Oh sorry. Thus says the Lord God of uh thus says the Lord of hosts to God of Israel, take these deeds, both the sealed deed of purchase and the sealed deed. And put them in an unearth earthenware vessel, that they may last for a long time. For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, houses and fields and vineyards shall again be bought in this land. After I had given the deed of purchase to Baruch, the son of N Nuraya. I prayed to the Lord saying, Ah Lord God, is you who have made the heavens and the earth by your great power and by your orchestra Nothing is too hard for you. You show steadfast love to thousands, but you repay the guilt of fathers. to their children after them. O great and mighty God, whose name is the Lord of hosts, great in counsel and mighty in deed. whose eyes are open to all the ways of the children of man, rewarding each one according to his ways and according to the fruit of his deeds. You you have shown signs and wonders in the land of Egypt. And to this day in Israel and among all mankind, and have made a name for yourself, as at this day. You brought your people Israel. Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs and with wonders, and with a strong hand and with an outstretched arm and with great terror, and gave them this land which you swore to their forefathers to give them, a land flowing with milk and honey They came in and took possession of it, but they did not obey your voice or walk in your law. They have done nothing of all that you commanded them to do. Therefore you have made all this calamity come upon them Behold, the siege ramps have reached the city to take it, and the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans who fight against it. Because of the sword, the famine And the pestilence and what you have spoken has come to pass, and behold, you see it. You have said to me, O Lord God, buy for yourself the field with money and call in witnesses. although the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans. Then the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah, saying, Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is anything too difficult for me? Therefore, thus says the Lord, Behold, I am about to give this city into the hand of the Chaldeans and into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylonian, and he will take it. Yeah, you want a little one verse two price. Okay, no biggie. A little extra b word from the Lord is never gonna be a problem. So we just heard the word of the Lord. It is inspired. Therefore, it is infallible. It is without error. And it is a fully sufficient rule and guide for faith and life practice. So those with an ear to hear, let them hear. So now if you're not already there you might want to turn to Revelation chapter five. We are at war. I mean hopefully. You have been summoned to report for duty by the True High Command. And you've been summoned by the Army of the World, too. Which general t will you report to? The well-known generals on one side include General Balaam, General Jezebel, General Satan. They certainly have their minions who do their pagan bidding, minions who are ruled by fear and temptation and sin. Idolatry and manning and accommodation. They're ruled by lies. They're ruled by mandates. They're ruled by fraud. And they seek to build a tower of power. Tower of Babel. The worldly system of control over economies, control over medical concerns, control over worship practices, using whimsical definitions of truth All in pursuit of trusting in the innate goodness of man to construct a secular vision of utopia. If only they can successfully exert enough power to reset Everything. To build everything back better. Sounds like I just described the world today, doesn't it? And I did. But not merely the world of today, this is also the world of yesterday. The world of the Old Testament, the world of the seven churches in Asia Minor who received Those seven letters in the book of Revelation that we studied just a couple of months ago. These letters are from the general. A warrior king who indicts sin and who calls his foot soldiers to repentance and encourages faithful witnesses. So are you one of these men and women who have entered the fra fray of not only the culture war not only the political battles. Might even only the spiritual slings and arrows. Have you entered into the fray of also the internal fight? Against your own inner demons, your still not fully sanctified fleshly desires. Your weaknesses, your brokenness, your selfishness, your slothfulness. Lines have been drawn, trenches have been dug, and the outcome has already been determined. And so if you're on the wrong side. Or if you're wandering in that death zone known as no man's land, repent. The kingdom of God has won the war And Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, is the winning field commander. And we see the vivid truth of this painted for us with words. In the book of Revelation. And here we are in chapters four and five, which are the heart of the book, given that they show us God Himself. Now we've already covered chapter four in detail, and we've actually already covered chapter five more broadly. Well today we're going to begin to examine chapter five. Image by image. It's gonna be like photographer entering the dark room. We are hanging out in the dark room, attentive to each portion of the film as it comes into view. And as we do so, I want us to keep in mind that It's the ideas. It's not the uh the forms and the symbols themselves visualize that are what's important. It's the ideas that are important. The ideas behind these forms and symbols. So Revelation chapter 5 It begins. I saw on the right hand of him who sat on the throne a book written inside and on the back, sealed up with seven seals. So here we see God the Father in authority holding a book in his all-powerful regal hand. What kind of book? Is it a scroll? A codex? A codex that's uh basically like what we might expect to find on the shelves of our libraries even today. It's a bunch of pages stacked together to form a book and this sort of thing was actually just beginning to come into vote, becoming kind of popular around the time that Revelation was written. And so, historically speaking, it's possible it could be a codex. But In a synagogue or any sort of other religious setting, it would always have been a scroll. So as you're trying to picture this, what John is describing for us, in your mind, you're going to want to picture and envision a scroll. And the message of the scroll is written on both the front and the back of the page. It's actually just like a scroll that was described for us in Ezekiel in the Old Testament, Ezekiel chapter 2, verse 10. So again Here, John is connecting our minds together with the believers and the prophecy that came before us. And that scroll in the book of Ezekiel, it was to be eaten. And in Revelation in chapter 10, John too is going to be given a scroll and told to eat it. And eating it, placing it into the mouth, that's indicating that the words on the scroll, they are to be proclaimed from the mouth. And in this case, the message. It's rather noteworthy. We know this is the case because the writing is on the entire scroll front and back. Now we need to travel back in time a little bit here to realize the limitations of the technology a couple of thousand years ago. And back in that day things were different than they are today. The scrolls of 2,000 years ago, they would have been made essentially one of two ways. The most inexpensive option would have been papyrus. Papyrus was You can't writing surface by taking some leaves that were placed horizontally over some other leaves that were placed vertically and they are stuck together And the horizontal leaves would give a a long stretch of smooth horizontal writing surface you could write on. Backside not so much at all those veiny leaves getting in the way, not really good for writing. And so The other option besides the papyrus was to use what was called what's called vellum. These are animal skins and uh pretty expensive. And the interior front side of this vellum of this animal skin would be rather smooth and very suitable for riding. But the back side, of course, it would start out rather rough. So if you want to write on that side, you'd have to scrape off all the hair and smooth it out and make it more suitable for writing. So it was very time consuming, it was very expensive. And so the point here is, in other words, you didn't write on both sides of the scroll if you didn't have to. But in this case, The message was so important. So comprehensive, so needing to be so complete. That both sides are required to contain the full message. Now I'll go into some technical detail there about the the writing stuff they had available to them at the time, because I want you to try to really put yourself back in time and feel The profundity of this moment. Are you feeling the weight of the matter? This is a very, very, I say very important document. The contents, it feels critical to know, you know. Like maybe this is a sort of title deed to the entire earth. Is it God's covenant? Is it his law? Does the scroll express God's promises and his plans, like the words Daniel was given and was told to conceal until the end of time? And maybe go all of these things. And then some. So let's hurry up and read it. Let's unwrap that bad boy. Let's dive right in. Oh, but no one can proclaim the message that it contains without the authority to open the seals. This document is sealed. Like a tomb is sealed. It's no small thing to weigh. And consider the magnitude of the legal authority that was required to open them. Now we might have as we think about these seals flash to our minds something like what we've seen in movies or TV shows over the years with an envelope and they drip the wax on it and the king takes his little signet ring and he seals it and They did seal things kind of like that once upon a time, so it could be that sort of thing. They also would use, 2,000 years ago, they would seal things with threads. And the opening of the seal is the breaking of the thread. Now, whether it was wax or thread, each of the seals represents a witness. Each witness affixing his seal. And Jewish law required three seals. This one has seven. This is a complete level of sealing. And interestingly, it actually meets the requirements of old Roman law that called for seven seals. seven witnesses to guard and protect someone's last will and testament. In the words written They cannot be read until the seven seals are broken, and they can be broken only by the one with the authority to do so. So this brings us to the heightened tension of the next three verses. So we pick up with verse two And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book and to break its seals? And no one in heaven. Or on the earth, or under the earth, was able to open the book or to look into it. Then I began to weep greatly Because no one was found worthy to open the book or to look into it. That's a problem. I mean, no one anywhere can open it No mere earthling, that's for sure. But no heavenly creature either. Not even an angel. Well, perhaps a strong angel could do it, you know, such as Gabriel, for instance. You know, I mean Gabriel is name and means strength of God. After all, he's strong. Maybe he could do it. Nope. Not even a strong angel. Because after all, it is a strong angel who's asked the question. The strong angel poses the question, and if a strong angel could do it, he would ask the question, and then he would volunteer himself to open them, as if to say, yeah, you know, I'll do the honors, asked and answered Who can open the seals? Who can read this book? Hold my beer. But that's not what happens. And so John weeps. Let that sink in for a minute. I mean we already kind of know how this ends, and so our emotions, they aren't so wrapped up in this very moment, right now, maybe. But try to push from your mind what you know about how this ends Enter the moment. This scroll. It is the title deed to the universe Any hope for clarity rather than chaos? Any hope for redemption rather than unending rebellion? Any hope for Hearing from the one who made you and the plans that he has for you and the beauty of knowing his love for you, any hope at all, it stops here. There's no hope. No hope If no one can open the seals, if no one is worthy, if no one has the right, there is no hope. Are you empathizing with John in this moment, in this text? If we're doing that, we should all be weeping right now as we settle into this reality. But then, just then we get good news. There is one Who can open this heavenly book to accomplish God's plans for the destiny of the world? Verses 5 through 8. And one of the elders said to me, Stop weeping. Behold, the lion that is from the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has overcome so as to open the book and its seven seals. And I saw between the throne with the four living creatures and the elders a lamb standing as if slain Having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent out into all the earth. And he came and he took the book out of the right hand of him who sat on the throne. When he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each one holding a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers. of the Saints. We have imagery on overload here. There are two Old Testament messianic titles that are used. We have the the Lion of Judah. That emphasizes the human nature of Jesus tied to his human genealogy. And then we have the root of David, which emphasizes the divine nature of Jesus, because Jesus is David's Lord. He's the fresh shoot from a tree stump that had been cut down. And we have the four living creatures representing creation. We've talked about that in recent weeks. And we have the 24 elders representing the church. We've talked about that too in recent weeks. And then we turn to look with John at this wondrous lion, and what do we see? A lamb. I mean the word here in Greek it literally means a little pet lamb. Mary had a little lamb, followed her to school one day. That kind of lamb. The type of lamb that back then they would have brought into their house a few days before it was slain. And in this vision, the lamb that looks to Laura Ben Slain, but it's standing alive. Now, the Greek word that is used for lamb here is arnjon, and it can also be translated to mean a not just a young lamb, but a young ram. Rams, these are strong battlers with powerful battering horns, and that's an image that fits well with the lamb who will be a military champion in Revelation chapter 14. And it helps us to better comprehend the next image from this vision here in chapter 5. The horn is a symbol of power in the Bible. And seven horns. Well that symbolizes complete power, complete omnipotence. We're harken back to passages such as Deuteronomy 33. Or a verse from Psalm 18, verse 2, where it says, The Lord is my rock, my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. The eyes are symbols, a symbol of lamps for seeing, and seven eyes symbolizes complete seeing, complete omniscience. Through the Holy Spirit. And so we're again hearkened to verses in the Old Testament, such as Zechariah chapter 4, verse 10, where it says These seven will be glad when they see the plumb line in the hand of Zerubbabel. These are the eyes of the Lord which range to and fro throughout the earth. So are you working to picture all this? In writing all these things down, John is inviting you to see with him. As we're also told in chapters 1 and 2, and we're going to be told when we get there in chapters 6 and 7 and also chapter 22, the Lamb is the center of the action. as the revealer and the administrator of God's will. Just as he is at the center of redemption and revelation and adoration, accomplishing God's divine purpose. It's like Goliath standing in the way, once upon a time, God's people, they needed David to overcome. And they have one. in Christ. The word overcome, that's also sometimes translated in our English Bibles as conquer or victory. It's a major emphasis in John's writings. I think I might have mentioned this a couple months ago. I can't be sure. John uses the word overcome or victory, uh, conquer, twenty-five of the thirty-three times that it shows up in the New Testament That is a high percentage. Remember those seven letters I mentioned in Revelation? Each of them ends with a note of victory, of conquering, of overcoming. It's a victory achieved by the Lamb. Lamb, there's another word. John loves the word lamb. There are several Greek words for lamb, they get translated in as the English word lamb. The Greek word depends on the stage of development of the animal. So as they got older, they had a different name for that. And these various words for Lamb they show up in the New Testament 103 times. And John is the author one-third of the time. And 30 times he uses the word lamb just in the book of Revelation alone. He uses it three more times in his other writings And while this is a meek little lamb, one that appears to have been slain even. It's not to be misjudged, it's not to be underestimated, because like I said, it's also a ram with those seven horns telling us that he stands as an overcomer. of complete courage and perfect strength and immeasurable might. It's no wonder everyone falls down before him. Holding harps to accompany the songs and the prophecy. I mean this is Just like in the Old Testament. If you want to do a study on this yourself later, I would point you to 1 Samuel chapter 10 and 1 Chronicles chapter 25 and Psalm 33 and a whole bunch of other places too. Now Revelation 5 verse 8, it ends with a mention of golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. Now we're going to talk more about the prayers of the people in chapters six and eight, I imagine, and so we're not going to fully expand on this image. Just yet right now. But the idea of incense and that representing the prayers of the people, that's not an image of John's imagination. He didn't just make this up himself. So again, if you want to do some study on your own You can find these references repeatedly throughout Scripture, like in Exodus chapter 30, Psalm 141, even in the New Testament, Luke chapter 1. But for now, let's transition into some application. What are we to do with this information? Why did Christ share it with John so that he would share it with us? Well he did it. So as to strengthen our faith. To encourage his people. Calling us to continued faithfulness. In the midst of ongoing sufferings. If we don't get this, if we miss the point, you know, we might end up looking for God's heavenly bus schedule in the book of Revelation. Seeking to know exactly when he's gonna show up and swing open those doors and say, oh boy. We do better to see this as a prophetic picture of the entire destiny. of God's chosen people and also the whole human race and the the entirety of our history, all the way up until the eschaton. That's a fancy theological word for you, ascatan. Just a fancy word for the final event in the divine plan. In other words, the end of the world as we know it. Are you ready for that? Perhaps you once felt like you had it made in the shade. You were a good little girl, good little boy, you read your Bible stories, you did your good deeds. You still do lots of these things, but you found yourself perhaps losing focus, you've been beaten up by the advance of the spirit of the age, and Your hope wavers. Your confidence in what you know to be true weakens Maybe you've gone so far as to have backslidden in some critical ways. So your commitment to proper parenting has grown lax and You've grown so bitter about your job that you've lashed out at whoever happened to be standing in front of you at work. And you don't act kindly to your neighbor and you are mean to your spouse and your priorities are political rather than eternal and You're a little fuzzy of late on seeing victory in Jesus. You might even be hearing my voice right now, and you're unsure. If you even truly believe in God anymore. Or if you still believe in him. You don't trust him. Or what he says. We're told to run the race. And you're running. But with no productive direction. And what's the point of it all anyway, you think? You know? Is there any hope for me? Is there any hope at all? Well, there is hope. No matter how far gone you believe you are, there's hope. We're going to conclude our time in this message with a story. Now I didn't compose this story. Jesus did. We can read it whenever. We need this reminder, this encouragement, this call to repentance. It is found in Luke chapter 15. So if you haven't already bookmarked it, if you want to try to quickly find it, you can read along. Luke chapter 15 is where we find what is often called the parable of the prodigal son. Picking up with verse eleven, Jesus said, A man had two sons. The younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the share of the estate that falls to me. So he divided his wealth between them And not many days later the younger son gathered everything together and went on a journey into a distant country. And there he squandered his estate with loose living. Now, when he had spent everything, a severe famine occurred in that country, and he began to be impoverished So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, and he sent him into the fields to feed swine. And he would have gladly filled his stomach with the pods that the swine were eating, and no one was giving anything to him. But when he came to his senses, he said, How many of my father's hired men have more than enough bread? But I am dying here with hunger I will get up and go to my Father. And I will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in your sight I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Make me as one of your hired men So he got up and he came to his father, but while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion for him and ran and embraced him and kissed him and The son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in your sight I am no longer worthy to be called your son. But the father said to his slaves, quickly, bring out the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and sandals on his feet, and bring the fattened calf. Kill it and let us eat and celebrate. For this son of mine was dead, and he has come to life again. He was lost and has been found. And they began to celebrate. Now his older son was in the field, and when he came and approached the house he heard music and dancing, and he summoned one of the servants and began inquiring what these things could be. And he said to him, Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf because he has received him back safe and sound. He became angry and was not willing to go in. And his father came out and began pleading with him. But he answered and said to his father, Look! For so many years I have been serving you, and I have never neglected a command of yours, and yet you have never given me a young goat. So that I might celebrate with my friends. But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your wealth with prostitutes, you killed the fattened calf for him. And he said to him, Son, you have always been with me. And all that is mine is yours. But we had to celebrate and rejoice, for this brother of yours was dead and has begun to live and was lost. It has been found. This story is for you Have you wandered from the faith? Become wayward? Repent. Your Father will celebrate with you if you do. Have you remained vigilant and disciplined? Rejoice, your Father gives to you all that is his, while at the same time welcoming other brothers and sisters in Christ. to the eternal feast, a feast that is made possible by the Lion of Judah, the root of David. Who is also the Lamb of God. We're going to continue our look at Revelation chapter 5 next week. But now we're gonna pause for our time of discussion, but before we do that, let's pray. Father, we praise you that you have an eternal plan. And that plan, it includes a special place for your chosen people. We know that we are not worthy in and of ourselves. We know that we have no right to see history unfold and to watch your plan be unveiled. But we praise you that your son is worthy. That he stands as a lamb slain, but also as a Powerfully strong ram who crushes his enemies and provides for his people. We know that we live in troubling times, but your people have always lived in troubling times. People today are trying to build a modern day or postmodern day version of the Tower of Babel. But of course, the original Tower of Babel far predates our lives. And we know that you were in control then, and you're in control now. So help us not to lose focus on your promises, not to deviate from your plan for our lives. And if we get a little wobbly, we pray that your Holy Spirit would prompt us to be called back to your word. That we would be edified and strengthened there. They would feast upon your word, as in the Lord's Supper we feast upon the Son's very body. for life giving sustenance. We ask that you bless our conversation, that what we do and say here would bring glory to your name. And conviction to our hearts. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Alright, any initial thoughts or reactions? I didn't realize that there were seven seals and that that had to do with room in the wall. And that that was that was interesting. Yeah, and I I I think it's how you slice it. Yeah, if you want to look at it from the Jewish law perspective, then you know the seven being the number of holy perfections, you have a perfect level of ceiling, but then even within the cultural situation of the time it met with the requirements of even that law. So yeah it's All these gems. I mean I'm I'm pointing them out as we go and as you're reading you're probably seeing them now. I mean there are sevens all over the place. And I'm not just saying or the word seven is uttered. But if you see lists of attributes or lists of things or lists of happenings, count them and it's almost always seven. It's almost always a list of seven. it's uh a huge theme and an interpretive key to help us unlock some of the meaning of the of the of the book actually. So And we don't think much about title deeds these days. That's why I wanted us to read from Jeremiah chapter thirty-two because title deeds is a big deal. A huge deal. Uh back then. And so the the original hearers in Revelation, like this would have spoken, they would have immediately said, Oh All these seals on this scroll, this is some sort of a a deed, a title deed. What kind of a title deed? Well Jesus. It's sealed seven times and only the Lamb of God can open. This is this is like the title deed to everything. This is it. This is the title deed to creation. The whole universe, the whole shebang, all of history. This is it. wonders um when the angel says, you know, hey, don't weep anymore and then of course the the living creatures and then the twenty four elders. I'm wondering this is I mean not that it really matters and it's more of just an inquisitive Like, oh, that's an interesting thought. I wonder if they knew but they knew that John didn't know because they were like in on it and they were just waiting for John to be like, oh okay, thank you goodness. You know, it makes you wonder since they were all part of the you know the heavenly worship already that they knew um that there is one. Because they ho or because of cr because of prophecy. They had the bet you know, we all have the benefit of prophecy. So, you know, you wonder, okay, they they kinda knew. I don't know. Yeah, well they're already worshiping exact the Lamb they kind so they do have a heavenly perspective. Right, exactly. Yeah, but John from his earthly perspective he doesn't know or he knew because when he writes this he already knows and yet the That's kind of how I why I wanted to end the message the way I did, because even John, the apostle John who knew in that moment, he didn't know. Right Like he forgot. It it flitted out of his mind for a second. Like, oh no. Nobody can do this. Like of course we're all like, no, Jesus, Jesus. Sunday school answer. Jesus But he forgot the Sunday school answer and we all went under the pressures and I I don't always do this as well as I would like, but you know, I I try to um depending on the genre of literature that I'm preaching I try to sneak in elements, I mean sneak's not the right word. I try to uh access elements of what's going on on with the the text itself and use similar things. I don't know if anybody picked up on my attempt at using symbolic language and things that would mean something in our world. uh today that people would know notice but a hundred years from now they might not pick up on. Like I talked about the people of the people who have this all this power, they want to reset everything. Right. You know, talking about the Great Reset Um now a hundred years from now somebody could stumble upon you know this uh this sermon and somebody could make the argument, oh well during that time there was a lot of emphasis on the Great Recess, so the preacher there is probably talking about the Great Recess, not the No that can't be. And there could be some debate and arguments. That's what we do in the book of Revelation. So there's some debate and disagreement sometimes over exactly how to apply the images, but if you can get the historical context and you understand the church context in that moment and you understand how much John is pulling from the Old Testament passages and what those images meant back then and how he's importing them into his letter, you can have way more confidence that your interpretation is right. And so build ever building everything back, of course that's a big phrase right now too, build back better. That's part of the whole uh World Economic Forum's strategy and the Biden administration's uh slogan and that's sort of thing. So little things like that, I'm trying to make use of them for us as well. It's kind of an object lesson. And in case people didn't get it, I was going to point it out to s show that look, people still do this even today. It's not just John doing it. John does it a zillion times better than I do it. But of course it's inspired of God, so well I think it's also very Encouraging actually is the word that I think is fitting, where John caught up in the spirit is having this vision and yet Yet he's still in the midst of that, in the midst of being empowered by the Holy Spirit, in the midst of being empowered by You know, being caught up still is doubting. And so I kind of feel like okay, I can have a little bit of regret for myself Because there are so many times I'm like Well of course I know I'm on the winning side but Joy. The right now is not looking like I'm on the winning side because right now there's a full on attack against the people of God. And so you kind of it's not that you forget, but you get um If you're not careful in a drowning sense of what's swirling around you. And that's one of the central images in this passage. When we feel like that, that's the lamb as though it's been slain. Like that's the image we're seeing. Like we're feeling that image in a tangible kind of way. Yeah, it feels like we're losing. It feels like our lamb's been slain. Mm-hmm. Remember though, that slain lamb is also a mighty ram with seven horns. And it's interesting, um John is told, Don't weep. There isn't he can open this. That's good news, right? I I emphasis that. Hey, there's right then, right at that moment of angst is when we get the good news. That's only good news for us who are trusting in Christ But I think pretty much everybody in this room has probably read Revelation before, so you know what's coming. And so somebody is worthy to open those seals, to unveil that scroll. Well that's not good news if you're not in Christ. That's horrible news. But John is told, hey, don't weep. You know, the lamb's got this. And so yeah, we feel like we're getting crushed. But the reality is that lamb, as though he's been slain, he rises up and the enemy. is rushed definitively. Right. The only way I ever looked at it was just the pedal feel was just they were to judge judgment I never looked at it before. I mean the book was the judgment and the opening of the book, the seals. The only way I ever looked at it before. reviewed this before was in terms of who was worthy to open the book to unleash the judgments. That's a warrior in you. That's the warrior mean. Yeah. I see I see a lot of things from a warrior perspective. And it is that, but I will say it's it's but it's it it it is that at least, but then it's more than that Because it's not just the judgments but it's the coming it's the second advent of Christ is pictured in those unsealings. And it's and it's the the the victory at the end. So those aren't so it's not It's not entirely merely judgment, but yeah, it it certainly is that. Um and I would say that's probably the prevailing winds. Yeah. But it's so much more than even that. 'Cause it's not just judgment period full staff end of story, it's judgment ending in victory and eternal glory. So there's a part of me that wonders, you know, like John is weeping as opposed to being afraid. So there so I'm wondering if that emotion is one of sorrow Or fear, because you can weep in fear and you can weep in sorrow. Does the text give us any Well he was afraid earlier, you might remember, right? Right Right. Right. He falls down as though dead. Correct. He's at he's so afraid. Right, I'll play dead because maybe they won't build anything. It's like he has a heart attack. Bang! Yeah. Yeah, he comes unglued and just passes out, whatever. He's done. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, he faints or something. Yeah. So he had a f that's definitely I think his fear. Here I there could be a mixture of fear in there. I never I haven't thought about that. I thought more about this this immense sorrow because Your hopes are are your your hopes are building. So that's the thing. Like as as you as you're if you're just following the the narrative of this of the revelation as a story He's you know, there's this revelation of Christ and he's scared out of his socks. But then he said, No, no, everything's gonna be okay. Stand up, we're good. And then he's and then he said, I got some letters for you to distribute. And then he's and then he takes him to the throne room of God And he sees the magnificence. Well when he enters the throne room so the the letters are mixed bag. Right. So hmm, that's what to do with this. And then he's in the throne room of God, the h heavenly high council with God. And it's he's blown away. We all I mean if we really enter into the scene, if we do if we're really good readers, we can enter into the scene and it's like we're blown away. It's just fantastic imagery going on as now. It's like, oh, this is cool. This is great. The story's gonna end probably on the next page. And then on the next page there's this scroll and the the the one on the throne, the father is holding it out. It's like, here it is. This is what we've all been waiting for so you can feel it rising up. John's getting excited. Yes, this is it, and now we're gonna open that thing up, we're gonna read that as I said, you know, kind of you know, uh irreverently, read that bad boy. We're gonna read that bad boy and bang, end of the story. And he's like, Yes, I can't wait. We're on the last page. And that's when he's told But there's nobody worthy. Wait, what? I'm devastated. It's like the bride being jilted at the altar. Hmm. You know, it's like he's got so much riding on this and then psych taken away. A dangling of the carrot. But not really, because that would be mean spirited. Yeah, I don't think it's like they're teasing. I don't I don't I don't think I don't think they're teasing. I think that it's uh It's it's for a point of emphasis to make it clear that look, it's not just that the Lamb is worthy, it's that nobody else but the Lamb is worthy. Okay. Oh yeah, the lamb, he can do it, he's worthy. As I mean there's probably a dozen guys that are worthy, the lamb's just one of them, and they so they're heightening the tension and make it clear. So the the lamb is worthy because the lamb is the one who dies. Right. Sacrifice and a lot of stuff to sacrifice. Yeah. And that makes him worthy. So we want our praise and worship songs to talk about the worthiness of Christ and He's so worthy. You know, I we want to maybe meant to remind ourselves It's not just that he's worthy, he is, but like I said before, he's at least that. But it's more than that. Because he's the only one who's worthy. But he's also the only well Again, that for me that conjures up conjures is not the right word. That helps magnify his perfection to And the ability because I would imagine because of the law aspect of it with the seven seals, the only way that you can be that worthy is if you fled a perfect life which he's the only one that has, which makes him even all the more worthy and the only one again. He's the only one. So there's that second separation, he's so worthy that he's other because of the perfection in addition to the fact that he sacrificed himself. Anything on this side by the way? Kind of mostly on this side. The seals are not Thor's hammer where someone else could possibly be worthy of it. Other than Thor. Yeah, this isn't like a Marvel Universe. Oh it's not Norris Hamlin. Yeah. Although interesting, I think that some of the stuff that's talked about in the Marvel Universe and those sorts of ideas. They're they're trying to play off of biblical ideas, you know, uh maybe imperfectly. What? So I I think it's okay for us to see that. But then like we're talking to our kids, we're watching a movie like that with our kids and we can talk about Yeah, and you see how like in this scene Thor's not even worthy to to wield his own uh his own uh uh hammer because he's lost his superpower because of whatever reason. But you know, that never happens with Jesus. You know you can you can use everything as a as a lesson. So I guess yeah this is you know going back to the point you made before. the the the seals and and uh and opening the the scroll is is both a um it's it's it's it's it's It's the Lamb who is worthy not only opening the scrolls to deal with the wicked who are in his you know h in his creation and to to to you know administer justice and and and right and write you know and and purge the earth of of all this wickedness but it's all Also, um it's also him reclaiming his creation because he the o you know, it's his creation. You know, he was the word at the beginning. um that said let there be light and you know, let there be whatever, you know. And so it it's it's it's It's and and I believe go you know, that th that that's this wasn't the focus of of of this chapter, going back to John seeing him in his full glory. I think John needs to see him in his full glory so he can see just who it was that created everything. It's a overwhelming fight. And um so yeah it's um but yeah the the the the the idea of of of this being a tile deed. Yeah that that's I had never viewed it that way before. Something else that might be helpful for us to keep in mind. mind is you know we have a tendency because uh of the emphasis on the judgment at the end and all of that to think of the book of revelation as just being merely about the end of time But really, if we properly understand it, the book of Revelation is actually encapsulating all of human history. That's why I was phrasing this is a title deed to the universe, to the earth, to all of human history. So it's not just the title D to what's going to unfold from that moment forward, but it is all of history wrapped up in this document. This is God's eternal plan in a scroll, pictured in a scroll. I mean God I mean It right he's spirit, he's another body, he doesn't have to scroll up there with an inkwell and dipping his little feather in it and writing out history. But this is representative of all of history and so with that I don't want to press this point too far, but I don't I don't think I'm necessarily wrong either, so uh we can you know dance around the edges a little bit and see if this maybe strikes anything with you. But if we think about the image where The strong angel is saying, hey, here's that book. Who can open the seals? Who can read it? And no one was found. Well If we wanted to think about that as a in a chronological historical line, then that would be pre-cross. Because then the next verse it says, um, you know, the lion uh of uh from the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has overcome so as to open the book in a seventh So up until the lamb overcame, there was no one worthy. And so maybe there's a there's like a historical trajectory that we're supposed to see. and ministry and sacrifice and and uh you know the the death and resurrection of Christ. I mean how how much more momentous is that? Because if that because that's what's going on here. Just the universe, it's more specifically the redemption of the universe because it's not like Christ didn't have access to the entire universe before he died on the cross. The only thing that wasn't available to anybody yet was the salvation of humans. Right. Yeah, but because the universe is a mess. Right. But we've screwed that up ten times the Sunday, right? We screwed that up. And so what's the hope for it ever getting better? Yeah, and so yes so again I'm not I'm not positive. I mean I I maybe I'll bet you some really smart scholar has maybe written a book specifically about uh looking at this passage through a historical chronological framework And if so, I'd love to read that book and see what the merits but I feel like the idea of it maybe works. Uh and that would answer part of your question too. Are they just teasing? Well maybe it's meant to take us through history that all the way up until this point, up until the beginnings of the first century, there was nobody worthy. And then all of a sudden there was because he overcame. And if he fails, it's game over. Well thank goodness we know that's a and he can't fail because he's not just man, he's God. Yeah, right. Yeah. But he can't yeah. But just hypothetically we're in the in the logic sphere, just thinking through the logic of it. Uh-huh. If he had failed. Well, and that's but to me that's so interesting from a law perspective. perspective and Angela can probably even feel this even more so. From a la a law perspective, he couldn't fail because he was the fulfillment of the law. So there was no failure. So from the end from the beginning, or the beginning from the end, it was already set in motion that he would legally be the only one. Because God is a God of law and order. I mean we see that even with the laws of nature for crying out I mean and all of that. And it's right and good for us to say, well he he he couldn't fail. He can't fail. I mean he's God, man. He can't fail. However, that's not how the story reads. Mm-hmm. Because if we go into oh we can't fail, then what's the point of the tension when Jesus goes into the wilderness and is tempted for forty days Like he's truly tempted. Otherwise, what's the point of that story? It's just a waste of time. So there's some element of risk, even though we know he can't ultimately fail. He's God and yet At the same time we've got to reserve some piece of our thinking to like, okay, well there's this weird kind of hypothetical possibility he could fail, otherwise there's no tension. Well, and I think that's part of Where the saints have doubt come in and out, and then the enemy makes sure to capitalize on that and attack us in that area because there is that tension. Yeah, I I think yeah, I think that in in his humanity he he felt how it was a person could fail Mm-hmm. Yeah, that that weird mix of God and human. Yeah. We can't really get our heads around. Right. He just he just he he felt the temptation, I believe, far more strongly than we feel You know, I I I I I felt I think that he felt I think that oh my gosh. I I don't think we really understand how much he was tempted. Um Yeah, that's a great point 'cause how many times have we heard somebody who's not maybe a believer or the or something and they say, Well we have Jesus, it was easy for him or they maybe they're believer but they're going through a hard time with their struggles. Well gee it was easy for Jesus, I mean he's God. Yeah. He doesn't know what true temptation is, but I think yours is much closer to the mark. I think that's the reality is we can't even fathom the love of temptation Yeah. Especially since, you know, he well, not especially, but because he was he had he had a a fleshly body that could feel all of the all of the things that that a f a body of flesh can feel and I and you know I I believe that Satan was on the case with him every time. Well and it's and and yeah and paid him special attention And I think that actually is very helpful for me because how many times do you see someone in their walk with Christ and they're actually really strong and strong and strong and they're walk with Christ and they're you know, that's why we're called to pray for our pastors because they're attacked more. So you're right. I bet you Jesus was like full blown attack twenty-four-seven. from the enemy. Because the enemy knew who he was. I mean we see evidence of that in scripture and that's when Jesus says 'cause when the when the demons say, I know who you are and he tells them to be quiet. Mm-hmm. So yeah, that I never thought of it From that perspective, that's really interesting. And I gotta tell you, speaking of pastors, you know, I don't want to make um I don't want to be one of those, oh whoa is me, I'm a pastor, kind of but just give you a sense And you can probably can relate at some level yourself. But I've never been one never for a long time I haven't been one who's worried all that much about what other people think of me. That's not the most pressing issue in my life. Well like anybody else I want people to think well of me. And Um I didn't realize how much of that was and it probably still is, but how much more of that was in me until you might probably remember the moment. Uh I'm not sure if you were here that Saturday or not, but y you definitely were. You might have been too. And we were having one of these gatherings, you guys weren't with us yet. And I was talking about something, and I said something pretty dramatic and kinda off the cuff and I was just I was talking about something in the news and the church closing down and requiring masses of the people and stuff and I was just ticked off. And so I just let whoever I was talking about have it. And I said, I know that comes across as rather mean but But you know, I am long past caring what people think. And you remember me saying that? I remember I remember hearing that phrase, yes. I'm long past caring. It was in that moment, well, afterwards, when I reflected on that moment, I realized Until that moment, I must have been caring a little bit more. For me to say I'm now long past caring, I must have before then been caring maybe more than I should have. And that's a temptation, and we see that. That's one of the big problems with the flabby American church these days is we carry s we care so much about what the world thinks We want to be winsome and likable because then we're going to have an audience with the law so they can hear the gospels. is watching. The world is watching. Yeah, but God is watching as well. And the world's gonna see what the world wants to see. Exactly. It doesn't necessarily And the other thing is, seriously, do you think the world is watching as much as you think you're watching? Exactly. Well, they're watching to get us. So they're not they're just watching like the enemy does, because they are the enemy for opportunities to get you to trap you. That's really it doesn't matter how good you do or how much you please exactly. You you're compromising yourself for something that's not gonna get what you want And we end up building for them the straw man that they intend to build and not this town because it's not a good thing. Yeah, they can just call us hypocrites then. Well you pretend to be so good and nice and kind and gentle and wonderful and and generous. You pretend to be all those things. But I saw you the other day in one of your unguarded moments And yet we're putting up this act, this act, we're not being authentic and real. Not that we want to be jerks on purpose, but we've got to be authentic and real people and say, Look You you may or may not think I have a good family life and that you know that I you know always work my hardest at my job or whatever. I guess I struggle with that like anybody else. You gotta Be clear with people that we're still struggling so then they can't wag their finger of hypocrisy at us. Well they can, but it doesn't well they'll they'll merit. Yeah, they've lost lightning to you because they don't you're like you've disarmed them, you've taken the gun out of their hand. Yeah that's a huge issue right now in the church. The invisible church anyway. I'm not so sure not so sure who's in the invisible church. It's amazing to me. Yeah. All right, well we're just past seven o'clock, so we can uh probably wrap it up. Hi. All right. Anybody feeling led to close this in prayer or would you rather I do it? I feel like Angels should do it You feel like Angela? You're feeling led that Angela's a friend? I feel led. Volunteer you're on the bone. I I know, I feel like there's something in your spirit that you need to show And I don't know why. So I'm not trying to put pressure. No pressure. No pressure. Holy Spirit, let's do it. Amen. Father, we thank you for this gathering that we've come to the end of it Father and we've discussed and we pondered and and uh we've done our our best to um Um be led of you and by your uh be led of your good spirit to speak that which needed to be said. Um Lord to give pe to to be your instruments to uh of understanding about your word and and your purpose and and who you are, Lord Jesus, and and in your humanity as well as in your divinity, which always was and always always will be. And we just pray, Lord, that that that that was accomplished in this gathering today. Father, we uh ask that you would be with us. As we continue on the rest of our evening and help us um help us to reflect on on what we discussed and and uh and add to add to um add an understanding what we've discussed so that we can continue be your instruments of light in a in a in a world that's dark. And we we thank you so much, Father, that Lord Jesus, even when it looks like you're losing, you're actually winning. And that's um uh that's what the cross teaches us. And uh that's what uh um that's what this the book of Revelation uh uh uh Um helps to reinforce you always win. And um because we are in you, we always win. We are more than conquerors according to your word. Which is an amazing thought to us when we are in our weakest moments, how we can be more than conquerors. But it is in you, Lord. We are more than conquerors. In Christ Jesus. We thank you for that revelation. We receive it by faith and know that it's true because you said so. And we thank you for it, Father, and ask that you uh Bless us on our way, keep us safe, and continue to be more than overcomers, more than conquerors in this dark, dark period of of our nation's history until we see The bright shining light of victory in our culture once again. In Jesus' mighty and marvelous name we ask. Amen. Amen. For those who might be curious, um because I bounce around to different translations, you're wondering what translation was I reading from today? It was the NASD 1995 edition? And uh next week we'll pick up with Revelation chapter five, the last half of chapter five next week. So read there. And let me end you with this last thing. I asked the question during the message, you know, we're talking about the eschaton, the end of time here. Are we ready? We sang this song earlier today. Ready yourselves if you're not ready. Ready yourselves. It's a battle. It is a battle. Till next week, 6 o'clock on Saturday, as always. God bless